24-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to quash rape case, calls marriage illegal||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to accept illegal second marriage of a lawyer as grounds for striking down his prosecution for raping one of his clients, a woman embroiled in matrimonial dispute.The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar on Monday dismissed the petition filed by the Jalna-based lawyer praying for quashing of the rape case against him on grounds that he had married the complainant.Jalna Taluka police station had on October 11, 2020, booked the lawyer for rape on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman who said she had engaged with the lawyer to seek divorce from her husband.As they started meeting each other for the purpose of the divorce proceeding, the lawyer informed the woman that he, too, was embroiled in matrimonial dispute with his wife and was seeking divorce from her. She alleged that the lawyer lured her to reside with him and raped her after promising marriage, and subsequently, started beating and illegally confining her and her son from the first marriage. She said she managed flee from the illegal confinement and approached police.However, later they settled the dispute amicably, and the lawyer moved HC in December 2020 for quashing of the rape case on that grounds. It was argued on behalf of the lawyer that the petitioner and the complainant thereafter got married and had a girl child. The woman, too, filed an affidavit supporting the lawyer’s claim for quashing the rape case.HC, however, refused to accept the marital tie as a valid settlement, noticing that both of them — the lawyer and the complainant — had performed the second marriage though their earlier marriages were subsisting.“In the instant case, the petitioner, alleged rapist, and the informant still have subsisting first marriages, and therefore, we cannot recognise the alleged second marriage between the petitioner and the informant,” said the bench while rejecting the petition.It added, “We find it quite serious that the petitioner, being an advocate and representing the informant in her divorce petition, claims that the informant is his legally wedded second wife.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-quash-rape-case-calls-marriage-illegal-101619288941293.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Source of 12,511 cases in slums could not be traced: Mumbai civic body data||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) contact-tracing in slums has revealed that 12,511 Covid cases in slums are not among high-risk contacts of other positive cases. The source of infection in the case of such patients has not yet been traced. This is as per data between June 3, 2020, and March 14, 2021, reveals BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard. In slums, BMC traced an average of 13 high-risk contacts per positive patient. The norm set by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last year is tracing up to 15 high-risk contacts per positive patient and moving them to institutional quarantine facilities, to break the chain of the spread of Covid-19. So far, BMC has moved 1,61,830 high-risk contacts from slums to quarantine facilities between June and March 14. A senior official from the health department said, “These are patients who tested positive for Covid-19 but were not high-risk contacts of positive patients. Effectively, it only means they would have come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, but were not identified as a high-risk contact during BMC’s enquiries and contact tracing efforts, as they were probably not immediate family or neighbours.” The highest number of positive cases in slums who are not high-risk contacts of positive patients are 1,668 cases from the K/West ward of Andheri (West), followed by 1,551 in the L ward of Kurla, and 1,511 of G/North ward, which has Dharavi under its jurisdiction. The K/West ward has traced a total of 23,412 high-risk contacts of cases in slums so far to send to institutional quarantine facilities, L ward has traced and quarantined 28,179 high-risk contacts of cases in slums, and G/North ward has traced and quarantined 20,462 high-risk contacts in slums.Until Friday, 5,740,196 Mumbaiites have completed quarantine, of which, 658,385 have completed home quarantine. Presently, 984 are in institutional quarantine centres. Mumbai has 122 containment zones and 1,211 sealed buildings. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 5,867 Covid cases, the lowest since March 31, 2021, when Mumbai reported 5,399 cases. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 71 deaths. This has taken the tally to 622,146, and the toll to 12,726. There are 78,226 active cases in Mumbai at present. The highest number of cases reported in Mumbai in a single day so far was 11,206 cases on April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/source-of-12-511-cases-in-slums-could-not-be-traced-mumbai-civic-body-data-101619288881203.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Oxygen Express reaches Navi Mumbai; tankers sent to plants||The Oxygen Express carrying tankers of liquid oxygen reached Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday morning. Four oxygen tankers were offloaded from the Roll-on Roll-off (RORO) and then transported to oxygen plants via road.The freight train carrying seven oxygen tankers had left Navi Mumbai on April 19 and returned to Nagpur on Friday 8pm after filling the tankers with oxygen at Vishakhapatnam. Three of the tankers were downloaded at Nagpur while the remaining were delivered to Nashik around 10am on Saturday. Ruling Shiv Sena has said the train took much more time (to reach Nashik) when the state needed the oxygen on urgent basis for Covid-19 patients. Central Railway (CR) which ran the train, however, clarified that the shortest route possible could not be availed due to technical problems. CR said the route of the RORO service — in which goods vehicles are put on freight train — had to be planned considering various constraints like ghat sections, road overbridges (ROB), tunnels, curves, platform canopies and over-head equipment (OHE).“Height is an important aspect in this movement. Railways mapped the route via Vasai. The distance between Kalamboli and Vizag is more than 1,850 kms, which was completed by these tankers only in about 50 hours. Transportation of oxygen through trains is faster for long distances than road transport. Trains can run 24 hours in a day but truck drivers need to take halts etc. The green corridor is created for faster movement of these tankers, and monitoring of movement was done at the apex level,” said a statement from CR. The Oxygen Express reached Nagpur in Maharashtra with seven liquid medical oxygen tankers on Friday evening. Three tankers were unloaded at Nagpur railway station. Of the three tankers, two headed for Nagpur city and one headed to Amaravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oxygen-express-reaches-navi-mumbai-tankers-sent-to-plants-101619288761284.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Only 37 vaccination centres remain open today||A total of 57 private vaccination centres in Mumbai were closed on Saturday, due to a shortage in vaccine stock. On Sunday, only 37 centres, including 30 municipal and government, and seven private vaccination centres will remain open for vaccination, until their stocks last.There are a total of 132 vaccine centres in Mumbai, of which 73 are private, 42 are municipal centres and 17 are government or state-run centres. Mangala Gomare, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) executive health officer said on Saturday night, “For Sunday’s vaccination drive, we may have approximately 40,000 vaccine vials left, and we are yet to calculate the exact figure. We received 50,000 vials on Friday night and distributed them in municipal and government centres. BMC is following up to receive more vaccine doses.” Previously, on April 20, Mumbai received 110,000 doses. Some private centres did not completely exhaust their vaccine stock on Saturday, but if they have very few shots left, they will not be able to conduct a full-fledged drive on Sunday, Gomare said. On Saturday, BMC vaccinated a total of 37,489 beneficiaries of which 18,846 received their first dose, and 18,643 received their second dose. So far in Mumbai, 1,857,439 beneficiaries have received their first dose, and 356,425 have received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-only-37-vaccination-centres-remain-open-today-101619288701219.html
24-04-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt authorises DCs of six districts to impose gathering curbs||In a bid to tackle the coronavirus situation, deputy commissioners of six worst-hit districts in Haryana may prohibit the gathering of four or more people and order "work from home" in all corporate and IT offices, an official statement said.Deputy commissioners of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Sonipat and Panchkula have been asked to impose, if needed, Section 144 of the CrPC to control the Covid surge, CM Manohar Lal Khattar told reporters after chairing a state-level meeting of the coronavirus control committee here.He, however, ruled out the imposition of a lockdown in the state but said there will be "lockdown-like conditions" in place in the worst-hit six districts, if needed.IT and corporate offices should avoid crowding, he said, asking employees to adopt the "work from home culture" to break the chain of the coronavirus infection.The CM also ordered a restriction on gatherings in functions with the maximum limit fixed at 50 people for both indoor and outdoor events in the state, the statement said.He said for funerals, only 20 people will be allowed. Earlier, the limit for outdoor gatherings was 500 and indoor 200.He asked people to postpone marriage functions. "The authorities will only allow gatherings if it is necessary with a limit of 50 people," he added.He said private hospitals have been asked to keep 50 per cent of their beds for infection patients.A provision for 1,000 beds have been made at the PGI in Rohtak, he said.He said there will now be at least 2,250 beds with oxygen facilities in government hospitals.On the issue of medical oxygen, the CM said the situation is under control and there is no shortage of it in hospitals.We had demanded 180 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen a day from the Centre, who fixed our quota at 162 MT, he said, adding that the state government will submit a revised demand of 200 MT tonnes per day to the Centre.Khattar said his government had placed an order for 6,000 MT of liquid medical oxygen from the Bokaro steel plant, which will arrive soon by a special train.The use of liquid oxygen in the industry for non-essential items has been banned, he said.Besides, OPD services have been curtailed in government hospitals across the state.Khattar said only 50 per cent attendance will be allowed in government and private sector offices across the state.He said the supply of oxygen to Delhi from the Panipat plant will continue uninterrupted. Six small plants manufacturing liquid oxygen will be operational in the state in the next two days, he said.Stressing that the state government was "alert and on toes", he asked the public not to create panic over the issue of oxygen.He said anti-Covid injections will be administered to those above 18 years free of cost at government facilities from May 1.The registration process for those who want to be inoculated will start from April 28, he said.The sharp surge in cases and fatalities continued in the state with Haryana on Friday recording 60 deaths and 11,854 cases, the highest daily figure so far.More than one-third of the fresh infections were reported from Gurgaon, which along with Faridabad and Sonipat, is among the worst-hit districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-govt-authorises-dcs-of-six-districts-to-impose-gathering-curbs-101619288274907.html
24-04-2021||Other||Panel to monitor oxygen consumption in Ludhiana||In the wake of sharp increase in the demand for oxygen for Covid patients, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday set up an audit committee to monitor oxygen consumption in the district.The 11-member committee will be headed by AETC-2 Damanjeet Singh Mann, with a representative of the commissioner of police, Khanna and Ludhiana Rural SSPs, deputy medical commissioner Dr Mohinder Singh, district family and welfare officer Dr SP Singh, District Industries Centre general manager, ZLA Dr Kulwinder Singh, anaesthetician Dr Sheenu Gupta, drug inspectors Roop Preet Kaur, Sandeep Kaushik, Amit Lakhan Pal and Lajwinder Kaur as its members.The committee will regularly review the consumption and balance stock of oxygen at hospitals and other health institutions. It will also ensure that the use of oxygen for the management of serious Covid-19 patients is as per prescribed treatment protocols, besides checking that oxygen is not being used for any industrial purpose. A report will be submitted to the DC daily.The deputy commissioner said with the sudden surge of serious Covid cases, the oxygen demand had also increased unprecedentedly, so it was necessary that its stocks and consumption were closely rationalised.He also asked hospitals to use oxygen only for serious and critical patients, and warned hoarders of severest action.Another committee to check elective surgeriesFollowing reports that some hospitals are still conducting elective surgeries despite a ban, the deputy commissioner has set up another committee for physical inspection of hospitals and punitive action against violators.Through another order, he said a team had also been set up to penalise those involved in black-marketing of Covid treatment drugs, such as remdesivir. The team will submit daily inspection reports by 5pm.Police deployed at oxygen plantsMeanwhile, to check any attempt of pilferage, police personnel, along with staff of the district administration and health department, have been deployed outside oxygen plants.Deputy director local government Amit Bambi and joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian visited the bottling and oxygen separation plants in the district to take stock of the situation.“Oxygen cylinders will be issued only after verification of documents,” said sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, who is among the staff deployed at the plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-to-monitor-oxygen-consumption-in-ludhiana-101619288102334.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana logs 861 Covid cases in slight drop, but deaths rise to 10||With 861 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, Ludhiana registered a slight dip in its daily count, but the deaths rose to 10, for the second time this month.Seven of the deceased hailed from posh areas of the city.On Friday, the district had logged an all-time high of 995 cases, while the number of deaths was eight. Since April 19, the daily cases have remained over 700 for six consecutive days.Ludhiana had last witnessed 10 deaths on April 19. Apart from this, this year, it clocked daily deaths in double digits only on two other occasions – 11 on March 29 and 10 on March 28.With Saturday’s deaths, the toll reached 1,290, while the fresh cases pushed the total count to 48,214, of which 6,620 cases are still active. A total of 96 positive patients are admitted in government hospitals and 894 at private hospitals as of Saturday. Government facilities have 354 Covid beds available and private hospitals have another 322. The number of patients on ventilator has also increased from 20 to 26 in just two days. Besides, 7,889 patients are in home isolation.Five senior citizens among latest fatalitiesAmongst the men who succumbed to the disease were a 78-year-old from LIG Flats in Sector 32, a 71-year-old from Sarabha Nagar, a 62-year-old from Kidwai Nagar, and two aged 55 from Ram Nagar and Rajguru Nagar. The female deceased were a 72-year-old from Barewal, a 65-year-old from Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, a 58-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, a 56-year-old from Preet Nagar and a 48-year-old from Rauni village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-logs-861-covid-cases-in-slight-drop-but-deaths-rise-to-10-101619287802401.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records lowest rise in Covid-19 cases in 25 days||Mumbai on Saturday recorded 5,888 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily rise in infections since March 30.Increased testing and isolation of patients alongwith the exodus of migrant labourers may have led to the decline, said an official.Also, for the first time since April 12, when the city had reported 6,905 cases, the daily rise in infections in the country's financial capital fell below 7,000 on Saturday.The caseload in the city stands at 6,22,109.The city on March 30 had reported 4,758 Covid-19 cases, after which the figures had risen."Apart from increased testing and tracing and early isolation, the migration of over six lakh workers may have played a role in the reduction of numbers," said a senior civic official.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had given several hints that the state was considering the reintroduction of lockdown-like measures which prompted migrant labourers to leave the city, he added.The Central and Western Railways had run almost 500 special trains in last some weeks and most of them ran at full capacity.The fall in cases on Saturday also brought down the positivity rate from 18 per cent to 15 per cent compared to the last week.The overall growth rate of cases in the city is 1.26 per cent.On Saturday 8,549 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recoveries to 5,29,233."The strict lockdown-like measures further discouraged people from stepping out. The rising infections too must have persuaded some people to stay at home," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-lowest-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-25-days-101619287108771.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nodeep Kaur case: HC disposes of plea on illegal detention||The Punjab and Haryana high court has disposed of suo motu plea initiated on January 12 on reports of illegal detention of labour activist Nodeep Kaur in January.Kaur, along with her associates Shiv Kumar and Sahil, all affiliated with Majdoor Adhikar Sangthan, were arrested in January and booked for violence reported at different locations in Sonepat.Kaur had been demonstrating in solidarity with farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. Their arrest had resulted in a huge uproar with the state being accused of muzzling voices of the protesters.The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan disposed of the plea observing that the issue of illegal detention is no longer required to be gone into in view of the fact that there was an FIR registered against her subsequent to which she was arrested and is now on bail. The court has, however, given her liberty to avail remedy for redressal of grievance with regard to alleged maltreatment and custodial torture. Suo motu proceedings were initiated in January. Subsequently, the state had alleged that she was accused of extorting money from industrialists in Kondli area of Sonepat and inciting workers during a protest on January 12 in which seven cops were reportedly injured.Though she had claimed that she was assaulted in custody, Haryana Police had denied the same. The first FIR was registered on December 28 and two more on January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nodeep-kaur-case-hc-disposes-of-plea-on-illegal-detention-101619286601750.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Free vaccine for above 18 beneficiaries at govt facilities in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said Covid vaccine will be provided free of cost to above 18 citizens at government health facilities in state from May 1.Khattar, who was presiding over a meeting of state-level Covid monitoring committee, said registration for 18 plus vaccination will start from April 28. The CM said the state government will append ₹880 crore on vaccine administration to the beneficiaries.Khattar said people will have to pay for inoculation at private hospitals. He said that gathering at any social and family event has now been fixed at 50 persons, while at cremations it will be 20 persons.He said that in view of spurt in Covid cases, an appeal will be made to corporate houses to bear expenses for getting their workforce vaccinated.The CM said that number of beds has been increased at hospitals across state and directions have been given to make an arrangement of about 1,000 oxygen beds at PGIMS, Rohtak, and 1,250 oxygen beds at other hospitals of medical colleges.Private hospitals have also been directed to reserve up to 50% beds for Covid patients. The OPD timings at government hospitals have been restricted so that priority can be given to Covid patients, he said.The CM said work from home will be encouraged at all government departments. Apart from this, in departments where office work can be handled from home, the employees have been directed to work from home.At high-risk districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, and Sonepat, private offices have been asked to ensure that maximum employees work from home.Khattar said all DCs have been authorised to take other decisions including imposing Section 144 as per requirement, fixing minimum number of employees in government offices located in their respective districts, creating containment zones, and ensuring that there is no overcrowding.Khattar said ACS (power) PK Das has been appointed as state nodal officer to monitor the situation at hospitals across state.State home and health minister Anil Vij said directions were issued to officers concerned regarding reactivation of plasma bank. Vij said a request has been made to the central government to increase the state’s quota of medical oxygen to 200 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-vaccine-for-above-18-beneficiaries-at-govt-facilities-101619286485736.html
24-04-2021||Other||Over 3K people await Covid report in Haryana’s Jind||More than 3,000 people in Jind district are waiting to get their Covid test results since April 18.As per the district health bulletin, 3,129 people are awaiting their sample reports. The district has total 1,981 active cases, of which 102 patients are admitted in isolation wards.However, 132 people have succumbed to the virus so far.A 41-year-old businessman, who gave throat swab for testing on April 19, said he is still waiting to collect his reports. “I have mild symptoms of fever, cough and pain in throat but the health department has failed to provide my Covid report. I had to wait for three hours to get my test done and now I’m making rounds of the hospital to collect my reports,” he said.A 28-year-old student, Rohit Kumar, said he has been waiting for his report for the last six days.“I have Covid symptoms and have home quarantined myself. Without getting test reports, how do I start my treatment? My family is worried. If we have to wait for a week to get the report, you can expect how many days will be required to get a bed in the hospital, if my situation worsens,” he said.In many cases, the report doesn’t mention if the person is tested positive or negative. Many people complained that they are receiving equivocal reports (neither positive nor negative).A health official, pleading anonymity, said they had sent samples to private labs for testing but reports are still awaited.“Many labs have expressed their inability to provide reports as the pending cases are yet to be cleared first,” the official added.Jind deputy commissioner Aditya Dahiya said Covid reports are delayed as 12 of 14 staff members deployed at the RT-PCR testing lab at Uchana in Jind were found infected with the virus.“We will deploy additional staff at the testing lab to solve this problem. The number of people coming for testing has increased significantly. The health department staff are approaching people who have shown symptoms. One can visit any health centre in district if they face any issue,” the Jind DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-3k-people-await-covid-report-in-haryana-s-jind-101619286425384.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ambala: Man impersonating IB officer booked for seeking sensitive army info||Police have booked a man for impersonating an Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer and seeking sensitive information from an army intelligence officer in Ambala Cantonment on Friday.Col CB Rai, commanding officer of the Corps 2’s field security section, filed a complaint with SSP Hamid Akhtar and an FIR was lodged against the accused under Sections 170 (personating as civil servant) and 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Cantt police station.The call was first received by Col Amit Mohanne, commanding officer 2 Corps Provost Unit (military police), on his official landline from an Indian mobile number. The accused claimed to be IB assistant director Rahul from Ambala and asked for military-related information.Col Amit advised him to call Col Rai for the same.“At 11:34am, I received a call from the same number and the same individual. The caller started enquiring about movement of a particular army unit. I didn’t divulge any information and requested him to visit my office. The local IB office was contacted to ascertain if any person named Rahul is posted there and it was found that no such person works there,” Col Rai said.DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar said the call is being traced and the matter is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-man-impersonating-ib-officer-booked-for-seeking-sensitive-army-info-101619286181643.html
24-04-2021||Other||Covid restrictions hamper wedding plans in Haryana, people shifting venue to villages||Only a week before the wedding of his daughter, Naresh Kumar, of Ladwa in Kurukshetra, had to shift the venue from a marriage palace to his native village after the government imposed restrictions on gatherings following rise in Covid-19 cases in state.Naresh had booked a marriage palace for around ₹1.90 lakh but now has to make arrangements for a tent and minimise the number of guests due to the danger posed by the pandemic. His family is busy making calls to close relatives informing them about the change of venue as the invitation cards had already been distributed.Despite this, Naresh was lucky as he belongs to a village and could change the venue swiftly. Hundreds others cannot shift the venue and are spending sleepless nights trying to get permission for their functions as now the government has limited the number of guests to 50 from 200, for all programmes.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, during a press conference on Saturday, said that people can defer their programmes. But people raised objection as they said weddings are not fixed in a week and their preparations begin more than a month before.Khattar added that all powers have been given to deputy commissioners for any further restrictions.“I have already paid for marriage palace, decoration, DJ, movie maker, catering and cooks as we were expecting a gathering of around 1,200 people at my son’s marriage. How can we reschedule it now?” asked Chanderbhan, of Kurukshetra, whose son’s marriage is fixed for Monday.The new restrictions have increased worries for people who cannot defer the marriages and are now making rounds to offices of the district administrations for permissions.As per authorities at the Karnal SDM office, over 150 applications seeking permission for marriages have been received since the restrictions were imposed.Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha said as per guidelines, permissions are only being granted for a day’s function. Duty magistrate and local police will visit the venue on the wedding day to ensure that Covid guidelines are followed and strict action is taken against violators as per law.Officials in Kaithal SDM office said over 50 applications for permission are coming in every day.Moreover, the restrictions, especially night curfew, has cost the owners of marriage palaces heavily as they most marriages were fixed for night and have now been cancelled or shifted to villages due to fresh guidelines and night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-restrictions-hamper-wedding-plans-in-haryana-people-shifting-venue-to-villages-101619286001691.html
24-04-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen tanker diverted to Rewari, patients in home isolation worst hit||Even as the administration officials laid out a plan to augment oxygen supply, hospitals and relatives of Covid-19 patients on Saturday ran pillar to post looking for cylinders. Although private hospitals managed to get supply later in the day, patients in home isolation were the worst hit as a tanker ferrying oxygen to Gurugram was diverted to Rewari.Residents who had gone to get cylinders refilled at a Manesar facility said they returned empty-handed. “We waited for the whole day for gas cylinders to be refilled. The truck did not arrive and we did not get anything,” said Surender Kumar, who had gone to Star Gases Limited, which provides oxygen supply.Long queues were witnessed even at 9pm as people refused to leave without the gas, according to the IMT industrial association.Sunil Jakhar, partner, Star Gases Limited, said that police stopped the tanker at Kasola in Bawal and took it over for supply in Rewari on the directions of the subdivisional magistrate of Bawal. “There were hundreds of people at the factory who were waiting but could not be supplied oxygen. We are filling cylinders free of cost and despite our repeated pleas, the truck was not released,” said Jakhar.Jakhar said that the company hired a truck later in the evening and managed to get oxygen to the factory around 8pm. “Around 400 people with cylinders and ambulances are waiting for gas. We will fill it free of cost till we can afford to do so,” he said.Sanjeev Kumar, SDM, Bawal, said that the truck was not seized but requisitioned by the Rewari administration. “The tanker was not seized but it was taken after discussion with nodal officer. This tanker will supply oxygen in Rewari. Gurugram has enough tankers to supply the gas and the authorities were duly informed,” said Kumar.The Gurugram district administration, meanwhile, said that the trucks are being requisitioned to augment oxygen supply as per the revised allocation plan. “The district administration supplied 31 metric tonnes of oxygen on Saturday and most of the hospitals that raised concerns were supplied oxygen. Also, it has been decided to double the supply to Gurugram and 20 metric tonnes (MT) will now come from Bhiwadi while 15 MT will come from Panipat. Around 10 MT additional supply will remain at the disposal of district administration,” said a spokesperson for the district administration.Earlier in the day, Max Hospital tweeted around 11am that it was led with only two hours of oxygen supply and that 70 critical patients Mayom Hospital in South City-1 tweeted around 11.45am that it would be “a losing battle, if we don’t get supply”.Dr Vikram Aryan, managing director, Aryan Hospital on Railway Road said that they were facing an acute shortage of oxygen. “We have 30 critical patients who won’t survive without oxygen. After calls to police and district administration, we managed to get 45 cylinders,” said Aryan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-tanker-diverted-to-rewari-patients-in-home-isolation-worst-hit-101619285882439.html
24-04-2021||Gurugram||200 beds to be added within three days, 800 more in the works||Amid the increasing demand for Covid-19 beds and ventilator support for seriously ill patients, senior Gurugram officials decided to add 1,000 more beds across the city’s hospitals, 200 of which, including 20 ventilator beds, will be set up within three days, according to a release issued by the district administration following a review of the situation in the city on Saturday.Officials familiar with the developments said that 100 beds have been added at SGT Hospital, 50 at Civil Hospital, 50 beds; 25 each at Pataudi and Sohna Civil Hospitals, and 14 beds at the ESI Hospital.“It was decided in the meeting today (on Saturday) that hospital beds would be increased by 1,000,” said Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer.He said that the 1,000 beds may be set up at makeshift facilities at community centres, banquet halls and other such places.On Saturday, senior officials of MCG, district administration, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and health department, held a virtual meeting chaired by TC Gupta, additional chief secretary to Haryana government, and the Covid-19 officer for Gurugram.Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said, “Besides work on adding 200 beds, we have added around 100 Covid-19 beds in SGT medical recently. We will be adding another 20 oxygen and five more ventilator beds in the city. Further, efforts are also being made to increase the number of beds with oxygen facility in Gurugram through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in collaboration with various corporate companies. For this, seven community centres have been identified.”Last Monday, Gupta had said that the government will be adding 800 more Covid-19 beds in the city.Availability of beds for Covid-19 patients has been extremely low over the last week. On Friday night, there were no oxygen, ICU or ventilator beds available in Gurugram in any of its 41 Covid-19 hospitals, as per the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3), a real-time portal managed by the district administration.During the meeting, deputy commissioner Dr Yash Garg also suggested that by taking over ESI Hospital in Manesar, including the community hall adjoining it, around 150 additional beds can be added.Garg also said that the administration has discussed building hospitals for Covid-19 patients with a few big companies and NGOs of Gurugram.Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA, who is also in charge of managing beds for Covid-19 patients in Gurugram, said that better management and data analysis of available bed numbers is needed and the existing infrastructure will be increased, as per the requirement.Oxygen supplyDuring the meeting, Gupta reiterated that there was no shortage of oxygen in Haryana and it only needed to be managed on the ground. He said that earlier, Gurugram was getting 20 to 22 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen, which was sufficient and with an increase in the requirement, 31 MT of liquid oxygen were supplied on Friday.The administration said that during Saturday’s review, there was a talk of increasing the supply of oxygen, to 35 MT. Apart from this, 10 tonnes of liquid oxygen will be kept at the disposal of the district administration for emergency purposes.Gupta said that the oxygen plan of the district has been prepared by taking the data of consumption and supply of oxygen in hospitals in the district. Gurugram district will get the supply from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and Panipat.He said that there is no need for panic about the oxygen supply, as companies have also been asked to help out in case of a crisis.Beds reservationDuring the meeting, the administration apprised Gupta that 60% of all hospital beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients, with 75% reservation of ICU and ventilator beds, leading to an additional 1,000 beds, following which Gupta directed all executive magistrates and nodal officers deputed at each Covid-19 hospital to strictly enforce the reservations.Requests from patientsThe district administration received 525 applications on the covidggn.com portal since the option was introduced last week, of which 80 patients were deemed to be eligible for admission by a team of doctors.Additional deputy commissioner Prashant Pawar said that such patients were admitted on a “first come first served” basis.He said that those applying on the portal need are allowed to choose three hospitals and if beds are not available in any of these, patients would be informed of availability in other hospitals and given the option of being admitted there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/200-beds-to-be-added-within-three-days-800-more-in-the-works-101619285883156.html
24-04-2021||Gurugram||Caseload nears 100,000, stricter curbs announced||Continuing the recent daily spike in Covid-19 infections, Gurugram on Saturday recorded 3,136 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 99,874, according to the district health department data. Taking into account the unabated spike, the Haryana government on Saturday night imposed fresh restrictions.As per an order issued for Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panchkula, Hisar and Karnal districts, by the state disaster management authority, the deputy commissioners were asked to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to ban gatherings of more than four persons. All information technology (IT), IT-enabled services units and corporate offices in these districts shall operate their offices from home till May 3, as per the order.Further, gatherings across the state have been capped to 30 persons indoors, 50 persons outdoors and 20 for funerals. For all other events, organisers will have to take permission from the deputy commissioners. “The public should be advised to conduct weddings and other functions during the daytime to avoid rush and traffic inconvenience at the time of imposition of night curfew,” the order said.On Saturday, Gurugram also recorded 8 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 418. The positivity rate in the district stands at 25%, said Dr Virender Yadav, who said that strict enforcement of mask and other social distancing measures are being done. “The city residents must follow safeguards strictly and wear masks and avoid social or other gatherings. We are trying hard to augment facilities but the pressure is high and prevention is the best policy right now,” said Yadav.At present, the total number of active cases is 23,046, with the health department expecting the number to rise. The district administration on Saturday held a review meeting in which it was decided to increase beds, create more facilities and also enforce safeguards strictly.Tensions also ran high due to limited medical facilities as people were seen having arguments over getting tested and vaccinated at the Palam Vihar public health centre.As many as 12,171 samples were collected on Saturday for testing. Dr Yadav said that testing has been increased significantly to isolate local spreads. “We are increasing containment zones and isolating spread and this will help in curbing infection,” he said, adding that work from home in offices will also help.Officials said that 852 Covid-19 patients recovered on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 76510. The rate of recovery in the city stands around 84%.As per the data, 22,015 patients are in home isolation, while 95 patients were sent to institutional quarantine on Saturday. The health department said that 7,952 people got vaccinated at session sites on the day. “Plan is being made to increase vaccination outreach as people over the age of 18 years will become eligible for vaccination,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/caseload-nears-100-000-stricter-curbs-announced-101619285881601.html
24-04-2021||Other||10,491 more test Covid positive in Haryana||Haryana on Saturday reported 10,491 new coronavirus infections and 60 deaths. The new cases pushed the number of active cases to 69,384.As per the medical bulletin, the sample positivity rate on Saturday climbed to 5.83% from Friday’s 5.72% and the recovery rate came down to 82.32% from 83.19%.There are 1,995 critical patients in state on Saturday including 1,769 on oxygen support and 226 on ventilator.Of the 60 deaths, eight were from Gurugram, seven each from Faridabad and Ambala, six each from Hisar and Sonepat, five each from Bhiwani and Karnal, three each from Jind and Fatehabad, two each from Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Sirsa and one each from Panipat and Palwal.Gurugram with 3,136 new cases, Faridabad (1,530), Hisar (857) and Sonepat (802) were the leading districts in terms of new infections reported on Saturday.FRESH RESTRICTIONS IN SIX DISTRICTSThe Haryana government on Saturday night imposed fresh restrictions in six pandemic-hit districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panchkula, Hisar and Karnal.As per an order issued by the state disaster management authority, DCs of all six districts were asked to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to ban gathering of more than four persons unless specifically permitted.The deputy commissioners across the state have also been asked to impose lockdown for a defined period in macro containment zones where concentration of coronavirus is discovered. All IT, IT-enabled services units, and corporate offices in these districts will operate from home till May 3.For the entire state, and for gatherings of all kinds, a maximum of 30 persons will be allowed in indoor spaces and maximum 50 persons outdoors. For funerals, maximum 20 persons will be allowed. For social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and other congregations, the organisers will have to take permission from the DCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10491-more-test-covid-positive-in-haryana-101619285643333.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Current Covid-19 wave 30 times more intense than last one: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the current Covid-19 wave was 30 times more intense than the one witnessed last year. “This is calamity, pandemic. We should not dismiss it as mere viral fever. I, too, got infected and (am) following isolation and all protocols since April 13,” he said in an interaction with editors and senior journalists of various publications and media outlets.At the same time, he said in the last three days, the number of recoveries each day had been higher in Lucknow than the number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases. Yogi Adityanath also said that there was no shortage of drugs like Remdesivir. “When the demand increased, we sent the state plane to Ahmedabad, directly procured it from a pharma company, and brought the consignment to Lucknow the same day. Like oxygen, not all patients need Remdesivir,” he said.He also underscored, “There will be no dearth of beds, and the bed situation is being monitored and reviewed each day.” The chief minister said to the senior journalists: “When the first case surfaced in UP last year, we did not have any resources. We had one lab that started with 72 tests in March 2020. Now, we are doing 2.25 lakh tests per day and will escalate it. UP is the only state to have done nearly four crore tests. Last year, 36 districts that did not have even a single ventilator. Today, all districts have ventilators.”The chief minister alleged there were some vested interests who were engaged in spreading rumours and panic. There had been instances when the same fake distress message was relayed from different social media accounts, he said. There was a need to identify such people and act against them, he added.Dwelling more on the government’s efforts, he said: “Recently, when the Delhi government announced lockdown, nearly 1.5 lakh migrants arrived in UP. We promptly arranged buses, tests, and quarantine.”Regarding Covid vaccination, he said that UP was the first state to announce free vaccination for all. The state had nearly 8,000 vaccination centres ready where vaccines will be given to people about 18 years of age from May 1. At a Covid-19 review meeting earlier in the day, the chief minister aid stress on proper preparations for the new phase of the vaccination drive. Till now, those above 45 years of age were getting inoculated.The chief minister asked for extensive sanitisation during the corona curfew.In the last 24 hours, more than 23,000 Covid-19 positive patients had recovered, he noted.He also asked for promptness in ambulance services for Covid-19 patients, effective implementation of norms in containment zones, providing Covid kit to home isolation patients, and smooth operations in wheat purchase across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/current-covid-19-wave-30-times-more-intense-than-last-one-yogi-101619285521027.html
24-04-2021||Other||UP to do oxygen audit with help from top institutes||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the state government will conduct oxygen audit with the assistance of IIT- Kanpur, IIM-Lucknow and IIT-Banaras Hindu University. He also said the state will soon have 32 new oxygen plants of which 18 will be based on DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) technology. Reacting to the move on oxygen audit, a spokesperson for Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) said, “We are more than happy to assist the UP government in any way we can in these times of crisis. A team will be formed and assigned this task once an official communication in this regard is received by us.” The Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow (IIM-L) also assured full cooperation in the oxygen audit. “We are yet to receive an official communication from the state government,” its spokesperson said. IIT-BHU director Prof PK Jain said, “A team of experts will be constituted for the oxygen audit as soon as we receive any communication from the government in this regard.” The chief minister announced the oxygen audit a day after launching a digital platform for monitoring oxygen supply. For his part, he asked officials to strike a balance between demand and supply of oxygen. He also asked officials to “distribute oxygen in a transparent manner.” He also said the Covid-19 hospitals being set up by DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) in Lucknow and Varanasi will soon be ready and functional, said a state government statement quoting the chief minister. He noted that medical oxygen supply to Uttar Pradesh was being augmented not only from Bokaro (Jharkhand) but also from Modinagar (UP), Kashipur and Roorkee (Uttarakhand) and Panipat (Haryana). “Ensure oxygen supply to small districts such as Bahraich, Firozabad from their district headquarters. Oxygen is being transported to various districts such as Gorakhpur and Bareilly through tankers. Ensure GPS (global position system) tracking of the tankers and make security arrangements for them. No patient should suffer because of a lack of oxygen. Keep an eye on all small or big hospitals in the state,” he added. “Provide oxygen even to those who require it in home isolation. The state government will ensure oxygen sufficiency everywhere in the state,” he said. Yogi said oxygen will be given to anyone who has doctor’s prescription for it. The chief minister said oxygen refilling and oxygen-producing MSME units should be connected directly with the hospitals for smoother supply. “There is no crisis of oxygen in the government and private hospitals. Hoarding and black marketeering has led to the shortage. Some of the hospitals announced that they were facing oxygen shortage. When the state government teams checked the premises, enough oxygen was found in the stock. Due to the fear being created by such hospitals, the panicked people are trying to get an oxygen cylinder,” he said later in the day. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awasthi said the oxygen monitoring system had started functioning. In a video conference on Saturday, the Uttar Pradesh authorities apprised the central government about the new monitoring system launched by the state. The central government appreciated the UP initiative, he said, adding that the representatives of Bihar, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra showed interest in the monitoring system launched by UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-to-do-oxygen-audit-with-help-from-top-institutes-101619285342959.html
24-04-2021||Other||IAF starts transporting empty oxygen tankers from UP||The Indian Air Force (IAF) started airlifting empty oxygen tankers of Uttar Pradesh from its Hindon air base in Ghaziabad to transport them to oxygen filling units elsewhere. The tankers with refills will return to the state on trains later. The state government also said that it may use the Bakshi Ka Talab air base in Lucknow and Gorakhpur air base for airlifting empty oxygen tankers. “The first two tankers were scheduled to be airlifted from Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad today (Saturday). We believe the tankers have reached Bokaro, Jamshedpur,” said a state government official. The development follows chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday where Yogi requested the central government to deploy air force planes for oxygen supply. At the Team-11 meeting on Saturday, the chief minister said: “Even the Indian Air Force is cooperating from various centres across the country for oxygen supply. Two tankers will be airlifted on an air force plane to Bokaro. From there, after refilling, the tankers will reach Lucknow on a train.” The state government official said that the plane would take only empty tankers and won’t transport refilled tankers as that’s dangerous from the aviation point of view. Once filled with liquid oxygen, the tankers would reach their destinations in UP on trains. Airlifting empty tankers to the filling centres drastically cuts the total time of transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iaf-starts-transporting-empty-oxygen-tankers-from-up-101619285161009.html
24-04-2021||Kolkata||Panel asks Bengal private hospitals to earmark 60% of beds for Covid-19 patients||As surging Covid-19 cases in West Bengal lead to a crisis of beds in hospitals, a regulatory body for private hospitals on Saturday asked the clinical establishments of the state to earmark 60 per cent of their total bed strength for treating coronavirus patients.The remaining 40 per cent of the beds will be dedicated as "Day Care beds, Emergency triage and for emergency non-Covid treatment like dialysis and emergency surgeries," the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) said.In the emergency department, "triage" refers to the methods used to assess patients' severity of injury or illness within a short time after their arrival, assign priorities, and transfer each patient to the appropriate place for treatment."Clinical Establishments (CEs) have taken measures to enhance the bed capacity but the present capacity is unsatisfactory and failing to fulfill the requirements."Now, it is apprehended that many lives may be lost if Covid beds are not enhanced. Sixty per cent of the sanctioned beds in the CEs must be dedicated for Covid treatment," the advisory read.The hospitals which have already designated 60 per cent of their bed strength to treat coronavirus patients should not reduce them, the WBCERC said."The advisory, however, will not be applicable to CEs wherein government requisitioned Covid beds or CEs serving as charitable organisation," the advisory stated.The CEs were asked to submit a report to the WBCERC on steps in accordance with the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/panel-asks-bengal-private-hospitals-to-earmark-60-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients-101619284390275.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Laughter is still the best medicine||A few decades ago, spiritual thinker Dada Vaswani propounded his ‘therapy of laughter’, but few people took him seriously! The theory that even critically ill patients could benefit by healthy doses of laughter was pooh-poohed by most experts. The jury is still out on this one, though thousands of patients have recovered to the prime of health after having risen from the ashes, as it were, with focused treatment of the holistic kind, which includes medical treatment along with therapies like Vaswani’s.Several leading doctors often vouch for the veracity of meditation, prayer, faith, cheerfulness and laughter, as holistic methods of healing which can supplement modern day scientific methodologies. Patients of the still dreaded disease, cancer, have also shown remarkable results when their minds have been convinced of the need for positive thinking and cheerfulness. I personally know of a couple of patients of advanced carcinoma who have miraculously recovered beyond the expectations of doctors by sheer dint of their never say die spirit.The currently raging tsunamic surge of pandemic numbers is looming large upon us and it may seem preposterous to prescribe laughter as a balm for any sort of healing. Seriously ill patients afflicted by the venomous virus require hospitalisation, oxygen and medication. However, those with few or no symptoms, and those who are hale but nervous to bits at the prospect of falling sick, need such therapies more than ever before.Reader’s Digest, the venerable family publication, first appeared in 1922 and regularly carried a couple of pages of lighter anecdotes, under the title, Laughter- The Best Medicine. While growing up, I would flip the pages quickly to devour that section, as also ‘Humour in Uniform’ and “Life’s like That!’ which were an integral part of a periodical that has been a favourite of many generations.Life is full of interactions between human beings. The lighter and peppier conversations which ignore “doomsday cometh” sorts of suggestions, is a truly healthy conversation. Imagine the mood of a household which has not smiled all day long without any valid reason. The collective sullenness that society is experiencing these days due to the sheer burden of the news floating around them, is best combated by being sensible and staying safe, but also by focusing on just the opposite.Watching gruesome murder mysteries on Netflix won’t help (unless one is utterly impervious to such deleterious influences!). A deliberate effort will have to be made to pull oneself away from all form of despair and gloom. Comedies and lighthearted shows are just what the busy doctor would order in this scenario. Family games and musical evenings must become the norm rather than the exception for those who do not have convalescing patients to nurse at home.A Jewish proverb happily goes like this: “As soap is to the body, so laughter is to the soul.” And we all know how important soap is these days! Everyone does not have the knack of making others laugh, of course. A write up that once appeared in the Reader’s Digest, dealt with types of joke tellers. There are those who keep forgetting their own jokes, and get muddled up, midway. There are also those who relate brilliant jokes without bringing even a smile to anyone’s face, since their punchline lacks the much-needed punch. But the ones who take the cake are those who keep on laughing while enunciating a joke, leading to general mirth for the wrong reasons! A WhatsApp forward wins my award for the most innovative and telling comment on our shaky times. It carries a group picture of some elderly persons, and advises all friends to stay safe so that they can collectively pose for similar ‘80-plus pics’ one day! The joke industry of India is in hyper mode these days, with several jokes not even worthy of mention. Yet, one would any day prefer to subscribe to it than to the messengers of gloom.‘Trouble knocked at the door, but on hearing laughter, it hurried away!’ said Benjamin Franklin once. But author Mary Pettibone Poole has this last laugh on the subject: “He who laughs, lasts!”Everyone does not have the knack of making others laugh, of course. A write up that once appeared in the Reader’s Digest, dealt with types of joke tellers. There are those who keep forgetting their own jokes, and get muddled up, midway. There are also those who relate brilliant jokes without bringing even a smile to anyone’s face, since their punchline lacks the much-needed punch. But the ones who take the cake are those who keep on laughing while enunciating a joke, leading to general mirth for the wrong reasons!A WhatsApp forward wins my award for the most innovative and telling comment on our shaky times. It carries a group picture of some elderly persons, and advises all friends to stay safe so that they can collectively pose for similar ‘80-plus pics’ one day!The joke industry of India is in hyper mode these days, with several jokes not even worthy of mention. Yet, one would any day prefer to subscribe to it than to the messengers of gloom who too are falling over each other to reach out to us.‘Trouble knocked at the door, but on hearing laughter, it hurried away!’ said Benjamin Franklin once. But author Mary Pettibone Poole has this last laugh on the subject: “He who laughs, lasts!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-laughter-is-still-the-best-medicine-101619284561598.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Parched dam||As temperatures rise and natural water sources dwindle, thirsty garden birds can be observed hovering around water taps turned ever so tightly. Photographers have captured these poignant avian moments emanating from a dry, scorching heat. Perhaps, the most disturbing photograph that mirrored the vivid and expressive emotions displayed by parched birds emerged from the Perch Check Dam in the Shivalik foothills behind the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER). The visual was of a checkered keelback (Asiatic water snake) suffering from dehydration and prey scarcity due to its aquatic habitat being virtually annihilated overnight. Unlike an evolving drought situation that entails water resources drying out slowly, warning wild species and allowing them a chance to adapt and migrate, the dam emptied out in 48 hours after a mechanical failure in the sluice gates. The keelback species shelters within rocks and niche spaces besides the dam’s water and preys on frogs and fish by swimming out. Like other wild species dying in the empty dam, keelbacks were accustomed to a perennial source of water for 27 years, ever since the dam’s inception.The keelback had left the dry dam’s immediate vicinity in a fruitless search for water and prey and was photographed by Amardeep Singh, a bird photographer and chassis design section head at Maruti Suzuki India’s plant in Gurgaon. “I was taken aback by the snake’s behaviour. It did not move away or put up an aggressive posture when we got close to it. The tongue was not flickering. It slowly raised its head once and then lowered it to conserve energy. It was displaying an inert and listless disposition due to the catastrophic loss of its water habitat,” Singh told this writer. Pyaas ke phoolIndia’s diverse traditions exalt the creed of compassion for creatures in distress, especially during water shortages. There are anecdotal remembrances from pre-Partition Punjab of black bucks entering villages in droughts and villagers provisioning water and shikaris putting away their weapons under the sway of the community’s empathetic reach out. The Bishnois excel in community ‘sewa’ of wild creatures and their women rise to the occasion by breast feeding orphaned fawns. Indian art forms, especially miniature paintings, have revelled in ethereal feminine beauty indulging in a divine-like compassion for creatures, such as cranes, swans, does and black bucks.One of the simplest ways to provide a seamless continuity to such traditions is to put out a bowl of water in gardens or balconies. But please ensure that the placement is in the open and away from hiding places that a feral cat can use to ambush birds habituated to the assured water. It will allow birds to bathe and enhance feather maintenance. Dampening feathers loosens dirt and facilitates preening. Bees, insects and butterflies also avail of water bowls.Watching birds bathe and quench their thirst is certain to provide householders with unlimited happiness, a very proximate connect to nature and render their children more rounded and empathetic personalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-parched-dam-101619284023308.html
24-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Police get tough as weekend curfew comes into effect||Police got tough in the urban areas of Karnataka on Saturday as a stringent weekend curfew came into effect to contain the spread of coronavirus.The lathi-wielding policemen dotted all the important roads, junctions and markets of the cities to ensure that no one violated the norm. In some places, they forced the shopkeepers to wind up their businesses as they tried to open the shops with a hope that there was no prohibition on the sale of essential goods. The government imposed a stringent weekend curfew till May 4, which would come into effect from 9 PM on Friday till 6 AM on Monday in order to contain the spread of Covid.The decision was taken as the daily caseload reached close to 30,000 cases a day on Saturday while the daily fatality exceeded the 200-mark during the day.In addition to it, there were about 2.35 lakh active cases in Karnataka, most of which were from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-police-get-tough-as-weekend-curfew-comes-into-effect-101619283472034.html
24-04-2021||Pune||With 23 new deaths, Covid toll crosses 9,000 mark in Pune district||PUNE The district, on Saturday, reported 10,025 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, as per the state health department.Also, with 23 new deaths due to the infection, the toll went past the 9,000 mark as the toll went up to 9,006 deaths in the district.The progressive count stands at 7.86 lakh out of which 6.69 lakh have recovered and 108,231 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Out of the total reported new Covid-19 cases, Pune rural reported 3,476 new cases which took the progressive count to 18,7052 and with 11 more deaths the toll stands at 2,381.Pune city reported 4,118 new cases which took the final to 406,030 and with 11 more deaths the toll went up to 5,111.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 2,431 more new cases which took the toll to 193,389 and with one more death the toll went up to 1,459.Pune also saw a drastic drop in vaccination as only 24,157 beneficiaries got the vaccine out of which 10,270 were from Pune rural, 5,517 from Pune city and 8,370 from PCMC.Out of the total beneficiaries, 16,252 got Covishield and 7,905 for Covaxin. Vaccination was conducted at 383 session sites on Saturday.The Pune Zilla Parishad has decided to offer monetary rewards and certificates to the staffers of gram panchayats, including Asha workers and Anganwadi staffers, if they contain the spread of Covid in their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-23-new-deaths-covid-toll-crosses-9-000-mark-in-pune-district-101619283780910.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Of idols and their myriad obsessions||Haven’t we all idolised somebody? I too have had idols at most stages of life and strange as it would seem, each one of them was in turn obsessed with something or the other. My first idol, as far as I can remember, was the Bollywood actor Sunil Dutt. His iconic film, Mother India, had deeply moved me and after he rescued his co-star Nargis and won her heart and hand, his place was cemented as my idol. Over the years, my idols ranged from an English teacher who was a stickler for correct pronunciation and spellings, a cricket coach who would make us run at least 5km before a game as warm up, to a drill instructor at the Indian Military Academy who would reach the barracks even on a rainy day (presumably a non-drill day) and pace through the corridor with his trademarked one liners, invariably beginning with “GC (gentleman cadet) fauj mein koi chutti nahin hoti.” Having hung up my spurs, I now have two constant idols — my daughter-in-law, whom I try to emulate in soft skills, courage, and stress-free living and my wife whose emotional intelligence has always impressed me. Ironically, they too are not free of obsessions. The former is obsessed with her son and the latter is on an unending quest to improve her husband.  The one who abhorred obsessions Being impulsive, fickle and self-obsessed, I fall for contrary qualities in people around me. One such person has been a friend for around four decades. Cool as a cucumber, he has unending reserves of patience, soft skills, ability to tolerate ambiguity and suffer fools, which makes him a favourite among the community at large. However, it was his abhorrence to obsessions, which cliched his place as my idol ... or so I thought. Recently, we met at a golf course, which is close to his house. Hoping for a fun-filled and tough game, we teed off for an engrossing five-hour duel. However, I immediately realised that his body language seemed abnormal. He seemed restless and fidgety, which was unlike him. He kept looking over his shoulder and kept groping his pockets. “All fine Rajeev?” I asked him and received the proverbial thumbs up. He was not his usual relaxed self and it manifested in his game, which gradually progressed from bad to worse . After the front nine, it was time for a snack break. However, my hero was reeling under an embarrassing score, an unusual happening! Turning the tide “ You go ahead with snacks while I finish an errand,” he told me. Though he is not one to miss a sumptuous omelet, he left in a flurry even before I could fathom what had happened. It was a while before he was back with a spring in his step and a cellphone to his ear. The back nine round turned out to be a game changer with him turning the tide. It was after I handed over the day’s winnings to him that I realised the reason for the turnaround. My friend had forgotten his mobile phone at home and insecurity at being cut off from the world had taken its toll in the first half. Surprised by this extreme obsession, which had by now diluted my sense of idolisation for him , I asked him, “Did you miss anything when the gizmo was not with you?” Though sheepish, he was quick to retort , “There were some important WhatsApp updates regarding the second wave of Covid. You know we can’t afford to miss them in these times.” Dejected and crestfallen, I am now looking to fulfil my obsession to search for a new idol! avnishrms59@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-of-idols-and-their-myriad-obsessions-101619283541475.html
24-04-2021||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan says 'corona curfew' helping stabilise Covid-19 case positivity rate in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said the 'corona curfew' imposed in the state had stabilised coronavirus positivity rates.Madhya Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,918 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 4,85,703, including 5,041 deaths.He said the need now was to identify more areas with a high infection rate at the district level."The positive effect of janata corona curfew is visible in the state. The positivity rate of the pandemic has been stabilised. There is a need to identify more areas with high infection rate at the district level," Chouhan said at a meeting of a core group formed to tackle the coronavirus situation in the state.He said his government was developing a mechanism to control infection at the micro-level by declaring containment zones.A total of 11,000 people had recovered from the infection during the day, he said, adding that ensuring supply of liquid medical oxygen as per demand amid a surge in cases was his government's top priority.The CM said he had spoken to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal who had assured that an oxygen express, a train carrying tankers with liquid medical oxygen, would reach state capital Bhopal from Bokaro via Ranchi in Jharkhand.Chouhan said the possibility of converting nitrogen tankers into oxygen ones and ferrying them by trains was also being considered.Speaking about the ramping up of health infrastructure in the state, he said 9,041 isolation beds have been arranged in 155 Covid care centres, and 618 beds with oxygen facilities have been set up in 32 centres statewide.The core group was also informed that 100 ICU beds will be increased in AIIMS, Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-corona-curfew-helping-stabilise-covid-19-case-positivity-rate-in-madhya-pradesh-101619282537007.html
24-04-2021||Ranchi||Only 8% people in state vaccinated||Jharkhand, in last three and a half months, has vaccinated only 8% of its population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, considered as the only way to slow down the growth of infection, according to the state health department’s bulletin released on Saturday.The state till Saturday evening vaccinated over 2.54 million citizens against its total population of 32.96 million. These beneficiaries were a part of preferred groups comprising health care workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW) and citizens above the age of 45 years.At a time when the state is badly hit by the second wave of the pandemic, all eyes are now set at the pace of vaccination and its coverage, that need to be amplified further to save precious lives.Considering the importance of vaccination in the ongoing fight against the virus, the Centre recently allowed inoculation of all citizens above the age of 18 years from May 1.The state government too responded quickly to this development and announced to provide free vaccination to all its eligible citizens.According to an estimate of the state health department, there are around 16 million people between 18-44 years of age in Jharkhand, for which it requires 32 million doses of the vaccine.However, health mandarins in the state are sceptical about timely availability of such a huge number of vaccine doses. This apart, they also find the current pace of vaccination coverage unsatisfactory.A senior official of the health department said, “The department has been continuously monitoring the entire vaccination programme and issuing directions/advisories to districts to augment the pace of vaccination. Districts with low coverage have been nudged regularly. Special camps were organised at panchayat levels also to augment the coverage percentage. On Saturday, around 1,500 Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) were functioning across the state. The number of CVCs may be increased from May 1.”According to sources, the state has, at present, six lakh doses of both Covishield and Covaxin. It is also planning to purchase around 50 lakh doses for the launch of mass vaccination campaign from May 1.According to a department official, “The Serum Institute of India, Pune, that manufactures Covishield vaccine, has fixed ₹400 and ₹600 prices per dose for government and private sectors, respectively.”Health experts feel that vaccination is the key to contain the spread of the infection. “Achieving herd immunity at the earliest is key to effectively control the disastrous pandemic. How quickly can we reach the magic herd immunity number across the country depends on a number of factors, including infectivity of the virus,” said Dr RK Jha, former professor and head, department of medicine of RIMS, Ranchi.He added, “More the infectiousness of the virus, bigger the percentage of people to be vaccinated. For instances, herd immunity for measles is achieved by vaccinating almost 100% population because its basic reproduction number R0 ( R nought) is extremely high, 12-18 suggesting infectiousness, whereas, for whooping cough (pertussis) it’s 5-6, requiring only 70% of population to be vaccinated.It’s quite likely that newer variants of coronavirus, that are more infectious, now require almost 100% of population to be vaccinated, Jha said.“Vaccinating a large population swiftly requires huge manpower and other infrastructure. Health emergency should be promulgated in order to effectively use national resources. Vaccine availability, right from production to storage and distribution, should be streamlined and perfectly tuned with the help of computer applications. Media have a greater role to play in creating awareness,” he said, adding, “Wearing mask as a national dress and duty can buy time for vaccination. The state should do everything possible to ensure that people are made to use mask and maintain social distancing.”According to the health department’s April 24 bulletin, of the total 2,548,045 beneficiaries, who received the first jab, 2,088,413 were above 45 years of age, 264,281 were FLWs and 195,351 were HCWs. A total of 414,035 beneficiaries have taken both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/only-8-people-in-state-vaccinated-101619282760878.html
24-04-2021||Ranchi||State starts Covid-19 circuit to relieve load of major districts||In order to decongest hospitals in major cities like Ranchi and Jamshedpur and provide oxygen beds to struggling patients, the state government on Saturday started ‘Covid-19 circuit’ through which patients will be shifted to hospitals in nearby districts where oxygen beds were lying vacant, officials said.The circuit was inaugurated online by chief minister Hemant Soren, along with symbolically flagging off ambulances from his residence that will transport patients to nearby districts free of cost as and when required. “It is being observed that while there is lot of pressure on hospitals in Ranchi and Jamshedpur, several beds in nearby district hospitals are lying vacant. We need to use these beds optimally. Patients who are in need of oxygenated beds can dial emergency number and they can get admitted in nearby districts which are part of the two major districts. If needed, government vans will transport them to these facilities from Ranchi and Jamshedpur,” said Soren, while inaugurating the circuit. The move comes a day after the chief minister said there was no shortage of oxygen or oxygen supported beds in the state.Ramgarh, Khunti, Humla, Siddha, Lohardaga and Latehar districts are part of the Ranchi circuit, while Jamshedpur, Chaibasa and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts are part of the Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) circuit. According to the chief minister, hundreds of oxygenated beds were available in these districts. “In Ranchi circuit, out of the total 2,000 beds, nearly 450 are vacant. In Jamshedpur circuit, out of 1,200, around 500 are still available,” Soren said. He further said oxygen beds in the state were increased to 10,000 from 2,500 in last 20 days, while work was also on to increase the number of oxygen supported beds across the state.Besides, in a bid avoid problems arising due to lack of information, the state government issued a toll-free number, the chief minister said. Infected patients or families, who wish to be admitted to nearby district hospitals, can call central control room at 104 or Ranchi centre at 0651-2411144 and Jamshedpur centre at 0657-244011, and 8987510050. This service is being provided for free.Earlier on Friday, Soren said there was no shortage of oxygen or oxygen supported beds in the state. “There is no need to panic. All of us will win this battle against Covid-19 by keeping restraint. Doctors in the state, including paramedical staff, and other Covid-19 warriors are working day and night for us. We all have to be together in this fight. Arrangements are improving with every passing day. Our patience can be an important link in this fight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-starts-covid-19-circuit-to-relieve-load-of-major-districts-101619282700944.html
24-04-2021||Other||Bihar youth working with German cruise goes missing||PATNAA youth from Saran district of Bihar, who was working with a German cruise, has been missing since April 21 when the vessel set sail from Greece for Israel.Abhinav Kumar, son of 55-year-old Sunil Kumar Malakar, headmaster of a school in Saran, last spoke to his father on April 19 and told him that the newly built cruise did not have any passenger.Kumar, a resident of in Sonepur, was a crew member at Royal Caribbean International Cruise, which left Cyprus on April 21. Since then, the family has approached everyone, from the Centre to the local police. Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy has taken up the matter with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Indian ambassador in Germany, Mukta Tomar.Talking to reporters on Saturday, Malakar said he received a call on April 21 informing him that his son had been missing during a jump in sea. According to Malakar, the incident occurred at 50 nautical miles south of Cyprus. “The captain of the ship, Kumar’s room partner and other crew members seems to have been briefed as to what they have to say about the incident. Even the company officials are saying the exact same thing. No police case has not been registered. Company officials are avoiding our calls,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-youth-working-with-german-cruise-goes-missing-101619282642339.html
24-04-2021||Other||Those who assault docs will go to jail and beaten up: Minister||ARAUnion minister and Ara MP R K Singh on Saturday warned of strict action against all those who indulge in acts of violence against doctors on duty. During an inspection of Ara Sadar Hospital, Singh said doctors are doing their duty in tough circumstances endangering their lives. “If anyone assaults doctors, stringent action will be taken. Those who indulge in such acts will go to jail and will be beaten there too. The district administration has been asked to deal with them with a firm hand,” Singh said while reacting to ruckus created by attendants of patients at emergency ward of the hospital on Saturday following death of a woman.According to her family members, 36-year-old Arti Devi was suffering from pneumonia and was undergoing treatment. Around Saturday noon, she started feeling uncomfortable and was rushed to emergency ward of Ara Sadar hospital for treatment. The nurse allegedly gave her an injection after which she died. Her family members created a ruckus and damaged the equipment kept in the emergency ward. The doctor and other medical staff had to escaped from the scene. Hospital superintendent Dr Praveen Kumar Sinha said, “There was no lapse on the part of medical staff. The victim came in a serious condition and could not survive.” Station house officer of Ara town police station, Shambhu Kumar Bhagat, said no complaint had been filed from either side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/those-who-assault-docs-will-go-to-jail-and-beaten-up-minister-101619282641412.html
24-04-2021||Other||Medicine trader shot dead in drug wholesale hub||PATNAA medical store owner in Patna was shot dead and his employee critically injured on Saturday, allegedly by another store owner, at Govind Mitra road, the wholesale hub for medicines in the state capital.The police have recovered three empty cartridges from the crime scene.According to police, the reason behind the incident is said to be a dispute between two shopkeepers over black- marketing of premium drugs. The deceased, Rajnish Kumar Sinha, a resident of Danapur, had been running a medical store for the last decade. Around noon, he and his employee Sunny were busy at work when Sonu Kumar Gupta, who also owns a medical store, appeared and allegedly opened fire at them. Sinha succumbed on way to the PMCH while Sunny is battling for life. In a CCTV footage, Sonu is seen pulling down shutters of his shop and fleeing on his motorcycle. Following the incident, tension gripped the area. Senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma visited the spot and pacified angry locals.Eyewitnesses said Sonu first had a scuffle with Sinha before he fired at him. The SSP said a case had been lodged against the accused and police were trying to nab him.The security has been tightened in the GM Road and extra force has been deployed after the incident, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medicine-trader-shot-dead-in-drug-wholesale-hub-101619282640850.html
24-04-2021||Other||Junior doctors at NMCH end strike||PATNAJunior doctors and other medical staff of of Patna’s Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), who had gone on strike Friday noon following attack on them by attendants after death of a coronavirus patient, have ended their stir following intervention of the top district administration officials.Patna district magistrate Chandrasekhar Singh and senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma visited the NMCH, declared by the state government a dedicated Covid hospital, and resolved the matter.The doctors have resumed their duty at the NMCH, the DM told PTI.The agitating doctors were demanding enhanced security and adequate stock of oxygen for critically ill patients.“The security at the hospital has been scaled up immediately and efforts are on to increase stock of oxygen cylinders at the hospital,” Singh said.Against the need of around 900 oxygen cylinders per day, the hospital was getting the supply on hourly basis. Fearing end of stock, patients’ attendants had been creating commotion for the last few days.“It has been decided that the hospital should have a reserve of 100 oxygen cylinders and also supply of medical oxygen in place on hourly basis be provided every morning and night to ensure adequate quantity,” the DM said.The premier hospital has 500 beds for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/junior-doctors-at-nmch-end-strike-101619282582869.html
24-04-2021||Other||Spare us of attending schools, colleges, teachers urge govt||PATNAWith the Covid-19 surge unabated in Bihar and situation expected to worsen in the coming weeks, teachers’ bodies have urged the state government and the Raj Bhawan to free them from the binding of one-third attendance so that all could remain indoors to break the fatal chain. Bihar Legislative Council member and president of the Bihar Secondary Teachers’ Association, Kedar Nath Pandey, has written to education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary to look into the matter in view of practical difficulties, viz over 15% teachers staying at least 50-150 kms from the school in villages, 35% women appointed as teachers and lack of any hostel or stay facilities in schools. “Over two dozen school teachers have also died due to Covid-19 and it is hard to identify who is infected and who is not due to difficulty in getting RTPCR tests done and if that is somehow managed, one has to endlessly wait for reports. In this situation, asking teachers to attend school is fraught with risk and against the government’s efforts to break the chain. Many teachers have reported symptoms,” Pandey wrote. The Federation of University Teachers’ Association (FUTAB) has also written to the Raj Bhawan to avoid calling teachers to the colleges and universities every day without ensuring proper sanitization and cleanliness at a time when Covid-19 situation in the state was fast spiraling out of control. “If the services or teachers are meaningfully required, there is no issue in calling them daily or alternate day. When exams and admissions have been postponed and there are reports of over a dozen college teachers, including young ones, dying due to Covid in the last couple of weeks , there is no point exposing them to further risk when the government hospitals are themselves gasping for breath and basic infrastructure is crumbling,” FUTAB working president KB Sinha and general secretary Sanjay Kumar, MLC, wrote to the principal secretary to the Chancellor of Universities. The association said the list of teachers who succumbed to Covid-19 include Iqbal Ahmad and Dilip Choudhary of Veer Kuer Singh University (Ara), Parvez Ahmad, CL Khatri and Baliram Kumar of Pataliputra University (Patna), Patna University teacher Govind Kumar , Prof Ashish and Prof Akhilesh of TM Bhagalpur University. The FUTAB letter is in response to the letter from the department of education’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar to all the district magistrates and district education officers, which said all associate professors, professors and officers equivalent or above the rank will be present daily, while one-third of those in the rank of assistant professor or below will attend alternatively. In schools also, 33% teachers and employees have been asked to be present, while the headmaster and in-charge headmaster of middle, secondary and higher secondary schools will be present every day. Patna University vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary is himself suffering from Covid-19 and has proceeded on medical leave. Raj Bhawan has given additional charge of VC to Pro-VC Prof Ajay Kumar Singh to discharge the routine work till CHoudhary recovers. “In the universities and colleges, the government should first try to ensure sanitization before issuing orders. When even sweepers are not available, one can well imagine the chances of adhering to Covid safety guidelines,” the FUTAB letter said, urging the Chancellor’s office to intervene in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spare-us-of-attending-schools-colleges-teachers-urge-govt-101619282582014.html
24-04-2021||Other||Suspected Covid-19 patient dies in Darbhanga village, son ends life||DARBHANGAA 20-year youth allegedly committed suicide on Friday evening after his father died of ailment, suspected to be Covid-19 infection. The deceased’s sample for corona confirmatory test was collected on April 19 but the test result was still awaited. Darbhanga civil surgeon (CS) Sanjiv Kumar Sinha said on Saturday that samples collected at primary health centres were being sent to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for RTPCR test and the delay in test results was due to huge rush as neighbouring district hospitals were also sending samples. Sinha said a probe had been initiated into allegation that the patient died after the ambulance driver refused to carry him to the PHC for treatment after learning he was a suspected corona patient.According to villagers, the patient was suffering from high fever and Covid-related symptoms for last couple of days. His swab sample was collected at Bahadurpur PHC on April 19. His condition worsened on Friday. In the meantime, his son called Bahadurpur PHC for sending an ambulance. However, ambulance driver reportedly refused to carry the patient to hospital after learning that he had Covid-19 symptoms. A little while later, the patient succumbed. In the meantime, his son went inside his room and hanged himself. He was taken to the PHC and declared brought dead, said Dr Kavita Mishra, one of the doctors posted at PHC.Bahadurpur police station house officer didn’t respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspected-covid-19-patient-dies-in-darbhanga-village-son-ends-life-101619282581355.html
24-04-2021||Other||Bodies pile up, Nitish orders walk-in interviews for docs||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday directed top officials to start filling vacant medical and paramedical posts in every district through walk-in interviews even as the state reported 12,359 fresh cases of coronavirus and 77 deaths during the last 24 hours. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by the CM.Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA) general secretary Dr Ranjeet Kumar said 30-40% of the posts in the state, both of doctors and paramedical staff, were lying vacant. “The state has a sanctioned strength of 13,500 doctors (approximately) and is facing acute shortage of paramedical staff like OT assistants, laboratory assistants, nurses, X-ray technicians, ultrasound technicians, ventilator assistants and data operators in 700-odd hospitals of the state,” said Dr Kumar. Sources said there are 4,133 ANM (auxillary nurse midwife) vacancies against sanctioned posts of 9,130 in Bihar and there is also a shortage of 2,000-odd medical members against 4,000 sanctioned posts.With Covid cases increasing at an alarming pace, the state is in dire need of doctors as more than 500 doctors and health workers of the two leading hospitals in Patna, AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), have been infected with the coronavirus during the ongoing second wave, according to agency reports. “The situation is the same in medical colleges, which are functioning on half the teaching strength. Out of the 4,000 teaching posts, nearly 50% are vacant,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, Bihar chapter.In fact, the IMA had written a letter to chief minister on Friday asking him to appoint doctors as an emergency measure. “There is a provision of quick appointment of doctors and others in times of an epidemic. All such people who are ready to join can be recruited on contract under epidemic provisions,” said Dr Kumar.He said that doctors and health care workers have been working continuously for the last 14 months without any leave. “They are exhausted and need some rest on intervals. More than 15% of them are infected. Many have died. It is the demand of time in public interest,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, the total number of active cases in the state climbed to 81960. “Seven districts, including Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Saran, Nalanda and Begusarai, reported more than 500 positive cases on Friday,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bodies-pile-up-nitish-orders-walk-in-interviews-for-docs-101619282580856.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: Districts that are driving the surge in second wave||Five districts in Maharashtra are contributing the most number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the state’s rising infection tally as it has been reporting record high infections and deaths. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 67,160 new Covid-19 cases and 676 fatalities in a time span of 24 hours, pushing the state’s tally to 4,228,836 and its death toll to 63,928, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The active caseload in the state currently stands at 694,480, according to the bulletin.Since the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic, daily new infections reported from the state have remained upwards of at least 40,000 cases from April 1. In the week, except on April 19, Monday (58,924 new cases), the daily new cases have stayed above the 60,000-mark. The Union ministry of health and family welfare earlier in the day red-flagged Maharashtra as the top contributor to the national tally of active cases. According to the data shared by the ministry, the state with 693,632 active cases of Covid-19 contributed 27.17 per cent to the 2,552,940 active cases in the country.Also read | Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra again soar past 67,000Here is a list of districts that are the current hotspots of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, with the maximum number of active cases in the state -Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on April 21 announced new stringent restrictions in the state from 8pm on April 22 until 7am on May 1 to curb the transmission of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-in-maharashtra-districts-that-are-driving-the-surge-in-second-wave-101619281626029.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Alchemy of war - national interest or pride, prejudice||War has always intrigued writers as has peace. Stalwart American writer Ernest Hemingway, who was witness to both world wars — first as a volunteer ambulance driver, then as a reporter — in his classic A Farewell To Arms (1929), says World War I was “the most colossal, murderous, mismanaged butchery that has ever taken place on earth. Any writer who said otherwise lied, so the writers either wrote propaganda, shut up, or fought.”Recounting the Great War, as it is called, Chandigarh-based writer Mandeep Rai, in his action-packed novel The Wheel of Destiny highlights the utter futility of war. “Apart from the feeling of dread and horror, what stands out in the end is the piercing realisation that there are no victors, friends lose and so do enemies,” says Rai. A fictional character in the book sums it up: “Entire mankind is the victim, but ultimately God is the victim.”The Great War novel, published by Ferntree Publishing, follows Rai’s In The Shadow Of The Pines, No Friends, No Enemies and When The Vulture Descends. Rai says, “World War I has continued to inspire and intrigue me as in it lies the genesis of World War II and the state of affairs in the present world. I have delved deep into the mysteries and causes of the war with its share of misguided patriotism and chauvinistic fervour. The 19th century philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche aptly said, ‘war is the destiny of man’ and sadly the Great War proved him right!”Khushwant’s wonderBorn in 1949 in Sherwani Kot near Malerkotla, Rai’s father Colonel Amar Singh was a commissioned officer in the British Indian Army serving in the Army Service Core. It was the princely Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, a prestigious institution for the children of the Jat elite that his skill with words as well as the English language was honed. Years on, glancing through his book ‘In The Shade Of The Pines’ celebrated writer Khushwant Singh, a child of the Raj, looked up in admiration and asked, “Angrezi kithon sikhi ?”(Where did you learn English from?), “YPS Patiala ton!” (From YPS), came the pat response.The idea of the book first came to Rai when he was posted in Shimla. “It was inspired by Lord Dalhousie who changed the face of colonial India by bringing many reforms and introducing railways, the electric telegraph and laying the foundations of the modern education system. As a visionary governor-general, he consolidated the East India Company’s rule by strengthening the administrative system. India owes a lot to him, and it was ironic indeed that many in Britain denounced him for not seeing the seeds of Indian rebellion of 1857, which we remember in Independent India as the first war of independence.”“In The Shade Of The Pines’ did exceedingly well in circulation as well as reviews, including a generous one by Khushwant himself, whose one regret was that it should have been brought out internationally.From words to numbersOne wonders how a young man with a love for writing and a great interest in literature found himself in the Indian Revenue Service, he smiles and replies: “The problem was that I was good at too many things. I was known in school for my soulful essays, debates and declamation. Interestingly, when I passed out, the boys of a junior class snatched the notebook, in which I wrote my essays. As boys pulled at it, the notebook was torn into three. Word reached the faculty and the principal. He announced that if any boys were found copying my essays, they would be given a big zero.”Rai was equally good at numbers, a topper and an all-rounder. Dismissing the idea of humanities, his father wanted him to go for engineering in an IIT. So, off he went to IIT Bombay to study chemical engineering, which he left after doing well for two years to pursue a bachelor’s course in English in Government College, Chandigarh. But his persuasive father made him take the competitive examinations and there he landed in the revenue service, which is the destiny of many a bright student, boy or girl.A columnist once wrote about him, saying: “How important are figures to a writer of historical fiction? For Mandeep Rai, the six-feet-tall sardar in a red turban, here are the ones that spring to mind: 50 years, four books and 111 rejections the first time round; eight, six and five years poured into the second, third and latest novel respectively; 3,000 copies of his first book sold; and, oh yes, this little note of encouragement from his father, now 80, “If you want to be a writer, it’ll take you 20 years to get published.” It took Rai 30.”Well Rai was never afraid of numbers or words and with the novel on The Great War in the hands of the readers, he is already contemplating his next novel. Bravo!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-alchemy-of-war-national-interest-or-pride-prejudice-101619280542761.html
24-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases surpass 13 lakh in Karnataka, Bengaluru registers 17,342 new cases||Karnataka on Saturday crossed the 13 lakh infection mark since the outbreak of Covid with the highest single-day spike of 29,438 infections, while 208 deaths took the total fatalities to 14,283, the health department said.The highest single-day infection was on Friday with 26,962 fresh cases.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The state has now 2,34,483 active cases including 1,280 in the ICU.According to the health bulletin, 10,55,612 people were discharged cumulatively including 9,058 today in the state.Bengaluru urban district accounted for 17,342 infections, 149 deaths and 1,62,171 active cases.As many as 4,646 patients were discharged on Saturday.Tumakuru reported 1,559 infections and three fatalities,while 823 cases were recorded in Hassan, 791 in Kalaburagi, 731 in Ballari, 688 in Mandya, 684 in Bengaluru Rural, 536 in Mysuru, 517 in Dakshina Kannada, 506 in Chikkaballapura and 497 in Raichur.Cases were also reported in Bagalkote, Belagavi, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Kodagu, Kolar, Koppal, Ramanagar, Shivamogga, Udupi, Yadgir, Vijayapura and Uttara Kannada.The department said eight fatalities were reported in Kalaburagi, six in Kolar, five in Dharwad, four in Mysuru, three each in Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Haveri, Mandya and Shivamogga, two each in Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Hassan, Kodagu, Raichur, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura. Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura and Chikkamagaluru reported one fatality each.Following rising Covid cases, the state increased RT-PCR testing as well.There were 1,89,613 tests done on Saturday including 1,73,400 using RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done to 2.45 crore, the department added.Cumulatively, the state has done 85,63,208 inoculations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-cases-surpass-13-lakh-in-karnataka-bengaluru-registers-17-342-new-cases-101619279796102.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Labour shortage hits Pune Metro again, won’t meet deadline||The Pune Metro will not meet its deadline for a trial run in the month of May after more than 2,000 labourers have returned home due to the fear of stricter restrictions and lack of work. A senior consultant who was part of the Pune Metro project lost his life due to Covid-19 in his hometown in Karnataka, causing a sense of fear among workers. As compared to last year, the spread and infection rate of Covid-19 is high, however, the Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has taken care of workers in terms of food, stay and vaccinations. Despite better arrangements for food and stay, workers are returning back to their hometowns. Till date, more than 2,000 workers have gone back to their hometowns and the trend is on an upward rise. Last year, of 6,500 workers, only 800 were on duty after the government made arrangements for trains in the month of June 2020. This year, there are no restrictions on traveling and trains are also available to workers to return to their hometowns. Pune Metro had decided to take a trial run on the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor using coaches belonging to the Nagpur Metro. They brought three coaches from Nagpur in the first week of March 2021 for a trial run. The Metro had decided to start a trial run on the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor on one kilometre stretch from Vanaz depot to Anand Nagar by the month of May. According to officials, the trial run was scheduled in the period from March to May but, now it is not possible due to the shortage of manpower. The work has been disturbed, and a similar situation is reported from the PCMC –Swargate corridor. After conducting a six kilometre trial run between PCMC to Phugewadi in the first week of January, Maha-Metro had decided to start commercial operation on this stretch in the period of May or June before civic polls. Now, it looks difficult to complete the work as per the set deadline. Hemant Sonwane, general manager of Maha-Metro said, “Till date more than 2,000 workers have returned to their hometowns. We have more than 6,000 workers. At present, there are 35- 40 workers undergoing treatment. We are providing medical facilities, food and medical advance. “ He further added, “The metro project work will get affected in this situation and we will have to revise our work schedule. Last year, labours went in June and they returned in the Diwali festival season. We had made arrangements for private buses. Now, we are hoping, the second wave will not last long and labourers will come back after the situation normalises in the city.” Consultant dies due to Covid-19 A 54-year-old senior level officer died to Covid-19 infection in his hometown in Karnataka while taking treatment at a private hospital. He was a consultant in the Pune Metro project. As many as 121 workers have tested positive for Covid-19, however, some of them recovered. Sonawane said,” The consultant was not paid for the Pune metro project. Metro has outsourced different works, he was one of them. We didn’t know whether he was infected at work or not. He had taken leave and gone to his hometown.” “There are no casualties recorded in the first and second wave so far. All workers above 45 years of age have been vaccinated. From May 1, as the new norms come into effect, we will start vaccinating all above 18 years of age,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labour-shortage-hits-pune-metro-again-won-t-meet-deadline-101619279400753.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Times Higher Education ranking: Chitkara among top 10 Indian varsities||Chitkara University was ranked among the top 10 Indian universities and in the 401-600 worldwide slab among 1,115 institutions from 94 countries in Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2021.The university also ranked among the top 100 globally in the ‘affordable and clean energy’ category. It also ranked high in the partnership for goals category. Under the Impact ranking, THE assesses universities against United Nations’ sustainable development goals (SDGs). This is the third-ranking released in this series. Under the Impact rankings 2021, universities were assessed across 17 parameters listed as SDGs including no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well-being, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, industry innovation and infrastructure, reduced inequalities, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, climate action, life below water, life on land, peace justice, and strong institutions, and partnership for goals.“Only a few Indian universities were able to make it into the prestigious ‘THE Impact’ world ranking. It is a matter of pride for the institution and the people of Punjab and Chandigarh that Chitkara university featured in the list. The university has always strived to provide a knowledge and learning-centric platform to our students, a work-friendly and progressive environment to our faculty and an inspirational platform to society,” said Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, Chitkara University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/times-higher-education-chitkara-among-10-indian-varsities-101619279344755.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||‘Delhi got more oxygen than they asked, up to AAP govt to rationalise’: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday claimed Delhi has been issued more oxygen than the Arvind Kejriwal government asked for to treat the seriously-ill Covid-19 patents in the city and asserted it’s up to the state government to use it wisely. “Delhi has been allotted more than the (oxygen) quota they had asked for, and Delhi CM even thanked PM for that yesterday... Now to rationalise the quota in a timely manner and the responsibility to finely plan it lies with state government,” Harsh Vardhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Union minister’s statement comes at a time when CM Arvind Kejriwal has been repeatedly flagging the shortage of oxygen for the last few days and the Centre has claimed it has been supplying the key element for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients. Earlier in the day, 20 patients at a hospital in Delhi died due to a shortage of oxygen.Harsh Vardhan also said the Centre has assisted the Delhi government with the transportation of oxygen. "Earlier, the CM said they are having problem in the transportation of oxygen after which central government assured they will ensure unhindered transportation. The government also assured that strict action will be taken against those who try to create hindrance in transportation," the Union minister told ANI.Earlier in the day, the Delhi High Court also hit out at the Delhi government over its management of the crisis and told it to arrange tankers for the transportation of liquid oxygen. "It's not that you will just write and keep waiting. What is the nodal office doing? You had to speak to the suppliers in the last three days. You knew where the supply was coming from. Get in touch with the suppliers. We cannot help you at every moment," the court told the Delhi government.Meanwhile, Arvind Kejriwal also wrote to the chief ministers of all states and Union territories seeking support in meeting the oxygen demand in the city. “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” Kejriwal tweeted.Arvind Kejriwal pointed to the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in the last few days and told states that the city does not produce any oxygen, following which many hospitals in the city are facing an acute shortage. “Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements,” he said in the letter, according to his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-given-more-oxygen-than-they-asked-upto-aap-govt-to-rationalise-harsh-vardhan-101619278415820.html
24-04-2021||Pune||31 hospitals in Pune district fail to procure allotted Remdesivir vials||PUNE Amid a shortage of Remdesivir, the Pune district Food and District Administration (FDA) has issued a letter to 31 hospitals in the district for not collecting their quota of the anti-viral drug (315 injections) as decided by the administration.These 31 hospitals include two from Junnar and other smaller hospitals from the municipal corporations and distant rural areas.In a letter issued by FDA and signed by assistant commissioner SV Pratappawar, all these hospitals are told to provide a written reply as to why they have not collected the allocated stock of Remdesivir.The letter also states that if these hospitals do not collect their stock then they should be redistributed to the nearest hospital as per requirement.Since April 16, the district collector has issued an order stating that henceforth all hospitals would directly get allocated stock of Remdesivir and no over the counter sale would be allowed. The stock would be allocated as per the functional beds in the hospitals.Officials of Sable Hospital located in Bhosari said they did not receive any such message about collecting the drug.Sandeep Pisal, administrator at the hospital, said, “We have a system through which we get daily messages regarding oxygen availability, Remdesivir and bed availability. We got one stock on April 19 and then another one is coming on Sunday.” The hospital had 16 injections allocated on April 20.Ayush Prasad, Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO), has asked all the concerned officers to seek a written reply from all these hospitals. He said, “I have passed the list of such hospitals to the officers and asked them to look into the issue. These hospitals have not procured their Remdesivir vials to date.”“I have asked them to check whether these hospitals are functioning or not. If those are working then they should be directed to collect the stock from the concerned distributor/stockist,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31-hospitals-in-pune-district-fail-to-procure-allotted-remdesivir-vials-101619278860643.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Pune police introduce e-passes for inter-district travel, commuters caught unaware||On Friday, the Pune police reintroduced the e-pass system, which was in existence last year during lockdown for travel outside the district limits. Despite the mechanism available for digital passes for inter-district travel in Maharashtra, many commuters were caught unaware of the fresh norms on the first-day. The police stopped a large number of commuters without passes on Friday. The Pune police set up the ‘digital pass cell’ at the police commissioner’s office for smooth and genuine travel outside Pune district. Commuters who wish to travel out of district can apply for a digital pass on Maharashtra police’s website: covid19.mhpolice.in “I didn’t know that Pune police have started an e-pass system. I only knew there are restrictions and those wanting to travel for emergency purpose are allowed. When I started travel, I was stopped by police on Ahmednagar Road and they explained to me the new rule,” said Bhavesh Jain, a resident of Kharadi, who was planning to visit Aurangabad by road. There was another passenger Ravindra Tidke planning to visit Kolhapur by road when he was stopped by police at Katraj exit point and asked about e-pass. “We have deployed one police inspector, two assistant police inspectors and 20 police constables at the cell. Today until 6 pm, a total of 2,077 people have applied for the passes of which 286 citizens have been issued digital passes. 375 citizens have been denied due to lack of required documents,” informed Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police. Things to remember: 1) Citizens involved in essential services, facilities and goods do not need a digital pass. They can travel by showing their official identity card at the checkpoints. 2) People can get digital pass if they are going to attend funeral or serious illness of a close person (mother / father / brother / sister / cousin / cousin / mother-in-law / sister-in-law), marriage, hospitalisation. It is mandatory to submit the required documents online. 3) Officers and employees working in essential services should carry their official identity card with them. 4) E-pass or digital passes will be given to the bride and groom, their parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts for the wedding ceremony. But for this, it is necessary to attach the wedding card. 5) Permission will not be granted for business reasons. 6) Digital passes will be issued to citizens traveling by air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-introduce-e-passes-for-inter-district-travel-commuters-caught-unaware-101619278440590.html
24-04-2021||Pune||65-year-old woman among six arrested for cannabis smuggling||A 65-year-old woman was among six people arrested for smuggling cannabis to Pune on Saturday morning. The six were identified as Rurubai Ratan Pawar (65), Deepak Bhimrao Hivale (23), Aditya Dattatray Dhande (19), Akash Sunil Bhalerao (27), Hirabai Santosh Jadhav (40), Parvati Suresh Mane (57) all residents of Jalna. The officials of anti-narcotic cell two were patrolling in Hadapsar on Saturday around 4 am when they intercepted a magma grey coloured Ertiga car registered in Jalna. The car was parked in front of the public road at Shrinath washing centre in Hadapsar, according to a statement of the police. “When asked about the reason for coming to that place at that hour, they started giving misleading answers which led us to check their car to find two nylon sacks under the middle seats and two more under the back seats of the car,” read the statement in Marathi. Without opening the sacks, the smell emanating from the sacks led the police to question them further when they revealed that the narcotic substance was brought to Pune for sale. The worth of the drug in the market was found to be ₹13,60,000, according to the police. A case under Sections 8(c), 20(b)(ii)(c), and 29 of Narcotics Drugs and Psychedelic Substance Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/65yearold-woman-among-six-arrested-for-cannabis-smuggling-101619278200544.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Restaurant booked for serving hokaah, food to customers||The manager and waiting staff of a restaurant in Pune were found serving hookah and food to customers on Friday even with the restrictions in light of Covid-19 in place. The restaurant was identified as Deccan Galaxy, according to the police. In the jurisdiction of Deccan police station, Deccan Galaxy was found to have been serving hookah along with food on Friday, according to a statement by Murlidhar Karpe, senior police inspector of Deccan Gymkhana police station. “As the possibility of tobacco present in the hookah found at the restaurant cannot be denied, four samples were sent for chemical analysis. Two hookah pots were seized in presence of panch,” read the statement in Marathi. The restaurant was found flouting norms set by Maharashtra government as well as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, and Section 4A, 21A of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act was registered at the Deccan Gymkhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restaurant-booked-for-serving-hokaah-food-to-customers-101619278140609.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra again soar past 67,000, death toll drops to 676||Maharashtra witnessed 67,160 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 676 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state’s health department bulletin on Saturday. The caseload of the worst-hit state of the country rose to 422,8,836 and the death toll to 63,928, the health bulletin showed. The number of patients discharged in the state on Saturday was 63,818, a decrease of over 10,000 from Friday.The number of new cases in the state on Saturday increased, as the state reported 66,836 cases on Friday. However, the number of deaths decreased as the state reported 773 deaths on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The number of active cases in the state now stands at 694,480, as per the bulletin.The state capital Mumbai reported 5,888 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, a decrease of 1,311 cases from Friday. The number of deaths reported in the financial capital of the country in the last 24 hours is 71, which took the death toll in the metropolitan to 12,719, the health bulletin data showed. The Covid-19 tally in Mumbai now stands at more than 622,000, as per the data.The number of samples tested in the state on Saturday in the last 24 hours amount to 286,412. There is a rise in testing by over 8,000 in the last 24 hours. The number of total tests done to date in the state amounts to 25,460,008, as per the dashboard.The current recovery rate in the state stands at 82.02 per cent, and the fatality rate stands at 1.51 per cent. The fatality rate slid by 0.01 percentage points from Friday. The recovery rate in Mumbai stands at 85 per cent, with 8,549 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC).The number of active containment zones in the capital city stands at 122 with more than 1200 sealed buildings. The doubling rate of the virus in Mumbai stands at 54 days.Maharashtra is the major contributor to the active Covid-19 caseload of the country.Maharashtra with nine other states accounts for more than 75 per cent of the new Covid-19 infections reported in the country on Saturday. The western state also contributed the most to the number of fatalities. India reported 346,786 fresh coronavirus disease cases and 2624 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-again-soar-past-67-000-death-toll-drops-to-676-101619274365830.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Your Space: Vax for all above age of 18||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi government has decided to bring all above the age of 18 under the vaccination drive, from May 1. What steps should the administration take in such short span of time to put in place adequate manpower and machinery to cover the record population? It is a welcome step The Centre’s move to make Covid-19 vaccination available for all above the age of 18 is a commendable step. It drive will benefit the young generation and middle-aged. The central government should decentralise the campaign so that everyone get the jab. The spaces that are currently empty, such as schools, colleges and corporate offices can be utilised for setting up vaccination booths. Decentralisation will ease the pressure on hospitals, dispensaries, labs and government spaces. The authorities can utilise the data of students and ask them to visit their college with ID to get vaccinated. Since schools are closed, the middle-aged can visit a nearby school with their ID for inoculation. Those who have returned to their hometown can register for vaccination at the nearest available centre. Public awareness campaigns will also encourage beneficiaries to get registered for vaccination. Owners of schools/colleges/corporate offices can be motivated to make their spaces available for vaccination. The government can develop an app/website for registration and allotting preferred/nearby centres for beneficiaries.Rajas Pathak Use workplaces as vax centresI think the government should have taken the decision earlier. The steps that the administration can now take for speedy vaccination are instead of asking people to come to the vaccination centre, the authorities can launch a doorstep inoculation campaign at workplace to avoid crowd and maintain discipline. Teachers will get vaccine at their school, engineers at their work floor and company campus. Secondly, hold awareness campaigns using social media, digital influencers or rickshaws (with speakers) to instil public confidence in vaccination. Design strong and user-friendly web portal for booking slots, for any queries regarding vaccine, and regular communication regarding second dose by SMS or email.Abhijeet EkadEnsure adequate supply of vaccineI feel that the vaccination drive is going quite well, but the only problem that needs to be solved is communication gap. Most of the time, the vaccines are not coming and authorities don’t know when it will arrive (that’s what they claim). They aren’t sure whether the vaccines will be delivered the day after or not. It should be clear so that they can plan accordingly and reduce problems that people face. And talking about the public’s response, I feel college students like me should take a back seat and let the older population in their 30s and 40s take the vaccine first. As they have families to care, many being the breadwinner, and the age factor. Moreover, not all senior citizens have yet taken the vaccines or their second dose and inconsistent supply of vaccines is adding to the problem.Nisarg PawadeEfficient administration, portal mustWe are facing a shortage of healthcare staff skilled for vaccination. So, to utilise them with minimum stress, we need an efficient administration and proper use of Co-WIN portal. A person needing a vaccine will apply on the portal and he/she will get an appointment. At the vaccination centre, after confirming the identity, the person should get vaccine promptly to avoid delay and possible crowd. Later, the beneficiary should get timely information about the post-vaccination precautions. The vaccination centre should function in a way that the Covid precaution measures are strictly followed, including keeping entry and exit different. Dhruv Dhakane Clear misconceptions about vaccinesMany misconceptions are making rounds regarding the vaccination even now, especially in rural areas. The central and state governments need to address the misinformation and can rope in social groups and NGOs. Door-to-door vaccination drive can be carried out in rural parts as less manpower is needed because of the thin population in villages. Maruti Gaikwad State machinery adept to vax allI think most state governments have the machinery to implement vaccination programme. For example, Maharashtra is already supplying four lakh doses a day, which means the Centre must at this stage ensure adequate vaccine doses are provided to states and the formula of such allotment of doses to states must be in a transparent manner. The central government must also allow state governments to conduct door-to-door vaccination drive to meet the ambitious target. And, the authorities must also provide logistical and administrative support for such doorstep campaigns.Bhargav Bhamidipati||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-vax-for-all-above-age-of-18-101619275500484.html
24-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 15,000 new Covid-19 infections push cases tally closer to 500,000-mark||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan surged to 4,98,628 on Saturday as 15,355 more people tested positive for the contagious disease, according to an official report.Seventy-four more fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,527, the report stated.The number of active cases increased to 1,27,616 from 1,17,294 on Friday, it said.Jodhpur reported 11 deaths, Jaipur and Pali nine each, Kota eight, Udaipur six and Sikar five, Karauli, Bikaner and Jhalawar three each, and Ajmer, Banswara, Bharatpur and Alwar two each.So far, 3,67,485 coronavirus patients have recovered from the infection, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-over-15-000-new-covid-19-infections-push-cases-tally-closer-to-500000mark-101619275061091.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Everyone above 18 to get free Covid-19 vaccine at government hospitals: Haryana CM Khattar||Everyone above 18 years of age will be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals in Haryana, said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday after chairing a state-level meeting of the Covid Monitoring Committee.A registration portal will be started from April 28 and everyone has to register themselves for vaccination. Registration is a must to get vaccinated.Further details on how and where the registration can be done are awaited.Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has said that the government of India's procurement price of both the Covid-19 vaccines will remain ₹150 per dose and the Centre will continue to provide it totally free to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/everyone-above-18-to-get-free-covid-19-vaccine-at-government-hospitals-haryana-chief-minister-khattar-101619274495714.html
24-04-2021||Other||Operation Oxygen: Tankers rush to plants||Soon after the Oxygen Express train reached the Charbagh railway station here with around 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) at around 6.30am on Saturday, the onboard tankers were allowed to deboard and they were rushed to different oxygen plants in Lucknow and its neighbourhood.The total volume of oxygen transported to Lucknow would be enough to meet half the existing demand in the state capital, said additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi who supervised the entire operation. He said indeed it was a big operation.“Of the two tankers, one was rushed to a gas agency—Sharang Gases in Barabanki — where it unloaded 7,500 litres of LMO while the remaining amount of oxygen was delivered to another gas station in the Nadarganj area. The other tanker delivered gas in BKT (Bakshi Ka Talab) and other gas station in order to ensure uniform supply of oxygen in the entire city,” said another senior government official who was the part of the operation.In all, the state capital got around 22,500 litres of oxygen. As per the records with Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), the city currently has two oxygen manufacturing plants—Murari Gases Private Ltd and Parerthat Industrial Enterprises Pvt Ltd. Besides, there are four oxygen refilling plants in the state capital. FSDA officials said that after 15 April, around 6,800 to 7,000 oxygen cylinders were in demand on a daily basis that was resulting in a crisis. Officials also said that major hospitals like SGPGI, KGMU and Lohia Hospital had their own liquid oxygen tank of 20,000 litre capacity each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/operation-oxygen-tankers-rush-to-plants-101619274780421.html
24-04-2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: IAF C-17 ferries empty oxygen tanker from Indore to Gujarat||An Indian Air Force C-17 transport plane on Saturday carried an empty oxygen tanker from Indore in Madhya Pradesh to Jamnagar in neighbouring Gujarat, an official said here.Aryama Sanyal, director, Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport here, said an empty tanker of medical oxygen was sent from Indore to Jamnagar in Gujarat on board the C-17, among the largest military transport aircraft in the world.A similar operation was carried out on Friday as well, she added.Rohan Saxena, a district official responsible for the arrangements related to medical oxygen, said, "Medical oxygen tankers usually take about 20 hours to reach Jamnagar from Indore by road, whereas it is reaching in an hour on board IAF planes, thereby, saving a lot of time."The tanker will return to Indore by road since the oxygen-filled container cannot be transported by IAF aircraft as the gas is considered flammable and may pose a threat.The airlifting of empty tankers to oxygen filling sites using IAF planes was started after Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan urged the Union government to help his state fight a surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-iaf-c-17-ferries-empty-oxygen-tanker-from-indore-to-gujarat-101619274227131.html
24-04-2021||Bhopal||Long queues outside BHEL to get oxygen cylinders refilled in Bhopal||Amid an acute shortage of medical oxygen due to a surge in coronavirus cases, vehicles and individuals are queuing up outside the BHEL's plant here to get the empty cylinders refilled with the life-saving gas.Due to the rising demand, the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited's Bhopal unit has been functioning round-the-clock to provide oxygen to citizens, an official said.According to eyewitnesses, people are queuing up in large numbers to get the oxygen cylinders refilled."The queue of people and hospital representatives with cylinders is so long that they have to wait for 6-7 hours for their turn to come," one of the eyewitnesses said.Talking to PTI on Saturday, Bhopal BHEL's general manager (PR) Raghvendra Shukla said its oxygen plant has been operating at in its full capacity of about 5,000 cubic metres per day since over a week following the state government's request."On April 10, we had told the state government that we can arrange only 1,800 cubic metres per day, but after the requirement increased, we have been running our plant round the clock in full capacity of more than 5,000 cubic metres per day starting April 18," he said.Oxygen in the form of gas is being given in cylinders on the recommendation of doctors and hospitals at BHEL's facility here, Shukla added.The production and supply at the BHEL plant is open round-the-clock so that people don't have to wait for long, he said.According to him, BHEL Bhopal's entire production of oxygen is being supplied for medical purposes and its industrial use has been stopped."But recommendation of doctors is necessary as the campus has been secured by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) staff, and it is needed for entry," he said.Meanwhile, the state government said in a statement that the Centre has approved the supply of 643 metric tonnes (MT) per day oxygen supply from April 22.On Thursday, the state was supplied 463 metric tonnes of oxygen.In a bid to streamline the supply of oxygen, 2,000 oxygen concentrators have been purchased by the state government, the statement said, adding that more than 1,000 concentrators have been installed across 34 districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/long-queues-outside-bhel-to-get-oxygen-cylinders-refilled-in-bhopal-101619273847050.html
24-04-2021||Noida||Many patients found occupying hospital beds without needing them in Noida||Several people have been found occupying beds in private hospitals of Noida and Greater Noida without being in need for them, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration said on Friday, indicating action against such health facilities.Over 200 beds were vacated across hospitals in the district on Friday after they were found to be occupied by patients who did not need them as per their health condition following an inspection by the health department, officials said.  Action may also be taken against some private hospitals which took to social media to put out "fact less" information on shortage of medical oxygen, the officials added.District Magistrate Suhas L Y had a virtual meeting with senior administration and health officials of Gautam Buddh Nagar, including Chief Medical Officer (CMO)Deepak Ohri, during which these issues and others related to COVID-19 situation were discussed, District Information Officer Rakesh Chauhan said."The DM made it clear to all officials that every COVID-19 patient in the district should be provided all facilities as per the instructions of the state government," Chauhan said in a statement."On the DM's directions, the CMO and his team reviewed the onground situation in several hospitals on Friday and found that several patients in some private hospitals were occupying beds although they do not need to be hospitalised," he said. On the other hand, some private hospitals have put out "fact less" information related to availability of medical oxygen in the district through social media which has been taken "very seriously" by the district administration, he added."DM Suhas has asked CMO Ohri to present a report based on the review of hospitals on Friday where people were found occupying beds without any requirement so that strict action could be taken against such facilities," Chauhan said in the statement.PTI KIS SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/many-patients-found-occupying-hospital-beds-without-needing-them-in-noida-101619273717829.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Oxygen express reaches Nashik; IAF ferries empty containers to Jamnagar||The first Oxygen Express carrying seven tankers filled with liquid medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam returned to Nashik on Saturday, five days after it started its journey. At the same time Indian Air Force in its run to fight against Covid-19, airlifted empty oxygen containers from Hindan air base for Pune airbase to filling stations.In a bid to meet the high demand of the critical gas meant for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Indian Railways has started “Oxygen Express” trains to ferry oxygen tankers from one region to another.“After unloading three tankers in Nagpur on Friday, the Oxygen Express tankers carrying four liquid medical oxygen was unloaded at Nashik on Saturday morning, to meet the increased requirement of oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients,” said a release issued by Press Information Bureau (PIB).The four tankers arrived at Nashik carried 15 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen each in what is called as the “Ro-Ro Express” that brought the oxygen from Visakhapatnam.State government authorities said while two tankers will be sent to Ahmednagar, two will be distributed in Nashik district itself.At the same time, one C-17 of Indian Air Force was airborne from Hindan air base in Pune air base at 8am on Saturday. The aircraft loaded with empty container trucks for liquid medical oxygen and departed Pune to offload these containers at Jamnagar air base by afternoon.According to Defence release, “The same C-17 aircraft is currently on its second shuttle from Pune to Jamnagar, with a load of two more empty containers.”“We were previously getting 240 metric tonnes of oxygen from Jamnagar. With other states such as Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh also badly affected by Covid, the Centre has decided to bring down Maharashtra’s quota to 125 metric tonnes,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Pune after reviewing the situation.The containers will return to Maharashtra by road or train once they are loaded with medical oxygen which is in high demand due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.According to Indian Air Force authorities, the IAF has also deployed its C-17 which was airborne from the Hindan air base for Changi International Airport, Singapore at 2 am.“The aircraft arrived at Singapore at 7:45 am. After loading four containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks, it will depart Singapore and land at Panagarh air base in West Bengal and offload these containers by this evening,” stated PIB press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oxygen-express-reaches-nashik-iaf-ferries-empty-containers-from-pune-to-jamnagar-for-refill-101619272680292.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||With declining bed availability, fear looms over J&K hospitals||As states across India witness a surge in Covid cases, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has maintained that there is enough oxygen available in case of a potential health emergency in the Union Territory. “No one shall die of oxygen unavailability here and there is absolutely no need for people to panic,” Rajan Prakash Thakur, the principal secretary, industries and commerce, said on April 20. However, on the ground, even records of the J&K government don’t seem to agree with the not-to-panic message.Also read: Weekend curfew in Jammu and Kashmir from tonight 8pm to Monday 6amWith incremental increase in Covid patient admissions to Jammu and Kashmir hospitals, the healthcare infrastructure of the erstwhile state is still the same as it was six months earlier when the country was struggling with the first wave. While the J&K government’s daily media bulletin claims to have 244 ICU beds available, a five-month-old similar media bulletin of November 21, 2020, shows 284 ICU beds being available, which is 40 more than what is available at present. All this depicts that there has not been much of an addition in making more ICU beds available in the UT. Rising cases, declining bed availability Following the trend of the country, there has been a daily exponential rise of cases from 991 on April 12 to 1,965 on April 22. The rise in cases is, therefore, showing an impact on the limited bed availability and an analysis of the data provided by the government is alarming. A look at the inflow and bed occupancy at J&K hospitals shows a rapidly declining figure of bed availability in Kashmir. On April 17, the total available beds were 1,979 out of 2,620 Covid-dedicated beds, which means 75% of the beds were unoccupied. On April 22, this availability figure receded to 1,592. This time, the bed availability fell to 62.8%, meaning a 12.2% decrease in just five days. So, with a total of 387 beds getting occupied over five days, meaning more than 70 beds a day, at such continuing trend it would not take more than 20 to 23 days for the UT to run out of beds. Increase beds on a war-footing The president of the doctor’s association in Kashmir, Dr Suhail Naik, says. “We are still left with more than 60% beds but considering the number of patients getting hospitalised, the situation is critical. We got a boost in healthcare infrastructure last year and it’s because of that alone that we are surviving such a rush. Considering the situation today, it’s imperative for the UT administration to increase beds. We are heading towards a catastrophe and people are unaware of it,” Naik said, advocating an increase in oxygen bed availability on a war-footing. “Oxygen is the only drug of choice that Covid demands,” he said, adding that the administration was lax on enforcing the protocol. “When the country was gasping for oxygen, the administration was busy conducting tourist events instead of imposing the protocol,” he added. Tourists contributing to spike Naik said people need to behave responsibly given the fragile health system that can’t take the brunt Delhi is facing. “If the spike does not decrease in the UT, we will be left with no beds in a few weeks,” he said, seeking a ban on tourist gatherings. With the onset of the second wave, 1,050 of the 4,519 people who tested positive in March were travellers. This means 23% of Covid cases in J&K were travellers. In April, of the 21,482 positive cases so far, 4,390 were travellers. The inflow of tourists has been rising in the UT despite contributing more than 20% to Covid cases for two months. Recovery rate not more than 70% Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, the head of the department of Kashmir’s Chest Disease Hospital, said that the situation in the Valley is fragile. The hospital, which is the top Covid facility in J&K, is struggling with the rush of patients with more than 90% of its beds occupied. “If the spike comes to a halt, we may get a breather to plan things. Right now, the statistic recovery rate is not more than 70% unlike 98% in the past, given the huge detection of cases,” he said. Vaccination should be ramped up and people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly. “The recovery rate is lesser this time because there is a huge rush of admissions, and few are getting discharged as compared to it. If the rise of cases stops, we will have a better recovery rate. We will have more beds available. Our infrastructure is not feasible for the potential load that it may face in the coming days,” Dr Nazir said. “We definitely need more beds and this needs to be initiated from this moment,” he added. The director of health services, Kashmir, did not respond to repeated calls for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-declining-bed-availability-fear-looms-over-j-k-hospitals-101619271720783.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Please pay for Covid-19 vaccines, if you can: Maha deputy CM Ajit Pawar urges||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday people who can afford the vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should pay even as the government is preparing to inoculate all adults in the state in the next phase of vaccination from May 1. “We may appeal from tomorrow that if somebody can afford to pay for the vaccine, they should pay for it. And for those poor people who can't afford it, the government will do it for them,” Ajit Pawar said, according to news agency ANI.“Remdesivir and vaccine supply will be streamlined only when the Centre allows import from outside. We are of the opinion that when vaccination starts we will try to purchase vaccines from India as much as possible but if the Centre allows and helps to import, it will be helpful. We will pay,” he added.Also read | Getting vaccinated in Thane. Check list of vaccination centresThe state has 57.1 million people in the 18-44 age group and will be vaccinated next in the country’s drive to battle the second, deadly wave of the pandemic. Officials have said Maharashtra will need more than 110 million vaccine doses for those under this age group and the government will have to procure them. They are apprehensive about the availability of doses and also about the high rates ascertained for the vaccines.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday that they demanded One Nation One Rate of the vaccine during the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi “so we could easily implement the vaccination drive aggressively.” “Not only Maharashtra's, but most chief ministers who attended the video conference have also demanded this. The state has its own financial constraints, although we will bear the cost of inoculation for the poor. The reduction in rates will help us vaccinate more people for free, otherwise, we will have to restrict free inoculation to the poor. In that case, we will try and rope in corporate houses and the private sector,” Rajesh Tope added.Also read | Maharashtra expects hiccups in its 18+ vaccination driveThe state may not be able to achieve its target of aggressive inoculation in the absence of availability of stock, Tope also said. “The Serum Institute of India has expressed inability to supply the stock until May 24. We have been talking to Bharat Biotech. The decision over implementation of the third phase of inoculation and free vaccination for the poor based on the financial burden will be taken in the cabinet meeting,” he said.Also read | Steel plants in Maharashtra should divert oxygen for Covid patients: HCMaharashtra has said it has been facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, which has put a brake on its aim of inoculating more than 600,000 people daily and has forced many centres in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and other parts of the state to shut down. The daily average of inoculation dropped to 291,961 over the last week, from 370,058 in the first week of the month. The state has so far received, 14,416,780 doses from the Centre till April 20, against which 13,980,023 doses have been administered to 12.17 million people till 5pm on Friday.As the western state, which is the worst hit in the country, has also been battling a shortage of oxygen, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said plants that were closed in Maharashtra have been restarted. “So far we used to get 240-250 MT of oxygen but now we got the information that it has been reduced to 125 MT. We request them (the Centre) to not reduce our 250 MT quota from Jamnagar,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Maharashtra’s caseload rose to 41,61,676 and its death toll reached 63,252 on Friday as the state reported 66,836 cases of the coronavirus disease and 773 fatalities. On Thursday, the state logged 67,013 Covid-19 cases and 568 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/please-pay-for-covid-19-vaccines-if-you-can-maha-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-urges-101619271130268.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi reopens admissions to emergency ward after halting it for an hour||The All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi on Saturday said admissions to its emergency department has resumed after it was restricted for an hour earlier in the day. Officials of the premier hospital confirmed “admissions are open and [the] emergency department is functional” after some users on Twitter said that new admissions were not being allowed.Admissions were earlier restricted due to the oxygen pipelines being reorganised in the emergency department, according to the officials. “The admissions in the emergency were restricted for an hour as the oxygen pipelines were being reorganised due to increased requirement of oxygen for COVID-19 patients. Currently, around 100 coronavirus infected patients are already receiving treatment at the Emergency. This is in addition to more than 800 patients who are already admitted at various centres of AIIMS,” an official said.Also read | After PM Modi’s high-level meet, Centre waives off basic customs duty, health cess on oxygen, Covid-19 vaccines“#Breaking : AIIMS emergency closed due to low supply of Oxygen in Delhi,” one user tweeted on Saturday afternoon. Few other users of the social media platform also tweeted on similar lines, claiming that new restrictions were not being accepted in the hospital.Many hospitals in the country, including those in the national capital, have complained of a shortage of medical-grade oxygen due to the rising number of infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The second wave of the pandemic has caused a rapid increase in the number of active cases in the country which have burdened the hospitals, causing the demand for oxygen to swell.Watch | ‘Can’t let Covid enter villages’: PM Modi on vaccination drive in villagesEarlier in the day, Saroj Hospital in Delhi also announced it was not admitting new patients due to a shortage in oxygen, news agency ANI reported. “We are closing the admissions because of an oxygen shortage. We are discharging the patient,” ANI quoted the hospital’s Covid-19 in-charge as saying. A few hours later, the in-charge said, “We have not received backup oxygen supply yet. We have 70 patients who are in critical condition and need oxygen. If we do not get oxygen supply there could be a big disaster. We have started discharging patients.”Amid the ongoing crisis, the Centre on Saturday waived off the customs duty and health cess on the import of Covid-19 vaccines and medical grade oxygen for a period of three months effective immediately. The Centre’s decision followed a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the pandemic situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-reopens-admissions-to-emergency-ward-after-halting-it-for-an-hour-101619271212580.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal writes to all CMs, requests them to send oxygen to Delhi ‘if they have spare’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to his counterparts in other states and Union territories requesting them to send the surplus of oxygen they may have to the Capital as the city faces acute shortage to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” he wrote on Twitter.I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate.The Delhi chief minister asked his counterparts from other states and UTs if they could provide the national capital with any oxygen, along with tankers, from their state or any organisation in their state, his office said in a statement. “He also wrote that due to the severe rise in COVID cases in the last few days, many Delhi hospitals had run out of oxygen,” it added.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here He informed the states that Delhi does not produce any oxygen and due to the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, many hospitals in the city have run out of the critical element. “Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements,” he claimed.Arvind Kejriwal’s plea comes on a day when as many as 20 patients at a hospital in Delhi’s Rohini died due to a shortage of oxygen and several others approved the high court informing about similar challenges.“We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen was over by about 10 pm and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini.As hospitals reached the high court seeking its immediate intervention to save the lives of Covid-19 patients as their oxygen stock would last for 30 minutes to a couple of hours, the bench headed by justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli rapped the Delhi government for lacking action in arranging tankers for the transportation of liquid oxygen. "The problem is you think allocation is done so everything will be served at your doorstep but that's not how it works. After allocation have you made any effort for the tankers to collect oxygen?” the court asked.Kejriwal has already broached the issue of oxygen shortage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who met the chief ministers of 11 worst-affected states and UTs on Friday. Kejriwal told PM Modi that the shortage of oxygen could lead to a “big tragedy”, and requested him to order states to not obstruct the passage of tankers. He, however, was criticised by Modi for publicly broadcasting the closed-door meeting.Delhi has been reporting an extreme shortage of oxygen for patients with scores of citizens and city hospitals taking to social media platforms seeking oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 positive patients both in hospitals as well as home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-all-cms-requests-them-to-send-oxygen-to-delhi-if-they-have-spare-101619269913300.html
24-04-2021||Other||Nine of 12 districts in Himachal have positivity rate above 10%||Nine of the 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh have reported a Covid positivity rate of more than 10% with Solan on top at 16.92%. The industrial district that shares its borders with Punjab and Haryana sees heavy movement of migrant labour daily. In the past week alone, Solan reported 1,437 cases. Also read: LIVE: Weekend curfew in Jammu and Kashmir from tonight 8pm to Monday 6am to curb Covid-19 spreadShimla is second with a positivity rate of 14.42% followed by Hamirpur at 13.22% and Sirmaur at 12.99%. Kangra, which is the worst hit district in terms of the number of Covid cases, has a positivity rate of 12.74%. The most populous district in the state has reported more than 2,000 Covid cases in just a week. The sudden spike has resulted in hospitals in the district being full to capacity. The district authorities are now working to ramp up the bed capacity by opening a new Covid Care Centre and seeking the help of private hospitals. Next on the list is the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti with a positivity rate of 12.39%. The remote district witnessed a spike in cases this week. The infections were first noticed among migrant labourers and later spread to the local population who came in their contact. Last year, the district had seen a spurt in cases after the opening of Atal Tunnel. Other districts on the list of high positivity are Shimla at 12.1% and Kullu at 11.6%. Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Chamba are the only three districts with the positivity rate below 10%. Bilaspur has a positivity rate of 9.12%, Kinnaur 7.92% and Chamba 4.39%. Highest death rate in Shimla Shimla district has the highest case fatality ratio (CFR) of 2.4%. The district has recorded 315 deaths since the outbreak last March. Of them, 20 deaths have been reported in Shimla in the past week alone. More than 222 people have tested positive for Covid-19 since Friday evening. Sanjauli, New Shimla and Panthaghat are the new hotspots. The maximum of 19 cases were reported from New Shimla, 10 from Panthaghatti, eight from Sanjauli and nine from Chotta Shimla. Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital is full to capacity, while only 10 of the 90 beds are unoccupied at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla. “The rush of patients is increasing by the day. We are now taking over private hospitals and the government-run Ayurveda Hospital in Chotta Shimla to accommodate more cases,” Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra said. Kangra, the biggest district in terms of population, has a CFR of 2.09%. The district has recorded 295 Covid deaths in all. The health authorities say the high death rate in Shimla and Kangra is because only these two districts have tertiary care centres: Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, and Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda. Since critical patients are referred to these two health institutions from other districts, the toll remains high. Kullu, where a total of 90 people have died of Covid till date, has a CFR of 1.6%. Una has seen 94 fatalities and has a CFR of 1.5%. Mandi has recorded 154 deaths and has a CFR of 1.23%. 1,500 more beds, three oxygen plants coming up After reviewing the Covid situation, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that an additional 1,500 beds will be made available for Covid patients. Liquid oxygen plants will soon be functional in all three major medical colleges of the state, namely IGMC, Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda and the medical college at Nerchowk in Mandi district. He said people of the state coming from different parts of the country must stay in home isolation for at least a week to rule out any possibility of spreading the virus, in case they are infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-of-12-districts-in-himachal-have-positivity-rate-above-10-101619266500563.html
24-04-2021||Pune||PPCR arranges 250 ventilators, 4,000 oxygen concentrators from Singapore||As the demand for oxygen and ventilators have skyrocketed in Pune and the rest of the country amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response (PPCR), anchored at Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has arranged for procurement and donation of 250 ventilators and 4,000 oxygen concentrators for worst affected areas and hotspots of the country.The equipment has been arranged from Singapore to India under ‘Mission Vayu’.In a press release, PPCR said, “We have placed the order for 250 ventilators and 4,000 oxygen concentrator units, and the first consignment is expected to arrive in India from Singapore tomorrow (April 25).”In the past three days, PPCR has raised ₹12 crore to set up 12 oxygen generator plants, that are now being set up at multiple government and private hospitals. “With a combined capacity of generating 12 tonnes of oxygen a day, these oxygen plants will help save hundreds of lives in coming days,” said MCCIA office bearers.PPCR comprises more than 250 private and government hospitals, over ten government offices and around 150 private and non-profit sector members.“These oxygen concentrators and ventilators will be donated to hospitals and institutions for charitable purposes and cannot be resold for commercial purposes,” said PPCR.On Saturday, after the Centre waived customs duty on import of the various items related to oxygen and oxygen related equipment, MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta tweeted: “Thanks to @narendramodi ji and @PiyushGoyal ji for agreeing to our request to waive customs duty on oxygen and oxygen related items. This will help to further support our COVID Mission Vayu @ppcr_pune” (sic)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ppcr-arranges-250-ventilators-4-000-oxygen-concentrators-from-singapore-101619264699873.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||‘This isn’t a wave, it’s a tsunami’: HC pulls up Delhi over Covid preparedness||The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government about their preparedness to deal with the peak of the second Covid wave expected by mid-May, terming the mounting cases a “tsunami” and warning that it will “hang any person” who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals.Talking tough, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour hearing on the escalating crisis in city hospitals on a day when 20 patients died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital for lack of oxygen. The bench asked both the Centre and the Delhi government to “interact and co-ordinate” with each other for ensuring adequate supply of oxygen.The Centre called the Delhi government a “cry baby” before the court and said it was the latter’s “incompetence” that led to the deaths of people. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, asked the Delhi government to manage the procurement and distributions of oxygen on their own and not depend on the Centre for everything.Mehta said the state governments were responsible for the transportation of the oxygen from various sources and the Delhi government had to do it on its own.“So far we have ensured that nobody in the country was left without oxygen. States and Union territories which do not have industries have also arranged for tanks but the Delhi government has yet not coordinated with the suppliers,” Mehta said.The bench questioned the Delhi government over its citing of the shortage of cryogenic tankers to procure oxygen from Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinganagar.“We make it clear that the efforts the GNCTD (government of the national capital territory of Delhi) has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised, and they should not leave it entirely to the central government to act in this regard,” the court recorded in its order while directing the Delhi government to arrange tankers and other logistics for timely procurement of oxygen.“Citizens cannot be allowed to die like this… In case cryogenic tanks are less in supply, we are hopeful that the Centre may work this out in coordination with the GNCTD, who cannot leave it completely on the Centre,” it said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said the city government did not have enough cryogenic tankers because Delhi is not an industrial state.“We got 309 metric tonnes yesterday as against the 480 MT allocated by the Centre. It’s a chaotic situation with disorderly function. Some incidents are bound to happen. We fear we will lose many people... human lives are being lost every day,” Mehra said.During the proceedings, four city hospitals — including Jaipur Golden, where the tragedy took place a few hours ago — complained that there was nobody to coordinate with them on oxygen and essential medicine supplies.“We have already lost 20 lives. We are literally gasping for breath and pleading. The cases are slipping out of our hand. We are trying to ask every authority but to no avail,” senior advocate Sachin Datta for Jaipur Golden said.The bench expressed concern over this as Mehra informed the court that the Delhi government had constituted a team of officers to coordinate with hospitals. As Mehra said the government was not getting information about the quantity of oxygen supplied from suppliers and re-fillers, the court directed the suppliers and re-fillers to give all such information to the city government.During the hearing, the court also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to submit their plans on preparedness after it cited a report by IIT Kanpur predicting that the peak of cases would be hit in mid-May.Mehta told the court that this was being considered and the country had to be prepared for the worst. He said steps had been taken to streamline the passage of oxygen and a strong message had been given to the suppliers in this regard by the top leadership.The court also suggested providing Delhi Police security to hospitals as patients were being discharged from there due to the lack of oxygen supply.“Let’s face the reality. If admissions aren’t being made, we know how people react. We don’t want a law-and-order situation. If riots break out at hospitals, what will happen? There are deaths taking place,” it said.The matter will now be heard on Monday, April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/this-isn-t-a-wave-it-s-a-tsunami-hc-pulls-up-delhi-over-covid-preparedness-101619263626242.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Police look the other way as Bathinda Congress councillors party||Despite the rapid rise in Covid cases in Bathinda, the district police ignored a large celebratory function attended by Congress councillors at a luxury banquet hall on the city’s periphery on Friday night. Photos and videos of the party at Three Palm Resorts, 6km from Bathinda on the highway to Amritsar, are being shared widely on social media. They show the Congress leaders, including senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan set to dine together. Also read: Dhindsa’s media in-charge booked for violating Covid norms at son’s weddingFirecrackers were also let off at the resort in the evening. When contacted, Pradhan said that the event was hosted by Sandeep Goyal, the husband of newly elected first woman mayor Raman Goyal. He confirmed that the photos were of Friday’s event. “It was a social meeting of a small group of Congress councillors to celebrate party leaders joining top offices of the Bathinda municipal corporation. You should contact Sandeep for details,” he said. Denying that he hosted the event, Sandeep said Covid guidelines were followed by the attendees. The photos show that the attendees were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distancing. “I briefly stayed at the resort and there was no party. No women, including my wife, was present at the casual get-together,” he said. Sandeep, a liquor contractor of the city, is known for his proximity with local Congress legislator and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Positive cases continue to rise Punjab has imposed a ban on all social, political, religious and cultural gatherings. Marriages and wedding functions can be organised but only with 20 people. The state government has also imposed a night curfew from 8pm till 5am. With 596 new Covid cases reported on Friday, the district now has a total of 4,466 coronavirus patients since April 9. According to the medical bulletin, 43 deaths have been reported in the last 15 days and the tally of total Covid-related fatalities has reached 329. Different rules for different people Taking prompt action, the local police arrested eight people for hosting a pre-wedding function at Bathinda’s elite Civil Lines Club on Wednesday. But when 40 cars and motorcycles were reported at the resort on Friday, the police chose to overlook the information. Gates were closed from inside and lights of the sprawling lawns and the reception areas were shut off after journalists gathered outside the resort. Following queries of journalists, the police sent a raiding party but it left without initiating any action. Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk did not respond to the phone calls. An attempt to reach the chief minister, chief secretary, director general police and state police administration via their official Twitter handles did not elicit any response. A large number of party attendees started leaving in their vehicles after 10pm without any action by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-look-the-other-way-as-bathinda-congress-councillors-party-101619262780856.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Business snippets from around Pune||Druva Secures $147 million investment Druva Inc. announced a $147 million investment as the company rapidly scales in response to accelerated demand for its platform. The fundraise was led by Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), a global investment group, with a significant investment by Neuberger Berman, each of which manage more than $300 billion in net assets. The round, which raises the company’s valuation above $2 billion, also included participation from existing investors Viking Global Investors and Atreides Management. Jaspreet Singh, founder and CEO, Druva said, “The unprecedented events of 2020 have ushered in a generational cloud transformation for businesses, and data‘s increasing value is at the very heart of it. This investment and our continued, rapid growth is further validation of our vision for a simple, open, and unified data protection and management platform.”Druva supports GameStop, Marriott, NASA, National Cancer Institute, Pfizer, and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals.Baja Saeindia 2021 commences 14th editionSaeindia , a professional Society of Automotive Engineers commenced its 14th edition of the much-awaited Baja Saeindia 2021 series. It will be held on a digital platform for the first time ever involving static as well as dynamic events.Baja Saeindia tasks students to conceptualise design, build, test and validate a single-seater four-wheeled All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) to take part in a series of events spread across a course of four days. Two hundred entries across engineering colleges in India were received, of which 150 teams are registered for conventional event adnd 50 teams are registered for e-Baja event.Baja Saeindia 2021’s theme is about “Embracing Challenges”. Rashmi Urdhwareshe, president, Saeindia said, “The competition enables them to grapple with a real-life application and improve their skills related to design, validation, marketing, project management, teamwork, etc., which boosts their self-confidence and teaches them leadership skills.”Startups invited for Bhau Joint Technology Incubation programme COEP’s Bhau Institute in association with Cookson India is inviting innovative startup idea applications from entrepreneurs of India for the “Element Solutions - Bhau Joint Technology Incubation Programme”.Startups working on technologies like Power Electronics, Medical Electronics, Sustainability, Water Technology, Advanced Materials and Recycling can apply. The last date for applying is May 7, 2021. Startups will be invited for interview and presentation. A committee will review the applicants and further short list startups. Selected startups will be offered business plan guidance, business and technical mentoring, pitch deck preparation, 12-month incubation, access to COEP labs, guidance to apply for government funding schemes, prototype development and incubation funding. Symbiosis CEI Women Entrepreneurship Development Symbiosis Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation (SCEI) – the Symbiosis Technology Business incubator, supported by the Department of Science and Technology, is launching its third batch of the Women Entrepreneurship Development Programme, commencing on May 1, 2021.The programme includes free mentorship support for business ideas and also an opportunity to get incubated at the SCEI besides live sessions and panel discussions. It is a three-week online programme for women with business ideas. The criteria for enrolment is that the applicant should be between 20 and 45 years of age, and have diploma or bachelor’s degree in any field.HCL Jigsaw competitionHCL Jigsaw, a critical reasoning platform, has organised a problem solving competition for students of Classes 6-9. Registration for this competition is now open. Interested students or schools can register themselves at www.hcljigsaw.com, by May 31, 2021. This pan-India competition will take place virtually in two rounds - qualifier (June 24t– 27, 2021) and Finale (July 17 and 18, 2021). Participating students will get an opportunity to win prizes and gadgets worth ₹16 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/business-snippets-from-around-pune-101619261402527.html
24-04-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata civic body urges RWAs to set up safe homes for Covid-19 patients||The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has urged resident welfare associations of large complexes and high-rise societies in the city to set up their own safe homes to isolate Covid-19 positive patients.“High-rises societies and large housing complexes have been asked to turn their community halls into safe homes with an adequate number of beds, requisite supply of oxygen and other paraphernalia in line with Covid-19 protocols,” said a senior official of the civic body. While West Bengal reported 12,876 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, at least one out of every four patients was registered in Kolkata. The city has nearly 19,000 active cases. “When the first wave of Covid-19 hit in 2020, a significant portion of the cases came from large housing complexes. This time too we apprehend that they could become hotspots of Covid-19 and hence such advisories have been sent out,” said another official. The state government came up with the concept of safe homes with beds, oxygen facility and telemedicine facilities in 2020 to free up hospital beds. There are around 200 state-run safe homes in West Bengal, concentrated mostly in Kolkata, with more than 11,000 beds where non-critical patients, who need treatment, could be kept in isolation. The KMC has also started procuring oxygen concentrators to meet the shortage of medical oxygen. “I have already advised the KMC to immediately place the order for 100 oxygen concentrators. We would procure up to 500 as the demand rises,” said Firhad Hakim, state urban development minister. On Friday West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that the Union government was diverting the state’s quota of medical oxygen to Uttar Pradesh. “As per the current patient load and rising trend of infections, it is expected that the consumption level of oxygen in the state will radically rise to roughly 450 MT per day in the next couple of weeks. Hence present allocation of liquid oxygen to outside West Bengal will jeopardize the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The state government has accordingly requested the centre to consider the need of the state and not to divert the medical oxygen available in the state to elsewhere,” said a statement released by the state government on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-civic-body-urges-rwas-to-set-up-safe-homes-for-covid-19-patients-101619261220367.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Preventive care for the brain, AI-driven||Rajesh Kumar Purushottam and Dr Latha Poonamallee, the founders of InMed Prognostics, developed NeuroShield, an artificial intelligence (AI) software which can diagnose as well as predict the onset of neurological disorders. The cloud- based clinical decision support tool helps neuro-radiologists, neuro-physicians, psychiatrists and general physicians better understand the brain effects of different conditions by utilising 3D MRI images to their fullest, extracting data and providing volumetric analysis for the brain and its various structures.Rajesh Kumar Purushottam hails from Goa and has done his BE in Industrial Engineering and an MBA. He started his career as a shop-floor engineer after he joined Thermax in Pune as a trainee in 1993. Thereafter he has worked in several multinational companies like KPIT Infosystems, Motorola, GE Capital International Services, Motorola India, John Deere India and Vedanta group. Latha Poonamallee did her BA and MA from University of Madras and MBA from Pondicherry University. She did her PhD from Case Wetern Reserve University in Ohio. She joined the university as a senior lecturer and is presently working at the New School in New York as an associate professor. Dinner table conversation has a startup idea as its entreePurushottam founded a health informatics company Statim Healthcare in 2013, which provided teleradiology services to hospitals. Although Purushottam is in the process of exiting the startup, that exposure led him to the particular area of artificial intelligence in radiology. Says Purushottam: “I met Latha and her husband, Dr Al Curran, in 2017 in the US. A dinner table conversation was converted into an idea for a startup.”Recalling the early days, Poonamallee says, “We have been friends for over 20 years. A few years back, Rajesh helped me arrange some meetings in Bengaluru for my university students. While we were chatting then, I told Rajesh that the services business is value capturing. Why don’t do you do something in value creation like a product business? After that, when Rajesh was visiting me in the US with his family, he came up with this idea and proposed to start InMed Prognostics.”Why neurological disorders?Says Poonamallee, “When you are looking at the product market and product creation in radiology, the brain is the final frontier. One of our goals is to bring the brain into the preventative space. We undergo tests for heart ailments, blood pressure or diabetes, but there is nothing to do for brain. Also, there are no existing comparable tools to that we have outside of the white people’s population. We wanted to bring state-of-the-art tools that are affordable, accessible and reliable, and evidence-based to other populations also. We call it design justice. There is stigma associated with and also a lack of awareness about these disorders being preventative. We have done research and presented in Europe about our tools and predictive models predicting early dementia even in the 30s.”Early adoptersSays Purushottam, “A few years back there was misunderstanding that AI can replace radiologists, but we don’t frame it like that at all. We only support clinical decision making. We don’t provide diagnosis. We only provide additional and accurate information that saves times for the physician, radiologist, neurologists and neurosurgeon, to be more effective.”“Our earliest adopters and supporters were neurologist Dr Rahul Kulkarni from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and paediatric neurologist Dr Deepa Divekar from Sahyadri Hospital. They helped me understand the local market and what they are really struggling with. We are also working with Dr Deepak Agarwal and the All-India Institute Medical sciences (AIIMS). He is on our scientific advisory board. Dr Ram Mohan Vadapalli from Vijaya Diagnostics in Hyderabad, one of renowned radiologists in the country, is also associated with us. Hospitals are buying our product. Our adoption rate is increasing partly because we have worked a lot with these physicians,” Purushottam claims.Data securityExplaining the data security measures, Poonamallee said, “Our tool extracts the data, images from the client-side server to our cloud but completely strips all identifiable information. With 3D MRI it is easy to reconstruct the persons face and hence, we remove the identifiable information in a way that the face cannot be reconstructed. Along with the report we also provide a lot of data visualisation to the physician if they want to look at segmented portions.”MVP and approvalsInMed Prognostics has got Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) approval which is very important for using software as a medical device. Says Poonamallee, “We have the minimum viable product (MVP) ready registered on the Government E-marketplace (GeM). We are in discussion with a government hospital in Goa which will be our first government sector client.”Accuracy and challenges in adoptionSays Purushottam, “AI in healthcare is not very common and that is the biggest challenge we have in adoption. We have done about 1,200 healthy controls and we got a DST funding for that from Birac, basically to create what we call as an Indian brain template. We are at a 90 per cent accuracy level. We use the convolutional neural network which is a very advanced way of deep learning so that as your healthy control data improves the predictive accuracy keeps increasing.”“With the help of AI, we can co-relate a lot of researches already based on it. To aid that kind of a decision support framework, the decision tree actually mimics the decision making of a clinician. For that we have to capture the inter-operator variability. Evidence creates transparency and accountability, so we also map the clinical setting and then look at the contextual evidence so that it can lead to a certain outcome. We have a customer success team which is always monitoring the product performance,” Purushottam explains.Tie-ups and adoption strategyInMed Prognostics has a pan-India presence with tie-ups with almost all major hospitals in the states like Delhi, Goa, Kerala, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh. Elaborating on their strategy, Purushottam says, “We go to the oldest diagnostic centre in the state capital which becomes a reference point and they refer us to the neurophysician or neurologist – the point of prescription and further a point of sale. We developed and trademarked Neuroshield as a brand which made it easy for doctors to recall it. It is in written in the prescription so that specific sequence or setting is taken at the time when the patient shows the requisition at the diagnostics centre and the charges are also collected. This way we also justify an additional payout for the customer in the range of ₹2,500 to Rs3000 at the diagnostic centre.”Funding Says Poonamallee, “Birac gave us a ₹50 lakh grant and offered a ₹1 crore investment that didn’t come to pass for multiple reasons. From friends and family, we have raised ₹3.5 crores so far. Currently we are in process of doing another ₹3.5 crore seed round with institutional investors.”Role of GE healthcare accelerator and venture centre incubatorInMed Prognostics was incubated at the Venture Centre at the NCL Innovation Park in Pune. “Venture Centre has been extremely instrumental in providing us a great ecosystem. They helped us get the Birac grant in terms of providing us legitimacy, good feedback on the market locally and understanding the system. Dr V Premnath has been very instrumental in helping us to strategically think through the technical challenges, how we make sure we get right sample, standardisation of data etc. GE Edison Healthcare platform is extraordinary gift and source of strength and technical expertise for us. We had amazing technical and business mentoring and integration with GE platforms and console. Our product is fairly OEM agnostic. They are going to be our sales channel partner in South Asia,” the founders explain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-preventive-care-for-the-brain-aidriven-101619260982640.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police rolls back order on colour-coding of vehicles||Mumbai Police has withdrawn its decision of compulsory colour-coding for the vehicles plying in the city during the lockdown. As per people aware of the matter, the decision caused confusion and it did not serve the intended purpose, therefore the move was cancelled on Friday night.On Thursday alone the police had booked at least 57 motorists for flouting colour-code norms. Deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu on Friday night issued an order to all police stations in-charges across Mumbai, regional controls rooms, zonal police and other police units, declaring that the “colour code” order was cancelled. He instructed all police units not to take action against motorists for plying without colour-coded stickers. Director-General of Police, Sanjay Pandey, was also not happy with the mandatory colour-coding of vehicles for plying in Mumbai, the people cited above said.On April 17, Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale introduced the new requirement of colour-coding of vehicles to keep a check on motorists coming out on roads for casual or trivial reasons and causing traffic jams amid the statewide lockdown.He issued the order after the entry-exit points at Dahisar, Mulund and Vashi, and some other parts of the city on severe traffic jams during the morning rush hour on April 17. The traffic jam had interrupted movements of ambulances and other essential service vehicles. Hence, to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of non-essential vehicles Nagrale introduced colour-coding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-rolls-back-order-on-colour-coding-of-vehicles-101619260800302.html
24-04-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli avalanche: Army rescues 384 people working with BRO, 8 bodies recovered||Following the avalanche incident in the Niti Valley area of Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district near the India-China border on Friday, the Indian Army has rescued 384 people working with Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in its ongoing search and rescue operation. The army also and recovered at least eight bodies so far till Saturday noon.Informing about the ongoing rescue operation, the Army’s Central Command tweeted, “384 BRO persons or have been moved to safety while eight bodies trapped under the snow have been recovered from the two BRO camps in Sumna. Six critically injured have been evacuated for the required treatment. Air sorties are being attempted to assist medical evacuation.”As soon as the incident was reported to the army base in the area, it initiated the search and rescue operation braving extreme weather conditions till late night at 1.30.“Till 1.30 am, 291 BRO persons were brought to safety. The rescue operation had to be halted at night due to weather conditions,” stated the Army Central Command on Twitter.According to the BRO, the avalanche occurred on Friday at around 4 pm and had hit one of its camp in the Sumna area in the very remote area near the India-China border at an altitude of over 11,000 ft. Most of the trapped people were the labourers working under it for the construction of roads there.Earlier in the day, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat conducted an aerial inspection of the avalanche-hit area to monitor the situation.Rawat said, “As per the information received from the BRO, about 400 people got trapped in the avalanche in remote Sumna area. So far about 385 have been rescued by the army which is carrying out the rescue operation with all their efforts in the difficult conditions.”“Some casualties have also been reported from there. Meanwhile, to assist the Army in the rescue operation, teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) are also reaching there to speed up the rescue operation,” he said, adding that the Chamoli district administration is also providing all possible help in it.Meanwhile, informing more about the area of the incident, prominent geologist and director of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre, MPS Bisht said, “According to the satellite images, the incident happened in the upper Sumna area near Rimkhim Nala due to heavy snowfall in the past few days.”“The place is approximately 25 kms upstream from Malari village in the tributary of Girthi Ganga river there,” said Bisht adding that, “In 1991-92 also an avalanche took place in Sumna area which had hit the ITBP camp there. At that time, 11 ITBP jawans had died.”The BRO, through its official Twitter handle, informed, “The Malari-Sumna road in the area has been extensively damaged due to multiple landslides. BRO teams have swung into action at different locations to clear the debris with dozers and blasting efforts.”Earlier on Friday night after receiving information about the incident, CM Rawat had “given the order to stop the work during the night in NTPC and other projects so that no untoward incident occurs”. Niti Valley is a remote valley near the India-China border located at a height of over 11, 800 ft. The Niti Valley Pass had been an ancient trade route between India and Tibet but the same was sealed after the 1962 Sino-Indian War. This is the second such incident in Chamoli district after February 7 when breakage of a glacier in Tapovan area led to flash floods and wreaked havoc downstream. Of the initial 204 people missing in the Chamoli disaster, search and rescue workers have so far recovered 79 bodies while 125 are still missing. The glacier breakage, snow avalanche and rockfall caused flash floods damaging two under-construction hydel power projects - Rishi Ganga and NTPC’s Tapovan. Water flowed over the dams with muck and debris, also entering dam tunnels. In Uttarakhand, there are around 1,000 to 1,400 glaciers. Coupled with extreme local weather events and changes in terrain, these glaciers can lead to lake outbursts or lake formation due to the rockfall or landslides in the valleys or on slopes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-avalanche-army-rescues-384-people-working-with-bro-8-bodies-recovered-101619260380303.html
24-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: 11 injured in gas cylinder explosion in South 24 Parganas||Eleven workers were seriously injured after a gas cylinder exploded in an illegal leather factory in Bhangar of West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district on Saturday.According to Deputy Superintendent of Police, Crime, Tamal Sarkar, factory workers were making fertilizer out of the left-over hide in the dark of the night."The boiler gas cylinder of the factory exploded and 11 workers were injured. The injured workers are undergoing treatment at the Bhangar Nalmuri Block Primary Health Center. Three were shifted to Kolkata as their condition was critical," Sarkar informed.Bhangar Police Station Police Commissioner and Sarkar reached the spot and sealed the illegal factory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-11-injured-in-gas-cylinder-explosion-in-south-24-parganas-101619256121376.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||'Nobody above law': NCP, Shiv Sena on CBI action against Anil Deshmukh||With the CBI conducting searches at the premises of former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh, the NCP on Saturday said nobody was above the law, but added that the truth behind the "political conspiracy" against him and the state government would come out through the high court-ordered probe.Talking to reporters, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said, "Nobody is above the law. Anil Deshmukh is cooperating with the agencies."He said he was not aware if any FIR has been registered against Deshmukh.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is yet to reveal for whom suspended police officer Sachin Waze was working when he planted explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, Malik said."What was the role of former Mumbai police commissioner (Param Bir Singh) in the case. All these actions are taking place based on the ex-commissioner's letter," he alleged."This is nothing but misuse of power to malign the state government and Anil Deshmukh. We have full faith in the judiciary and know that the truth behind the political conspiracy will be exposed through the probe," he said.The CBI on Saturday conducted searches at Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and his hometown Nagpur after registering a case against him in connection with allegations of corruption levelled against him by Param Bir Singh.Deshmukh, an NCP leader, had resigned as a minister earlier this month after the high court asked the CBI to probe the allegations against him.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also said that nobody was above the law."It is not correct to comment on CBI's action. Anil Deshmukh had already given his statement in the case. CBI is doing its work, similarly high court and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are doing their own work," he said."If there is a political agenda in the case against Anil Deshmukh, then the MVA government will take a stand. Hope the action against Deshmukh is restricted to directives of the high court," he said.On March 25, Param Bir Singh had filed a criminal public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants.The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nobody-above-law-ncp-shiv-sena-on-cbi-action-against-anil-deshmukh-101619255441588.html
24-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt's 24x7 control room set up to tackle Covid-19 crisis||The Rajasthan government on Friday set up a 24x7 control room to handle the COVID-19 crisis in the state and deputed 20 officers who will work in three shifts, an official spokesperson said.The control room, set up in the IT Department's C-Scheme, will coordinate with district-level war rooms and different government departments for better management of the pandemic. The control room will also coordinate to ensure oxygen supply to hospitals and the availability of beds in medical facilities, the spokesperson said.IPS, RAS and RPS officers will work in three shifts of eight hours each in the control room. There will be five officers in each shift. An IPS officer will head each shift.IPS officers Jainarayan, Anshuman Bhomia, Dr Ravi, Satyendra Singh are among the 20 officers who will run the control room, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-s-24x7-control-room-set-up-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-101619255589601.html
24-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka asked to impose stringent restrictions by Covid advisory panel||With Bengaluru recording 1.5 lakh active coronavirus cases, the highest for any city in the country, the Karnataka Task Advisory Committee on COVID- 19 has asked the state government to impose stringent restrictions, including lockdown for 14 days to break the chain. The members of the panel have also recommended to the government to increase the number of beds to tide over the crisis. The TAC members also foresee the third wave COVID in October-November and have, accordingly, insisted that the government should complete the vaccination of vulnerable age groups before the next wave hits. Professor and Head of Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Giridhar Babu told PTI: "I have on record said that there are two main strategies. Firstly, we need to reduce the number of cases and that will happen only by a stringent lockdown for at least 14 days. Secondly, we should expand the bed capacity by taking as much as possible beds from all the private medical colleges, nursing homes and hospitals." According to him, the 14 days lockdown will reduce the number of infections. The TAC member said the state may witness the peak of the second wave by the May end or the first week of June. Eminent cardiologist and director of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, C N Manjunath said he had in November 2020 predicted the arrival of the second wave of COVID in March or April based on the pattern of spread and resurgence in Europe. While the COVID cases may come down by May end or the first week of June, people's behaviour for the next six to nine months will hold the key. "The most important is when the cases come down, guards should not be let down. Facemask wearing and physical distancing should continue while most importantly congregation should be banned," he told PTI. The health experts were of the opinion that the healthcare system is totally suffocated. "In the first phase, the cases were coming in a staggered manner. So the daily rise in a particular state was 200 to 300 cases. Now it's in thousands," the cardiologist said. Giridhar Babu too concurred with him. "The BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike) has informed the high court that there are no more ICU beds. So, the court has also said the situation is very scary. That will summarise the current status," Babu explained. Both were unanimous that the vaccination drive should be completed by October before the possible third wave hits the nation. "Vaccination should go on. By October- November the entire country should be vaccinated. Otherwise, we are in for a rude shock again," Manjunath said. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the officials at the civic agency's COVID war room are working over time. On the shortage of oxygen and essential drugs such as Remdesivir, the Chief Commissioner told the news agency that the whole country was grappling with it and the Centre and the state are dealing with it in an effective manner. To a query on the need for more ICU beds, he said already a few have been arranged and more have to be procured very soon. With 26,962 infections on Friday, the state touched the highest single-day spike in COVID cases. There were 190 deaths too. More alarming was that the active cases in the state crossed two lakh mark of which 1.5 lakh are in Bengaluru alone. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had during a video conference told the PM that the state needs about 1,500 tonnes of oxygen and two lakh vials of Remdesivir. To contain the alarming rise in COVID cases, the state has imposed night curfew and weekend curfews while ordering closure of many shops and business establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-asked-to-impose-stringent-restrictions-by-covid-advisory-panel-101619255331837.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Speedy transportation of oxygen by Delhi Police saves lives in GTB hospital||Amid the acute shortage of oxygen in the national capital due to surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Police on Saturday helped avert a major crisis at the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital by swiftly transporting two oxygen tankers to the hospital.An urgent message and call for police assistance was received from Vikram Singh, the GNCTD appointed Nodal Officer for GTBH for the transfer of two tankers from the Inox oxygen plant in Modinagar, Ghaziabad.The tanker and driver details were shared and the police immediately swung into action.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Shahdara immediately contacted DIG police and SP rural of Ghaziabad and started coordination for swift transportation with police escort.Meanwhile, a team was dispatched from the GTB Enclave Police Station which met the UP Police team midway. The team took over and escorted the tanker through the shortest possible route.The tanker finally reached GTBH within an hour of dispatch through a green corridor.The hospital administration thanked DCP Shahdara and his team profusely for timely help which saved 700 lives at stake, said police in a media release.Over the last few days, several hospitals have repeatedly flagging acute shortages in oxygen supply.The highest single-day death toll was recorded on Friday in Delhi, with 348 deaths and 24,331 fresh cases.There are now 92029 active Covid-19 cases in the city while the death toll has mounted to 13,541.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-speedy-transportation-of-oxygen-by-delhi-police-saves-lives-in-gtb-hospital-101619253832630.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maoists kill Chhattisgarh Police sub-inspector in captivity on kangaroo court’s orders||Maoists have killed a police sub-inspector known for his role in anti-Maoist operations on a kangaroo court’s orders days after abducting him while he was on his way to meet his ailing mother in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Wednesday, an officer said on Saturday, amid a spike in violence in the Left-wing insurgency-hit state this month.Bijapur police superintendent Kamlochan Kashyap said a Maoist janadalat (kangaroo court) ordered Murli Tati’s killing even as a search was on to rescue him. “The Maoists dumped Murli’s body near a village at Gangalur in Bijapur district along with a note that Tati was ‘executed as decided by a people’s court’,” said Kashyap. He called Tati one of the most important fighters in anti-Maoist operations in the Bijapur district. “We have launched a hunt for the Maoists and a combing operation in a jungle is going on.”Tati was abducted a day after Maoist commander Kosa Handa, who carried a reward of ₹five lakh on his head, was killed in a five-hour firefight with security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada. Handa had been an active Maoist for 15 years and was their Malangir area committee member and “military intelligence” in charge. He faced at least 15 cases and a 9 mm pistol, a country-made gun, three kg improvised explosive device, medicines, and items of daily use were recovered from the gunbattle scene.Around a dozen Maoists earlier abducted two people, including a 15-year-old boy, and murdered them with sharp-edged weapons after branding them as police informers in the neighbouring Sukma district. Maoists dragged out the two from their homes and took them to a nearby forest, where their bodies were later recovered. A pamphlet recovered along with the bodies claimed the two worked as police informers and were “hence punished”. The brother of one of the two joined the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) a year back. The father of the other left his job as an assistant police constable after the Maoists threatened him last year, police said.Twenty-two police and paramilitary personnel were killed and at least two dozen others injured in a gunfight with Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region on April 3. The Maoists ambushed the forces after possibly luring them to an area near the Bijapur-Sukma border.A commando of the CRPF taken captive after the April 3 gunfight was released days later.The toll from the April 3 gunbattle was the worst for security forces battling Maoists since 2017 when 25 jawans were killed in an attack. Seventeen personnel from a commando patrol were killed in an attack by more than 300 armed Maoists in Chhattisgarh in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoists-kill-chhattisgarh-police-sub-inspector-in-captivity-on-kangaroo-court-s-orders-101619253419850.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Getting vaccinated in Thane. Check list of vaccination centres||Thane which has been reeling under a severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surge opened 51 centres to boost the number of vaccinated people in the district. The Thane Municipal Corporation’s information centre DigiThane on Saturday tweeted with the hashtag ‘LargestVaccinationDrive’ announcing a list of sites which will be open for vaccination. The vaccination drive is currently underway and will go on till 4pm. The list showed that the government or civic body owned centres have Covishield vaccine doses.#LargestVaccineDrive: FIND A #COVID19 VACCINATION CENTER NEAR YOU!@TMCaTweetAway updated list of Vaccine Centers Open on Saturday, 24 April 2021@ThaneCityPolice @Info_Thane1 @ThaneCollector @thaneliving @citizens_thane @CommunityThane @WeAreThane @explorethane @ThaneCity pic.twitter.com/c2ZNCorS6B#LargestVaccineDrive: FIND A #COVID19 VACCINATION CENTER NEAR YOU!@TMCaTweetAway updated list of Private Vaccine Centers Open on Saturday, 24 April 2021 https://t.co/xIKUNP1Vjj pic.twitter.com/x8SUGIeeXADigiThane also shared a list of 14 private centres which are open for vaccination, along with the list of 37 government or civic body-run centres. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Wednesday had to suspend its vaccination programme for an entire day after it faced vaccine shortage, according to a report by HT. The vaccination drive began once it received 3,000 doses of Covishield later that evening. Panvel and Navi Mumbai also faced vaccine crunches following which they stopped their vaccination programme on Thursday.Thane district reported 5,092 new cases on Friday taking the tally in the district to 441,184. The district also reported 56 fresh fatalities which took the toll to 7,186 and taking the mortality rate to 1.63%, an official with the Thane district told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/getting-vaccinated-in-thane-check-list-of-vaccination-centres-101619252764165.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||'Help families of those who died of oxygen shortage': Rahul Gandhi urges govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday condoled the death of critically ill patients at a hospital here amid a serious oxygen crisis and appealed to the Delhi government to provide all possible assistance to the families of the deceased.Twenty critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said."The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock," Dr D K Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital, said."The news of the death of several patients due to lack of oxygen in Jaipur Golden Hospital, Delhi is extremely tragic," Gandhi said on Telegram."My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. I appeal to the State Govt and Congress workers to provide all possible assistance to their families," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/help-families-of-those-who-died-of-oxygen-shortage-rahul-gandhi-urges-govt-101619252050590.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six patients die at Amritsar private hospital due to shortage of oxygen||Six critically ill patients died at a private hospital in Punjab’s Amritsar due to a shortage of oxygen on Saturday morning. The hospital authorities blamed the district administration for the first such incident in Punjab, saying they prioritised government hospitals in ensuring oxygen supply, amid the second Covid-19 wave that has led to a surge in infections and overwhelmed hospitals.The wave has sparked a shortage of critical supplies such as oxygen and medicines. Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it.“The district administration bought oxygen cylinders from suppliers for government hospitals. It is responsible for the [oxygen] shortage in private hospitals,” said Sunil Devgan, the managing director of Neelkanth Hospital, where the six died. He added they had informed the families of the patients about the limited stock of oxygen. “We urged them to shift their patients to another hospital, but they declined the option.”Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said they held a meeting with owners of private hospitals on Friday about the oxygen supply and that is when the Neelkanth authorities informed them about the shortage. “We told private hospitals not to admit any critical patient or those who need oxygen if they have shortage as we could arrange only a few cylinders for GMCH [Government Medical College Hospital], where more patients are admitted. Private hospitals are responsible for arranging the required number of [oxygen] cylinders. If Neelkanth Hospital was short of supply, they should have referred the patients to other hospitals,” he said.“Due to the shortage of [oxygen] cylinders in the district [Amritsar], oxygen supply at Neelkanth Hospital dried up this morning, resulting in the death of six patients on the spot. Of the dead, two were from Gurdaspur district, one from Tarn Taran, and three from Amritsar district. All six patients were in a critical condition when they were admitted to the hospital on Thursday.”Amritsar civil surgeon Charanjit Singh promised an inquiry and said they will ensure no such incident happens in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-patients-die-at-amritsar-private-hospital-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen-101619249399821.html
24-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 positive candidate in Goa goes on campaign spree, booked||Municipal polls candidate from South Goa, Arthur D’Silva, who tested positive for Covid-19, was found “moving around, campaigning and soliciting votes” on voting day in the Margao Town in South Goa and has been booked by the Goa Police for violating protocol under the Epidemic Diseases Act, officials said.According to assistant returning officer, Prataprao Gaunker, he received information that D’Silva, despite being Covid-19 positive, was moving around, campaigning and creating fear among the locals. Election authorities found D’Silva, who is a candidate for the municipal polls in Margao in South Goa, was found moving around, campaigning, soliciting votes. When he was stopped and questioned about his moving around despite being Covid-positive he “left from the scene.”A case has now been registered against D’Silva who is not associated with any of the panels sponsored by the political parties and has contested as an independent cadidate. Voting was held on Friday in five municipal councils in Goa. Amid the raging pandemic, 66.70% of people came out to vote in the five municipal elections. The five municipal councils -- Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Quepem and Sanguem -- were to witness elections along with the other eleven councils in the state that went to the polls in March but the polls were delayed after the Bombay High Court at Goa asked the Goa government to ‘re do’ the reservations for failing to reserve the minimum number of seats for various groups like women, scheduled castes and others. “Reports from all five municipalities indicate @BJP4Goa supported Panel Candidates defeat is certain. Change has begun,” Leader of Opposition, Digambar Kamat tweeted. Besides the D’Silva case, the elections went smoothly with Covid-19 positive patients allowed to vote in the final hour of voting. The voting process has been overshadowed by the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the state which has now broken several records. Counting for the polls will be held on Monday April 26. The opposition sponsored candidates are hoping to better than the first rounds of councils where the BJP-backed candidates claimed victory in five of the six councils that went to the polls. However, the opposition is hoping for a better show this time around with the councils being represented by legislators from the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-positive-candidate-in-goa-goes-on-campaign-spree-booked-101619248259853.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dhindsa’s media in-charge booked for violating Covid norms at son’s wedding||Gurmeet Singh Johal, the media in-charge of Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, was booked for violating the Covid-19 guidelines at the wedding of his son at his house at Dream Land Colony in Sangrur on Friday night. Acting on a tip-off, a police team inspected the venue where the gathering comprised more than 20 people, the limit fixed by the state government to check the spread of coronavirus. Also read: Six patients die at Amritsar private hospital due to oxygen shortageDeputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said that the police team found that the deputy commissioner’s orders were being violated. “Though a case has been registered against Johal and others, no arrest has been made so far,” the DSP said. The case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 Disaster Management Act, at Sadar police station, Sangrur. When contacted, Johal admitted that he had organised a small function where relatives had gathered. “There was one more function near our house. Some people may have joined us from there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhindsas-media-in-charge-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-at-son-s-wedding-101619247839918.html
24-04-2021||Other||2 ONGC employees abducted by ULFA-I rescued in Nagaland; search on for 3rd||Security forces rescued two of the three state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) employees from banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I)’s captivity near the India-Myanmar border in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday, Assam police chief Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said. Efforts were underway to rescue the third employee abducted from a rig site at a tea estate in Assam’s Sivasagar district on Wednesday, he added. “So far security forces have been able to rescue two of the total three victims from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district, Nagaland. The rescued two are Alakesh Saikia and Mohini Mohan Gogoi. Efforts are going on to rescue the third victim,” Mahanta tweeted. Mahanta thanked the army’s 57 Mountain Division and the Nagaland police for their help and coordination in the rescue operation. “Without your kind cooperation and timely intervention of security forces on our input and continuous coordination, the rescue operation would not have been possible.” Further details about the two and whether there was an exchange of fire during the rescue were immediately unavailable. Ritul Saikia, the third abducted employee, and Gogoi worked as junior engineer assistants at the ONGC site while Alakesh Saikia as a junior technician. All three belong to Assam. Police said five armed persons abducted the three at gunpoint in an ONGC ambulance, which was later recovered close to the Assam-Nagaland border, around 11 km away. On Friday, the Assam police confirmed that ULFA-I was behind the abductions, and the outfit’s self-styled Major Ganesh Lahon carried them out along with four others. The police have arrested 14 persons on suspicion of their involvement in the abductions. In December, ULFA-I abducted two employees of a private company from a drilling location in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. Both of them were released earlier this month after over 100 days in captivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-ongc-employees-abducted-by-ulfa-i-rescued-in-nagaland-search-on-for-3rd-101619246279673.html
24-04-2021||Patna||Bihar presents action plan before High Court to boost oxygen supply||The Patna High Court on Friday said that there is a deficiency in the supply of medical oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients in Bihar and directed the shortfall to be met through proper coordination between the state and the Centre at the earliest so that no patient was denied admission in hospitals due to shortage of oxygen.Additional solicitor general KN Singh said that the Centre has allocated 194 mt of medical oxygen to the state, which the state would require to lift. “However, so far the state was getting less supply, maybe, due to logistics problems,” he added. Presenting its action plan before the court, including status of oxygen supply, Bihar government’s senior counsel Ranjit Kumar on Friday told the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah that adequate oxygen was available as per the requirement of existing oxygenated beds, while it is striving for more in view of the increased demand due to spike in Covid-19 cases. Kumar said the state was also planning to boost oxygen availability by taking measures such as installing a pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plant. A proposal for the same has already been sent to the Centre, he said. Earlier, the state government had demanded 300 mt from the Centre. “At present, PMCH and NMCH plants produce oxygen at the rate of 300 litres per minute, while Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah and Madhepura medical college and hospitals have a capacity of 280 litres per minute. Besides, Pawapuri hospital will have its functional from May 1, while those at Gaya and Bhagalpur will get operational from May 21. Together, the capacity will go up to 2620 litres per minute,” he added. The bench, however, told the state counsel to let the people know what the state has and what it does not have in the public domain through portal and newspaper advertisements. The bench, however, countered why the state suffered a shortage in mid-April when it claims no shortage today. Earlier, the court sought to know the state’s action plan, including availability and the mode and manner in which the state government planned to supply oxygen to different dedicated Covid hospitals and dedicated Covid healthcare centres, as also private hospitals. The shortage of oxygen was also corroborated by the report of the registrar general of the HC into the death of Gagan Mishra, an HC officer, reportedly, because of the unavailability of oxygen in various hospitals in the city of Patna. The court had asked for a report. “On April 16, Mishra’s condition deteriorated and there was acute scarcity of oxygen cylinders in the hospital. On request of Mishra’s family members, one cylinder (jumbo size) containing 40 litres of oxygen was provided to the hospital for Mishra’s care. That day, in the Covid Ward of the hospital, there were 20 patients in the critical care unit. On April 17, for the care of 20 admitted patients in the critical care ward, the hospital needed 100 cylinders of jumbo size but the hospital received only 10 cylinders of oxygen. Later, Mishra was advised to shift to a higher centre for further management. Till April 21, the hospital was not admitting new critical patients,” the report submitted before the HC stated. Taking serious note of the facts mentioned in the report regarding the paucity of oxygen in the state, the bench requested Ranjit Kumar to seek detailed instructions from the state of Bihar in respect of the effective steps which have been taken and are proposed to be taken to tide over the situation arising out of reported acute shortage of medicinal oxygen in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-presents-action-plan-before-high-court-to-boost-oxygen-supply-101619243339487.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||20 patients die at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden hospital due to oxygen shortage||Twenty patients suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), most of who were admitted to the critical care unit of Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, Delhi, died due to low oxygen pressure as the hospital’s oxygen stock ran dry, hospital officials said. “We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen was over by about 10 pm and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the hospital. The hospital was to receive its quota of oxygen at 05:30 pm but the supply did not reach it till midnight. Even then, the hospital just received 40% of its allocated quota and is again in a situation of crisis. “We are again in a situation of crisis, 200 lives are on the line. Last night we were at least able to save most patients. We will not be able to do that today. We have exhausted our backup,” said Dr Baluja. The hospital has probably another 30 minutes of supply left. Also read: In a new high, India records 3,46,786 Covid-19 cases, 2,624 deaths in 24 hoursThis comes a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged the severe oxygen crisis faced by the national capital and “catastrophic” events that may follow if Delhi’s demand for liquid medical oxygen is not met. Kejriwal said some state governments are stopping tankers meant for Delhi to meet their requirement.“Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here? Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central Govt when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state?” Kejriwal said during the Covid-review conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20-patient-die-at-delhi-s-jaipur-golden-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619241779360.html
24-04-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen crisis: Hospitals suffer, Gurugram district admin assures supply||Hospitals in Gurugram continued to suffer from an acute shortage of oxygen on Friday despite the district administration saying it was getting enough supply from two plants in Haryana and Rajasthan.Dr Devlina Chakravarty, managing director of Artemis Hospital, tweeted the situation at her hospital: “Artemis hospital Gurgaon is in its last leg of oxygen..last night’s commitment of oxygen replenishment remained unfilled..only 3 hours to go!!! Please help us urgently (sic).”“Every morning we have to make numerous calls to get a 24-hour supply,” she said.“Doctors and other health care staff are fatigued working round-the-clock. Lack of basic support such as oxygen can break their backs. It’s a pity that we are not able to help hundreds of people coming to our ER, gasping for breath. We have stopped chasing the lack of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, ventilators. We request all now to provide us the very basic uninterrupted supply of oxygen.”Read more: Military importing oxygen generation plants from GermanyArtemis has 140 Covid patients of which around 50 are in the ICU. Chakravarty said that they raised the issue with the authoritues but had not received any supply till Friday evening.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said there is adequate oxygen supply and they have ensured all hospitals have got required oxygen on Thursday and Friday.“This is disheartening to hear that hospitals despite getting supply are taking to social media. We have videos of the supply being delivered at their doorsteps. On Friday, we received 27 metric tonnes of oxygen from Panipat and Bhiwadi,” he said.Read more: Indian Air Force ferries oxygen containers for Covid-19 reliefChauhan said they were sending supply wherever it was required and a WhastsApp group of all officials concerned, including police, has been created for better coordination.Dr Nikhil Mishra, chief of medical services, Columbia Asia Hospital, said that they have been facing a shortage for the last many days. “We are getting very restricted supply of oxygen from our local supplier and we are managing with great difficulties. The challenge is at a national level,” he said.District administration said that it was trying to get maximum supply from Panipat and Bhiwadi. “The situation is slightly better when compared to Thursday. We are now getting regular oxygen supply and the situation will improve within two days. There is no hospital that has not received oxygen supply in the last 24 hours,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.Read more: 'Government of India, this is on you': Rahul Gandhi on oxygen crisis amid Covid-19 surgeThe family members of patients admitted in different hospitals said that situation at hospitals was not comfortable. Oxygen crisis has restricted admissions at private hospitals. New admissions were stopped due lack of adequate oxygen. “My two family members were denied admission on Friday as the hospitals are barely managing to provide the oxygen to the admitted patients. We were asked to admit patients in national capital,” said Rishi Kumar, resident of DLF Phase 4.Dr Rahul Bhargava, director, bone marrow transplant programme, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, said oxygen management is becoming tough need to smoothen out so that we can concentrate on patient care.Gurugram Police commissioner K K Rao said that they created a 39-km green corridor from the Badli bypass in Jhajjar through Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway to the Huda City Centre metro station, and another 38-km corridor from Kapdiwas on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway in Rewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-crisis-hospitals-suffer-district-admin-assures-supply-101619241125638.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Oxygen Express reaches Lucknow from Bokaro with 30,000 litres of life-saving gas||Packed with around 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), the Oxygen Express reached Lucknow’s Charbagh Railway Station at around 6:30 am on Saturday.“The train, Oxygen Express, has arrived in UP on Saturday. Of the three trucks, one was offloaded in Varanasi while two were brought to Lucknow. Each truck is of 15,000 litres capacity,” said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (Home), who was supervising the operation.Watch: Oxygen Express train with 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen reaches UP﻿﻿Government officials said the train is expected to bring much-needed relief to the state capital and other oxygen-starved districts of Uttar Pradesh that witnessed a sudden increase in demand for oxygen for Covid 19 patients.The train, which is said to be the first-of-its-kind rail operation in history, left Bokaro, Jharkhand, loaded with three truckloads of LMO at around 2 pm on Friday.Awasthi said the quantity of oxygen that has reached Lucknow is enough to meet half of the total oxygen demand in the state capital. “Things will surely improve in Lucknow. The total amount of oxygen arrived would be enough to meet half of the total demand here,” added Awasthi.On Friday, Lucknow reported 5,862 fresh cases and 14 fatalities. The total number of active cases under treatment in Lucknow is around 53,475. The death toll in Lucknow has gone up to 1,598.Besides, he also said that UP has rushed another Oxygen Express train on Saturday morning to fetch oxygen from Bokaro to meet the increased oxygen demand of other districts following the rise in the Covid 19 cases.Sanjay Trupathi, divisional railway manager (DRM) Northern Railway (NR) Lucknow, who was part of the operation said, “The operation was successful. It’s was perhaps the first of its kind train operation. We have sent another train, loaded with 4 empty oxygen tankers to Bokaro. The train is expected to reach UP on Monday,” said Sanjay Tripathi, DRM NR.He said such operations would be a boon in curbing the ‘oxygen crisis’ that has emerged following the sudden spike in its demand.The transport department has roped in around 40 oxygen-carrying tankers from across the state, for the purpose.The initiative is a part of the UP government’s move under which it had approached the Railways to help them out in bringing in LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha to meet the increased demand in the state, especially in districts like Lucknow, Varanasi and Faizabad.Government officials said that traditional oxygen tankers would take nearly 5 to 6 days to bring in oxygen from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha and transporting it by Railways is two times faster. The railway ministry pressed in Roll On Roll Off (RORO) services for the same.On Friday, the state reported another single-day high with 37,238 fresh Covid-19 cases and 199 deaths, according to state health department data. The total number of cases now stands at 10,13,370 and the death toll has reached 10,737.Currently, the state has 2,73,653 active cases, including 2,18,000 patients in home isolation, official data showed. While 22,566 patients were discharged during the day, 7,28,980 patients have recovered so far. UP’s total caseload has crossed the 10-lakh (one million) mark in 418 days since the first case was reported on March 2, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/oxygen-express-reaches-lucknow-from-bokaro-with-30-000-litres-of-life-saving-gas-101619238719592.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI files FIR against Anil Deshmukh over corruption allegation||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a first information report (FIR) against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over allegations of corruption levelled by ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The agency invoked the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) in filing the FIR and also raided his residence along with three other places in Mumbai in connection with the case.The former minister was summoned by the probe agency for questioning into the matter on April 14 after Param Bir Singh, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, accused him of directing his subordinates to collect money from bars, restaurants and hotels in Mumbai.Watch: CBI files FIR against ex-Maha minister Anil Deshmukh over corruption allegation﻿﻿According to Singh, Deshmukh told police officer Sachin Vaze, now suspended and arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, to collect Rs100 crore a month from these sources.As part of its preliminary enquiry, the CBI also questioned Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistants Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde, former cop Sachin Vaze’s two drivers, bar owners, Mumbai Police officers, and people close to the former minister in connection with the alleged corruption case.The investigation was taken up by the CBI after the High Court of Bombay directed it on April 5 to conduct a preliminary investigation into the case within 15 days. On April 8, the Supreme Court ruled 8 that the allegations levelled against the former minister were "serious" and needed probe by the central agency."Allegations are serious, the home minister and police commissioner are involved. They're closely working together till they fall apart, and both are holding a particular position. Should the CBI not probe? The nature of allegations and the persons involved require independent probe," said the SC bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-files-fir-against-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101619235911925.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||'Had SC taken note of PM's rallies, Kumbh...': Saamna's take on Covid-19 crisis||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna said that the crisis the country is facing today due to the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could have been averted had the Supreme Court taken note of the public rallies held by political leaders and the Kumbh Mela in time, news agency ANI reported. "The SC has now taken cognisance of the Covid situation in the country. If the court had taken into consideration the roadshows done by many political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, and the Haridwar Kumbh Mela at the right time, such a situation would not have arisen," it said.SC has now taken cognizance of COVID situation in the country. If SC had taken into consideration the roadshows done by many political leaders, Prime Minister, Home Minister and the Haridwar Kumbh at the right time, then, such a situation would not have arisen: Shiv Sena's SaamnaSeveral politicians came under fire for holding large rallies as part of their campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections. After hundreds of people were seen flouting Covid-19 norms in such rallies, the Election Commission of India (ECI) banned roadshows and vehicle rallies for the remaining phases of the West Bengal elections on Thursday. No public meeting having more than 500 people will be allowed, the poll body said.Following the order, PM Modi, Amit Shah and West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee were among the top leaders to cancel their rallies in the state. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had suspended all his rallies in West Bengal on April 18 and had urged other leaders to follow suit. "In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," he tweeted.Meanwhile, the Kumbh Mela, underway in Uttarakhand' Haridwar, saw thousands of people who had assembled to take a holy dip on the occasion of shahi snan (royal bath). However, after PM Modi appealed to Swami Avdheshanand Giri last week to turn Kumbh Mela into a "symbolic" event in view of the rapidly spreading virus and key ‘akhadas’ of seers began pulling out of the Maha Kumbh, crowds in Haridwar thinned down "drastically", according to PTI.India on Friday registered  332,730 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the total infection tally went up to 16,263,695. As many as 2263 new deaths pushed the toll to 186920.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/had-sc-taken-note-of-pm-s-rallies-kumbh-saamna-s-take-on-covid-19-crisis-101619234488900.html
24-04-2021||Dehradun||Another glacier burst at Uttarakhand’s Joshimath puts authorities on alert||A glacier burst in Sumna in Niti Valley near Uttarkhand’s Joshimath on Saturday near the India-China border has put the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on alert. Uttarakhand earlier in February witnessed loss of lives and devastation due to a glacier burst in the same region which led to floods in Chamoli.“A glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Joshimath near the India-China border,” Colonel Manish Kapil, a commander of the Border Road Task Force. Uttarakhand chief minister said Union home minister Amit Shah has taken note of the incident and assured his support to the Uttarakhand government and advised the ITBP to remain alert.“Home minister Amit Shah took immediate cognisance of the glacier burst in Niti Valley’s Sumna. He assured he will help us while instructing the ITBP to remain vigilant,” Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Uttarakhand on February 7 witnessed loss of lives, disappearances and devastation of property due to a glacial burst at Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district which triggered floods that destroyed two hydropower projects near the Naina Devi National Park. The incident claimed 74 lives and more than 100 people have disappeared. Several workers who were trapped in a tunnel near the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project were rescued but many workers died whose bodies were found days later. Experts have suggested that the construction of hydel power projects could have led to the disaster in February. Stone quarrying, blasting of mountains and digging of tunnels in the base of a mountain system could have led to this disaster, according to a report by HT. The 135 missing persons in the Chamoli disaster were declared dead by the Uttarakhand health department in February. Following the disaster, joint study teams have been formed to study the glaciers in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/another-glacier-burst-at-uttarakhand-s-joshimath-puts-authorities-on-alert-101619232291665.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Colour-coded stickers not required anymore, but checks will be on: Mumbai Police||After almost a week of restricting the movement of private vehicles in Mumbai, the Mumbai Police on Saturday said the categorisation of the red, yellow and green emergency stickers will be discontinued going further. But thorough checks will continue and all non-essential and non-emergency movement will be restricted as before.Mumbai Police earlier introduced three colour-coded stickers to allow the movement of private cars during the curfew.Dear Mumbaikars.The red, yellow, green #EmergencyStickers categorisation is being discontinued. However, thorough checks shall continue & we hope you will stand by us in #TakingOnCorona & avoid all non-essential / non-emergency movement outside home #StayHomeStaySafeUnder this colour-coded sticker scheme, vehicles belonging to doctors, medical staff, ambulances and those engaged in supplying medical equipment were required to sport red stickers on the road, while cars transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries, dairy products, etc., were supposed to use green stickers.Employees falling in other essential categories apart from these two, such as municipal officials, electricity department staff, bank staff, advocates, telephone and press departments were asked to stick yellow stickers on their vehicles.The Mumbai Police authorities urged people to make such stickers on their own before getting out of their homes. The police also distributed such stickers at certain junctions.The restriction created some confusion among Mumbaikars as to which stickers to be used for which category of people, though Mumbai Police on its Twitter handle guided people regarding the colour of the stickers.The number of daily Covid-19 infections in Mumbai has been settled around 7,000. On Friday, the city reported 7,199 new cases and 72 fatalities, taking the case tally to 6,16,279 and the toll to 12,655.As the health infrastructure of the city is coming under stress, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has decided to first examine symptomatic Covid-19 patients at home and then admit them in hospitals, if required. The home visits to examine symptomatic patients will take place between 7am and 11pm, while those needing attention urgently in hours other than these can approach the jumbo Covid centres, the BMC release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colourcoded-stickers-not-required-anymore-but-checks-will-be-on-mumbai-police-101619228123897.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Distress calls every few hours: Hospital’s plight sums up mess||Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital raised alarm on Friday morning about depleting oxygen levels and its ventilators not working properly, marking the fourth consecutive day the premier institution was facing critical shortages.The hospital received supplies in the morning, but by evening, again, medical authorities were making frantic calls to ensure they receive oxygen on time, mirroring a similar crisis in facilities. At the time of going to print, the hospital had enough oxygen to last till 1am. The hospital sent out an SOS message at 8.16am that said 25 “sickest” Covid-19 patients had died and oxygen would last for another two hours only. “Major crisis likely. Lives of another 60 sickest patients in peril,” a message from the hospital’s medical director, Dr (Brig) S Katoch, said.The hospital later clarified that the 25 deaths were not connected with the oxygen shortage and were natural deaths of patients who were in a very serious condition.“But the oxygen situation is such that we did have to switch to manual ventilation in the ICU [intensive care unit] day before when our oxygen supply was depleting because the pressure was less. There is an acute shortage of oxygen across the city but for now, the crisis has been averted,” said DS Rana, the hospital’s board of management chairman, in a statement.At 8.16am when the hospital sent out an SOS message, an oxygen tanker sent by the supplier was stuck in Rohini in north Delhi and the driver did not know the route to the hospital. Meanwhile, doctors were preparing to lower the pressure of the main oxygen tank to conserve oxygen.“Fortunately, we did not have to do that today. When the oxygen pressure is reduced, the ventilators and non-invasive machines like Bipap do not work effectively. So, doctors have to manually ventilate the patients to ensure proper breathing,” said a hospital personnel.At 9.20am, the hospital received 2,000 cubic metres of oxygen that the hospital said would last till Friday evening. The next tanker arrived at 10.30pm, when supply had run to less than 800 cubic metres.“Tanker has brought half tonne oxygen which will last for only 1.5 hours. Hopefully by that time Inox tanker should come . Long night,” the hospital PRO said after the 10.30pm refill..The hospital has 675 beds of which 519 are earmarked for Covid-19. It uses anywhere between 9,500 to 11,000 cubic metres of oxygen every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/distress-calls-every-few-hours-hospital-s-plight-sums-up-mess-101619213618828.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||UK variant cause of Capital surge, says official; 348 more die in city||The city reported over 300 Covid-19 deaths for the second day in a row as hospitals in the city continued to reel under a severe shortage of oxygen, even as an official cited an analysis of genome sequencing over the past four months that showed that the variant of the Sars-Cov-2 first seen in the UK — B.1.1.7 — was behind the present surge in the national capital.The Capital on Friday recorded 348 deaths of the infection, while adding 24,331 fresh cases on the back of 75,037 tests, as the positivity rate dropped marginally to 32.43%.So far, 13,541 people have died of the viral infection in the city as per Friday’s health bulletin released by the Delhi government. In comparison, one of Delhi’s worst Dengue outbreaks in 2015 killed 60 people in the entire year.At least 400 cases of the UK variant, and 76 of the so-called “double mutation” variant were detected in Delhi.“In Delhi we are finding a different type of scenario: we do find the UK variant and B.1.617 variant, but the scenario is still unfolding. We have seen a rise of the UK variant from 28% in the second week of March to 50% in the last week of March. And if we just try to correlate the surge which we have been observing in Delhi, it directly coincides with the type of variant,” said Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which is the nodal lab for Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG).Dr Singh was speaking during a webinar on genome sequencing organised by the department of biotechnology (DBT) that was responsible for putting together the network of 10 nationally advanced laboratories in December last year, for the purpose of augmenting genome sequencing of positive Sars-Cov-2 samples.In Punjab too, the UK variant was found to be behind the surge in cases.In Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant, also known as the double mutant, was found in proportions of over 50% in many cities, the INSACOG analysis shows.Of the total 1,770 samples sequenced, 64 were of the UK variant, six of the South African one (B.1.351), one of the Brazilian (P.1) variant. The “double mutation” variant, or B.1.617, was found in 427 cases.So far INSACOG has sequenced 15,133 sars-cov-2 genomes from Covid-19 international travellers as well as from the community.Of the all samples sequenced, 2,000 were of travellers.Meanwhile, experts say the sharp increase in deaths in the Capital can be attributed to the unprecedented rise in the number of cases and the collapsing health infrastructure.“There is an unprecedented increase in the number of cases; we have never seen anything like this. All the hospitals are running full and patients are running from here and there, this is adding to the mortality. We receive several patients who are brought dead to our hospital after going to several other hospitals. There has to be centralised system and ambulances have to be placed at all major hospitals to transport patients to where the beds are,” said a senior doctor from one of city’s private hospitals.However, the city has almost run out of beds. There were just 22 ICU beds available across the city as on Friday night and 1,855 normal beds, according to the Delhi Corona app.The city has reported over 20,000 cases for seven days now, with the highest number of cases (28,395) being reported on April 20. Although the absolute number of cases has gone down since, it is largely because of fewer tests conducted over the last three days.Just over 75,000 tests were conducted on average over the last three days in comparison to over 93,000 tests conducted each day on average over the last seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uk-variant-cause-of-capital-surge-says-official-348-more-die-in-city-101619213247374.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||₹5,000 welfare aid, Covid helpline for construction workers in capital||The Delhi government on Friday said 210,684 workers in the construction sector will be granted a financial assistance of ₹5,000 by the welfare board in the coming days in light of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing week-long lockdown, which has affected their livelihood. The government also said that, in the next three days, it will set up a helpline for migrant workers to find hospital beds, get medicines, and locate food distribution centres and night shelters.On Tuesday, the Delhi government said it will once again start providing financial assistance of ₹5,000 to workers registered with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (DBOCWW) – which also registers electricians, plumbers, carpenters and people in occupations associated with the construction sector.The government also said it will provide free shelter, food and medicines at 205 night shelters across the city after the lockdown triggered anxieties of a repeat of 2020 and prompted thousands of migrant workers to leave the city.In a statement on Friday, the government said, “A total of 210,684 construction workers will be granted disbursal under this scheme. So far, the Delhi government has disbursed ₹52.88 crore to 105,750 construction workers...“The Delhi government is also taking rapid action in setting up a helpline for construction, daily wagers and migrant workers, which will be active in the next two or three days. Through this all-encompassing helpline, any worker in Delhi will be able to access information on availability of beds in hospitals, food distribution centres, availability of medicines, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5000-welfare-aid-covid-helpline-for-construction-workers-in-capital-101619211672235.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile phones recovered from six Ludhiana jail inmates||Police have booked six inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail after six mobile phones were recovered from them during special checking on Wednesday night.Assistant jail superintendent Tarsempal Sharma told the police that mobile phones were recovered from Arjun of Indira Vihar Colony, Baljinder Singh of Amarpuri, Rahul Kumar of Prem Nagar, Gurdeep Singh of Kadiyani Kalan, Sunil Kumar of Ambala Cantt and Parvinder Singh of Basant Nagar, Khanna.Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on production warrant to question how they managed to get the devices inside the prison. Two separate cases under Section 52-A (1) of the Prisons Act have been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mobile-phones-recovered-from-six-ludhiana-jail-inmates-101619211417699.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A tale of two years||Year 2019, winter, a few months before the coronavirus pandemic hit the country.Rajinder had moved up in life, he would say (the photo is from that optimistic time). With the help of a generous bank loan, he had bought a gleaming new auto rickshaw costing ₹3 lakh. Earlier he was a beldar, a labourer, and “I used to be covered in dust”, but as an auto driver it was no longer like that.Rajinder’s ambition was to eventually move to driving a cab, which he had calculated would take him about two years. He would first have to pay back the bank loan in monthly instalments. Since he earned about the same amount of money that he used to make as a labourer—about ₹12,000 a month—he and his wife have had to make severe cuts to their household budget, including a total ban on eating outside, and curtailing the buying of new clothes. They also moved from their comfy room in Gurugram’s Raj Nagar (monthly rent: ₹4,000) to a smaller one in Gandhi Nagar ( ₹2,600). There were challenges but the family looked forward to happier days. They even hoped of buying a plot of land in the Millennium City to build their own house.Year 2021, late April.Because it was difficult to find passengers in the pandemic, Rajinder explains on phone that he couldn’t keep up with the instalments to the bank. Last month his auto was taken back by the lenders, he says. Rajinder has again become a beldar, doing “labour work” all day long. “I leave for work at 8 in the morning and usually come back home by 7... sometimes I work on the road and sometimes on the building sites. Now I again get covered with dust by the day’s end.”Rajinder reasons that the months of the pandemic and its recent surge has forced his life to move back to where it was some years ago, when he had first moved to Delhi from his village in Bihar. “It has become worse than before,” he clarifies, before expressing satisfaction that he continues to earn enough to keep his wife and two kids well-fed. “But our dreams are over,” he says. “We don’t complain about our fate... we just want to survive.” As if in consolation, he notes thoughtfully that “everyone’s luck is failing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-tale-of-two-years-101619211243739.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police chief extends ban on unauthorised use of ‘VIP’ tags on vehicles||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has extended the ban on pasting “police”, “army” and similar “VIP” tags on vehicles without authorisation.Anti-social elements and criminals can take advantage of such tags and threaten law and order, he said.Under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the police chief also issued orders to shopkeepers to keep a record of buyers of military uniforms or camouflage clothing, as these could be misused to commit crimes.Shopkeepers have been directed to keep a picture, identification proof and phone number of buyers of these uniforms, and maintain a record of stock and submit it with the police stations concerned.Ban on using loading vehicles to ferry peopleThe police chief banned ferrying people on vehicles meant for loading material, as this posed risk to lives. Agrawal also prohibited carrying sand in uncovered vehicles.Ownership of second-hand vehiclesThe commissioner said ownership of second-hand vehicles should be transferred to the new buyer within 30 days of purchase. Miscreants often bought old vehicles to use them for criminal activities, he said, while also banning pasting of black films on windows of vehicles.For the safety of motorists, Agrawal banned the sale of sub-standard helmets in the city, allowing only those with ISI mark.‘Keep record of guests’He also ordered all owners of hotels, guest houses and other service apartments to maintain a record of visitors.He said Ludhiana, being an industrial hub of Punjab, daily saw arrival of thousands of businessmen, who stayed in such premises, but their owners usually did not maintain a record of guests.Sale, storage of plastic kite stringTerming it dangerous for humans as well as animals, the top cop banned the storage and sale of plastic kite string under Section 144 of the CrPC.In his order, Agrawal also stated that no person can use footpaths to set up carts and makeshift stalls, or place goods outside shops. Ban on serving hookah, liquor consumption in openThe commissioner extended the ban on serving hookah, while stating that any hotel, bar or parlour found violating the ban will face legal action.He also banned the consumption of alcohol in the open at roadside carts, dhabas, shops and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-chief-extends-ban-on-unauthorised-use-of-vip-tags-on-vehicles-101619211357628.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gyms once again face uphill battle to survive||With the Punjab government directing all gyms in the state to stay closed till April 30, it’s a tough road ahead for hundreds of gym owners in the city, who are not only staring at losses but also fear that they might have to close shop.Even last year, a large number of small and medium scale gyms were forced to close down, as the owners found it difficult to pay fixed costs. The gym owners are now recalling the damage on the sector due to the five-month lockdown (March 20 to August 5, 2020) imposed last year. Accusing the state government of discriminating against the sector, the gym owners rued that markets, factories and transport sector have been allowed to open, but only the gyms have been asked to stay closed.No relief from govt yetAs per figures, there are over 800 gyms in Ludhiana, of which 80% are being run on rented properties. With no income amid the shutdown, they will face difficulty in paying rent, power bills, salaries, bank instalments and other fixed charges. Further, it will also lead to unemployment, as no relief or support being extended by the government towards the sector. Thousands of people including the trainers, cleaning staff and suppliers of health supplements are involved with the sector, directly or indirectly. President of Punjab Gym Welfare Society and owner of Aura Gym, Navneet Singh said, “This is peak season for the gym industry as a large number of people join in April for to lose weight during summers. Even last year, the gyms were closed at this time and now, the government has announced a lockdown irrationally again. Many of the gym owners pay rent in lakhs. Even if the rent is ₹20,000, it will be a herculean task to pay up without any income.” Members of the society including president of Jalandhar Gym society, Kanwardeep Singh and Sandeep Narula from Sri Muktsar Sahib conducted a meeting in this regard on Wednesday. The owners rued that they are still struggling to recover from the losses suffered last year and the government has further added to the woes by announcing a lockdown.Director of Gym Ekta Welfare Association, Ramesh Bangar said, “Business had slowly come back on track, but the footfall was reduced to 70% as we had to follow Covid protocol and avoid rush. We are ready to follow all the protocols, but the government is adamant in pushing the sector towards closure. These restrictions will inculcate fear among the customers. Gyms promote health, but the government is defaming the sector by giving the impression that the disease spreads at gyms even when we follow all the protocols.” Secretary of Punjab Gym Welfare Society, Pardeep Appu said, “The chain of transmission of the virus cannot be broken by closing down a few sectors like ours, which have remained a soft target for the government If the government wants to curb the Covid spread, then a complete lockdown should be imposed. Over 50 gym owners were forced to shut down last year, and the number will rise this year, as many owners will not even be able to pay bank instalments. This will also lead to large scale unemployment, for which the government will be responsible.”Owner of Body Engineers Health Club in BRS Nagar, Sunny Ghai said, “Clients are seeking extension in memberships in lieu of lockdown and we also have to pay salaries and power bills. The closure announcement has inculcated fear among the gym owners and our staff as uncertainty prevails over the sector once again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gyms-once-again-face-uphill-battle-to-survive-101619211299046.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana police caution against fraud through Whatsapp links||Having received multiple complaints, the cyber cell has cautioned residents against clicking on Whatsapp links shared by unknown numbers.According to the police, fraudsters were sending links via the mobile messaging app to gain access to the users’ contact list and further contact their friends and relatives with messages of urgent requirement of money.These links could be about anything from offers of lucrative home-based jobs or heavy discounts for gadgets.In one such case, a city resident reported that after he clicked on one such link, fraudsters duped his relative of ₹4 lakh by asking for money on the pretext of an emergency. They also shared details of a bank account for online transfer of money.“Using similar modus operandi, fraudsters took ₹1 lakh from the relatives of another resident. People can avoid such scams by simply not clicking on untrusted links,” said inspector Pawan Kumar, in-charge of the Ludhiana police cyber cell.“For added security, users should enable two-step verification in Whatsapp. Through this, a unique PIN is created, which is required to register the account on a new device, if hackers try to gain access. Besides a reset link is sent to the user’s email address if there is an attempt to change the PIN,” he advised.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, cyber cell) Vaibhav Sehgal said fraudsters had now turned to WhatsApp, a commonly used mobile app, after duping people through fake accounts on Facebook, matrimonial sites, online market places and dating apps.He cautioned users against sharing any PIN, OTP or bank details with unknown callers to avoid falling prey to scams.The cyber cell is currently dealing with at least 1,950 complaints. Most of these, at 830, are with regards to ATM frauds, such as debit card swapping. As many as 450 complaints are regarding online payments, 250 about hacking Facebook and WhatsApp, 300 of fraud via online market places and another 150 about data theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-caution-against-fraud-through-whatsapp-links-101619211237863.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Press in Air Force to transport O2 tankers: Maha CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raised the demand to press in the Air Force to reduce travel time for transporting oxygen tankers. The CM sought adequate supply of oxygen, vaccinations and Remdesivir from the Centre. The state, which requires 1,250 metric tonnes of oxygen daily, is facing a severe shortage of oxygen supply. It is procuring around 300 metric tonnes from other states and industries. In a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), Thackeray said the state would need an additional 250-300 metric tonnes of oxygen, looking at the increasing number of patients in hospital that require oxygen supply. The CM said the Air Force could airlift empty tankers to oxygen plants, which can be brought back by other mode of transport to save travel time.“If it is not possible to airlift oxygen, the empty tankers could be sent to the oxygen plants by Air Force, to save time, and it can be brought by other modes of transport…,” Thackeray said according to a statement. “We tried to bring oxygen by train, but considering the travel time taken and distance, the Air Force and National Disaster Management Authority need to be pressed in.” He further added, “There are more than 60,000 patients on oxygen supply in the state, while there are 76,300 oxygen beds in the state… Instead of distant states, if the oxygen supply could be arranged from neighbouring states, it would be available early.” Maharashtra has also sought 13,000 jumbo oxygen cylinders and 1,100 ventilators from the Centre. With a week to go for vaccination of all adults to start across the country, Thackeray also sought clarity from the Centre on the extent of the vaccine supply to the state. As per the announcement by the Centre, the state government has to purchase vaccine stock from manufacturers for inoculation of citizens between 18 and 44 years. The CM also sought clarity if the states can import the foreign vaccine to increase the pace of vaccination, given the limited manufacturing capacity of the two Indian companies. “The large-scale vaccinations in Britain have prevented the virus from spreading further. With the limited capacity of our vaccine manufacturers, we need guidance on whether we can increase vaccination by importing vaccines from other countries,” the CM said. Maharashtra, according to senior government officials, require around 120 million vaccine doses for the two rounds of jab for its 57 million population in the 18-44 age bracket. Thackeray said that there needs to be more clarity on the extent of vaccine supply to the states. “If the state asks permission to import vaccines, it should be granted,” the CM said, adding, “We will require 12 crore (120 million) doses to vaccinate this group. Our vaccine manufacturers will not be able to produce the required doses in a short time. The corporate sector should also be given permission to purchase vaccines through their Corporate Social Responsibility initiative.” Health minister Rajesh Tope, who was a part of the meeting, said all chief ministers also sought one price for vaccine provided to the state and the union government. A row erupted after Serum Institute of India announced the open market private of its vaccine against Covid-19, Covishield, with several political parties claiming different price for the Centre and state. The state, according to the Pune-headquartered company, will have to pay ₹400 per dose of vaccine, while the Centre was earlier supplied the stock for ₹150. But the company had clarified that the rate for Centre was an old contract which was fixed without knowing if the vaccine will work. “From May 1, the state government can procure vaccine for inoculation of 18-44 age group. All chief ministers, in the meeting, demanded there should be ‘one nation, one rate’ for the vaccination. We want to aggressively implement vaccination because countries such as Israel and the UK have become either Covid-free or have extremely few cases because of vaccination,” said Tope after the meeting. The chief minister said the supply of vaccines by the Centre for inoculation of people over the age of 45 is moving at a “very slow pace”. He said, “As of now, the state only had a stock of 500,000 doses. Maharashtra has been the top performer in vaccinating citizens. So, the state must get an adequate supply of vaccine doses to keep the same pace of vaccinating the people.” Stating that Remdesivir reduces patient time in hospital and frees up beds, Thackeray said adequate supply of the drug must be provided to Maharashtra, looking at the number of patients. According to the CM, the state needs 70,000 vials per day, while the Centre supplies only 27,000 vials. “It is not possible to say how useful Remdesivir is, but it is definitely reducing the hospital stay of the patients. So, the state should get an adequate supply, considering the number of patients in the state. Maharashtra needs 70,000 vials of Remdesivir every day, but is getting only 27,000. The state should be allowed to import Remdesivir,” Thackeray demanded in the meeting. Thackeray, during the meeting, also justified the lockdown imposed in the state, saying the situation demanded such stringent steps. Earlier this week, the state has further restricted movement of people in public transport including trains, metros, buses, etc. “PM said the lockdown was the last resort to break the chain of Covid. The situation in the state needed restrictions, but we are ensuring the economy does not suffer,” Thackeray said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/press-in-air-force-to-transport-o2-tankers-maha-cm-101619211120768.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 26°C, Ludhiana records coldest April day in five decades||After 6mm rain, the city’s maximum temperature dropped to 26°C on Friday, which was the coldest April day over the past 50 years, as per data available with the Punjab Agricultural University. According to Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head, department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, PAU, this was the first time that the city recorded such a fall in mercury in April since the meteorological observatory was set up in 1970.The last low, at 30°C, was seen on April 23, 1994, and since then the maximum temperature in the month remained higher.At 15.4°C, the minimum temperature on Friday was also the lowest since April 23, 1992.Just nine days ago, the temperature had shot up to 38.2°C on April 14 and dropped by over 12 notches to settle at 26°C on Friday, Sidhu said.While the rising temperature had forced residents to switch on the air conditioners, the sudden change in weather had them pulling out their warm clothes again. Sidhu attributed the drop in temperature to a fresh western disturbance, which brought along rain and cold winds in the region.She said as per the forecast, the weather was expected to remain clear from Saturday onwards and the mercury was likely to return to the upward trend common in summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-26-c-ludhiana-records-coldest-april-day-in-five-decades-101619210938178.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC verdict a wake-up call for Cong govt, says Sunil Jakhar||Nine months before Punjab goes to assembly polls early next year, the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government finds itself in a corner over the emotive sacrilege issue following the Punjab and Haryana high court order, quashing the special investigation team (SIT) report in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. The legal setback has not only lent artillery to the opposition in its concerted campaign to amplify anti-incumbency ire, it has fired up the Congress detractors. Upping the ante, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa have resurrected their shrill anti-Amarinder tirade, signalling that all is not well in the ruling party. At the helm of state Congress for last four years, Sunil Jakhar, 67, is acutely conscious of the growing anxieties in the party rank and file in an election year. He was at his candid best during an in-person interview on Friday during which he spoke about the political fallout of the high court verdict, blame-game within the state Congress, the role of political strategist Prashant Kishor, and impact of farmers’ agitation on the state assembly polls. Excerpts: With nine months to go for the state polls, how do you rate the performance of the Amarinder government? Given the challenges that it faced, the government has done fairly well. We have achieved a lot in spite of all the impediments — be it the financial crunch, pandemic and economic meltdown. The government waived off loans of 5-lakh farmers and expanded the Ayushman Bharat health scheme to cover 46-lakh families, which is our biggest achievement. There is also the transformation in school education, enhancement of money under the Shagun Scheme and establishment of the rule of law. People had huge expectations from the CM and he has been up to it. A lot more needs to be done, though. Your government is on the back foot on the emotive issue of sacrilege cases. Sidhu and Bajwa are repeatedly harping after the HC quashed the SIT report. How serious a setback is this? The HC verdict has come as a jolt. Nobody expected it. We are on a weak wicket and it is a wake-up call. We were all very smug that investigation is going on well and all the culprits will be brought to book. People are not interested in complexities of jurisprudence. They want action. It is a setback, but has given us time and opportunity to plug the loopholes and shortcomings in investigation. If this judgment had come two months later, I am not sure what we could have done. We had picked up (then IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, one of the best officers for this probe. As per his statement, the CM gave him a free hand, placing his complete faith in SIT. I am absolutely clear we have to bring the culprits to book and failure to ensure that is not an option. What went wrong? I think, too many cooks spoiled the broth. Secondly, it was a fait accompli. After Justice Ranjit Singh commission’s report, everything was clear. He had done a thorough job and all that was needed was to tie these knots, not just join the dots. Captain saab had left it to professionals, but political supervision was important because the buck stops at our doorsteps. It was as much the party’s responsibility as that of the government. Congress leaders and Kunwar Vijay are all faulting the legal team, claiming that they didn’t defend it properly and that this was flagged to the CM. I would not get into technicalities, but there are glaring things like double FIRs. The high court normally does not intervene after the challans have been submitted and this is something unprecedented. But then filing of two FIRs is also unprecedented. This was known all along. We are answerable for being complacent. These people you named complained about everything else, but no one raised this issue. If Sidhu felt something was amiss, he met CM twice and would have definitely raised it there. But everyone believed that Kunwar Vijay was doing the right job. Overconfidence and not having political supervision has put us in a spot. Punjabis are seeking vengeance. Heads will roll. It is for us to see whether heads are of the culprits or ours. Somebody will have to pay the price. For us, it is a wake-up call. Time is running out. Yes, time is of the essence. We are waiting for the copy of the court order. I have spoken to party MLAs, ministers and leaders. We will meet the CM immediately on it. Are you for a fresh SIT or challenging the verdict in the Supreme Court? I am not bothered about it. I want the results. We have to book the culprits by any means. Drugs are another issue where your party leaders are saying that drug mafia is very active and has not been finished. The government has achieved success in breaking the backbone of drug cartels and the supply line has been cut. But they keep trying alternative routes. The US is also facing this problem. As long as there is addiction, drugs will find their way. Administration had done its bit and achieved success, but people are not satisfied. People will not be satisfied till the ‘magarmach’ (crocodile) is brought to book even if half of Punjab is put in jail under the NDPS Act. Why you could not do this? It was the connivance of the central government. They were allies. They were being protected. ED keeps conducting raids all over India, but they conveniently forgot this (drug issue). I believe this is their (Centre’s) secret weapon and will be the last resort of the BJP to seek some semblance of credibility in Punjab. They bring it at the last moment. Your government is also drawing flak, even from Congress leaders, for failing to rein in sand, liquor and transport mafia. I would give more credence to what people say. The existence of some of our leaders depends upon these things. The easiest way is to criticise your own government. People expected more from the government which should have handled these things with a firm hand. Sidhu is getting increasingly belligerent and has now publicly taken on CM Amarinder Singh. How does it reflect on the discipline in the party? There is a ‘Lakshman rekha’. He is a MLA but enjoys a very privileged status. He deals directly with the high command. He has earned himself repute among the people and within the higher echelons of the party. It is incumbent on him to sort out these issues at the appropriate level. What role do you see for Sidhu in the party or the government? (AlCC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish) Rawat had said that his role will be decided between the high command, Capt and him. These (Sidhu’s) allegations are only trying to amplify what the opposition is saying. If I try to say now that not Sunil Jakhar, but ABC, AG or IG has done it, I cannot wash my hands off. There is collective responsibility. Where was I all these four-and-a-half years? Another perennial grouse of party MLAs and leaders is that bureaucracy is calling the shots. Has that perception changed? What happened in sacrilege case is a result of too much control to bureaucracy. It needed political supervision. I think, the CM was too lenient and generous and some of them exploited it. Were you consulted before poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s appointment? Every government appointment in the CM’s office is not discussed with me. His appointment must have been cleared with the AICC. The CM has so many advisers and Kishor is another adviser attached with him. What role do you see for him? I have not seen anyone with more sharp political acumen than Capt saab. The CM must be having his reasons. He has worked with Kishor earlier. He has been delivering consistently. And, nothing succeeds like success. As for his role, the polls have changed in the country and technical expertise has to be brought in because it is no longer man-to-man, door-to-door. Most of electioneering is now done on social media. The organisational revamp of Punjab Congress is in limbo for more than a year. What is holding it up? We submitted the list last year, but things got mixed up and it got lost due to the pandemic and some other issues. There are vacancies and we need to fill these. It is high time a decision is taken. I am confident that the high command is finished with the elections in Kerala and Assam and will constitute it. You said that Amarinder will be the party’s chief ministerial face in 2022 but seem to be now walking back this statement. I said that he will lead us in the state polls and the slogan was Capt for 2022. He is the captain. Who will become the CM is to be decided after the polls. For that, you have to get a majority. He has won election after election since 2017. You don’t change a winning horse. Political parties are being kept at arm’s length by farmers. Is there a disconnect between the political class and farmers’ stir? It is a people’s movement, but the farmers know that this agitation would not have come to this position had there been another CM and a non-Congress government in Punjab. It is a kranti (revolution) now and hats off to them for keeping it going so well. Will it have a bearing on Punjab elections? The BJP and the SAD will be at the receiving end. The BJP is trying to provoke a confrontation and discredit the agitation. Akalis cannot wash their hands off because they were advocating these laws for three months. They will also pay a price. (Parkash Singh) Badal was a farmer and worked in the fields, but Sukhbir (Badal) is a blue-blooded corporate guy. Who will gain politically from this agitation? This is yet to be seen. It will on whether farmer bodies will put up their own candidates or join hands with somebody. There are a lot of permutations and combinations. Also, the BJP will try to muddy the waters by communal polarisation which is the last thing Punjab needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-verdict-a-wake-up-call-for-cong-govt-says-sunil-jakhar-101619210580614.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn’s oxygen helpline for hospitals flooded with calls by panicky residents||Right after the oxygen helpline numbers were launched on Thursday evening, the control room number went abuzz with calls from not only hospitals, but also panicky individuals. The helplines – 0161-242-1091 and 7837-018-500 – were launched specifically to help hospitals with oxygen supply on payment basis. However, over two dozen residents, having relatives in home isolation, frantically dialled the numbers, even though they neither immediately needed oxygen nor had a doctor’s prescription.The high rate of calls prompted the deputy commissioner (DC) to issue a statement that there was no need to panic. He specified that the helpline numbers were only for hospitals and doctors treating Covid patients. “If any patient feels that their blood oxygen level is low, they should approach the nearest hospital,” DC Varinder Kumar Sharma. He cautioned that self-medication or self-oxygenation, without expert medical supervision, not only put unnecessary strain on scarce resources, but may also lead to complications and even mortality.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezian assured that the city had sufficient stock of oxygen, and had even supplied 150 and 100 cylinders to Jalandhar and Amritsar, respectively, in the last two days. “Cylinders were provided to at least six hospitals in Ludhiana after they contacted the helpline since Thursday evening,” the JCP added. Oxygen plants inspectedOn Friday, deputy director local government (DDLG) Amit Bambi, along with his team of drug inspectors, inspected oxygen generation and bottling plants in Ludhiana. Bambi said the district administration had tied up with two oxygen suppliers, Vardhman Special Steels Limited and Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited, besides five bottling plants. “These plants are running at full capacity and generating oxygen for up to 2,000 D-type cylinders daily. The civil hospital also has its own plant, which is generating 115 cylinders daily,” he added. DC Sharma said clear directions had been issued for stern action against people hoarding oxygen, and for removal of all obstructions in smooth and regular supply of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-s-oxygen-helpline-for-hospitals-flooded-with-calls-by-panicky-residents-101619210397694.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gunny bag shortage hampers wheat procurement in Punjab||The shortage of gunny bags, locally called bardana, continues to hamper purchase and lifting of wheat in the grain markets across Punjab even as it has been two weeks since the procurement of the crop started in the state. Heaps of grains lying in the open were drenched by spells of rain in the last couple of days in most of the districts, adding to the worries of the farmers who will find it difficult to get a good price for their produce with a high level of moisture and that too on time. In Bathinda district, 4.32 lakh metric tonne wheat was procured and 2.14 lakh MT lifted of the 4.8 lakh MT arrival in the grain markets till Friday. With farmers complaining of a tardy wheat purchase in mandis, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was in Bathinda on Friday, acknowledged the problem, saying the grain markets will have enough supplies of jute bags in a week’s time. “Coordinated efforts are being made to streamline the availability of packaging material. Nearly 60% of the arrival has been purchased,” he told mediapersons.In Mansa district, 3.61 lakh MT wheat was purchased and 2 lakh MT lifted against the arrival of 4.2 lakh MT. In Amritsar district, 90,00 lakh MT wheat has been procured and only 25% of it was lifted against the total arrival of 1 lakh MT grain so far, officials said. Amandeep Singh Chhina, president of the arhtiya association of the Bhagwanwala grain market, the largest in the district, said, “We are still facing problems due to shortage of gunny bags. Today, we had a meeting with the deputy commissioner on the issue. He has assured to resolve the matter in a day or two.” The situation is nearly similar elsewhere in the Majha region that comprises Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts besides Amritsar. Kanwaljit Singh of Bathinda’s Dialpura Mirza village said he has been waiting at the village purchase centre for the last six days. “Officials and arthiyas say there is a poor supply of gunny bags,” he complained. Bathinda district food and supplies controller Jaspreet Singh Kahlon said heavy and an early arrival of wheat are the main reasons behind the slow purchase. In the grain markets of Sangrur district , farmers alleged harassment at the hands of the procurement agencies even as the administration claimed that 7.87 lakh MT of the 8.19 lakh MT wheat that has arrived in mandis was purchased. District food and supplies controller TS Chopra denied any shortage of gunny bags in the district saying there was a regular supply of bardana in all mandis. In Patiala district, 6.99 lakh MT wheat has arrived in the grain markets, of which, 6.77 lakh MT (90%) was procured. District mandi officer Ajaypal Singh said the shortage of gunny bags was overcome due to low arrival of wheat during inclement weather conditions. In Jalandhar district, of the 3.2 lakh MT crop that has arrived in the grain markets, 3.19 lakh MT was purchased. The district administration in Kapurthala said nearly 60% of the total arrival of 2.22 lakh MT was purchased. In Ludhiana district, 6.19 lakh MT wheat was procured and 2.98 lakh MT lifted of a total arrival of 6.34 lakh MT. (Inputs by Vishal Joshi, Surjit Singh, Avtar Singh, Gagandeep Jassowal, Mohit Khanna and Navrajdeep Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gunny-bag-shortage-hampers-wheat-procurement-in-punjab-101619209142856.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hits fresh peak of 995 Covid cases, eight dead||The district yet again touched a record high in daily Covid-19 cases, with 995 people testing positive for the virus on Friday – a 13% jump in its last peak of 880 cases on Thursday.Leading Punjab’s caseload, Ludhiana has registered new all-time spikes for three days in a row, first of them being 879 cases on Wednesday. In more grim news, it also logged eight more deaths, including that of a 36-year-old man from Hambran village, which took the toll to 1,280.The fresh cases pushed the district’s active cases to 6,252, second only to Mohali’s 7,602 among the state’s 22 districts. The active cases crossed the 6,000 mark in just three days, after reaching 5,029 on April 20 and 4,277 on April 17.Recoveries reach 84.09% On the bright side, of the 47,353 people infected so far, 39,821 (84.09%) have recovered – highest in the state and ahead of the national average of 83.92%.The district has 42% vacant Covid beds with 348 at private hospitals and 358 at government facilities, including the Ludhiana civil hospital and health centres in Jagraon, Koom Kalan and Khanna. As many as 7,467 positive patients are currently in home quarantine and another 23 on ventilator support. The administration has assured the district has sufficient stock of oxygen available to tackle the surge.Two women among deceasedThose who died on Friday included six men and two women. Apart from the 36-year-old, the male deceased were a 66-year-old from Basti Jodhewal, a 62-year-old from Payal, a 61-year-old from Basant Avenue in Dugri and a 56-year-old from Mohan Singh Nagar. The female deaths comprised a 78-year-old from Madhuban Enclave and a 65-year-old from Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-hits-fresh-peak-of-995-covid-cases-eight-dead-101619209138592.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||IG Kunwar Vijay may have acted to fulfil his political ambitions: HC on Kotkapura firing challan||Setting aside the chargesheets submitted by the Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court questioned the impartiality of inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. The court not only picked holes in the challans but also questioned the manner in which the officer, who resigned from Indian Police Service (IPS) recently, carried out the investigation. “Seeing this conduct of the respondent (Kunwar Vijay), one may harbour an idea that he may be indulging in theatrics to fulfil his own post-retirement political ambitions as several officers have done after demitting office,” the bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat observed. There appears a close nexus between political leaders and the IGP while carrying out the investigation, it said. “He has gone to the heights of his fantasy when he brought in film actor Akshay Kumar into the picture claiming him a part of a conspiracy citing a film ‘Singh is Bling’ that he produced and tried to exhibit it in Punjab,” the bench said. The court also questioned the manner in which the IGP wrote a letter to the district and sessions judge, Faridkot, “on administrative side” demanding that no case pertaining to sacrilege and police firing be listed in future before a chief judicial magistrate who he claimed had close family ties with former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. “But no details of alleged link were mentioned in the letter. He could have moved an application on “judicial side” in any court as permitted by the law during investigation and not on ‘administrative side’, making a complaint against the chief judicial magistrate,” the court pointed out. The bench also took note of a case in which the high court had reprimanded the IGP. “The documents amply show that the respondent has a tendency to misuse his official position while performing his duty,” it said, pointing to a case in which he converted cases purely civil in nature into criminal matter in three instances to pressurise the victims. The bench has also come down heavily on the IGP’s interviews to the media during the 2019 general elections when he named the Badals and questioned their role in the 2015 violence. “He named certain political rivals to the ruling dispensation in the state. Allegations about their role in the sacrilege and police firing incidents were highlighted by the respondentknowing fully well that such interviews at such a juncture will enhance the electoral prospects for a political party at the cost of the other,” the judge added. Kunwar Vijay even tried to browbeat the petitioners’ lawyer and made absurd comments against the senior counsel, he said. “Hence, the court is of the view that the respondent indulges in misuse of his official position to further his designs; makes attempt to overawe the processes. The petitioners are right in arguing that he cannot be trusted to be impartial and unbiased as a probe officer,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/igkunwar-vijay-may-have-acted-to-fulfil-his-political-ambitions-hc-on-kotkapura-firing-challan-101619209077729.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Kotkapura firing: Fairness of probe stands vitiated, report based on assumptions, says HC||Terming the matter a rare case where the court is under duty to step-in, the Punjab and Haryana high court, while quashing the charge sheets filed by Punjab Police in Kotkapura firing case of 2015, said that fairness of investigation stands vitiated. “…What could have been a simple investigation of a crime committed either by the protesters or by the police or by both, have been made to fester and convert itself to a quagmire wherein every person concerned finds himself entrapped,” the bench of justice Rajbir Sehrawat said in his 89-page judgment. The judgment was pronounced on April 9, and made available on Friday. The government has been asked to constitute a three-member special investigation team (SIT) but not to include IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has since taken voluntarily retirement, as member. The SIT has been told not to report to any state executive or police authority and file probe reports before the magistrate concerned. The report submitted preferably within six months of constitution has also to be signed by all members. The SIT has also been barred from talking to media. The high court order came on the 2019 plea of Gurdeep Singh Pandher, a former Punjab Police sub-inspector and then Kotkapura SHO, being probed in these FIRs, who had approached the high court, levelling allegations against IGP Singh and seeking his ouster from the SIT. Another applicant was a head constable (retd) Rashpal Singh. “His personal malice and malafide functioning by totally usurping the powers of SIT constituted in the first instance, has been duly demonstrated on record,” the court said on the role of IGP Singh, adding that it was demonstrated before the court that he has gone to the extent of manufacturing the statements of witnesses to suit his “designs”. “…(IGP Singh) has conducted the investigation in a perfunctory manner. The report under Section 173 CrPC (challans) filed by him is more in the nature of a hypothesis proposed ….based on his assumptions and fantasies than being based on material or evidence,” the bench recorded. Claiming role of Badals, he relied upon the call details between then DGP, then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son and then deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, but that would not be sufficient in the times of a situation where the law and order is disturbed, the court said. “Had the then chief minister not been in contact with the district administration and the DGP in such a critical situation, then he would have run the risk of being branded as another Nero who played fiddle when the Rome was burning,” the court said, adding that it would rather show that he was alive to the situation. The court also said claims against the Badals were made in 2019 but till date there is no charge sheet. The court also observed that there are selective omissions in statements of witnesses to save the protesters, which demolishes the integrity of the investigation. It said allegations of police officers who got injured in the firing were not probed. The police officers acted on the order from civil administration but none of the civil authorities or the SDM has been made an accused in this case. “…The political interest of the current dispensation in the state qua the investigation; and the political theatrics of respondent No. 3 by going to media and by repeatedly highlighting allegations against the outgoing politicians without filing challan against them intended to create a narrative in favour of one political party and against the other party during the election process, which has duly been established as per the record,” the bench said on his act of giving interviews while making claims against Badals in 2019 elections, which resulted in Election Commission of India transferring him out of his assignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-kotkapura-firing-fairness-of-probe-stands-vitiated-report-based-on-assumptions-says-hc-101619208897686.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot Youth Cong chief’s murder: Court issues fresh production warrant against Lawrance Bishnoi for April 27||Terming gangster Lawrance Bishnoi’s apprehension that he could be killed in a fake encounter baseless, a Faridkot court dismissed his application seeking to recall the production warrant issued against him earlier. The court of chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi on Friday issued a fresh production warrant against Bishnoi, who is lodged in high-security jail in Ajmer, for April 27 in connection with the murder of Faridkot youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Pehalwan.Earlier, the Faridkot court had issued the production warrant against Bishnoi on March 16 but it returned undelivered following an error in the address of the jail. In its application, the police wrongly mentioned Bishnoi’s location as the Central Jail, Ajmer, while he was in the High Security Jail, Ajmer. On April 6, the court again ordered to issue fresh production warrant but was stayed following an application filed by Bishnoi to recall the production warrant against him fearing a fake encounter. The plea was based on the Supreme Court’s order staying Punjab and Haryana high court orders permitting custody of Bishnoi to Chandigarh for questioning with regards to the four cases pending against him.“The SC order does not operate as the FIR was registered much after passing of the apex court’s order, so fresh production warrant be issued against the accused. Apprehensions of Bishnoi that he may be killed in a fake encounter are baseless,” the court said. On February 18, two unidentified men shot dead 34-year-old Pehalwan near Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot. A few hours after the murder, a post on a purported Facebook page of Bishnoi linked the crime with the death of Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar, a former state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). Brar was killed outside a mall in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, in October 2020. On February 21, Delhi Police arrested three men and claimed the murder was the fallout of a gang rivalry and it was orchestrated by Goldy Brar, with the help of Bishnoi, to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar. The police have nominated 13 persons, including Bishnoi and Goldy for Pehalwan’s murder. The police have already arrested nine persons in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-youth-cong-chief-s-murder-court-issues-fresh-production-warrant-against-lawrance-bishnoi-for-april-27-101619207577525.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid guidelines violated as Bathinda’s first mayor assumes office||First woman mayor of Bathinda municipal corporation Raman Goyal assumed the office on Friday amid violation of Covid guidelines.The ceremonial event was chaired by finance minister and Bathinda legislator Manpreet Singh Badal. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan, senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk and additional DC (development) Paramvir Singh among other officials were also present, but Covid norms such as social distancing were not followed.A total of 42 Congress councillors in the 50-member House were present in the jam-packed municipal corporation meeting hall. Manpreet’s office had also invited journalists and families of the elected Congress councillors for the event.Spouses of the women councillors and the core political and public relations team of Manpreet also crowded the venue. Some of those present in the hall were without face masks or using handkerchiefs to cover their faces.This despite the fact that the state government has banned all social and political gatherings in view of the Covid surge.People privy of the development said there was no oath-taking ceremony for the mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. The event was held to introduce the newly elected Congress councillors to district officials, they said. Rebel Congress councillor Jagroop Singh Gill and all opposition elected representatives skipped the event.Speaking on the occasion, Manpreet asked the administration for strict enforcement of Covid-guidelines to contain the virus spread. “The second wave of coronavirus is the biggest challenge for the entire country. The newly formed civic body should resolve to make Bathinda a virus-free city,” said Manpreet.Responding to a media query, Manpreet tried to underplay the overcrowding at the MC complex. “Presence of all party councillors was required for today’s event,” he said.The SSP said it was the meeting of elected representatives and all were wearing masks.State geared up for free vaccination drive: Manpreet Manpreet said the state is geared up for a mass free vaccination drive. “ ₹1,000 crore would be spent to secure Covid vaccine from the Centre or abroad if needed. As per the plan, the entire state will be covered by the year-end. The Bathinda administration has been directed to ensure that oxygen is not allowed to be used for non-health purposes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-guidelines-violated-as-bathinda-s-first-mayor-assumes-office-101619207337733.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six Punjabis repatriated from Dubai||As many as six people from Punjab, including two women, who were allegedly duped by travel agents and were stranded in Dubai, have been repatriated and reunited with their families on Friday.Dr SP Singh Oberoi, a Dubai businessman who runs an NGO, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, facilitated repatriation of the people and arranged their immigration, stay and airfare.Giving details, Oberoi said, “These people were from economically weaker families and they had suffered many setbacks after being cheated in Dubai. They were so emotional during their repatriation and cried at Sri Guru Ram Dass International Airport in Amritsar.”“Due to financial constraints, many parents in Punjab and other states fall prey to greedy agents and send their innocent daughters and sons for jobs in Arab countries. Unfortunately, boys fall prey to fake or defaulting companies and most of the girls are sold to landlords or other businessmen. As a result, the health of many girls deteriorates but it becomes very difficult for them to get out of that trap. We receive many phone calls daily from children who are stranded in Arab countries after being deceived by travel agents”, Oberoi added.Oberoi said the four men Jobanjit Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Baljit Singh and Avtar Singh, who arrived on Friday, belong to Sankarpur village in Gurdaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-punjabis-repatriated-from-dubai-101619207097510.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt seeks central funding for Covid vaccination drive||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday termed the vaccination policy for 18+ unfair towards states and demanded central funding for it.The CM also sought parity in rates of the vaccine to be given to the states and the Centre, besides calling for urgent steps to ensure adequate oxygen supply. In a virtual meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid situation with chief ministers of the worst-hit states, Amarinder said while his government has adopted all measures to minimise demand for oxygen, given the criticality of it as the most essential drug for treatment of serious Covid patients, the Government of India must ensure that all commitments as per the allocation are complied with by liquid oxygen manufacturers in other states. “This is not happening at present. Punjab’s supplies come from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and there are reports of supplies being hijacked,” he said. On the vaccination front, the CM said at the rates declared by one manufacturer, the cost to the Punjab government will be over ₹1,000 crore. He sought central government funding for vaccination, with permission to make the cost a fit charge on SDRF funds in the interim. Regular vaccine supply must be ensured to maintain the supply chain to the last vaccination booth, Amarinder said, adding that due to supply shortage, the vaccination in last one week has been slightly low, i.e. around 80,000 per day. While Punjab received fresh supplies on Thursday, the current stocks can last only three days as demand for vaccine is increasing, he said. Amarinder also expressed concern over lack of clarity on the quantity of vaccine to be made available by Centre after May 1, and how the manufacturers will regulate supplies to different States and private purchasers. The state government, on its part, has constituted an Expert Group under virologist Dr. Gagandeep Kang to advise on our vaccination strategy for 18-45 years, which states have been allowed to vaccinate at their cost, he disclosed. The CM also pointed to the shortage and black-marketing of medicines like Remdesivir and Toci, which he said was creating great panic in the media and general public. Though the Central Government was making efforts to increase their supply, a clearer messaging was required to inform the public that they are not magic wands, and also about available substitutes, he stressed. Pointing to the shortage of anti-viral Remdesivir Injections and zero availability of Toci injections in the state, he said hospitals were, however, following treatment protocol for critical patients and using alternate medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-seeks-central-funding-for-covid-vaccination-drive-101619206797641.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid care kits out of stock in Sangrur||Amid surge in infections, Sangrur district is facing shortage of Covid care kits, which are given free of cost to patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and in home isolation. The Covid care kit contains an oximeter, a digital thermometer, a hand sanitiser and vitamin tablets.According to the medical bulletin, the district reported 198 positive cases and three deaths on Friday. On Thursday, the district reported 144 cases and one death. The district has 1,007 active cases.A 30-year-old Covid infected patient from Sheron village near Sunam said he got a call from a health worker who asked him to stay home and promised to deliver a Covid care kit soon. The health worker said Covid care kits are out of stock. “As and when the department receives these kits, the same will be delivered,” said the Covid patient over phone, quoting the health worker.Assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said there is a shortage of these kits due to a surge in Covid cases in the last few days. “We have asked the state health department to provide 500 more kits. We hope the kits will reach the district soon and our health workers will provide these to patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-care-kits-out-of-stock-in-sangrur-101619206677607.html
24-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt issues alert as avalanche hits Chamoli district||A glacier breakage/snow avalanche was reported in Niti valley in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district near China border on Friday.Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat tweeted about the incident, saying an alert has been issued and he is in constant touch with Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and the district administration for updates.“We have got information (about a) glacier breakage in Sumna area of Niti Valley. I have issued an alert in this regard. I am in continuous touch with district administration and BRO (Border Roads Organisation),” he posted on Twitter.“Have directed district administration to get all information about the incident. I have given the order to stop work during the night in NTPC and other projects so that no untoward incident occurs,” he said in another tweet.Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadoria said that some locals in Niti valley claimed that there was a glacier breakage in a remote part of the valley which is largely uninhabited.“I have contacted senior BRO officials and ITBP to confirm the development. A senior BRO officer has already left for the spot to see what happened there. The area is uninhabited but there are posts of ITBP and workers working for BRO,” she said.According to locals, the higher reaches of Chamoli district have been witnessing rain and snowfall since the last three days.Nearly 80 people were killed in a glacier burst in Chamoli in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-alert-as-avalanche-hits-chamoli-district-101619206359875.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports record daily spike of 6,762 Covid cases||Punjab on Friday reported the highest-ever single-day spike of 6,762 fresh cases, 76 deaths and the second-highest positivity ratio of 12.6%.The state witnessed the highest positivity ratio on April 15 when 12.9% of the samples taken in a day tested positive for the virus. According to the media bulletin released by the state government, Ferozepur district, which reported 229 cases on Friday, witnessed the highest positivity rate of 46.64%, Mansa 34.04%, Faridkot 28.03% and Muktsar 26.60%. Twelve districts of the state are having the positivity rate of more than 10%, according to the bulletin. A maximum of 995 positive cases were reported in Ludhiana, followed by 982 in Mohali, 722 in Amritsar, 593 in Bathinda and 533 in Patiala. Eight deaths were reported in Amrtisar, seven in Ludhiana, six each in Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Bathinda and Patiala, five each in Hoshiarpur, Mohali and Jalandhar, three each in Rupnagar and Sangrur, two each in Barnala, Faridkot, Pathankot, and SBS Nagar. A total of 3,294 people were declared discharged as on Friday. Moga village achieves 100% vaccination of target populationMoga: Saffuwala village of Moga has achieved 100% vaccination of the target population. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced special grants to villages for achieving the target. In a release, the district administration said people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-record-daily-spike-of-6-762-covid-cases-101619206437609.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor smugglers try to run over excise inspector in Mohali||Two men carrying illicit liquor allegedly tried to run over an excise inspector with their SUV during checking near Boothgarh in Mohali on Thursday evening.Identified as Karanvir Singh of Chuharmajra village in Ropar and Jagdeep Singh of Samrala in Ludhiana, the duo supply illicit liquor to villages in Ludhiana district, said police. On searching their vehicle, 33 boxes of liquor, which were for sale in Chandigarh, were recovered. Jorawar Singh, excise inspector, Kurali circle, was on duty at a naka near the Boothgarh traffic lights, when he signalled a Mahindra Scorpio coming from the Chandigarh side to stop. However, Karanvir, who was behind the wheel, allegedly accelerated the vehicle in a bid to escape and the inspector had a narrow escape. A police team intercepted the vehicle after a two-kilometre chase and arrested the duo. They have been booked for attempt to murder besides under other sections of the Indian Penal Code and Excise Act. Sub-inspector Amandeep Singh, station house officer, Majri, said they were produced in court on Friday and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-smugglers-try-to-run-over-excise-inspector-in-mohali-101619206197505.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Amid surge, nursing staff in Delhi rue lack of respite, say they are exhausted||The avalanche of Covid-19 patients reaching hospitals, the strain of family members and colleagues falling sick, and the crippling shortage of beds, oxygen and other medical essentials across hospitals in Delhi have left nursing staff in the city “drained” and “emotionally strained”.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country — and the fourth wave in Delhi — has turned out to be deadliest one yet with hundreds of thousands testing positive for the virus and over 2,000 succumbing to the infection every day. The virus has not spared health care workers — many have tested positive and are in need of oxygen support themselves.A senior nursing officer at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, asking not to be named, said around 120 of her colleagues are currently infected. “What we saw last year is nothing compared to what we are witnessing now. The number of patients we are getting is unprecedented and with many of our colleagues testing positive for Covid-19, the whole situation has become more difficult,” she said.She said emotional breakdowns among nurses have become more frequent in Covid wards these days.“We feel absolutely helpless when people beg us for beds and oxygen for their loved ones and we have to say no. Three days ago, a 24-year-old patient succumbed to the infection. Several nurses, who have children about the same age, started weeping. It’s so difficult to see young people die. Last year, at least young people were not getting affected like this,” she said.When Covid first struck in 2020, health care workers used to work for 14 days at a stretch and then quarantine themselves for another 14. There is no such guideline this time and medical professionals say they are currently working without a break.Akhilesh Sharma, a nursing officer at Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, said he feels overwhelmed by the long queues of waiting patients, requesting beds every day.“It’s so difficult to say no to a person in that state. The situation is so dire that even if any staff member tests positive for Covid-19 today, they won’t be able to get a bed. I have been on Covid duty since March last year, and I’m exhausted. It is emotionally draining to see your patients, with whom you have worked so hard, dying in front of your eyes,” he said.A nursing officer at Lok Nayak Hospital, who wished not to be named, said, “I have seen many patients die while waiting for a bed outside the hospital in the past few days. I feel helpless. Many of our doctors and nursing staff sometimes come out to attend to these people, but how can we take care of so many?”Several nursing staff also have Covid positive family members. Babita Rani, a senior nursing officer at the Covid maternity ward at the Employees’ State Insurance Model Hospital in Basaidarapur, said her husband is Covid positive at present. “I, my husband and our 15-year-old son are currently living in three different rooms without seeing each other. It has become so difficult to juggle my husband’s care and my nursing duties. It’s like I am doing the same thing 24x7 -- taking care of Covid patients at the hospital and home,” she said.Rani said nurses are facing another dilemma -- to communicate to others nurses the condition of their loved ones receiving Covid treatment. “Nurses know the survival chances of patients with severe infection. Yet, we are placed in a challenging situation where we have to console our own colleagues and give them assurances about their loved ones even when they, and we, know that the chances are grim,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-surge-nursing-staff-in-delhi-rue-lack-of-respite-say-they-are-exhausted-emotionally-drained-101619206016848.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Four held for black marketing Remdesivir, 81 vials recovered||Cracking down on persons allegedly hoarding and black marketing Covid-related life saving drugs, Delhi Police on Friday said it arrested four men belonging to two separate interstate gangs over the past three days and recovered from them 81 vials of Remdesivir injection. Further searches are being conducted in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi by teams of the crime branch to nab other members of the two gangs and make more recoveries, police said.“The racketeers were well aware of the scarcity of Remdesivir and other drugs used in Covid treatment across the country. They started hoarding these drugs and sold them in the black market at exorbitant rates. They have a set network of persons who supply the injections on demand. They were selling Remdesivir injections for ₹25,000 to ₹40,000 per vial. The key players are still absconding,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj said the crime branch had been receiving information that some gangs were hoarding Remdesivir and other life saving drugs as the demand for these medicines rose manifold due to the sharp increase in Covid cases. The crime branch teams -- tasked to identify and crackdown on these racketeers -- used dummy customers to strike deals with the racketeers and catch them red-handed. One such customer contacted a person who assured delivery of one vial of Remdesivir injection for ₹25,000 at Parmanand Chowk near GTB Nagar in north Delhi.On April 21, the team caught Talwinder Singh alias Sajan, belonging to Amritsar in Punjab, and recovered from him three vials of Remdesivir injections. Questioning revealed that members of his gang were supplying injections across India using a courier company in Chandni Chowk. Police searched the company’s office and arrested Jitendra Kumar, who charged ₹2,000 as commission for delivering each Remdesivir injection. Their questioning led to the recovery of 68 more vials.“The duo revealed a network of persons involved in hoarding and supplying these drugs. They charge the customers according to their financial status. Even when in our custody, Singh received a request from a person who was ready to pay ₹50 lakh as several members of his family were Covid positive,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be identified.In the second operation, another team arrested Shaoib and Mohan with 10 vials of Remdesivir injection from outside Batra hospital in south Delhi. They belong to a different gang that also procured such drugs from Punjab and Haryana.“Questioning of the four arrested persons have led to the recovery of 81 vials of Remdesivir. We feel that the arrest and interrogation of the key players of these syndicates may lead us to any pharma company from where these drugs are illegally re-routed to these people,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-held-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-81-vials-recovered-101619205957469.html
24-04-2021||Other||After oxygen cylinders,concentrators and BiPap machines go out of stock in Delhi||The crippling surge in Covid-19 cases in the city has led not just to an alarming shortage of medical oxygen, but also a severe scarcity of domestic oxygen concentrators and BiPap machines, with additional stocks unlikely to arrive before three weeks, said several vendors in the Capital.“The situation is so dire that we want the government to intervene and distribute oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms so that they can be treated at home and the load is taken off from hospitals. Just like the Delhi government distributed pulse oximeters, they should also procure oxygen concentrators on a war-footing and distribute them at subsidised rates, if not for free. This will prevent black-marketing, hoarding and overpricing,” said Manan Sethi of MediExpress, one of the seven major distributors of oxygen concentrators and BiPap machines in north India.He said such a move would mean losses for companies like their’s, but he added that there is no other alternative left. “When Covid-19 cases ebbed in Delhi around February, we used to receive only around 10-15 calls a day. But now, we get at least 300 calls every day. Till a few days ago, the demand for oxygen cylinders was very high. Now, the demand for oxygen concentrators at home has gone through the roof. We do not have a single piece left. The story is going to be similar for bipap machines soon,” Sethi said.An oxygen concentrator pulls in air, compresses it, and removes impurities through its filters. A BiPap (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) machine, meanwhile, is a device used to administer non-invasive ventilation in a patient.Vendors in Old Delhi’s Bhagirath Palace, a hub for medical equipment in the city, said they have placed fresh orders, but consignments are unlikely to arrive before May 14.“Most of these machines are imported from China, Taiwan and the USA. The two biggest manufacturers of domestic-use oxygen concentrators in the country — BPL Medical Technologies and Philips — said they are out of stock. Manufacturing fresh batches will also take time since a lot of the raw material also comes from the US and China,” said a store manager at Jullundur Surgical store, one of the biggest stores in the market.An oxygen concentrator costs between ₹30,000- ₹70,000.But vendors acknowledged that prices have now doubled. “We are not raising the cost to increase our profit margin. The companies in China, especially those we mostly procure from have doubled their rates. Earlier due to lack of demand, our orders used to come by road. Now we are even using trains, for which we have to pay the companies separately,” said another distributor, who asked not to be named.Dr SP Byotra, chairman of the department of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said scores of Covid-19 patients could have been treated at home if the governments had prepared in advance and arranged enough oxygen concentrators when cases dropped.“Covid-19 patients whose viral load is not very high, or those whose oxygen saturation drops off and on, or the elderly can definitely be put on oxygen concentrators at home. But there are none available in Delhi. Patients come to us asking for it, but we are also unable to give them leads now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-oxygen-cylinders-concentrators-and-bipap-machines-go-out-of-stock-in-delhi-101619205956887.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid patients from Delhi looking for beds in Mohali hospitals||Twenty-five Covid-19 patients from Delhi and Gurugram have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. With National Capital Region reeling under a shortage of beds as well as oxygen, the kin of Covid-19 patients have been making enquiries at private hospitals in Mohali in order to shift them here. Some people are even making frantic calls to government hospitals for beds.Dr SPS Goraya, medical superintendent of Gian Sagar Hospital, said all 25 patients are confirmed cases and have been shifted here as they failed to get beds in Delhi and Gurugram. “We have 25 ICU beds and 45 beds for L-2 (moderate) cases. We are not refusing admission to anyone,” he said . Mohali, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, has around 30 private hospitals with state-of-the-art facilities.Dr Ankush Mehta, general manager, Max Hospital, said: “We are daily getting around 10 calls of Covid patients from the national capital. But we are helpless, as we have a limited number of beds and are giving preference to patients from the region.”Dr Mehta said he even got a call from Lucknow and the family was ready to airlift the patient, but “we could not help them”. “We are not only getting calls from Delhi, but from other states as well,” said Dr Abhijit Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, while adding that the hospital has sufficient beds and oxygen for patients from this region.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, “Even though we don’t have Level-3 facilities (for critical cases) in our government hospitals, people from Delhi and nearby areas are calling for ICU beds.” Pvt hospital occupancy close to 95%The two government hospitals for Covid-19 patients (civil hospitals in Phase 6 and Dhakoli) have around 100 beds, but only for Level-2 cases. As many as 35 of these are occupied. Meanwhile, private hospitals have around 600 Level-2 beds and 215 Level-3 beds, and their overall occupancy is close to 95%.Sandeep Singla, a Delhi resident, said: “We have not been able to get a hospital bed in Delhi for my father-in-law, who is 82-year-old and suffering from Covid-19. I have even tried calling all private hospitals in Mohali, but they have refused to help.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We have directed the private hospitals to give preference to patients of our district, and outsiders should be admitted only in case of a major medical emergency.”Dayalan said that there is a lot of pressure on the health infrastructure as more than 80% Covid beds are occupied. “But constant vigil is being maintained, so that critical patients face no hassle in admission to a suitable health facility,” he said, during his visit to the Dera Bassi subdivisional hospital on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-patients-from-delhi-looking-for-beds-in-mohali-hospitals-101619205898803.html
24-04-2021||Other||Approach Delhi’s nodal officer to meet oxygen requirement: High court||The Delhi high court on Friday asked all the hospitals and nursing homes in Delhi facing shortage of oxygen to first approach the nodal officer of the city to meet the requirement of medical oxygen.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, while hearing fresh pleas by two hospitals facing shortage of oxygen, was informed by the Centre that it has set up a control room to coordinate with the nodal officers of state governments for management of oxygen supply.“We would expect all hospitals in the NCT of Delhi to approach the nodal officer Mr. Udit Prakash and such other officers... in the first instance for the purpose of meeting their requirement of oxygen,” the court said. The bench said if the requirements are not met even after contacting the nodal officer, the hospitals shall contact senior advocate Rahul Mehra and lawyer Satyakam, before approaching the court.During the hearing, the court also asked the Centre to consider the request of the Delhi government to allocate its medical oxygen from plants located in nearby states in contrast to the far off places like West Bengal and Orissa.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that the problem of shortage of oxygen can be solved if the oxygen comes from the state of Uttar Pradesh instead of far off places like West Bengal and Orissa. He requested the court if this allocation can be reworked so that they can get oxygen from nearby states.He also told the court that the city has received 380 metric tonnes of medical oxygen out of the 480 metric tonnes allocated by the Centre, contending that the deficiency of 100 tonnes will take time to be met, as the supply is coming from two eastern states.The court noted that though there has been some improvement in oxygen supply in the last few days, there is still a shortfall of about 100 metric tonnes, adding that the Centre had earlier assured the court that 480 metric tonnes will reach Delhi, but even after three days, it has not. “Whatever was allocated should be there,” the court observed.It said that the matter of allocation has been done by the Centre considering several factors. However, the Empowered Group can explore the suggestion of relocation to reduce the distance from the point of production to the point of supply. “However, in case the Empowered Group is of the view that the allocation needs to remain unchanged, it may at least consider making interim arrangements till the Railways are in a position to transport from the aforesaid three plants,” said the court.“The same would make the process of transportation to and fro more efficient since shorter trips mean that the same cryogenic tankers would make repeated trips if necessary for making supplies during the day,” said the court.It asked chief secretary of Delhi to examine the allocation plan and make suggestions to be placed before the central government and its Empowered Group on Friday itself. It further ordered the Empowered Group to examine the suggestion at the earliest.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, informed the court that a control room, comprising of secretary-level officers of the Government of India, will be a part of the process, with whom the nodal officers can get in touch. He said that this is being done so that the Centre can intervene whenever there is any obstruction of oxygen transportation by local authorities.He said that the central virtual control room set up last year has been further strengthened in the wake of the raging pandemic.The court, taking note of the submission, told the hospitals to contact the nodal officer(special secretary Udit Prakash for Delhi), who in turn will directly co-ordinate with the officers in the control room for smooth and continuous supply of oxygen.Mehra, along with additional standing counsel advocate Satyakam, told the court that it has circulated a list of oxygen refilling units with the contact of the nodal officers for small hospitals. Both the lawyers also volunteered to assist the hospitals and nursing homes, in case the problems still persisted.The bench also asked as to whether CNG cylinders could be used for the storage of gaseous oxygen. “It takes long for transportation and then there is lack of tankers. Please see if CNG cylinders can be used,” said the bench.“If that could be done, the storage capacity which is presently in use for the storage of CNG, particularly that which is mobile, could be utilised for transportation of medical oxygen and providing the same to hospitals on immediate basis,” it said.The bench also sought to know from the Delhi government the progress of the eight Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) oxygen plants planned for Delhi, after it was informed by the Centre on Tuesday that only one of them is operational in Burari.Eight PSA oxygen plants are being installed in Delhi with the support of PM CARES Fund to enhance capacity by 14.4 metric tonnes, the Centre said. It also told the court that clearances have been given for six sites and work of installation is going on in one of the places.The matter will now be heard on Monday, April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/approach-delhi-s-nodal-officer-to-meet-oxygen-requirement-high-court-101619205896899.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals see record Covid deaths in April||The second wave of Covid-19 in the region is proving to be deadlier with the number of deaths due to the virus in city hospitals seeing a massive spike, data suggests.In the tertiary care hospitals of the city, which include Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Covid fatalities till April this year have broken all previous records.For instance, PGIMER’s official tracker suggests that of the 808 deaths recorded since March 2020 last year, 189 were logged in the month of April 2021, which is around 23% of the fatalities since the onset of the pandemic. Moreover, the April fatalities account for over 71% of the total 264 virus deaths reported so far this year.Similarly, at GMCH-32, which saw 168 virus deaths in the 10 months of pandemic last year, the fatalities have already crossed the mark this. Out of the 174 deaths at the hospital this year, 38.5% were reported in the month of April so far. All the above figures are as per the official records up to April 22, 2021.Experts attribute the spike in Covid deaths to the record number of infections being reported this year. However, the role of new variants in the deaths is not established.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said they usually receive patients in highly critical condition and as many of them turn out to be comorbid, their oxygen levels see sudden decline. Most of them come from the neighbouring states.“Sometimes, patients brought for emergency surgery also turn out to be infected. No doubt the second wave is causing more absolute deaths,” he said.Former head of community medicine and school of public health, Dr Rajesh Kumar said, “One of the main reasons for the record number of deaths is the severity of the second wave. However, the fatality ratio has not seen a major variation, which suggests that the role of mutant or late reporting is not the case here.”Around 70% of the samples sent from PGIMER to the National Centre for Diseases Control had tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19, while 20% showed presence of the 681 H mutant.Prof PVM Lakshmi, senior epidemiologist at PGIMER, said that during the last peak, the cases were seeing a gradual rise and so was the trend with the fatalities, but the spike this time has been sudden which was reflected in the higher number of deaths reported this year.“A record number of infections are being reported in April and the rise is steep which results in more deaths in less time period,” said Prof Lakshmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hospitals-see-record-covid-deaths-in-april-101619205838127.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Rush forces Ghazipur crematorium staff to hold mass funeral in parking lot||Until three days ago, the vacant plot adjacent the Ghazipur crematorium in east Delhi was where visitors used to park their vehicles. On Thursday night, when Hindustan Times visited the spot, it no longer housed vehicles, but funeral pyres -- about 40 of them -- most of which continued to burn till late night.With Covid-19 bodies arriving at the crematorium without a break — at least 85 Covid-19 bodies were brought there on Thursday, said officials — the crematorium staff said they started setting up pyres on the parking lot next to the road, with no more than a three-foot gap between bodies.The designated funeral platforms are about 400 metres from the parking space and can dispose of only 36 bodies at a time, facility staff said. With the ceaseless arrival of dead bodies on Thursday, crematorium staff said they had to burn bodies round-the-clock at every available space.Civic body officials said that 100 at least bodies were brought to the crematorium on Friday. “We stopped counting after that,” said an official.Before the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, the crematorium would handle a maximum of 25 bodies a day, and around 10-15 on average.“We cannot follow protocol anymore because of the rush. We are left with no option but to burn Covid and non- Covid bodies in the same space. Had we not used this space, people would have to wait for days to complete the last rites of their loved ones. Two days ago, several grieving families had to be told to take bodies back as the pyre platforms were full and people were already in queue. That is when we decided to use the parking space,” said one of the officials at the crematorium, who identified himself by his first name Manoj.Around 11.50pm on Thursday, there were at least 40 bodies burning side by side on the parking lot. There were at least five more families waiting outside the crematorium with bodies of loved ones, the staff member said.Another official at the crematorium said on condition of anonymity, “ We hardly got 15 bodies a day in January and February and now the number has suddenly risen to 80 a day. The mortuaries are not storing the bodies of Covid-19 patients and families cannot take them home. Although the Hindu faith does not advise burning bodies after sunset, the situation is different now. We work even past midnight these days. People do not mind even if the bodies are burnt on the ground instead of the raised platforms.”The analysis of the Covid-19 fatality data in Delhi, as recorded in the state government’s daily health bulletin, shows a steady increase in death count from April 1. As per the state bulletin, in January, 10 persons, on average, died of Covid-19 daily while in February, the number dropped to two a day, before increasing to four in March.It was in April, when the fourth wave of the infection swept through Delhi, that the numbers shot up exponentially. At least 98 persons, on average, started dying of Covid every day (April 1 to April 22 ). Delhi has reported 1,838 Covid-19 deaths in the past 10 days alone.As deaths started increasing, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which runs the Ghazipur crematorium, on April 16 ordered that the facility remain open 24x7. But even that did not suffice in the days that followed. Two CNG furnaces, which were announced by the east civic body to cater to Covid-19 deaths and minimise the rush, are yet to open.East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain confirmed they had set up pyres at the parking lot.“We also created 10 pyre platforms to meet the demand, over and above the 36 platforms that were in place already. The CNG furnace will be operational by the first week of May.”At midnight, while the bodies burned at the parking site, another group of labourers were at work to start the two electric crematoriums. “ It will take us another 10 days to complete the work. Looking at the present situation, even if the government installs 10 CNG furnaces, they may not be enough,” one of the workers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rush-forces-ghazipur-crematorium-staff-to-hold-mass-funeral-in-parking-lot-101619205778436.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine for 18+: Chandigarh awaits common policy on rates||As everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1, Chandigarh is waiting for a common pricing policy for union territories from the central government.Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida said they have sought directions from the Centre on the manner in which the doses will be supplied to the UT, and subsequently, pricing will be done based on the government’s policy.“We are in touch with the central government on the pricing of vaccines. Most likely there will be a common policy on jab rates for the union territories. We will get it before May 1,” said Parida.Serum Institute of India will be selling Covishield to the state governments at ₹400 per dose and to private hospitals at ₹600 per dose. This came after the Centre said that vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing in the open market and to state governments. The remainder is to be supplied to the Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group only.The Punjab government has said that vaccination in the age group of 18-44 years across the state would start from May 1, and it will ensure that every needy person receives the vaccine free of cost. Similarly, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet has decided that free doses will be administered in government health institutions.Chandigarh has so far administered 1,66,035 doses to beneficiaries, out of which around 60,000 were above 60 years of age, while around 50,000 doses were given people in the age group of 45 to 60. The remaining jabs were administered to health and frontline workers.1 lakh Covishield doses alloted for 45+ groupThe UT administration on Friday said that the central government has allotted 1 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine meant to be administered to the population above 45 years of age. Earlier, Chandigarh had received around 1,90,000 doses, out of which 1,66,035 were used, while the wastage was around 4.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-for-18-chandigarh-awaits-common-policy-on-rates-101619205777963.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Can allot space if any organisation willing to set up Covid care centre on campus: DU||Amid a surge in cases of coronavirus in the capital, Delhi University officials on Friday said the varsity is ready to allot space if any organisation is willing to set up a Covid care facility for students and staff on the campus. Registrar Vikas Gupta said the university did not have the infrastructure to maintain these Covid care centres and pointed out that there were a lot of specialised requirements to put in place. “Our medical colleges are attached to hospitals so it will not be feasible to use their services for the centre. We have been holding deliberations and are open to offering university space to organisations that may be willing to run it. We can give our grounds and stadiums for this purpose,” he said.So far, the university has run vaccination camps in north and south campus for its teachers and officials.On Thursday, a group of DU teachers had written to the administration asking them to set up Covid care facilities in the wake of increasing cases. “We are facing far worse situation [than last time] and hundreds of teachers and employees are running from pillar to post for a single bed in hospitals. Some of them have lost their precious lives and many of them are struggling. In such a situation, the university should extend help to students, teachers and employees,” said former executive council member Rajesh Jha, a professor at Rajdhani College.Teachers’ group Academics for Action and Development, of which Jha is a member, said it had written to the university administration on the matter last year. “In our earlier emails, we have suggested attaching the university guest houses to World University Services (WUS) health centre and develop the facilities for Covid-infected university employees. Efforts should be made to develop some beds with Level-3 facility, if not more than that. For this purpose, we can seek help from our own medical and nursing colleges,” the teachers’ group said in its letter to the university administration.Several other teachers also said they had pointed out the lack of medical facilities on campus earlier. Pankaj Garg, convener of the Indian National Teachers’ Congress (INTEC), said he had to try for three days to get an RT-PCR test done by a private lab.“A testing centre can be established at least using existing resources so that teachers don’t have to run from pillar to post to get tested. A Covid care centre can be set up because we already have at least 15 doctors at the university’s health centre. These doctors can be used to set up a temporary centre. Mild to moderate cases can be monitored there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-allot-space-if-any-organisation-willing-to-set-up-covid-care-centre-on-campusdu-101619205776810.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate polls to have physical voting||The meetings of the faculties of Panjab University will be held online on April 26, prior to the start of physical voting at the venues for the election of six members to the PU senate.One member will be elected to the senate from each faculty. The constituency of faculties include the faculty of law, arts, science, languages, medical science and combined faculty.The decision has been taken by PU in view of the restrictions imposed by the UT administration to curb the spread of Covid. Each meeting will be held for 15 minutes before polling starts at the respective venues.Twelve candidates are in the fray from the faculties, which has 754 eligible voters. The two tellers are also appointed during the meetings. When all the members have recorded their votes, the ballot papers are collected and counted by two tellers, appointed by the chairman of the meeting.Timings revisedThe varsity has also revised the timings of the polling of all the six faculties. Polling for the faculty of law will be held at the chemistry department auditorium from 9am to 11am.For arts faculty, it will be held at evening studies auditorium from 9.30am to 1.30pm and for the faculty of languages, it will be held at the English department auditorium from 10am to 1.30pm.For the faculty of science, it will be held at the law department auditorium from 10.30 am to 2.30 pm and for medical science faculty, polling will be held at the gymnasium hall of the university from 11am to 2pm. Moreover, the polling for the combined faculty will also be held at the gymnasium hall from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm.No gathering at polling boothsThe varsity has requested that there will not be a gathering of more than 25 people inside a polling booth so that social distancing can be maintained. Also, the polling staff and the voters have been advised to follow Covid SOPs.Over 100 candidates are in the fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the 91-member PU senate. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the university chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-polls-to-have-physical-voting-101619205717398.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Battle against O2 shortages rages on as hospitals take drastic steps||Hospitals across the city continued to battle an acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, with one facility reducing at least 150 beds from its capacity, another moving court, some others asking patients to leave, and several more sending distress messages to the city’s new control room to handle oxygen supply logistics.According to officials, at least 24 hospitals reached out to the control room set up by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, which began functioning on Friday to coordinate urgent oxygen supply delivery and routing. The problem, which first began on Tuesday, has remained acute despite the Union government announcing enhancements in the city’s daily oxygen dispatches on Wednesday.The Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur, which faced supply problems for the past two days, on Friday reduced the number of beds from 500 to 350. The DDMA control room had allocated the hospital a quota of 6,000 cubic metres of oxygen. With almost all its beds full, the hospital was using up 8,000-9,000 cubic metres of oxygen.“For the last two days, the oxygen reached us just minutes before we would have dipped into our reserves. Now, the government has allocated us a quota of 6,000 cubic metres which will not be enough to manage all the 500 beds because all are beds are like ICU and use up a lot of oxygen. So, we have reduced the number of beds,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, asking not to be named.A second doctor confirmed the situation, saying: “Over the last two days we stopped new admissions and have been discharging stable patients to reduce the numbers.”In addition to reaching out to the DDMA control room, several hospitals sent SOS messages to government officials, health minister and on Twitter.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal raised the issue in his meeting with the PM. “People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. Despite being a CM, I am not able to help the people of Delhi. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi,” he said during the meeting.In the morning, an official at Sir Ganga Ram said 25 of the “sickest” Covid-19 patients had died in the last 24 hours, and the lives of another 60 were at risk due to the oxygen supply, before the head of the hospital issued a statement to say the fatalities were not due to the shortage.“The staff strength of the control room is 10 for an eight-hour shift. The control room has been entrusted with ensuring the quickest supply from sources within the city. Till 6pm, we received 24 calls from hospitals in the city which told us that their oxygen stock would not last for two hours. All distress calls were resolved,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.In Max and Max Smart hospitals in Saket, officials said Friday was a tense day with stocks running precariously low at least thrice, with emergency replenishments arriving in the nick of time.The hospital raised the first SOS around the same time as Sir Ganga Ram hospital in the morning. While Sir Ganga Ram Hospital received 2,000 cubic metres of oxygen, both the Max hospitals together received 2,000 cubic metres. The hospitals had over 700 patients, of which 550 were Covid-19 patients.Both Max hospitals and Sir Ganga Ram ran short of oxygen again at night, before receiving replenishments with minutes to spare.“The hospitals started running low on oxygen and the doctors were on the edge again in the afternoon. And, then again now,” said a Sir Ganga Ram hospital staffer at around 9 pm. The hospital in the morning had decided to stop admissions across its centres in Delhi-NCR, but then rescinded the order.Batra hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area too reported a tense day, and approached the Delhi high court in the morning. After an SOS message, the hospital received an emergency supply of 700 litres of oxygen as their tanks were about to run dry at 02:30 pm. One-and-a-half hours later, the hospital received another tanker of oxygen, which was first meant to deliver oxygen at 10pm the previous night.“They were supposed to give us 4,000 litres of oxygen but they gave us only 1,700 litres. We need around 7,000 litres of oxygen a day. And, in the last 30 hours we have received only received 1,000 litres of oxygen,” said Dr SCL Gupta, medical director of the hospital. “We had to cancel all non-emergency surgeries. A patient had travelled here from Kashmir for a heart surgery that is extremely important; we had to send him back,” he said.By night, the hospital was again running low on stock. The Delhi HC asked hospitals and nursing homes to first approach the nodal officer at the control room.Holy Family hospital, which had to raise an alarm on Thursday, sought help on Friday morning as well after which it received an emergency 500 litre of oxygen. “All our staff was waiting in the ICU with bated breaths looking at the oxygen monitor to see whether the levels were running low, whether they had to take over. We had also put the oxygen cylinders in the manifold room so that it could take over if the oxygen ran out. But, with the unprecedented use of oxygen, we did not know how long these could run,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of the hospital.For the second day in a row, Aakash hospital too had to raise an alarm. The hospital received 14-hours of supply 2.5 hours after they ran out. “We have been managing with cylinders we have; getting them refilled and using them again,” the hospital spokesperson said.The situation was more serious for Indian Spinal Injury Centre, which has at least 100 beds on oxygen cylinders, which they ran out of. “We managed to get 18 cylinders through our contacts. Now, we are moving more of our patients to the central gas pipeline run by the liquid medical oxygen where we have stock till morning,” said Jasleen Kaur, the hospital’s head of marketing and communications.Late on Friday, Jaipur Golden hospital issued an SOS on social media saying it had run out of oxygen and switched to oxygen cylinders that the hospital estimated would last for 30 minutes. The hospital has received news that a tanker was being diverted from BSA hospital.After receiving almost no oxygen in 24 hours, officials at Metro hospital in Preet Vihar said they were thinking of discharging patients. “We have been running using refilled cylinder so far. We are waiting to hear from our oxygen supplier, if we do not hear from them soon we will have to ask the patients to look for beds elsewhere,” said a senior official from the hospital, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/battle-against-o2-shortages-rages-on-as-hospitals-take-drastic-steps-101619205656866.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 Nepalese nationals held with 13kg heroin in Mohali’s Lalru||The Lalru police arrested three Napalese nationals, including a woman, with 13kg heroin on Thursday evening.The accused have been identified as Amrit Pun, 21, Shakti Uli, 21, and Kamla Barai, 34, all from Nepal. Lalru station house officer (SHO) Sukhbir Singh said a police patrolling team had spotted the trio near Peer Baba Dargah on Ambala-Chandigarh highway. All three were carrying some bags. On checking, cops discovered heroin in it. “Amrit Pun was possessing 5.2 kg heroin, Shakti Ali had 5.2 kg heroin and the woman was carrying 3.2kg heroin,” said the SHO.During interrogation, the accused revealed the two men previously worked as labourers in Shimla. The woman, Kamla Badai, is a housewife and her husband works in Saudi Arabia. The trio had brought the contraband from Nepal and planned to sell this to their permanent customers in Punjab and Shimla.A case under Section 18/61/85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at Lalru police station. Couple arrested with 260gm heroinMohali police on Friday arrested a couple and recovered 260gm heroin from their possession. The couple was operating from Peermuchalla in Zirakpur and has been taken on police remand. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said the accused have been identified as Manoj Sharma, a resident of Hansi in Haryana, and Aishwarya Nagpal, a resident of Zirakpur. Both were residing in a rented accommodation in Peermuchhala of Dhakoli. They were arrested while they were waiting for their clients. The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, the couple revealed that they had been procuring the heroin from a Nigerian national in Delhi’s Uttam Nagar and selling it to their clients in Mohali, Dhakoli, Zirakpur, Panchkula and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-nepalese-nationals-held-with-13kg-heroin-in-mohali-s-lalru-101619205597466.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 828 Covid-19 cases in biggest single-day spike||Showing no respite, the pandemic continued to surge in the tricity on Friday, with 2,201 people testing positive, up from the previous all-time high of 2,024 recorded just a day back.Chandigarh, too, hit yet another peak with 828 new cases, while Mohali and Panchkula recorded a slight dip with 920 and 453 cases, respectively.On Thursday, the three had recorded 634, 931 and 459 cases, respectively, which were the highest for all since the outbreak last March.Meanwhile, 11 people died, with Mohali district reporting five and the other two recording three deaths each. The second wave’s peak of 13 deaths in a day was also logged on Thursday.In Chandigarh, positivity rate stood at 20% on Friday, suggesting that of every five people sampled, one was found positive.The cumulative number of infections has reached 37,232, of which 4,622 cases are active. While 32,180 patients have recovered, 430 have succumbed to the virus. Those reported dead on Friday include a man and a woman aged 45 besides a 60-year-old man. Five more fatalities took Mohali’s death toll to 529. At 339, Dhakoli reported maximum cases, followed by 316 in Mohali, 95 in Kharar and 66 in Dera Bassi.The total has reached 40,167, of which 7,602 cases are active. With 484 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of those cured stands at 32,036. In Panchkula, two men, aged 71 and 75, and a 54-year-old woman, all from rural pockets, succumbed to the virus, taking the district’s death toll to 180.As many as 18,485 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 15,676 have been cured and 2,629 are still undergoing treatment. All beds for critical patients occupied at PGIMER, GMSH-16As Covid-19 cases hit a new record in Chandigarh on Friday, both PGIMER and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, exhausted their capacity to support critical patients. All 56 ventilator-supported bed dedicated to Covid patients at PGIMER and six at GMSH-16 have been occupied. However, at Government Medical College and Hospital, of 48 such beds, 20 are still available. However, when it comes to beds with oxygen support, the three facilities are better placed, with 30% beds still vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-logs-828-covid-19-cases-in-biggest-single-day-spike-101619205477439.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||No weekend lockdown in Chandigarh; night curfew from 9pm||Amid a series of flip-flops this week, the Chandigarh administration on Friday decided against imposing weekend lockdown in the city. Also, the timings of the night curfew were changed yet again. It will now be imposed from 9pm to 5am. No gathering or non-essential travel will be allowed during this period.The administration had imposed curfew in the city last weekend after a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases. This Tuesday, while announcing a one-day lockdown on Ram Navami, the administration also decided to continue with the weekend curfew and extended the night curfew timings by two hours (8pm to 5am). The latter decision was rolled back on Thursday (10pm to 5am), only to be revised once again on Friday, when the administration was also to take up a proposal for a longer lockdown in the city.The latest developments come after the business and industrial community expressed strong resentment to the fresh curbs. The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has been organising a chain of protests in prominent markets. A delegation had also met the UT adviser on Thursday to register its opposition.Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on Tuesday had stressed that there was a need to prevent the country from entering another lockdown. “I urge states to use lockdown only as a last resort,” he had said. Indicating a change in the administration’s strategy, UT adviser Manoj Parida said on Friday: “We are balancing between lives and livelihood. Lockdown will be always the last option. Corona crisis may not end soon; so trade and industry must be given some window for operation. Infection containment is difficult since it seems the virus is airborne. Vaccination of 80% population to create herd immunity is the only answer.”Other decisionsThe decisions were taken in the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.It was also decided that Sukhna Lake will remain closed at weekends, which was already notified days before the weekend curfew was imposed last Friday. Museums, libraries, gyms and spas will also continue to remain closed, as already ordered.The estate office, sub-registrar office and Registration and Licensing Authority, where several Covid-19 cases have been detected, will remain closed for a week (till April 30).Keeping in view the risk of spread of infection in hostels, the administration has directed all educational institutes to ensure that only those students are allowed to stay whose need is “essential and unavoidable”. The heads of institutes must ensure that the students are properly tested and their claims verified, said a senior official.Industries will be allowed to operate at night, but have to follow necessary Covid protocol within their campuses. The management will be responsible if any violation is reported.During the meeting, Badnore also stressed on intensifying patrolling to challan violators, creating more awareness among people, beefing up testing and vaccination drives, and ensuring availability of life-saving drugs in the city by preventing black marketing.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Congress criticised the administration for its failure to take political parties on board while deciding on lockdowns. “The administration seems confused over the matter and is passing contrary orders every other day, making people more confused,” said party chief Subhash Chawla. Shifting stance||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-weekend-lockdown-in-chandigarh-night-curfew-from-9pm-101619205297490.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra teachers request extension to file data for Centre’s school portal||Teachers from the Maharashtra have requested the state education department to extend the deadline to send data to be filled in the central government’s school portal Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE). The education department had asked schools to submit the data required for UDISE by April 26. Teachers have, however, requested the department to grant them an extension to fill the details. With a state-wide lockdown in effect, teachers said they are not able to travel to their respective schools amid Covid-19 travel restrictions. Teachers said that while they can fill and enter the data from home, they do not have access to the documents required for the purpose. “We cannot travel in the current situation. A lot of material that is required to collect and collate data, including service books and student records, are in the school. We thus hope to get an extension,” said Anil Bornare from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) teachers’ cell. “We do not want to risk our lives going to school at the moment,” said another teacher. Officials from the education department said that an extension can be given in case it is required. “We will look into the issue and see what can be done,” said an official from the department. While schools and colleges remain closed across the state, teachers are occasionally being called to school for work as per some teachers. Teachers now hope that the department announces summer break so that they can prepare for the upcoming semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-teachers-request-extension-to-file-data-for-centre-s-school-portal-101619205116780.html
24-04-2021||Other||Vijayan asks PM for free doses of vaccine||Thiruvananthapuram As Kerala reported its highest single-day spike, clocking 28,447 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tweak the proposed vaccine policy and ensure free doses to the overburdened state.Talking to reporters in the state capital, the CM said in the virtual meeting chaired by the PM, he appraised him about the shortage of vaccine and told him that the new policy will put extra burden on the state, which is already reeling under the impact of the pandemic. He expressed hope the Union government will take a proactive decision on the issue.“In India, major vaccines were distributed free of cost. When the country is going through a difficult situation, it is not proper to impose a fee on vaccine. Three-level price mechanism is really intriguing. Hope the PM will realise this and will have a rethink,” the CM said, adding that most of the states expressed similar view in the meeting. Vijayan said the state will need ₹1,300 crore to meet the vaccine bill, if the Centre insists for fee.He said the state cannot wait interminably for doses and it will chalk out a plan to buy directly from the market. “For herd immunity, vaccination is important. We want to carry it out as quickly as possible to contain the surge. In the state, only 11% people were exposed to the virus, so we have to act fast,” the CM said, adding that despite mounting cases, the state maintained the lowest case fatality rate of 0.39% in the country.The state reported 28,477 new cases on Friday, taking the active caseload in Kerala to 178,983, according to health department data. The test positivity rate in state was reported at 21.78%. With 27 fatalities, death toll in Kerala climbed up to 5,055. Ernakulam district topped the list with 4,548 cases. Vijayan also lauded people for contributing to the CM’s relief fund to foot expenses of the vaccine. “It is really heart-warming. On Friday also, we received more than ₹1 crore towards this. This shows spirit of the people. We will make a separate fund for this and use it only for vaccine,” he said.Stating that the second wave in Kerala was critical, the CM said the government will do everything possible to save lives. “It is more than what we expected. There is no short cut but people will have to go by the restrictions. If we work in unison we can overcome this like last year,” Vijayan said, adding the weekend restrictions will be on the lines of lockdown. The government has also called an all-party meet on Monday. He said decision on further restrictions will be decided after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vijayan-asks-pm-for-free-doses-of-vaccine-101619205057430.html
24-04-2021||Other||Thirrsur Pooram celebrated without pomp amid Covid||Thiruvananthapuram Amid strict vigil and restrictions in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic in Kerala and across the country, Thirrsur Pooram was celebrated on Friday without spectators. Unlike the usual pomp and thunderous cheers of spectators -- who enjoy the ensemble of percussion instruments and parade of 80-odd, caparisoned elephants -- this time, Pooram was restricted to mere rituals. The entry was restricted to only artists, temple board members, mahouts and others involved in the rituals of the festival. Earlier, the temple body and many Hindu outfits had insisted for a regular festival, citing the just- concluded assembly elections, but after several rounds of discussion, all agreed to limit the festival to mere rituals. The lack of spectators, however, failed to dampen the grandeur of the visual spectacle. The Pandi Melam led by maestro Peruvanam Kuttan Marar enthralled the festival, which was live streamed by many channels. Thiruvambadi temple only paraded only one elephant, but Paramekavu Devi temple brought 15 jumbos and Kudamattom, the change of colourful parasols in quick succession, added to the grandeur. “We are forced to limit festivities in view of the pandemic situation. But many artists complained that spectators are real fuel for them. We hope these dark clouds will vanish by next year,” said G Rajesh, secretary of the Paramekavu, one of the lead temples participating in the Pooram.The largest cultural pageant of the state, Pooram was started in the late 18th century by erstwhile King of Kochi, Sakthan Thamburan. Every year, the festival is held at Vadukunathan temple in Thrissur. But last year, it was not held in view of the pandemic situation. Usually, more than two million devotees take part in the 10-day celebration, which culminates with a musical ensemble and grand fireworks. It is also a major tourist attraction of the state. But over the last two years, pandemic has taken sheen out of the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thirrsur-pooram-celebrated-without-pomp-amid-covid-101619204936850.html
24-04-2021||Other||Oxygen shortage will force many health centres to shut: Karnataka CM to PM Modi||Bengaluru After faltering for nearly four months in preparedness for the imminent second wave of coronavirus pandemic, as warned by the panel of experts on Covid-19 in state, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that if the shortage of oxygen supply continued, then it would become inevitable to close down several health centres in the state. “The usage of oxygen in the state is going up on a daily basis and yesterday 500 tonnes were used. The Centre has distributed only 300 tonnes to the state. If the same continues, we will be in a situation to close down several health centres,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO). PM Modi on Friday held a review meeting with several Covid-19 impacted states in the country, including Karnataka that has seen a sharp spike in cases on account of the surge in Bengaluru. Karnataka has over 2 lakh active cases, with Bengaluru accounting for more than half of these, according to government data. Both the state and its capital have registered record numbers in the past week and the surge is expected to peak in the first week of May, according to experts. An analysis by the Hindustan Times estimates that if the same growth rate continues, Bengaluru will soon start reporting around 25,000 new infections every day, further stretching the already overworked and inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the city. The growing number of cases in Bengluru has led to chaos across the city, with families of Covid-19 patients, who required hospitalistaion, running from hospital-to-hospital to get their loved ones admitted. Several people have died on the footsteps of hospitals after being denied admission and several others continue to wait outside these private and public medical facilities in the hope that they will be attended at some point, experts pointed out. Though the fatalitiy rate remains under 0.5%, the higher number of infections means that a higher number of people require hopsitalisation, experts said. Meanwhile, Bengaluru is rapidly running out hospital beds. According to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), there are just 1,496 hospital beds available in the city. Of these, only 21 beds with intensive care units (ICU) or those with ventilators, as on 5.10 pm on Friday, according to BBMP’s central bed management system. With only 2 ICU-V beds remaining in government hospitals, they saw an occupancy of 97.14%, as pet BBMP data. The occupancy rates in private medical colleges for ICU and ICU-V were at 99.03% and 94.92%, respectively, while the same were 94.77% and 97.41% in private hospitals, according to BBMP data. The chief minister has requested the Centre for supply of 1,471 tonne of oxygen per day and 200,000 doses of remdesivir for the next 10 days, according to the CMO. He, however, told the PM that Karnataka had adequate number of hospitals beds but were only running out of oxygen and critical life-saving drugs. “Karnataka has got adequate beds to manage Covid patients. At this rate we will face problems in the coming days to manage serious cases. We have permitted opening of step-down hospitals to decrease the load on hospitals. We are also considering setting up Field Hospitals with ICU facilities,” according to the CMO statement. “The hospital bed situation is dynamic, and more beds are being added every day. So, this should not be a problem,” a member of the technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in the state said, requesting not to be named. The opposition parties and general public, however, have hit out at the lack of preparedness by the Yediyurappa government despite being warned in November last year by the TAC of an imminent second wave in Bengaluru and Karnataka. “It is increasingly becoming difficult to answer phone calls calling for help with beds, oxygen & remdesivir. Helplessness is creeping in, but one must keep trying. Govt has just given up on citizens & is manipulating data & headlines. If this continues, “Ab ki baar, Antim Sanskar”,” Priyank Kharge, the Congress legislator from Kalaburagi, posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-shortage-will-force-many-health-centres-to-shut-karnataka-cm-to-pm-modi-101619204757509.html
24-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC rejects pre-arrest bail of 6 army men accused of colleague’s murder||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of six army personnel booked for the alleged murder of their colleague. The case was registered by the victim’s wife as she doubted the claims of the colleagues that the man had died by drowning while they were at a picnic. The court held that as the circumstances surrounding the death of the man needed to be ascertained and the custodial interrogation of the six accused was necessary, their ABA cannot be granted. The single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail applications filed by the six personnel working in the army, was informed by advocate Gaurav Parkar that they were the friends of army man Ganesh Thokal and that there was no animosity among them. Parkar submitted that Thokal died during a picnic, and if there was any dispute among them, he would not have accompanied the accused. According to the first information report (FIR) filed by Thokal’s wife Rupali, her husband had joined the army in 2003 and retired in July 2020, following which the couple started living in Ahmednagar district’s Kamargaon. When the friends had visited the couple, Thokal asked one of the accused, Bhagwan Yadav, to return the ₹1 lakh which the latter owed the victim. A dispute arose between them as Yadav was allegedly not returning the amount. Last September, Yadav called Thokal to Pune and the accused and the victim went to picnic at Murud-Kashid. In her complaint, Rupali stated that she spoke to Thokal over the phone twice, but he did not respond to a third call on the next day. The day after that, Thokal’s body was brought home in an ambulance, and Rupali was told that her husband had drowned while swimming. However, a black mark on Thokal’s eye and neck prompted Rupali to doubt the reason stated behind her husband’s death and she lodged a murder complaint against the six men. When the ABA came up for hearing, the bench sought the opinion of the medical officer on the injury marks. The medical officer submitted that when Thokal’s body was brought out of the water, it did not have the marks and that it did not occur due to post-mortem procedure. “These bruises appear after sustaining injury by blunt force application. Sometimes ecchymosis [bruise] may not appear until after death. Sometimes, they are delayed by one or two days. When a contusion has been caused a few hours or a day before death, they do not occur due to post-mortem violence,” said the report. Based on the opinion of the medical officer, justice Kotwal observed that the injury near the eye was as a result of blunt force and needed to be investigated. As there was a dispute between the victim and one of the accused over money, the reason and circumstances leading to Thokal’s death would require custodial interrogation and hence, their ABA was being rejected. The court also vacated the interim protection from arrest considering the seriousness of the incident and the urgent need for custodial interrogation, and disposed of the applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-of-6-army-men-accused-of-colleague-s-murder-101619204756893.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s worry: How to get 110 million vaccine doses for all?||With 57.1 million people from the 18-44 age group added to the existing list of 33.8 million Covid vaccine beneficiaries, the biggest worry for the state government is procuring the stock to put the drive on fast track. The state will need more than 110 million vaccine doses for inoculation of the age group, the onus of procurement of which is on the government. The authorities, after tapping the possibilities of procurement from two vaccine manufacturing companies, are apprehensive about the availability of doses. The state authorities are also wary about the high rates ascertained for the vaccines. “During our meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, we have demanded One Nation One Rate of the vaccine, so we could easily implement the vaccination drive aggressively. Not only Maharashtra, most chief ministers who attended the video conference have demanded this. The state has its own financial constraints, although we will bear the cost of inoculation for the poor. The reduction in rates will help us vaccinate more people for free, otherwise we will have to restrict free inoculation to the poor. In that case, we will try and rope in corporate houses and private sector,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. Tope said in the absence of availability of stock, the state may not be able to achieve its target of aggressive inoculation. “The Serum Institute of India has expressed inability to supply the stock until May 24. We have been talking to Bharat Biotech. The decision over implementation of the third phase of inoculation and free vaccination for the poor based on the financial burden will be taken in the cabinet meeting,” he said. Congress leader and public works department minister Ashok Chavan has demanded the same rate of vaccine for states and Centre. He said that if the states are forced to buy the vaccines at ₹400 a dose, the burden on the state exchequer will be more than ₹4,000 crore. According to the officials from the public health department, the decision over the cover of free vaccination will depend on the rates finalised after discussions with manufacturers. “Covishield will cost ₹400 a dose, if the negotiations fail, but the rates for Covaxin are not known as yet. Similarly, we will have to check the burden of imported doses too. If the Centre does not help us on negotiation of rates, we will have to cover a limited number of families in low-income groups. The cabinet will take a call on whether to cover only 2.5 million families in Antyoday scheme under the National Food Security Act for free vaccination or extend it to more families. In that scenario, we will rope in private sector to a large extent to reduce the burden, but it will hamper our target of aggressive vaccination,” the official said. The official said the state expects the Centre to bear the cost of inoculation of all above 45 years and health care as well as frontline workers from all age groups. Tope said the Maharashtra government has already demanded permission from the Centre for import of vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Sputnik to tide over the shortage of the ones in domestic markets. According to officials, the import of the vaccines may take a few more months as manufacturers have orders lined up from other countries. Maharashtra has been facing a shortage of the vaccines, hindering its aim of inoculating more than 600,000 people every day. Amid the shortage, the inoculation rate in the state has dwindled. From 2,590,405 doses administered in the first week of the month (April 2-8), the number dropped to 2,053,123 (April 9-15) and further to 2,043,725 over the last one week (April 16-22). This means, the daily average of inoculation dropped to 291,961 over last week, from 370,058 in the first week of the month. The shortage has resulted in shutting down of many centres in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and other parts of the state. The state has so far received, 14,416,780 doses from the Centre till April 20, against which 13,980,023 doses have been administered to 12.17 million people till 5pm on Friday. The officials said the infrastructure for vaccination would not be a problem for the government. “We have a robust network of inoculation centres which can be ramped up to 9,000 from the existing 4,200 by converting the sub-centres to full-fledged centres. We have sub-centres at every four villages, with trained community health officers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives,” said the official. He said the modalities about the charges at public and private facilities for inoculation and the ratio of the supply of vaccines between these two are yet to be finalised. Tope said the state has a daily capacity of inoculation of 8 lakh against which they are restricted to less than 3 lakh doses a day, due to unavailability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-worry-how-to-get-110-million-vaccine-doses-for-all-101619204636829.html
24-04-2021||Other||Karnataka needs 1,500 tonne oxygen daily: Health minister||Bengaluru: As the Covid-19 cases in the state are on the rise, the Karnataka government has said that it urgently requires 1,500 tonnes of medical oxygen on a daily basis to treat patients in state-run and private hospitals. Karnataka health minister on Friday retreated that the government has written to the central government on Wednesday putting for their demand. Talking about the situation in the state, the minister said there is a need for even though the state has been allotted 300 tonnes, the current requirement has doubled to 600 tonnes. “We are requesting for 1,500 tonnes since we think the requirement for oxygen will increase in May,” he said. Adding that the Karnataka government also set up a control room to monitor the supply of oxygen cylinders, he said there is no shortage of oxygen in the state and proactive measures are being taken by the state. “We have deployed 26 officials to operate the control room and a call centre with a mobile number (89517-55722) for the supply of oxygen and Remdesivir to hospitals. The process is now streamlined,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr HM Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Home Associations (PHANA), said that he had submitted a list of 56 hospital facing a severe shortage of oxygen. “There are hospitals from Bengaluru, Kalaburagi, Ballari and other places in this list. We feel there is an issue with oxygen supply not reaching the vendors who refill oxygen,” he said. On Saturday, Bangalore Institute of Gastroenterology (BIG) in Jayanagar had to transfer out three of the eight COVID-19 patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital after their oxygen supply ran out. On the same day, St. Philomena Hospital in Vivek Nagar also reported a shortage of oxygen supply, however, they were able to replenish the stock by evening. However, minister Sudhakar said that there is no shortage of oxygen in the state and there was a problem with storage, especially at the smaller hospitals. “Many hospitals, especially the smaller ones, don’t have enough storage facilities. They are mostly storing oxygen in small cylinders, and they have a requirement to refill multiple times in a day, this is leading a shortage,” said Sudhakar. He added that JSW has agreed to give 400 tonnes of oxygen for Karnataka and the state is procuring 5,000 cylinders to cater for the oxygen needs. Talking about the black market in the state, he added that The Health Department on Wednesday initiated action against Assistant Drugs Controller BR Venkatesh and placed him under suspension for creating artificial scarcity of the vital drug. On Friday, Bengaluru reported 16, 662 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total active cases to 1,49,624. The state also reported 124 deaths, which is the highest single-day death toll so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-needs-1-500-tonne-oxygen-daily-health-minister-101619204576843.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Vaccination to continue during weekend corona curfew: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said Covid-19 vaccination will continue as usual and people will be able to move freely for it during the weekend corona curfew that will be in force till 7am on Monday. The chief minister also said the vaccination drive from May 1 for those above 18 years of age would be free of cost and the committee under the UP finance minister would make a detailed plan for the campaign from May 1. “The committee will establish a dialogue with vaccine companies to make the vaccination drive successful,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting. He asked the officers concerned to act sternly against such people who were engaged in black-marketeering of oxygen and medicines, spreading rumours, and trying to vitiate the atmosphere. “Invoke the Gangsters Act, the National Security Act and even attach their properties,” Yogi Adityanath said. “It is heartening that in the last 24 hours, 22,000 patients have recovered from the disease and if we stick to the Covid appropriate behaviour and follow the mantra of test, trace, and treat, then we will attain victory over the virus,” he added. There should not be any discrimination in the distribution of Remdesivir and other lifesaving Covid drugs, he added. He also said the medicine distribution system required improvement. He asked officers concerned that people should not be overcharged for Covid-19 tests and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vaccination-to-continue-during-weekend-corona-curfew-yogi-101619204516779.html
24-04-2021||Other||Restrictions across state to continue till May 4: Karnataka home minister||Bengaluru: Karnataka home minister Basavaraja Bommai on Friday announced that partial restrictions will continue to remain in place after the weekend curfew, till May 4, as a measure to curb the relentless surge in Covid-19 cases. Earlier this week, the state government had declared night (9 pm to 6 am) and weekend curfews (9 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday) in the state from April 21. On Friday, the restrictions in the city and other parts of Karnataka were turned into a partial lockdown after shops and establishments that are not listed in the government’s Thursday order as ‘essential services’ were asked to shut down operations. “The weekend curfew will be similar to that of last year’s lockdown imposed across the state. Barricades would be erected on main roads, sub-main roads and ward roads, and unnecessary movement of people would be strictly restricted,” Bommai said. As per the fresh guidelines issued on Friday, essential services such as sale of groceries, milk and meat will be allowed between 6 am and 10 am on weekends. Only takeaways will be allowed at restaurants. During the weekdays, government offices and industries dealing with essential and emergency services will be allowed to function and their employees will be required to carry valid ID cards to commute within the city. Patients, their attendants and those wanting to take the vaccine will also be allowed to travel both during the weekend and weekdays till May 4. The remaining industries that were earlier allowed during the weekdays, will now remain shut till May 4. The government, which had earlier banned all constructions, on Friday clarified that constructions within an enclosed site will be allowed during this period. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) announced that metro services will remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. Modifying the timings for weekdays, it said that the service will begin as usual at 7 am but the last train from terminal stations — Nagasandra, Silk Institute, Mysuru Road and Baiyappanahalli — will leave at 7.30 pm. Long-distance travel in trains, buses and flights, taxis and private vehicles to and from these transport hubs will be allowed to ply on the production of valid travel documents till May 4. Marriages with an upper limit of 50 guests and funerals with a maximum gathering of 20 individuals will be allowed during this period. Several shopkeepers across the city expressed dissatisfaction over the latest guidelines. “We understand the need for a lockdown but it cannot be implemented like this. There was no warning. The government has said that there will be no lockdown but abruptly closed down shops,” Mahantesh R, member of the shop owners’ association in Avenue Road in Bengaluru, said.“People have taken orders and purchased raw materials for it as well. When a lockdown is announced like this, we will suffer losses. The government could have given us time to prepare, considering so many meetings were held,” he added. Taking a u-turn on his earlier statement, chief minister B S Yediyurappa last week ruled out the possibility of a lockdown. “There is no question of a lockdown,” he told reporters in Bidar, a day after he said that a complete shutdown could be enforced if required. Despite his final statement, the fear of a final lockdown continued to loom over several businesses. “We are hearing that there could be a full lockdown after May 4. Even though the chief minister had said there won’t be a lockdown, looking at the government’s actions, we are concerned,” Peter Antony, a shopkeeper in Bengaluru’s SP road, said. The state on Friday registered 26,296 cases, taking the overall tally to 1046,554. With 190 deaths in a single day, the overall figure rose to 14,075.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restrictions-across-state-to-continue-till-may-4-karnataka-home-minister-101619204456758.html
24-04-2021||Other||With 1634 new cases, Meerut records highest one-day spike||The Meerut district witnessed its highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases on Thursday, when 1634 people were tested positive for Sars-CoV-2. In nine districts of Meerut and Saharanpur divisions, a total of 4817 persons were tested positive on Thursday. The rising number of Covid cases in different districts of the region are increasing at an alarming rate. Currently, the Meerut district is witnessing the maximum number of positive cases, as per the health department records.For the first time, as many as 1634 persons out of 6635 were tested positive for Covid-19, as per the health department statistics. This shows the gravity of infection in the district as every 4th person is now infected with the virus. The health department daily bulletin shares that 3718 persons are under home isolation and so far 435 persons succumbed. Despite that, the number of cremations at Surajkund cremation ground here shows disparity with the number of deaths declared by the health department. Dinesh Jain, secretary of Ganga Motor Committee, caretaker of the cremation ground, claimed that 57 dead bodies were cremated at Surajkund on Wednesday out of which 35 were cremated with Covid protocol. “The cremation ground is overloaded,” he said. On contrary to this, the health department bulletins mentioned only 2 deaths by Covid on Wednesday. The assistant municipal commissioner Brijpal Singh said that deaths in Meerut are more because the critical patients referred from neighbouring districts in LLRM Medical college also get cremated here, after they succumb to coronavirus. Singh said that Nagar Nigam has now deputed its staff at the cremation ground to segregate hospital-wise deaths. “It would help us in keeping a separate database of deaths occurred in the district and outside districts,” said Singh.Meanwhile, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Meerut Akhilesh Mohan has released a list of 30 hospitals and 2952 beds available for the treatment of corona patients in these hospitals. The list also carries names of nodal officers in respective hospitals with their contact numbers. The situation in other districts is also alarming where the numbers of positive cases are on the rise. In Muzaffarnagar 432 persons were tested positive, 286 in Saharanpur, 249 in Shamli, 190 in Bagpat, 299 in Bulandshahar, 174 in Hapur, 1023 in Ghaziabad and 530 in Noida. Dr Anil Nausran, a senior pathologist and former secretary of IMA said that it is now clear that coronavirus is now spreading in the community as cases have also started coming from villages. “We were passing through a tough time,” said Dr Nausran who suggested that government should immediately allow all qualified doctors for the treatment of Covid patients. “Qualified doctors know how to save lives of people therefore they should be allowed to treat patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-1634-new-cases-meerut-records-highest-one-day-spike-101619204396736.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra: Nagpur hospitals grapple with oxygen shortage||Nagpur’s beleaguered healthcare infrastructure is grappling with multiple challenges, from a steady rise in coronavirus patients to a shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and anti-viral drug Remdesivir. Nagpur needs 180 metric tonnes (MT) of medical grade oxygen; at present it’s only able to generate 146 MT, and was able to procure some from other sources, including a supplier in Bhilai. However, a Central ministry order dated April 18 cut down the supply from the Bhilai supplier, Prax Air, from 110MT to 60MT following which the Vidarbha region – which requires at least 266.5MT of oxygen --- was facing a shortfall of at least 100 MT. This even prompted the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) to pull up the state and Centre for the prevailing mess, particularly on oxygen and Remdesivir shortage. This has hit urban centres like Nagpur hard: the district has the state’s second-highest case fatality rate (CFR; percentage of deaths per 100 cases) at 0.95% and the highest test positivity rate (TPR; number of positive cases per 100 tests) at 34%. On April 20, two private hospitals asked relatives to shift patients over oxygen shortage. However, district collector Ravindra Thakare stepped in an assured oxygen supply following which the families did not have to scramble for new beds. Viveka Hospital had 47 patients on oxygen with 10 in the ICU while Nucleus Mother and Child Super Speciality Hospital on Wardha Road had 62 patients on oxygen.“The current stock will suffice for one and half hour from now (20.00 hours). We are forced to evacuate patients as our oxygen supply has been reduced to 120 cylinders only. We will be informing patients’ relatives shortly to make appropriate arrangements for shifting their patients. This is for your kind information and attention as we are too helpless,” said Priyanka Pawar, manager administration, Viveka Hospital, Nagpur in a social media group of doctors and officials of district administration. This led the district collector to take prompt action and the hospital got oxygen cylinders next morning. Dr Prashant Jagtap of Viveka Multispecialty Hospital in west Nagpur said the management was planning to discharge about 100 patients (60 on Covid beds and 40 on non-Covid) because of shortage of oxygen. “Oxygen was short in supply, but the issue was later resolved with the intervention of the collector and officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation,” he said. “Now we are managing it somehow,” Jagtap said. Dr Anup Marar, convenor of the Vidarbha Hospital Association, said the oxygen shortage has reached alarming levels in Nagpur. “Without oxygen, we are clueless how to continue treatment of patients who are currently admitted,” he said. Dr Marar, who is also the director of Orange City Hospital, said that it is getting increasingly difficult to run the hospital without adequate oxygen. “We have 81 Covid beds along with 10 ventilator supports. But we have no backup of oxygen cylinders. Without extra cylinders, how can we save the patients if the supply is not replenished in time?” he asked. Nagpur is able to generate about 146MT of oxygen daily, but its requirement is around 166.5MT, the collector Ravindra Thakare informed the HC. Thus, even government facilities are not much better off. Dr Sudhir Gupta, dean of government medical college said that they are just about able to manage the 900-odd Covid beds in the facility. “Yes, we are facing shortage of oxygen. But our prime problem is to provide beds to needy and here we are unable to do it in time because of our limitations,” he pointed out. Retired state electricity board employee Shivshankar Walundare (71) succumbed to Covid-19 early Thursday morning after he was unable to find an oxygen bed for the last five days. His son Kunal (39), a real estate broker said that his father tested positive eight days ago. “As his oxygen level was below 80, we were frantically looking for a hospital bed with oxygen. But we got none either in a government or a private hospital,” he said. All members of his family, including his mother, sister and himself, were also infected with the virus. Krishna Maske, a friend of the family who is also Covid positive, learnt about the availability of a bed with oxygen at in a private hospital Bhandara, 65 km from Nagpur, on April 20 evening. “We immediately arranged an ambulance with an oxygen cylinder and headed to Bhandara,” he said. There, the hospital denied admitting Walundare, because his O2 level was now 75, Maske said. By this time, Walundare’s condition had worsened, and he was in dire need of an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) bed with a ventilator; but he was only able to get an oxygen bed in municipality-run Covid centre at Umred on Wednesday evening, and that too with the help of a local politician. “It was too late and Shivshankar breathed his last early this morning,” Maske said. Another hospital at Chhatrapati Square on Wardha Road, Nucleus Mother and Child Superspeciality Hospital, reportedly put a notice on April 20 evening, requesting family members of those patients on oxygen support, to shift them to another facility. The notice was widely shared on social media. A doctor from the hospital, who wished to remain anonymous said, 62 patients were on oxygen beds. “We had a stock of only 40 jumbo cylinders since morning. We requested the collector and many others for additional stock but in vain. After our request, relatives of three patients took them to other hospitals. Now, the collector has assured of supply. Treatment will continue provided we get the supply,” he said. As the plight of the common man continues, the guardian minister for Nagpur district, Nitin Raut, claimed that they are trying their level best with various sources to meet the demand. The district collector, Ravindra Thakare said that the situation of Nagpur is slowing under control. “We are hopeful that the shortage of oxygen and other Covid medicines would be resolved within a day or two,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-nagpur-hospitals-grapple-with-oxygen-shortage-101619204337783.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s new protocol: Covid bed only after check-up at home||In order to ensure effective bed management, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday decided to allocate symptomatic Covid-19 patients a bed only after examination by its medical staff at the patient’s home. For this, BMC issued a new protocol to be followed on admitting Covid-19 patients at hospitals.According to BMC officials, all 24 wards have been directed to form a team of 10 medical staff including doctors who will visit patients’ houses and check their parameters in order to understand the type of bed required for admission.In a statement issued on Friday, BMC said, “From Sunday onwards, all symptomatic Covid patients will be allotted beds only after medical examination, which will be carried out by civic doctors and officials who will visit the patient’s home. The new protocol for Covid patient’s hospital admission was issued by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.”The statement added, “The coordination for the visit of doctors to Covid patient’s home will be done by the respective ward war room. The team of 10 medical staff in each ward will also be provided with a separate ambulance. The visit will be done between 7am and 11pm. However, for the period of 11pm to 7am, the patient will be brought to the nearest jumbo Covid-19 centre and will be tested and admitted, accordingly.”According to BMC officials, this way, patients will be allotted beds as per their need and medical condition, and not just based on their explanation or narration of their medical condition.A BMC official said, “In the past few days, the number of Covid-19 patients has increased and there are reports that patients are having difficulty getting a bed. The BMC helpline number 1916 was earlier getting around 2,500 calls daily, but that has now gone up to around 5,000 calls a day. This step will help in ensuring effective bed allocation.”According to BMC’s dashboard, of the total 21,331 beds in dedicated Covid centres and hospitals, 3,812 are available. In terms of occupancy ratio, the occupancy rate for ICU beds is 98.51%, ventilators is 98.55% and oxygenated beds is 92%.However, doctors claim that the process of allocating a bed only after a medical check-up might not be feasible in case of emergencies. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician, said around 240 staff will have to visit every symptomatic patient which is around 1,000 patients daily. In this case, if the patient is facing an emergency situation, we might be losing crucial time in making him wait at his or her home. The BMC will have to make exceptions in case of emergency for those who need urgent stabilisation process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-new-protocol-covid-bed-only-after-check-up-at-home-101619204216673.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||At 773, Maharashtra sees highest one-day Covid-19 death toll||The state on Friday recorded 66,836 new Covid-19 cases and 773 deaths — the highest one-day toll since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state last year. Meanwhile, in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and the recent oxygen leakages and fires in hospitals, the state government has ordered fire and oxygen audit for all the hospitals across the state.In addition, the state government has also given oxygen tankers the status of an ambulance, to facilitate faster movement of oxygen.The decision for audit was taken due to two major incidents, oxygen leakage at a Nashik hospital which claimed 24 lives and the Vasai fire incident where 13 patients were found dead.Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte in a meeting on Friday ordered all hospitals to undertake fire audit and immediately rectify all the defects pointed in the audit. In addition, he also ordered an oxygen audit to ensure that leakages are plugged and that there is a proper upkeep of all the parts of the equipment. He has also mandated police security for all vehicles transporting oxygen cylinders and prohibited officials from diverting them.The shortage of hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen as well as Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, continued to hassle Covid-19 patients.At Buldhana, a farmer family took the Covid-19 patient in an ambulance to the zilla parishad office after failing to get a hospital bed in that region. They went through seven such hospitals but to no avail. The act of taking the ambulance at the office sent shockwaves and the patient was finally able to secure a bed in a local hospital.There was a virtual fight for oxygen tanker as both Satara and Kolhapur staked claim for it. The tanker which was stationed at Satara border saw verbal duet between officials of both the cities.Currently, there are 691,851 active patients across the state; of which Pune tops with 116,602 patients followed by Mumbai with 81,174 active patients. The death toll has now reached 63,252 with Mumbai leading with 12,655 deaths followed by Pune 8928.The state government has imposed a total lockdown from Thursday night to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths.Dr Ameet Mandot, director of Gut Clinic at Parel, said lockdown will only serve to give breathing space to the administration. “The lockdown will serve to put a break on the surge and allow the government to beef up their medical infrastructure. However, this lockdown needs to be implemented stringently along with a crackdown on violations,” said Mandot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-773-maharashtra-sees-highest-one-day-covid-19-death-toll-101619204157363.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body prepares to avoid oxygen emergencies||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals to follow to prevent emergencies due to shortage in oxygen availability. BMC also said that oxygen is available in all hospitals in Mumbai, but asked hospitals to use it efficiently.The current demand of oxygen in Mumbai is between 240 metric tonnes and 250 metric tonnes a day. Oxygen storage in city hospitals is replenished every day from two suppliers — Inox and Linde. While municipal hospitals have their own large or mega storage facilities where oxygen is replenished every day or twice a day, depending on demand, private hospitals purchase it directly from suppliers in the market, or can approach BMC from time-to-time in case of emergency.BMC, in its SOP, has asked chief engineers of mechanical and electrical department to prepare a ward-wise data chart of private hospitals, their oxygen suppliers, and quantity of available dura, jumbo and small oxygen cylinders at the hospital. This list will be shared with BMC’s ward war rooms and Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Covid control room.Each hospital has to inform their oxygen supplier of the demand 24 hours in advance, or as per their agreement (whichever is earlier). If the supplier does not delivered oxygen within next 16 hours, hospitals have to inform the BMC control room, following which BMC will try to contact the supplier and make oxygen available to the hospital. If it cannot be done within two hours, BMC will inform the FDA control room, which will try to get oxygen delivered from the supplier to the hospital. If this cannot happen in two more hours, FDA will inform the divisional coordinating officer to make oxygen available to the private hospital.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told HT, “I had informed all hospitals last week itself to conduct an audit of oxygen supply system, oxygen storage and other related things.”On April 21, HJ Doshi Ghatkopar Hindu Mahasabha Hospital in Ghatkopar informed BMC around 5pm that it had oxygen left to last only till 6.30pm. At the time, all 61 patients were on oxygen support. BMC’s N ward delivered 15 jumbo oxygen cylinders and S ward delivered nine jumbo oxygen cylinders to the hospital by 6.15pm, restoring its supply and backup. Meanwhile, the private supplier associated with the hospital also provided four oxygen cylinders. BMC also had ambulances on stand-by in case patients needed to be shifted from the hospital.The next day, BMC officials from N ward held an emergency meeting with the hospital administration and chalked out a plan for setting up oxygen storage facility in its premises, to ensure such a situation does not arise again.Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital, told HT, “Sion hospital has an oxygen storage facility with an original capacity of 15 MT. We doubled this capacity during the pandemic. Oxygen storage is replenished every day or twice a day, as need arises. But we have do not ever exhaust our full storage capacity. In fact, our buffer storage can ensure we will have enough supply to last all patients even if supply is not filled for a day.”P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects) who created the SOP, said, “Even for suppliers to augment supply to BMC, we are looking for new sources of oxygen procurement.”A spokesperson from LH Hiranandani Hospital said, “We procure our own oxygen from the market.”Dr Bhavik Patel, assistant manager medical operations, Bhatia Hospital in Grant Road, said, “In such a crisis, supply of oxygen is challenging and we formed a strategy to combat it. We, along with our supply vendor, started to monitor the levels on an hourly basis, which helped us avoid shortage as we have enough buffer time in placing orders and getting delivery. We also kept a manifold system which gives back up for six hours. Also, we changed focus on reducing oxygen consumption in our hospital. This was done by us as we are postponing elective surgeries and elective diagnostic procedures which contributed sustainably in daily oxygen consumption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-prepares-to-avoid-oxygen-emergencies-101619204037395.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra CET cell to hold additional admission rounds for 3-year LLB course||A day after it was revealed that over 767 seats for the three-year law course remain vacant despite several common admission rounds, Maharashtra’s minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced additional admission rounds to fill up these seats.In a tweet shared on Friday, Samant said the additional rounds will take place between April 23 (Friday) and 29.“These additional rounds will be conducted by the state common entrance test (CET) cell and information on these rounds will be available on the official CET website,” tweeted Samant.Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months this academic year, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota.In December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make the necessary changes to their admission form after the state government decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota under which the Maratha community was granted admissions.After much delay, the first list of the three-year and five-year law courses were scheduled to be released in the first week of February, but had to be postponed again after the state common entrance test (CET) cell received complaints of error in student information. The cell then had to conduct a third-party audit to recheck information shared by students at the time of registration, leading to further delay. After three online rounds, the final institutional rounds concluded in the second week of April.In a press statement, Samant stated that the government has taken into consideration the delay in conducting admissions for law courses, and will give them extra time to complete their curriculum and exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cet-cell-to-hold-additional-admission-rounds-for-3-year-llb-course-101619203857088.html
24-04-2021||Other||Mumbai cop arrested in Mansukh Hiran murder case was suspended earlier too||Police inspector Sunil Mane had cleared the MPSC (Maharashtra Public Service Commission) exam in 1995 to become a police officer. Born and brought up in Mumbai, Mane completed his graduation from a Goregaon-based college in 1993. After completing his training from Nashik Police Training Academy in 1996, he was first posted at Oshiwara police station as a sub-inspector. Two years later, he was posted in Mumbai crime branch’s unit 8 at Dharavi. In 2001, he was transferred to the crime intelligence unit (CIU). Mane was placed under suspension for two years in early 2000s after the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Mumbai, registered a case against him in a bribery case. He was later reinstated and posted in the local arms division and then in 2005, transferred to the anti-terrorism squad’s (ATS) unit in Juhu. During his posting at the unit, he completed his LLB from a Vile Parle-based college. Mane was promoted as assistant police inspector in 2008 and became came to limelight in January 2009, after arresting senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer Saji Mohan in a drugs case. After receiving information that two men were coming to handover a drugs consignment in Oshiwara, Mane and his team laid a trap and arrested businessmen Vicky Oberoi and Rajesh Kumar Kataria, and seized 1.85kg of heroin from them. During interrogation, they confessed that they were working for Mohan, who was then posted at the Narcotics Control Bureau. Mane then arrested Mohan and seized 12kg of heroin from him. After his interrogation, an additional 25kg of heroin was seized by ATS from a godown in Vasai. Oberoi became an approver in the case, and in 2019, Mohan was sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment, while Kataria got 13 years in jail. Mane was selected for the prestigious FICCI Award in recognition of distinguished service in the anti-smuggling and anti-counterfeiting category. After spending six-seven years in ATS, Mane served in several crime branch units. He also worked as an inspector at Sakinaka police station for some time. Last May, he was transferred from unit 10 to modus operandi bureau (MOB), considered to be a side posting, after a businessman alleged that Mane and one of his senior officers demanded ₹50 lakh from him. When the businessman refused to pay them, he was allegedly arrested in a cheating case. A few months later, Mane was transferred from MOB and became the incharge of unit 11 of the crime branch. On March 23, Mane’s name appeared in the list of 65 officers who were shunted out of the crime branch as part of a ‘clean-up’ drive, and was posted in a local arms division. Mane’s father retired from the motor transport department as a police inspector. His elder brother is also in the force and is currently serving as an assistant sub-inspector in Mumbai. Mane lives in Malad (West) along with his wife and two sons. Like suspended cop Sachin Vaze, Mane was also said to be a favourite officer of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, under whose supervision he had cracked some important cases in ATS, including the Mohan case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cop-arrested-in-mansukh-hiran-murder-case-was-suspended-earlier-too-101619203796666.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Oxygen Express reaches Nagpur, 3 tankers unloaded||Indian Railways’ first Oxygen Express reached Nagpur in Maharashtra on Friday evening. The Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) express reached Nagpur with seven liquid medical oxygen tankers at 8.10pm.However, it took over 90 hours for the Oxygen Express to reach Nagpur. It had left from a steel plant in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh for Maharashtra on Thursday evening. The express had left from the Central Railway’s Kalamboli railway yard on Monday evening. Of the three tankers unloaded at Nagpur railway station, two will be for Nagpur and one will head to Amravati.According to the district collector’s office, the tankers will be moved to an oxygen plant in Nagpur. “The tankers will be moved via road to oxygen plants in the city and will then be headed to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and then to private hospitals in the city.” Ravindra Thakare district collector Nagpur.Further, the express departed for Nashik Road railway station and is expected to reach by Saturday morning, wherein the remaining four tankers will be unloaded.“The remaining tankers will be unloaded at Nashik Road railway station and then be transported by road by the state government to different districts of Maharashtra.” said a senior railway official.The train moved via Vasai Road, Jalgaon, Nagpur, Raipur junction to Visakhapatnam steel plant, siding in the East Coast railway zone. The RORO flat wagons can accommodate up to 32 tankers.A second Oxygen Express for Maharashtra is also likely to be operated soon from Boisor railway yard in the Palghar district of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oxygen-express-reaches-nagpur-3-tankers-unloaded-101619203257196.html
24-04-2021||Other||Hiran murder: Mumbai Cop Sunil Mane sent to NIA custody till April 28||A special court on Friday remanded Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, arrested in connection with Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder, to the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) custody till April 28. Hiran is linked to the explosives-laden Scorpio found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia on February 25, an incident that ballooned into a huge political controversy, eventually resulting in the exit of the state’s home minister.An NIA officer who asked not to be named said the agency summoned Mane for interrogation in connection with the Antilia and murder cases on Thursday and placed him under arrest on Friday.He was produced before special judge Rahul R Bhosle. Advocate Prakash Shetty, appearing for NIA said the federal agency requested Mane’s custody to recover his phone and other personal devices and also to obtain his call data records. The agency claimed Mane was a part of the conspiracy to kill Hiran and had confessed to his role in the murder.Mane’s counsel advocate Aditya Gore opposed the remand, claiming that his client was not involved in the murder and that the agency has no evidence against him, except his purpoted confession.The special court accepted Shetty’s contention and remanded Mane to NIA custody.The court also extended the judicial custody of two other accused, suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and his colleague at crime branch’s criminal intelligence unit (CIU) Riyazuddin Kazi, till May 5.Mane was in charge of unit 11 of the crime branch till recently. He was transferred as a part of the clean-up drive undertaken by police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, after Vaze was arrested by NIA in the cases and posted at the local arms branch.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the explosives case, but removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. Hiran himself was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it in early February.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his management of his case. The police officer subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze to extort Rs100 crore from restaurants and bars, and when no action was forthcoming approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation.According to NIA officers, Mane was under suspicion from the beginning, and a team from the agency visited the Kandivli unit of the crime branch where he was posted. The team inspected several vehicles parked at the office. The agency investigations, the officers said, already revealed that the person who made the last call Hiran received before he went missing, at 8.30pm on March 4, identified himself as a crime branch officer from Kandivli and drew the victim out of his Thane home on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road. The following day, Hiran’s body was found in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf.NIA officers claimed that Mane was involved in the murder conspiracy. According to Shetty, he was placed under arrest after thoroughly verifying his role.The NIA officers said that Mane was present at CIU on March 3, when Vaze tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden SUV near Antilia. According to NIA, Vaze assured Hiran that he would be out on bail soon. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after he refused to take the blame, the officers added.The NIA officer who asked not to be named said that at least two witnesses, a hotelier who visited CIU on March 3 and a deputy commissioner of police, also questioned by NIA , have corroborated that Mane was with Vaze at CIU office that day. The officer added that Mane was also present at the meeting attended by Vaze, arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde and another former officer before the murder at Chakala in Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hiran-murder-mumbai-cop-sunil-mane-sent-to-nia-custody-till-april-28-101619203256609.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Steel plants in Maharashtra should divert oxygen for Covid patients: HC||Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed Nagpur divisional commissioner to requisition all the liquid oxygen, being produced by four steel plants in Maharashtra, for catering to the needs of Covid-19 patients across the state. The directors of the four plants at Bhandara, Thane, Pune and Dolvi in the Raigad district have been requested to agree to the arrangement to avoid compulsory requisitioning.The court also directed requisitioning of cylinders to bottle the oxygen being brought through the railway route in tankers. The court further directed the state to place a request before the central-level committee to fulfil the requirement of Remdesivir and posted a hearing of the suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) on April 27. The division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and SM Modak, while hearing the suo motu PIL and two other PILs, was informed by advocate MG Bhangde for the state and other state authorities that as per the order of the bench, the data on the distribution of Remdesivir in Nagpur district showed that there was no shortage of the drug. He, however, added that the indiscriminate use of the drug should be avoided. The court observed that while it had received information about Nagpur, there was none about Amravati, and hence directed the addition of the divisional commissioner Amravati and its joint commissioner of FDA as respondents. The officials were asked to file affidavits with data on the present position of continuous supply of life-saving drugs such as Remdesivir, Favipiravir, Tocilizumab, Ivermectin and also the supply of oxygen throughout Covid care centres in their division. The court then sought information on oxygen supply in Nagpur and asked advocate Aditya Goel, who filed an interim application, informing the court that the Lloyd steel plant and other steel plants had their oxygen-producing units and they could also be asked to divert the oxygen for overcoming the short supply. The court accepted the suggestion and directed the divisional commissioner of Nagpur to place a request before the directors of the plants. “We request him to consider suggestions made by advocate Goel and examine if, under section 36 of Disaster Management Act, it can be requisitioned or not.” The court then observed, “In fact, we have full faith in the directors of this company that given the receipt of a humble request from the divisional commissioner of Nagpur, they would readily agree to submit the oxygen plant of their company and would not let any situation of compulsory requisitioning in any manner.” When informed of the problem of bottling the oxygen coming on railway tankers from various parts of the country including Visakhapatnam due to a shortage of empty cylinders. The bench was informed that while the 11 oxygen distributors had 20,000 cylinders in circulation, there were manufacturing units and smaller plants that also used oxygen cylinders and around 3,400 additional cylinders could be easily requisitioned for bottling and distributing the oxygen coming from outside Maharashtra. The court directed the Nagpur divisional commissioner to requisition the cylinders and said, “If required, form a team of officers who would be personally visiting units, and empty cylinders available can be taken with help of police and state reserve police force (SRPF). Needless to say, appropriate rent would have to be paid for owners of cylinders requisitioned in the public interest.” With regards to the supply of Remdesivir, the bench was informed by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that the Central government through the central level committee had asked all manufacturers to ramp up production of the drug to 2.69 lakh vials per day. The court then said, “We direct the state of Maharashtra to review the provisions regarding requirement of Remdesivir vials in state and if it is found more vials are required than those allotted, appropriate request with proper justification be made to the central level committee.” The court while warning against the indiscriminate use of Remdesivir by doctors by not following Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) laid down by the State Covid Task Force the court said, “As long as no such instances of manifest misuse of the drug are brought to the notice of nodal officers and unless they seem to be completely in violation of mandatory SOP, the state machinery would not be in a position to take any action against medical experts who are wrongly prescribing a drug, this is the area which remains largely in the discretion of experts in the medical field and as such we would request all doctors treating Covid patients to try to scrupulously follow SOP unless, in their opinion, departure is necessary to save the life of patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/steel-plants-in-maharashtra-should-divert-oxygen-for-covid-patients-hc-101619203196648.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||IITs ease exam, online class stress for students as cases surge||With Covid-19 cases on the rise across the country, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are doing their best to ease the burden of students, especially those whose family members have tested positive for the virus.IIT-Bombay on Thursday announced that students, whose close family members have been infected, will be allowed to take the end semester exams at a later date. The semester exams will be held online and kick off on Monday. All undergraduate courses are being held online and around 3,000 postdoctoral and research fellows are currently on campus. “The health and wellbeing of all students are more important than the exams they write. In the senate meeting held Thursday, it was decided that no student should suffer from exam-related stress during this extremely difficult time of the pandemic in the country,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-Bombay.The senate has decided that any student, who falls sick or whose family member falls sick, will be given the chance to take the end-sem exams at a later date. On Wednesday, the IIT-Delhi administration sent an email, reviewed by HT, to all its students announcing similar measures. The institute is allowing students to withdraw from a course or examination for the course for any ‘situation created because of Covid’ such as their health or that of family members.The institute has a provision for an ‘I grade’ wherein students can choose to defer or withdraw from the exams for the said course. Among other interim measures announced by Shantanu Roy, dean, academics, IIT Delhi, the institute has relaxed its mandate for attending online classes till the end of April.“We have our senate meeting coming up next week and some more measures will also be discussed in there,” said V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT Delhi.While IIT Madras always allows make-up exams to students, who are unable to write exams on the scheduled date, the institute is also permitting the students absent in online classes to download and view the recorded lectures. Even if the student views the recorded lecture (at any time /day) attendance is granted.IIT Mandi, too, has removed the mandatory attendance criteria for online courses. “The majority of courses are taught in a live mode online, and subsequently, the video recordings, lecture transcripts, and notes are made available to the students to ensure that they have full access to the course material. This also ensures that course offerings cater to students with different internet bandwidth accessibilities,” said Srikant Srinivasan, associate dean, courses, IIT Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-ease-exam-online-class-stress-for-students-as-cases-surge-101619203137275.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 240,349 Covid-19 cases in a month||One month after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) intensified testing in the city to over 40,000 samples daily, it detected 240,349 cases which is around 39% of the total 609,800 caseload in the city, as of Thursday. During the same time, Mumbai also reported 979 deaths. Further, in the plast one month, the number of containment zones and sealed buildings have also doubled.According to BMC’s dashboard, in the past one month, over 1.03 million tests were conducted in the city, of which 56% were RT-PCR tests and around 43% were tested via rapid antigen kits. The average daily tests before March 23 was around 18,000 to 22,000 tests daily in the city that went above 45,000, post-March 23.As of April 21, Mumbai has tested 5,122,026 samples of which 11.75% have been tested positive. In terms of daily positivity rate, the same has gone down to around 15% from around 26% in the first week of April.The spike in Covid cases also resulted in the number of cases going up in the city on a month-on-month basis.According to the state health department data, the city reported 16,614 cases in February, 88,001 in March and 186,381 in April (up to April 22.) Deaths toll have also increased in the city from 114 in February, 211 in March and 875 between April 1 and April 22.On Friday, the city reported 7,199 cases followed by 72 deaths. The city total caseload stands to be 616,279 and the toll is 12,655. The city’s recovery rate is 84% with 521,104 recoveries followed by city’s mortality rate is 2.05% and there are 81,174 active cases in the city.Dharavi - city’s former hot spot reported 50 cases on Friday taking the total tally to 6,260. There 943 active cases in Dharavi and 4,973 have been discharged.Further, in the past one month, the number of containment zones and sealed buildings have also doubled. In the case of containment zones that cover chawls and slums, the number has gone up from 39 on March 22, to 114 as of April 21. The number of sealed buildings has gone up from 432 to 1,198 and sealed floors have gone up from 5,896 to 10,975 in the same period.According to BMC officials, the number of cases in the city has become steady, as between 7,000 to 9,000 cases are being reported daily.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had last week said that though cases have become steady in the city, the next 15 days (up to April 30) period is crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-240-349-covid-19-cases-in-a-month-101619203077779.html
24-04-2021||Lucknow||Two Oxygen Exp trains on track for destination Lucknow||Two Oxygen Express trains that aim at ending the oxygen crisis in Uttar Pradesh are expected to reach Lucknow on Saturday and Sunday morning respectively. The first special train will have three oxygen tankers of 20,000 litres each. One tanker will be unloaded in Varanasi en route. The remaining two will be brought to the state capital. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi confirmed one train would arrive on Saturday and said, “Of the three loaded containers, one would unload at Varanasi and two in Lucknow. Of these two, one will be sent to Kanpur and the other will be used in Lucknow itself.” The first train left Bokaro, Jharkhand, on Friday noon. The railways rushed the second train loaded with empty oxygen tankers to fetch another consignment from Bokaro. “The load is ready, it is all set to leave Bokaro for Lucknow,” said Dhaneshwar Mohanta, additional divisional railway manager of the Adra division of South Eastern Railway (SER). Mohanta was overseeing the entire train operation in Bokaro. The officials with Northern Railway (NR) said the (second) train is expected to reach state capital on Sunday morning. “The Oxygen Express that aims at ensuring the supply of oxygen to UP has left Bokaro Steel Plant. We have also created a green corridor to minimise the total journeying time. Railway is making spontaneous efforts to ensure fast and regular supply of oxygen in states,” reads a tweet by railway minister Piyush Goyal soon after the (first) train left Bokaro on Friday. Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Northern Railway, Lucknow, said the train was moving at an average speed of 63km per hour and it was expected to reach Lucknow on Saturday morning. The NR DRM also said the other Oxygen Express train was rushed to Bokaro to bring in more LMO in order to meet the crisis situation. Officials with Northern Railway (NR) said they were expecting more such trains in the near future that would be a boon in curbing the “oxygen crisis-like situation” that has emerged following the sudden spike in the demand of LMO that plays a key role in giving relief to Covid-19 patients. The UP government had approached the railways to help it in bringing in LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha in order to meet the increased demand in the state, especially in Lucknow, Varanasi and Ayodhya (Faizabad) districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-oxygen-exp-trains-on-track-for-destination-lucknow-101619200256578.html
24-04-2021||Ranchi||12-hour road journey brings oxygen for Kashi hospitals||An oxygen tanker from Bokaro in Jharkhand reached an oxygen plant in Chandauli district’s Ramnagar industrial area in eastern Uttar Pradesh by road around 3am on Friday, covering the distance in “12 hours” instead of the usual 14 hours as a green corridor was created, officials said. The driver Suresh Kumar, a resident of Pratapgarh, drove non-stop. The arrival of the tanker with 20 tonnes (20,000 litres) of oxygen held the promise of easing the shortage in Varanasi somewhat amid the Covid-19 crisis. Soon after arriving at Ramnagar, the liquid medical oxygen in the tanker was unloaded at the MedTech plant there. The plant then started preparing medical oxygen, which was filled in cylinders. The oxygen cylinders were supplied to hospitals, Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said. Oxygen supply became somewhat normal by Friday noon. “I wanted the oxygen tanker to reach the plant as early as it could. Therefore, I spoke to the tanker driver Suresh Kumar and apprised him of the oxygen crisis in Varanasi. I motivated him and said if the tanker reached two-three hours before the usual time, it will be a great help. I am thankful to the driver Suresh Kumar. On our request, he has brought it non-stop from Bokaro. He started around 2.30pm on Thursday and reached the MedTech plant, Ramnagar, at around 3am to save the lives of patients.” Usually, it takes more than 14 hours to cover the distance from Bokaro to the oxygen plant in Ramnagar by road. Varanasi commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh sent a police escort vehicle which met the tanker beyond Dehri-on-Sone in Bihar and escorted it to the Ramnagar plant. “It was one of the most satisfying operations of my career,” Ganesh said. The district magistrate said the MedTech plant earlier got shut around 11am on Thursday when its liquid oxygen stock ran out. As a result of the heavy pressure on oxygen supply on Thursday, new admissions in hospitals had to stop temporarily and a few patients were shifted from the hospitals that were left with little oxygen. Sharma said there were six oxygen plants in the industrial area of Chandauli. Four of them make oxygen from air and two produce it from liquid medical oxygen. Among these four plants, one has the capacity to produce 150 cylinders of oxygen every day and three others about 100 to 150 cylinders daily. The two other plants, which use liquid medical oxygen to produce oxygen gas, have the capacity to produce 800 cylinders each in 24 hours. The district magistrate said there were 43 hospitals listed as Covid-19 care facilities, including six government hospitals and 37 private ones. The oxygen cylinders were being supplied to them as per their quota and need daily, he said, adding that the oxygen cylinders were supplied to the hospitals today (Friday). At the same time, oxygen cylinders are also being supplied to non-Covid hospitals. Sharma said Varanasi will also get an oxygen tanker from the Oxygen Express, which is likely to reach the city at around Friday midnight. At present, 3800 oxygen cylinders were being filled daily at oxygen plants in the industrial area of Chandauli. Varanasi is getting around 3400 cylinders every day against its daily need of around 6,000 cylinders. An oxygen plant ,with the help of a local philanthropist, will be set up at the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay government district hospital. It is likely to function from the first week of May. Likewise, a proposal has been sent for setting up another oxygen plant at the divisional hospital. Meanwhile, there are 1900 beds in Varanasi hospitals, 1600 of them with oxygen facility. All the beds with oxygen facility are occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12hour-road-journey-brings-oxygen-for-kashi-hospitals-101619198756449.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Arun Nigavekar, former UGC chairman, no more||Arun Nigavekar, former chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and former vice-chancellor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), passed away in Pune on Friday afternoon. He was 79-year-old and passed away due to a prolonged illness. Nigavekar was an eminent physicist. From 1998 to 2000 he worked as vice-chancellor at SPPU, then Pune University. After that he went to become vice-chairman, and then chairman, of UGC between 2000 and 2005. His significant contributions have been on the use of technology to improve higher education and the internationalisation of higher education. His path-breaking contribution was the initiation of the concept of quality in higher education, for which he was aptly called the father of the quality movement in higher education in India, by former President of India, the late Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. He was awarded numerous fellowships for his outstanding performance in academics. Talking about his demise, SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “He was initially professor of Physics and then he became HOD of the department in Pune university. He worked as vice-chancellor for around 2.5 years and then went to Delhi to become chiarman of UGC. Indian Science Congress was formed during his tenure and leadership. He was a good teacher, administrator and a soft-spoken person. He always helped me during my work as vice-chancellor and his demise is a big loss to the academic sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/arun-nigavekar-former-ugc-chairman-no-more-101619193056171.html
24-04-2021||Pune||300 oxygen beds lying vacant, due to lack of O2||The term “oxygen bed” has come to represent a misnomer in the city, as the supply of oxygen has continued to remain choked. “Oxygen beds” were meant to imply bed spaces that had oxygen lines as part of its immediate set-up for the occupant. With no oxygen, it is a bed, of which there is another worry that space may be running out. Three hundred such beds are ready in the city, but, no access to oxygen. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), along with several organisations over the past one month, has ensured that the number of beds has increased. However, oxygen supply to these beds is now another matter. With most Covid-19 patients home isolating, those that do need a hospital or Covid care centre bed, are generally in need of oxygen as well. The city’s Ganesh Kala auditorium was converted into a Covid care centre and claimed to have “100 oxygen beds”.Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “The hospital at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch is ready. Even doctors and other staff are ready, but we are not able to start operations because of a lack of oxygen supply.” Bagul added, “This facility is for poor people. We are trying to source oxygen from private suppliers.” PMC’s opposition leaders, Deepali Dhumal and Shiv Sena’s Prithviraj Sutar, on Friday, met divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and demanded oxygen for the new infrastructure. Rao made no promises on oxygen supply for new facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/300-oxygen-beds-lying-vacant-due-to-lack-of-o2-101619190898068.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Two special trains to Bihar to help ease rush of passengers headed north||The rush of passengers going towards north India has increased from the Pune railway station. Hence, the Central Railways has begun special trains to Bihar. Since strict restrictions are declared in the state, a large number of labourers are going back to their home states from Pune.Two additional special trains to Bhagalpur and Danapur in Bihar have now been started. These special trains are fully reserved and advance reservation is necessary to travel. People having confirmed tickets can only travel and they are requested to follow all the Covid norms and safety precautions. Both the trains, Pune–Bhagalpur (01469) will depart from Pune on April 28 and Pune-Danapur (01471) will depart from Pune on April 27. “As there is heavy rush of passengers going towards north India, these new special trains have been given by the railways. In last couple of weeks, there has been a considerable amount of increase in the number of daily passengers travelling on various trains starting from Pune, going towards north India,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-special-trains-to-bihar-to-help-ease-rush-of-passengers-headed-north-101619189996068.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Pune civic body sets up day-to-day monitoring of pre-monsoon work to meet deadline||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has developed software for the day-to-day monitoring of pre-monsoon work. Every engineer will upload information on the pre-monsoon work done on a day-to-day basis.The city’s 15 ward offices and the drainage department has started pre-monsoon work like cleaning storm water drains. Jagdish Khanore, superintendent engineer of the drainage department said, “At present, we have started minor work like cleaning the storm-water drains. The major pre-monsoon work includes cleaning of nallahs and repairing or replacing drainage lines. The tender for these works is in its final stage and it will start next week.”“The corporation has floated 22 tenders for the cleaning of nallahs, each around ₹65 lakh. Besides this, the PMC floated 15 tenders, ward-wise, each of ₹15 lakh. Despite the labour shortage, we will complete the work before the deadline as most of the work is done by machinery,” Khanore added.Vilas Phad, executive engineer of the drainage department, said, “The city has 236 major and small nallahs covering a total of 362kms. There is an addition of 166km of nallahs due to the merger of 11 villages in PMC limits. In the city, there is around 200km of storm- water drain lines and 40,000 chambers across the city. There are 500 culverts in the city.”Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer of the road department said, “We have identified chronic spots where frequent water logging occurs. We have handed over the list to the executive engineers to carry out necessary work to avoid water logging.” Of the 526km of nallahs in the city, 170km passes through areas that flood, including Katraj, Wadgaonsheri, all the peth areas, Hadapsar, Pashan, Dhanori-Vishrantwadi, Hingne, Dattwadi, Aundh and Kothrud.Pre-monsoon work detail: To be cleanedNallahs – 526kmDrainage chambers - 40,000Storm-water drains – 200km||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-sets-up-day-to-day-monitoring-of-pre-monsoon-work-to-meet-deadline-101619188616017.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Pune varsity students can now register complaints related to marks within 72 hours||Students appearing for online exams of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), must register any complaint about marks given, within 72 hours of receiving the result. Complaints about technical errors regarding raising issues with marks given caused the SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation to take this decision. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “Some technical errors had come into the login system, which is now resolved by our team. Students can now register their complaint regarding marks within 72 hours.”“When we appear for the exams online and then get our marks, sometimes they are not given properly. When we login to register the complaint, it shows a technical error,” said Kedar Mande, a second-year law student. The first semester examination of SPPU started from April 10 in online mode for all courses. Each paper is of 50 marks, with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). The university’s Edutech Foundation is conducting the exam.Once a student appears for the exams, he/she gets access to their marks via their personal login. “As the system was slow and had technial errors it was not possible for students to register a complaint within 48 hours. This resulted in panic and so it was demanded that the time to register a complaint online be increased,” said Kamlakar Shete, an SPPU student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-students-can-now-register-complaints-related-to-marks-within-72-hours-101619187535935.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen shortage hits Delhi govt’s plan to boost capacity of Covid care centre||The severe shortage of oxygen in Delhi has adversely affected the government’s plan to bolster the capacity of Covid-19 care facilities, especially the major centres in Chhatarpur, Commonwealth Games Village and Yamuna Sports Complex – during the ongoing six-day lockdown.On Thursday, these three facilities collectively had 1,390 total beds – of which 400 beds were equipped with oxygen. As per the government’s augmentation plan, these three centres should have had 1,875 oxygen beds by Tuesday (April 20), said a senior government official.The centre set up at the Radhasoami Satsang Beas’s Chhatarpur campus is vacant right now, despite being reopened on April 20 with 250 beds. In an April 20 order, the Delhi government said the Chhatarpur facility will be attached with Madan Mohan Malviya hospital, which will provide the centre with doctors, nurses, paramedics and at least 10 dedicated ambulances.“The district administration has not been able to provide the facility with oxygen beds. We plan to reopen the centre again by Saturday with 500 oxygen beds. Oxygen supply is likely to be normalised by then,” said a senior revenue department official.Similarly, plans to run temporary care facilities at the CWG village and Yamuna complex — that collectively have 1,140 beds, of which 400 are oxygen-equipped — have also been interrupted by the shortage, which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, and health minister Satyendar Jain have flagged repeatedly over the past few days.These two shelters should have had 1,375 beds – all with oxygen facilities – by April 20, said the first government official.The care centre in the CWG village was opened on Wednesday with 460 beds, of which 200 have oxygen facilities. Similarly, the centre in Yamuna Sports Complex was also opened on Wednesday, with 680 beds, of which 200 have oxygen facilities.“All oxygen beds are occupied in the two centres, and we are also facing a major shortage of oxygen. There is little scope of increasing the number of oxygen beds unless the shortage is resolved,” said a senior official in the district administration of east Delhi, where the two centres are located.As Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the lockdown on Monday, he said the curbs would help the state government augment the city’s health care infrastructure, which has been brought to the brink by the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. Delhi on Thursday added 26,169 cases and 306 deaths. Of the 20,448 Covid-19 beds in the city, 18,282 were occupied as of 7pm, the Delhi Corona app showed. Alarmingly, only 18 of the 4,684 intensive care unit beds were vacant, the portal showed.Delhi’s demand for medical oxygen has nearly tripled due to the devastating surge, with hospitals forced to send out distress calls to authorities, which have pitted the Capital’s government against the administrations in neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, forcing the Centre to intervene.The Centre on Thursday meanwhile ordered that there should be no restrictions on the movement of medical oxygen between states, and that transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of vehicles carrying oxygen.However, state officials said they cannot add oxygen beds at Covid care centres till supply bottlenecks are overcome.A Delhi government spokesperson said: “We have the required infrastructure to augment beds in Covid-19 facilities. The problem is the supply of oxygen. The augmentation plan will face no difficulties if they supply of oxygen is stable. Supply of oxygen across the country is regulated by the central government and every state has an allocated quota. Delhi has been facing a major shortage of medical oxygen. While the central government has increased the state’s allocation to 480 MT (from 378 MT) per day, the city’s current demand is more than 700 MT per day. Secondly, Delhi is also not getting the allocated oxygen because authorities in neighbouring states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are stopping oxygen tankers, interrupting the supply. We have urged the central government to immediately intervene in this regard. Yesterday, Delhi received only 178 MT oxygen against the old quota of 378 MT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-shortage-hits-delhi-government-s-plan-to-boost-capacity-of-covid-care-centre-101619117211764.html
