25-04-2021||Other||DRDO’s Covid hospital in Panipat will have direct pipeline for oxygen supply||Three days after the Union government announced the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will set up a temporary 500-bedded hospital for Covid-19 patients in Panipat and Hisar, a join team of officials of the district administration and DRDO inspected sites in Panipat.The hospital will be set up near the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery due to availability of oxygen within the plant. The officials inspected two sites but final decision has not been taken yet.However, officials of the Panipat district administration said that there is a strong possibility that the hospital will be set up in the panchayati land of Bal Jattan village.There is possibility that patients will come from Delhi and the medical staff will be arranged by the Union government from Delhi and nearby hospitals.As per information, the hospital will be set up by the central government and funds will be allocated by the Centre.In a press statement issued by Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmendra Singh, around 1.5km pipeline for round-the-clock oxygen supply will be connected to the hospital from the refinery and the blueprint has already been finalised.He said that the work on setting up of the hospital will start soon.In a tweet, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said that two hospitals of 500 beds each are in the process of being set up. The Chandimandir-based Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and medical staff and work will start immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdos-covid-hospital-in-panipat-will-have-direct-pipeline-for-oxygen-supply-101619374147681.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police launches anti-black marketing Covid helplines||The Haryana Police on Sunday launched helpline numbers asking people to share information related to black-marketing of oxygen cylinders, remdesivir injections and other life-saving drugs.Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said that citizens can give tip-off at 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314 for quick action by police.A police spokesperson said police and CM’s flying squad teams in Gurugram arrested four persons who wanted to sell nine oxygen cylinders for ₹90,000 each against the market value of ₹12,000 per cylinder.In another case, police in Sonipat arrested manager of a private firm who was selling oxygen cylinders at exorbitant rates.DUSHYANT WARNS HOARDERSMeanwhile, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala warned those hoarding essential commodities and selling them at prices higher than the set price in the midst of the pandemic. He said that strict action will be taken against such violators.Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of the department of food supplies and consumer affairs, on Sunday reviewed the availability, supply and prices of essential commodities to prevent hoarding.It was found that in the past few days, the prices of pulses have increased by about 3% and that of oil by about 4-4.5%. Prices of other commodities have also increased in some districts.Chautala said that he has written to Union minister of public distribution and food Piyush Goyal, in which, he has requested the central government that oxygen, oxygen cylinders, remdesivir, etc should be included in the list of essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act for at least six months so that production, availability and distribution of these life-saving items (at reasonable prices) can be publicly monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-launches-anti-black-marketing-covid-helplines-101619373907534.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid recovery rate dips to 81.61%||Sixty-four patients across 15 districts in Haryana succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. The state logged 10,985 fresh cases and active patient tally rose to 74,248, according to the health bulletin.The recovery rate dipped to 81.61% from April 1’s 95.37% and the positivity rate rose to 5.95% from April 1’s 4.67%.On Saturday, Haryana had recorded 10,491 new cases and 60 fatalities.The number of Covid-19 critical patients on Sunday increased to 1,599 with 187 patients being on ventilator support.Among the 64 fatalities included the highest 11 in Gurugram, 10 in Faridabad, seven in Hisar, and six in Karnal, increasing the death toll to 3,767.In the last 24 hours, Haryana took samples of 46,989 people of which, 10,985 tested positive.Gurugram reported 3,410 new cases, Faridabad 1,560, Hisar 940, Sonepat 610, Karnal 570, Panipat 491, Sirsa 469, Panchkula 368, Ambala 340, Yamunanagar 298, Mahendergarh 292, Jind 289, Kurukshetra 276, Jhajjar 217, Bhiwani 172, Rohtak 150, Fatehabad 149, Rewari 115, Kaithal 94, Charkhi Dadri 66, Palwal 58, and Nuh 51.As many as 6,057 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 3,46,304.LESS FATALITIESWith 22 total fatalities ever since the pandemic hit, Mahendergarh district has seen the lowest number of deaths, as per data.Between January 15 and April 13, this district has recorded two deaths. While one patients had died in Mahendergarh on January 15, one more had died on April 13. With this, the district’s toll rose to 22.Similarly, on January 4, one person had succumbed to Covid in Charkhi Dadri, and since then, the district had not seen any other death due to Covid till April 25.Between January 19 and April 12, two people have died of Covid in Rewari. On Sunday, Rewari reported three more fatalities and the toll rose to 80.As per the health department data, the death toll of Rewari climbed to 77 on April 12 when one person succumbed to the contagion. Before April 12, Rewari had recorded one fatality on January 19 when the toll rose to 76.On the other hand, Gurugram, adjoining to Rewari, recorded 64 deaths due to the contagion this month while the death toll mounted from 3,164 on April 1 to 3,767 on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-covid-recovery-rate-dips-to-8161-101619373667705.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Power bill arrears: With eye on govt depts, PSPCL gives one-time settlement option||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has launched one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for defaulters to clear power dues. Under this scheme, consumers will be able to settle the dues as existing on December 31, 2020. The scheme will be open for three months, starting April 15, 2021.State government departments are the main defaulters owing about ₹2,245 crore to the power corporation as on March 31. The water supply and sanitation department owes ₹933.3 crore, local bodies department has ₹681.2 crore outstanding amount, rural development and panchayat owes ₹358.4 crore, irrigation department ₹99.8 crore, health and family welfare ₹75.7 crore, home affairs and justice ₹21.11 crore, industry and commerce ₹12.74 crore, general administration ₹11.66 crore. Punjab government released ₹10,106 crore against the power subsidy bill to the PSPCL for the financial year 2020-21 and ₹5,779 crore remains pending at the end of March 31, 2021. The state government has earmarked only ₹10,621 crore in the current financial year’s budget for power subsidy to various categories against the likely subsidy amount of approximately ₹17,000 crore. A PSPCL spokesman said the PSPCL has written several times regarding the pending arrears. In 2019, a similar OTS scheme was launched and power dues totalling ₹121 crore of general consumers were settled. Water supply and sanitation department at that time owed ₹490 crore and after waiving ₹198 crore penalty, the power corporation realised ₹291 crore. Similarly, the outstanding amount against gram panchayats was settled for ₹185 crore. This time, the defaulting amount against Water supply and sanitation is ₹933 crore against 7,547 connections. The local government has 8,534 connections and an outstanding amount of ₹681 crore. Panchayats have 5,510 connections and default ₹358 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-bill-arrears-with-eye-on-govt-depts-pspcl-gives-one-time-settlement-option-101619373607552.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid norms’ violations: Resort owner arrested, still no action against VIP guests||Police on Sunday arrested the owner of a luxury resort for breaching Covid protocols, conveniently turning a blind eye on those who had attended the event to celebrate the installation of first Congress mayor of Bathinda on Friday. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has accused the police of trying to protect the family members of finance minister Manpreet Badal who were also present at the event. Thermal police station in-charge Ravinder Singh said there was no evidence on who attended the party at Three Palms Resort, 6km away from Bathinda city. “After an input, I had visited the spot on Friday evening and did not find any person there. The attendees had probably left by the time we reached. It was found that the resort owner Rajeev Kumar had thrown another party after 9pm in violation of Covid-19 rules. He was arrested on Sunday and the resort was sealed,” said the SHO. No other person was named in the FIR. Rajeev was held under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 Disaster Management Act. Rajeev could not be contacted for his comments. On Saturday night, the SHO had stated that the cars parked at the resort actually belonged to the staff. Senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan had confirmed to the media, that most of the 43 Congress councillors and party leaders had a brief social gathering after he, the mayor and deputy mayor assumed their offices on Friday. Pradhan had stated the event was hosted by Sandeep Goyal, the husband of mayor Raman Goyal. As photos and videos of the party were being shared widely on social media since Friday night, the police continued looking the other way. Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk did not respond to the phone calls of journalists who had gathered outside the resort and tried to flag the issue. Virk did not respond to the calls from Friday night till Saturday. “We are trying to identify who all violated Covid guidelines,” Virk said on Sunday afternoon. Former chief parliamentary secretary Sarup Chand Singla said photographs of Manpreet’s son Arjun Badal and the minister’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Johal, who manages Manpreet’s all political activities in Bathinda, in the media show them at a packed venue. “Instead of taking action on the basis of media reports based on councillors’ statements, the police are busy hushing up the matter. The CCTV footage from the resort should have been accessed to nail the violators,” said Singla. Manpreet’s media coordinator Harjot Sidhu did not respond to the query. Former mayor Balwant Rai Nath said it was unfortunate that the newly elected team of the municipal corporation indulged in such an unlawful activity on the very first day in office. “Police was quick in arresting eight people for hosting a pre-wedding function at Bathinda’s Civil Lines Club on Wednesday. In this case, the police are under political pressure and ignoring even the photographic evidence that are in the public domain,” said Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-norms-violations-resort-owner-arrested-still-no-action-against-vip-guests-101619373249194.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Health department asks for more ambulances, police re-purpose 20 vans for emergency use||The health department has asked the Gurugram district administration for seven additional Covid-19 dedicated ambulances due to the recent spike in cases and more people needing medical assistance, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday. In a related development, the police department has also re-purposed 20 vans into ambulances to deal with the increasing demand.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer said in addition to nine existing ambulances, the health department has requested seven more. “With increasing cases, the demand is increasing. To tackle that, earlier this week, we wrote to the district administration requesting them to provide seven additional ambulances with advanced life support systems,” said Dr Singh. Of the nine ambulances currently in use, two have advanced life support systems, while others have basic life support systems. The health department has also deployed one ambulance each in Sohna and Pataudi blocks. In total, there are 24 ambulances at present. According to Dr Singh, in January and February, the 108 emergency helpline received six to eight calls each month, requesting ambulances for Covid-19 positive patients, which increased to over 100 in March. However, the health department is currently receiving 34-45 calls every day, due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases.When asked if there are delays in taking patients to hospitals due to the increased demand, Singh said, “It does take a little time to follow all the procedures and take patients to hospitals, because we are mostly getting calls for transfers to patients being referred to other hospitals. Further, to make sure that patients are not made to wait on calls while requesting an ambulance, we are upgrading our technology in the 108-control room, which will be functional from this week.”At present, active cases in the district stand at over 25,000 with the health department expecting the number to rise. The positivity rate in the district is also around 25%. The district administration on Saturday held a review meeting and decided to increase beds, create more facilities and also enforce safeguards strictly. Officials said that people can also reach the health department on 7015663108, to request an ambulance. PCR vehicles turned into ambulancesThe police on Sunday converted 20 police control room (PCR) vans into ambulances to help with emergencies. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said they are receiving multiple calls every day from distressed residents who are unable to get an ambulance. “It was seen that those in need were unable to get an ambulance due to shortage of them with the rising number of cases. Through this initiative, we are trying to help family members who need help in these difficult times,” he said. The police said that these 20 vehicles are stationed in different areas for quick response. Officials said that residents can call or send messages through WhatsApp on a dedicated helpline, 9999999953, launched on Sunday for Covid-related issues. The police said that residents can also send complaints about black marketing of medicines and suggestions on police action.Rao said all 41 station house officers (SHOs) have been directed to be on alert and to respond to all distress calls promptly. “These ambulances are for free, there are no charges and people should only use them in case of emergency. People should not occupy the beds in hospitals if not required,” he said. These ambulances will be used to shift patients with conformed beds in hospitals. Green corridors are created across the city in case of emergency, the police said. The police said that they have also enlisted a panel of doctors for providing free consultations to Covid-19 patients through calls and video conferencing. In other initiatives, the police are using MCG water cannon vehicles to spray disinfectant across the city, especially in crowded areas such as Sadar market, railway station, bus stand, community markets and near malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-department-asks-for-more-ambulances-police-re-purpose-20-vans-for-emergency-use-101619373076244.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals report vaccine shortage, residents worried over second dose||Hospitals across the city are reporting a shortage of vaccines, due to which residents who have taken the first jab are concerned over the non-availability as they have to take the second jab within the stipulated time frame.Multi-speciality hospitals across the city said they are awaiting vaccine supply, with some not having received stock for four days. Many residents also took to social media expressing their concerns over the delay in getting vaccinated.Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy hospital, located in Civil Lines and Sector 90, said that they have not received vaccines for the last four days. “There has been an acute shortage of vaccines. People are following up for their second jab, but they are unable to get them,” he said.Representatives of a private hospital in Sector 56 said they are struggling to get the supply of vaccines, while Artemis Hospitals has halted vaccination drives in residential societies and offices due to low stock.“The pace of vaccination has slowed down due to problems in supply of vaccines. Vaccination drive in residential societies and corporates/workplaces has been put on halt temporarily. We are hopeful that with the help of district administration we will soon overcome glitches and have our community vaccinated,” said Dr Anjali Kaul, medical superintendent, Artemis Hospitals Gurugram.In Gurugram, the vaccination drive is being conducted in 89 hospitals, including 37 government health centres and 52 private hospitals, said officials. However, officials of the health department refuted the allegations and said that sufficient doses of vaccines are available, even as private hospitals have put up messages outside vaccination rooms over the process being on hold due to non-availability of stock. Officials said that if the hospital where residents took their first shot does not have stock, they can take the second vaccine shot at another facility where stock is available.Officials said that the hospitals are getting the supply as per their demands on a daily basis. The district is replenishing its stock every three to four days, with no fixed quota, said officials. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “Sufficient vaccine doses, over 25,000, are currently available with the health department. The health department provides doses as per the requirement of the hospitals to avoid any vaccine wastage or stocking up of vials. In one particular case, the hospital concerned failed to provide the required doses, based on the footfall of vaccine beneficiaries.”The footfall of people turning up for vaccinations has increased due to the recent spikes in Covid-19 cases.On Sunday, 2,591 people received the first dose of vaccine, while 2,526 people took the second jab across session sites, said officials. So far, 464,840 have received vaccines, said officials.Senior citizens are concerned that they might have to restart the vaccination process if they are unable to take the vaccine doses on time.The Centre has recommended a gap of six to eight weeks between the two doses of Covishield vaccine, while a gap of four to six weeks is recommended for the Covaxin vaccine. Vimla Devi, (75), a resident of DLF Phase-3, said that she was due to take her second vaccine shot between April 15 and 25, but is waiting to do so as the hospital is yet to receive its stock. “I have been checking with the hospital for the last three days, but there is no supply,” she said.“I am worried now as there will be a rush in all hospitals after May 1 and with the current shortage of vaccines, those who need it will be ignored,” said Murti Sharma, a resident of Sector 54, who has been following up with a hospital in Sushant Lok-1 over vaccine shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-report-vaccine-shortage-residents-worried-over-second-dose-101619373074808.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Demand for oximeter rises in Sangrur, so does price||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand for oximeters — an electronic device that measures oxygen saturation level in blood — and their price have increased manifold in Sangrur district. Also, the oximeter is missing from Covid care kits being provided by the government to coronavirus patients, leaving families with no options but to buy their own. The family members of a 60-year-old Covid patient from Dhuri said they couldn’t buy the oximeter as it was available for a price much higher than what it should have been. People associated with the medical profession said oximeter was earlier available for ₹800 and now for ₹1,500 in the market. HT also enquired from a few medical shops and found that the oximeter was not readily available and could be provided in a couple of days for ₹1,500. District chief of Chemist Association Prem Garg said, “People are buying oximeters in panic. There is a shortage as the demand increased suddenly. But one can get the device within two days’ time.” A 70-year-old man from Sangrur town said he and his wife tested positive for the virus but they did not get an oximeter in the Covid care kit. “We are home isolated and unable to measure oxygen saturation,” he added. Sangrur assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said the demand for oximeters increased due to a surge in cases. “Every family is buying an oximeter which led to a shortage of supply. The government is trying to provide oximeters to coronavirus patients in Covid care kits. The higher authorities are also thinking about reusing oximeters given earlier to patients who have recovered now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demand-for-oximeter-rises-in-sangrur-so-does-price-101619373073566.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||50 shanties gutted in fire at Wazirabad village, no injuries||Around 50 shanties and stores were gutted in a massive fire that broke out at Wazirabad village in Sector 52 on Sunday night. No injuries were reported in the incident, said officials.According to fire department officials, the incident was reported at 12.15am on Sunday, following which seven fire tenders were sent to the spot, located near the Bihari market. It took fire department officials three hours to douse the flames and they were able to stop the fire from spreading to at least 100 more shanties in the area, said officials.“The cause of the fire is yet to be determined. Sporadic LPG cylinder blasts stored inside the shanties as well as strong winds aggravated the blaze. We doused the blaze within three hours and all fire tenders returned to their respective fire brigades by 4.30am,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).Kashyap said that the fire department was able to control the blaze within an hour of starting the dousing operations, while ensuring the flames did not spread to an adjoining area, where 100 more shanties are located.Residents said that most of them were asleep as the fire broke out around midnight.“The fire broke out around midnight and most people were sleeping at the time. I was also sleeping. Two people woke me up and told me that a fire broke out. I left in a hurry. Within minutes, my shop was engulfed in flames,” said Musir, a resident, who owned a sugarcane shop in the vicinity.Residents said that around 40 shanties and 12 shops were gutted in the incident.“Besides the cylinder blasts, a hardware store too caught fire. Due to paints and chemicals stored inside, the store was highly flammable, and it further aggravated the blaze. I have been staying here for the past five years. Suddenly, I am left without a home and my daily source of income,” said Musir.Of the 100 shanties that were saved, 22 were unoccupied and those affected have relocated there temporarily.“The contractor owning the shanties has adjusted everyone in the unoccupied shanties. These were constructed recently and hence, were empty. Four to five people are staying in each of these shanties temporarily. The contractor said that all gutted items will be removed by Tuesday and by Thursday, 20 new shanties will be erected so that those displaced can have a home once again,” said Tamim, a ragpicker, whose shanty was also gutted in the incident. It is the third such major fire incident this month that broke out among a cluster of shanties.On April 3, over 180 shanties were gutted in Nathupur village, and on April 11, over 100 shanties and structures storing scrap and plastic waste were gutted after a fire broke out at a field in Naharpur Kasan, near Sector 6 of Manesar. No injuries were reported in both incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/50-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-wazirabad-village-no-injuries-101619373074077.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept to set up independent quarantine centres with oxygen beds soon||As the plan to increase hospital beds in Gurugram is still under execution, the district health department on Saturday recommended setting up independent quarantine centres with oxygen beds, in collaboration with private companies, philanthropists, and welfare trusts in the city.The reason for setting up the proposed 100-bed quarantine centres is that the number of critical Covid-19 patients who require oxygen support is expected to rise further. The proposal was discussed during a review meeting held under the chairmanship of TC Gupta, additional chief secretary, Haryana — who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 related issues in Gurugram. Besides the proposal to set up quarantine centres, Gupta also asked the nodal officers to ensure that the hospital beds were made available to critical patients.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the number of cases were expected to increase, and there was an urgent need to create independent quarantine centres for critical patients, apart from augmenting bed capacity in the hospitals. “It was decided in today’s meeting that the hospital beds will be increased by 1,000. But our key proposal is to collaborate with private sector firms, trusts, and philanthropists to set up quarantine centres of 100 beds with oxygen support,” Yadav said, adding that these facilities could be set up at community centres, banquet halls, and other such places.Private companies can also set up such facilities under the corporate social responsibility programme, and city-based developers can come forward to set up such large-scale quarantine centres. “We could also utilise vacant towers in a newly built unoccupied project to create such a facility,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity.In a related development, Rao Inderjit Singh, MP, Gurugram, released ₹50 lakh to the district administrations of Gurugram, Rewari and Mewat from the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund on Saturday for the immediate purchase of essential medicines and equipment. “I have decided to release this money for the immediate purchase of medicines and other equipment needed for Covid-19 patients. More money from the MPLADS fund would be released as and when required,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-dept-to-set-up-independent-quarantine-centres-with-oxygen-beds-soon-101619373067007.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Rewari resident arrested for black marketing remdesivir||A Rewari resident was arrested for black marketing remdesivir, a broad-spectrum antiviral medication, and charging ₹23,000 per vial even as a shortage continues in the market, the police said.In a joint raid by the chief minister’s flying squad and district drug controller on Saturday night, a decoy customer was sent to buy the injection, at a mobile shop, and the suspect was arrested while delivering the medication, the police said.Remdesivir is being used to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients, although experts have said that it is not a sure-shot treatment. The demand for remdesivir has shot up over the last month, with an unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases and those having access to the medicine are hoarding them to make a quick buck, the police said.To be sure, seven companies producing remdesivir in India have slashed prices by an average of 39%, with the costliest variant, offered by Hetero Healthcare, is priced at ₹3,490 for a 100mg vial.The police identified the suspect as Rahul, of Chauki Bareilly village in Rewari, who worked as a compounder in a hospital, from where he allegedly stole the medicines.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said they received a tip-off, following which they asked a decoy customer to call the suspect and ask for a delivery. “ Rahul asked him to pay ₹23,000 for remdesivir injection to an associate at a mobile shop. The decoy, along with the police team, went to buy the injection and caught him red-handed while he was delivering the injection,” he said.Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that they conducted a reconnaissance of the area on Tuesday. “We are yet to verify details from where the injection was supplied to the private hospital and how Rahul stole them. The number of vials and the persons who bought them are also being ascertained,” he said.A case was registered at Rewari police station, and after his arrest, police recovered one remdesivir injection and a mobile phone from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rewari-resident-arrested-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-101619373008791.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen only for medical use, supply to Gurugram increased||The state government on Sunday banned the supply of oxygen to industrial units, barring a few key exceptions, to ensure adequate stock of medical supply for treatment of Covid-19 patients, even as the authorities increased the allocation of oxygen to Gurugram to 35 metric tonnes (MT). Officials familiar with the developments said that an additional stock of 10 MT will be available with the district administration for emergencies.Invoking the powers conferred under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the state government prohibited all oxygen manufacturers and suppliers from providing oxygen to industries. All oxygen units were also directed to dedicate complete supply for medical purposes and also to ensure production of maximum capacity. Rajiv Arora, additional chief secretary, health, said that a call centre has also been set up to monitor the oxygen supply in all the districts. “Based on the daily feedback From the chief medical officers (CMOs), any area facing shortage will be supplied gas on priority,” he said in a statement on Sunday. The industries exempted from the oxygen ban are pharmaceutical companies, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy plants, oxygen cylinder producers, waste treatment plants, food and water purification establishments, process industries with furnaces, ampule and vial makers. Gurugram’s deputy commissioner on Sunday also formed an eight-member committee to devise a district-level oxygen distribution and monitoring plan for the city. The committee will assess the average oxygen requirement of the district, individual requirement of hospitals, current availability, and projected requirement for at least the next four days, an order issued by Garg stated. “Accordingly, movement of oxygen tankers should be planned. The team should have a list of all supplies and vendors including Air Liquide, Panipat (from where oxygen is supplied). The committee shall also be responsible for preparing a daily oxygen distribution plan, distributing oxygen rationally,” the order issued by Garg, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, stated.The eight-member committee comprises seven officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and one official of the Gurugram police department. The district administration also observed that private hospitals first assure them that oxygen supply was adequate but later make distress calls on social media, which creates panic. “These issues are also posted on Twitter and it creates panic. Today, a private hospital was supplied oxygen in Palam Vihar after it flagged the matter on social media,” a spokesperson for the district administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-only-for-medical-use-supply-to-gurugram-increased-101619373008258.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||3,410 new infections take caseload past 100,000||The district crossed the 100,000 mark of Covid-19 cases, with 3,410 new infections reported on Sunday, while 11 Covid-related deaths were also reported on the day. In order to curb the surge in Covid-19 cases, the district administration also implemented Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code, prohibiting gatherings of more than four people “unless specifically permitted”.The order issued by Yash Garg, deputy commissioner Gurugram came into force from Sunday across the district. The district administration on Sunday also directed all IT and ITes companies in the city to work from home till May 3. Officials said that these measures and curb on social gatherings were taken to break the chain of infection. Meanwhile, the health department said that the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district is 103,284, while the active cases reached 25,086. The death toll due to Covid-19 reached 429 in the district, as per the data.Authorities said that 1,359 positive patients recovered from the disease on Sunday, taking the tally of total recoveries to 77,769. The rate of recovery in the district stands around 75.30%, said officials.On the testing front, the health department collected 10,091 samples and reported that the results of 6,578 patients were awaited.Appealing to the public, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, on Sunday said that people in the district must use masks at all times. “The graph of Covid-19 infection has increased more than expected in the last few days in the district, mainly due to people not wearing masks properly. A triple layer mask is important to cover the face and especially, the nose,” said Garg.Officials of the district administration said that another problem is that people who were awaiting test results were not isolating despite exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19. Garg appealed to all residents who are suspected to have Covid-19 to isolate themselves and get tested at the earliest. Those flouting norms were warned of action under the sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and The Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3410-new-infections-take-caseload-past-100000-101619373007676.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt operators may pull buses off road amid fresh curbs||AMRITSAR Having already lost women passengers due to government’s free ride scheme in state-run buses, capping the passenger capacity at 50% has pushed the private operators to the brink and they are contemplating shut operations. Due to the free ride facility, the women prefer to board government buses. “We are already facing loss due to the facility provided by the government to women in government buses. As per the fresh order of the government of limiting the number of passengers in buses, a normal bus cannot ferry more than 25 passengers. In such a situation, we earn less than what the ride costs,” said Choudhary Ashok Manan, who runs a small transport company that runs buses between Amritsar and Dera Baba Nanak. Manan who is also member of Amritsar-Gurdaspur Bus Operator Association, said, “We are not able to meet expenses of fuel since the number of passengers was capped. Police are registering FIRs against bus owners for violation and imposing a fine of ₹9,000.” Baldev Singh Babbu, president, Punjab Mini-Bus Operators Union, said, “Sunday lockdown also affects us a lot. We are already facing a big financial crisis in times of Covid-19 and not able to give salaries to our employees. How can we tackle the situation?” The bus operator unions from across the state will conduct a meeting in Jalandhar on Monday. Punjab Motor Union president and former Congress MLA Avtar Henry will preside over the meeting to chalk out further course of action. “We have planned to take the buses off road. We won’t operate buses until we get relief from the government. We will announce it after a meeting in Jalandhar on Monday. Not only we but drivers, conductors and other employees working in the bus operating companies will also be affected and the government will be responsible for it,” added Babbu. It is worth mentioning here that many private bus operators took their vehicles off road during the post-lockdown period last year as livelihoods of thousands were hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-operators-may-pull-buses-off-road-amid-fresh-curbs-101619372827586.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bar council withdraws Kunwar Vijay’s nomination to disciplinary panel||CHANDIGARH: The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) on Sunday withdrew co-option of former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh as a member of its disciplinary committee. The Bar council chairman Minderjeet Yadav said the decision was taken in view of a request from Kunwar Vijay on the same on Sunday. A section of lawyers on Saturday had opposed the Bar council’s decision to appoint Kunwar Vijay as a member of its disciplinary committee. He was given licence and appointed as a member of the said panel on Friday. The move had coincided with a high court bench questioning Kunwar Vijay’s role as Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) member in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case probe. The disciplinary committee of the Bar council, which has more than 1-lakh members from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including lawyers in the high court, investigates complaints against lawyers. Former secretary of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association Baltej Singh Sidhu, too, had written to Bar council stating that the move is in total violation of section 9 of the Advocates Act, 1961. Kunwar Vijay, who did his bachelor of law (LLB) from Panjab University in 2010, approached the council for licence after he opted for voluntary retirement from Punjab Police in the aftermath of the high court judgment of April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bar-council-withdraws-kunwar-vijay-s-nomination-to-disciplinary-panel-101619372587568.html
25-04-2021||Other||Two more oxygen tankers arrive in Ramnagar near Varanasi||Two more oxygen tankers reached an oxygen plant by road in the Ramnagar industrial area in Chandauli district adjoining Varanasi in the early hours of Sunday, officials said. These two tankers came from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. The Varanasi police created a 275-kilometre green corridor and escorted them to the oxygen plant. One tanker was escorted from Dehri-on-Sone and the other from Gaya, both in Bihar. Each oxygen tanker contained around 14,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Varanasi commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh said the two oxygen tankers started their journey from Jamshedpur on Saturday afternoon. According to officials, police teams will escort all the oxygen tankers that would arrive in Varanasi in the next few days. Earlier, an oxygen tanker arrived in Varanasi by road on Friday and another tanker reached the city by the Oxygen Express train early Saturday. Both the tankers came from Bokaro in Jharkhand. Varanasi had faced a medical oxygen crisis on Thursday. However, the oxygen supply situation to the hospitals here almost became normal since Friday following the arrival of tankers. In Varanasi, 43 hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients. There are around two dozen distributors of oxygen cylinders in the city at present. But they are running short of empty cylinders. People in home isolation needing oxygen are getting refilled oxygen cylinders from oxygen plants in the Chandauli area adjoining Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-more-oxygen-tankers-arrive-in-ramnagar-near-varanasi-101619371506996.html
25-04-2021||Other||UP orders 1 crore additional vaccine doses||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that the state government had ordered 50 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin (a total of one crore doses) for the free inoculation drive that will be launched from May 1 for all those above the age of 18 years. These vaccines would be in addition to what the central government was providing, he said at a Covid-19 review meeting. “To ensure the availability of adequate doses in the state, the state government has ordered to procure 50 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin each from the manufacturing companies. The Covishield vaccine is manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Covaxin is manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited. The one crore additional vaccines are other than what the central government has allocated UP,” a state government said. The government statement quoted Dr RK Dhiman, director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), as saying, “We can avoid hospitalisation by getting vaccinated. Not only this, the death rate also decreases due to vaccination. In such a situation, it is very important for us to get the vaccination done”. Speaking from his personal experience, Dhiman said, “My wife and I had become Covid positive just three days before the Holi festival. But the infection was mild and did not have much effect on us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-orders-1-crore-additional-vaccine-doses-101619371026918.html
25-04-2021||Other||No Covid hospital can deny treatment: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that no Covid-19 hospital, government or private, can deny treatment to any patient of the coronavirus disease. Even those patients who only have an antigen test positive report must immediately be provided suitable treatment, he emphasised at a virtual Covid-19 review meeting with senior officials here. The government will bear the cost of such treatment as per the rules, but the treatment must be provided without delay, he added. “No patient should be without a bed. If government hospitals don’t have a vacant bed, then the patient should be admitted to a private hospital. The government will foot the bill according to the norms set for this. If a patient is without a bed, then the district magistrate and the chief medical officer of the district concerned will be accountable,” he said. Yogi said the Drug Controller General of India recently granted emergency use approval to Zydus Cadila’s anti-viral drug Virafin. He asked for making this drug available in Lucknow, Prayagraj and Varanasi. The chief minister asked health department officers to provide all necessary resources to DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) for the Covid-19 hospitals it is setting up in Varanasi and Lucknow. These hospitals will be operational soon and will lead to further consolidation of health services for Covid-19 care in the state, he said according to a statement issued by the state government. In the last 24 hours, a total of 35,614 new Covid-19 cases came up in Uttar Pradesh and 25,633 patients were discharged after recovery, he said. A total of 7.77 lakh patients had recovered since the outbreak in UP early last year. In the last four days, the number of Covid beds had been increased by 14,000 and there was a need to further increase the bed strength for which the health department should explore options, he said. He also asked the officers concerned to get in touch with Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K), Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow (IIM-L) and IIT-BHU for oxygen audit in cities. Similarly, they should rope in Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU)-Lucknow, Madan Mohan Malviya University of Technology (MMMUT), Gorakhpur, Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU)-Kanpur, and Moti Lal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Prayagraj for the oxygen audit. “Allot districts near each of these institutes for oxygen audit so that oxygen demand and supply could be tracked,” he said. “There is a need to increase the number of oxygen tankers,” he said to the officers concerned and reiterated that work to set up oxygen plants at all hospitals with a bed strength of 100 or more must be speeded up. About Remdesivir injections, he said that the state was getting 18,000 to 20,000 vials every day. The central government has increased Remdesivir allocation to 1.6 lakh for UP. Besides, state government was in direct touch with various Remdesivir-making drug companies for more vials, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-hospital-can-deny-treatment-yogi-101619370846967.html
25-04-2021||Other||MLA funds to help create oxygen infrastructure in UP||The funds from the local area development fund (Vidhayak Nidhi) allocated by the MLAs for the Covid-19 care fund can be utilised for setting up oxygen plants in government hospitals and medical colleges as well for the laying down of oxygen pipelines, procurement of oxygen concentrators and cylinders.In this connection, the state government on Sunday amended the guidelines issued in March-April last year for the utilisation of the fund allocated by the lawmakers from local area development fund for Covid care fund.Rural development minister Rajendra Pratap Singh alias Moti Singh said in view of the Covid-19 surge, the state government had decided to amend the previous order.The fund could also be utilized for increasing beds in government hospitals and medical colleges, procurement of machines and other instruments for RT-PCR sample tests, establishment of the oxygen plants in the district and strengthening of oxygen supply to the government hospitals and medical colleges, Singh said.The fresh guidelines will be enforced till March 2022, Singh said and added the state government had urged the lawmakers to allocate more fund to the Covid care fund.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier allowed the MLAs to allocate up to ₹1 crore for the provision of facilities for treatment of Covid-19 in their respective constituencies. Several MLAs and ministers have already allocated fund from MLALAD.Principal secretary (rural development) K Ravindra Nayak said the state government had issued orders that the procurement of instruments, beds and installation of oxygen plants can be done according to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare.The MLAs can also allocate funds to Banaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mla-funds-to-help-create-oxygen-infrastructure-in-up-101619370606952.html
25-04-2021||Lucknow||Congress, BJP in war of words over oxygen tanker||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, political slugfest began in Uttar Pradesh as the Congress government in Chhattisgarh announced it was sending oxygen for a private hospital in Lucknow. “On being informed by Priyanka Gandhiji on phone about acute crisis of oxygen in Lucknow, a tanker of oxygen has been sent for Medanta Hospital in Lucknow,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel tweeted. He signed off his tweet with “sabhi swasthya rahein (may all be healthy).” The tanker carrying 16 tons of oxygen showed the party’s concern for the common man in the state, Congress leaders said. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ and other party leaders in the state took to twitter to thank the Chhattisgarh chief minister even as his party leaders, including former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra targeted the BJP, accusing it of hiding the reality. Almost immediately, UP BJP spokesman Navin Srivastava took to twitter to target the Congress leadership, wondering if the tanker on which oxygen was being sent to the state was “real”. “Is it actually a tanker? Last time instead of buses, numbers of auto and motorcycles were given,” Srivastava tweeted, reviving memories of the bitter controversy that broke out last year. Back then, BJP claimed there were flaws in the Congress’s offer to send buses to bring back such migrant labourers who were stuck on UP borders due to nationwide lockdown during the first corona wave. Other BJP leaders, including several lawmakers, started targeting the Congress. “Priyanka ji shouldn’t be engaging in political stunts,” said BJP lawmaker Deomani Dwivedi, reacting to the Congress leadership’s criticism of the state government’s handling of Covid situation in the state in general and the “oxygen crisis” in particular. The Yogi Adityanath government has decided to conduct an oxygen audit, an exercise through which it hopes to check the demand and supply requirements. Both the Congress and the BJP have been speaking of using the cadre to help the Covid-hit people of the state. While the BJP has issued a toll-free helpline number for the needy, party leaders said the BJP is also setting up helpdesks across the districts to disseminate information. The Congress spoke of activating its Seva Dal workers. Both parties are contesting the ongoing panchayat polls in the state and looking at these rural polls as an opportunity to connect with the people ahead of 2022 UP polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-bjp-in-war-of-words-over-oxygen-tanker-101619370426841.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Ganga Ram Hospital achieves normal oxygen pressure after 3 days||With nine metric tonnes of oxygen supplied to it on Sunday, officials at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here said it is the first time in three days that all patients are getting the life-saving gas at "normal pressure".The elite hospital in central Delhi received three oxygen refills, totaling 9 MT, between 4:30 am and 6:30 pm."The oxygen pressure remained below normal for the last three days. This is the first time in this period that normal pressure has been achieved," an official said.The hospital received 3 MT of oxygen around 6 pm, which will last up to midnight."The hospital did not have to press the panic button the whole day. No SOS calls were made. We hope the night also passes peacefully," the official said.The hospital had raised an alarm at 10:30 pm on Saturday, saying its oxygen stock would last only an hour. There were 130 patients in the ICU, including 30 on invasive ventilation, when the SOS was sent.Around 12:20 am, it received a tanker, with the help of local AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, which supplied one metric tonne of oxygen, averting an impending crisis."It should last two hours," a hospital spokesperson had said around 12:45 pm.According to him, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital's primary supplier in Faridabad was supposed to send a tanker before 3 am.The tanker finally arrived at 4:15 am and delivered 5 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, the highest volume that the hospital has received in the last three days in one refill, he said.Another tanker delivered one MT oxygen at 12:24 pm.A third tanker arrived around 6 PM and delivered three MT of oxygen, which should last up to midnight.Some hospitals in the national capital continued to grapple with severe shortage of medical oxygen on Saturday even after receiving emergency supplies with the help of the Delhi government and the police.While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight.At least two private hospitals in Delhi -- Saroj Super Speciality Hospital in Rohini and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area -- on Saturday asked families of patients to shift them to other healthcare facilities in view of oxygen shortage.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Friday reported the death of 25 of its "sickest" patients as the administration grappled with depleting oxygen supplies."I appeal to both the Centre and the state to help. On one hand, they increased COVID beds and on the other, they can't supply oxygen in sufficient quantity. How are we supposed to work?" the hospital's chairman Dr D S Rana said."If this is COVID tsunami and the government has invoked the Disaster Management Act, then they should work according to it. We need immediate intervention," he said.Dr Rana also said, "The government is doing its best but, perhaps, they too are helpless. But then they should admit it and reduce patient intake."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-ganga-ram-hospital-achieves-normal-oxygen-pressure-after-3-days-101619366189141.html
25-04-2021||Other||10,174 new Covid-19 cases, 69 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE Pune district reported 10,174 new Covid-19 cases, and 69 deaths due to the infection, on Sunday, as per the state health department. Pune district has reported 0.796 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.680 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 9,075. Currently, 1,07,503 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. On Sunday, Pune rural reported 3,276 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the total to 1,90,328. With 15 more deaths, the death toll is now 2,396. PMC reported 4,653 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the total progressive count to 4,10,683. With 47 more deaths, the toll went up to 5,158. PCMC also reported 2,245 new Covid-19 cases, which takes its total to 1,95,634. With seven more deaths, the toll went up to 1,466.Pune also saw only 10,397 vaccinations on Sunday, of which 1,364 vaccinations were reported from Pune rural and 1,706 vaccinations were reported from Pune city. PCMC saw 7,327 vaccinations.Of the total vaccinations, 1,210 were of Covaxin and 9,187 were of Covishield. Totally 107 session operated on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10174-new-covid-19-cases-69-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101619369106849.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 count dips slightly with 22,933 cases; one-day toll at 350||Delhi on Sunday reported a single-day surge of 22,933 Covid-19 cases, slightly less as compared to what the city has been reporting for the past few days, and the toll from the viral disease in the last 24 hours stood at 350, according to the latest data released by the health department.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The daily positivity rate which was at 32.27% on Saturday slipped to 30.21% on Sunday. The low figures, however, may be attributed to the reduced testing in the national capital. While the daily Covid-19 testing count was at 85,620 last Sunday, it now stands at 75,912. The number of people infected by the coronavirus in Delhi has gone up to 1,027,715 following which the government, earlier in the day, announced an extension of lockdown in the city till May 3 morning.Hospitals in Delhi have reported a shortage of oxygen and beds for several days now even as the Aam Aadmi Party-led government has been seeking support from the Centre as well as other states. Amid the acute shortage of oxygen, hospitals have also started to turn away patients and shift those already admitted for treatment. Hospitals as well as citizens of the national capital have been taking to social media to seek help in availing oxygen, key drugs like Remdesivir, and also finding ICU beds and those with oxygen.On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to all states and Union territories requesting them to send oxygen that they may have in spare so as to assist the treatment of critically ill patients. Kejriwal also reached out to the country's top industrialists over the oxygen shortage. “Please help the Delhi government if you have oxygen and tankers... Help us in whatever way you can,” he wrote in a letter, according to news agency ANI.As Delhi reels under the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has been sending supplies of oxygen to hospitals in the city and has also arranged for four tankers of the gas that are likely to arrive by Monday night on an Oxygen Express from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-count-dips-slightly-with-22-933-cases-one-day-toll-at-350-101619366808841.html
25-04-2021||Pune||First-year student among two held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||A first-year student was among two people remanded to four days in police custody on Sunday for selling Remdesivir injections on the black market on Saturday. The two were also found in possession of 22 duplicate currency notes as well, according to the police. The two in police custody were identified as Shubham Navnath Arawade (22), a resident of Krushna nagar in Chinchwad and Vaibhav Ankush Malekar (20), a resident of Ramdasnagar in Chikhali, according to information provided by assistant public prosecutor Bhanupriya Petkar. “One of them is a first-year student and one is a graduate. We cannot reveal much information right now as we are investigating further links,” said police sub-inspector Vijay Zanjaad of anti-extortion cell-2 who is investigating the case. The two were pretending to be pharmacists and trying to sell the drug without due procedure or permit. The police are investigating the source and if there’s any previous reach of their sale. The police also found 22 duplicate bank notes from the possession of the two men, according to the police submissions to court. The two were found near the gate of Kirloskar company in Khadki at around 5pm on Saturday and were arrested around midnight. The two vials of Remdesivir found in their possession were inspected by Jayashree Savadati (43), an official of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in Pune who later became the complainant in the case against the two. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013, Essential Commodities Act, 1955, Drugs and Cosmetics Act was registered against the two at Khadki police station. Two remanded to police custody after three Remdesivir vials found Two men were remanded to police custody on Sunday, a day after three vials of Remdesivir were seized from them while they were trying to sell it on the black market for ₹70,000 each, according to a statement issued by officials of Unit 1 of Pune police who carried out a raid to arrest them.The two in police custody were identified as Rahul Sunil Khade (22) a resident of Pathare Vasti in Lohegaon, Pune and Vijayraj Dinkar Patil (31) a resident of Kharadkarnagar in Vadgaon Sheri area, according to the police.The arrested men were found in possession of three vials of the drug which were seized from them.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code, DPCO 2013, Essential Commodities Act 1955, And Food and Cosmetics Act 1940 was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/firstyear-student-among-two-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir-101619365686534.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Woman, three others booked for allegedly forging MBA degree certificates||A 38-year-old woman and three other people were booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Saturday for forging degree certificates based on a complaint lodged by her husband. The allegedly forged certificates were that of an MBA from an institution in Assam called Assam Downtown University. “We have not been able to get in touch with the complainant or the accused yet. We received this complaint online and the case was registered at Kothrud police station and then transferred to us few days ago. We will soon begin questioning the people involved,” said senior police inspector Balkrushna Sawant of Hinjewadi police station. According to the complaint lodged by a man identified as Pramod Balaji Jana (44), a businessman living in Gujrat colony area of Kothrud. After he separated from his wife, he got the mobile phone he had allegedly given to her, back from her, according to the police. In his complaint, he mentioned that in November 2019, he came across the WhatsApp messages that were stored in the mobile phone. “He has claimed in his complaint that he found certified copies of some degree certificates and learned that they were forged. However, we are yet to conduct our enquiry in this,” said senior PI Sawant. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468, 471with 120 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi against the four people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-three-others-booked-for-allegedly-forging-mba-degree-certificates-101619365506621.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Man on the run after wife dies by suicide||The Pune police are on the lookout for a man from Kondhwa for driving his wife to suicide by spending their livelihood earnings on alcohol. The 25-year-old woman was undergoing treatment at Sassoon General Hospital for burns caused during her suicide attempt on April 12 at around 7:30pm. However, the woman succumbed to her burns in the small hours of Saturday and was declared dead by the doctors. The two had been married in 2017 and were living in a rented room in Sadguru Krupanagar area of Undri. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her father, a 52-year-old resident of the same area. In his complaint, he has stated that the money that his daughter had saved up for paying the rent and electricity bill of their house was wrongfully taken and spent by the accused in purchasing alcohol. The man also claims that the accused man suspected her of being involved with other men and beat her up over it. Assistant police inspector Sandeep Madhale of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 498(a) (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-on-the-run-after-wife-dies-by-suicide-101619365386517.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Summer camps move online in pandemic-hit year||After examinations were called off this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, school-going children have begun attending their summer camps, online. The children have been primarily restricted at home with engaging online activities such as drama, storytelling, speech competitions, and arts. Many organisations are now solely dependent on the online structure due to the strict restrictions enforced by the Maharashtra government. The Rangbhasha organisation in the city has been instrumental in training children in drama and theatre. As offline sessions are not possible in the current situation, special online courses have been designed. “We have batches for the age groups of seven to 10 and 11-14 and there is a good response for the online sessions. We used to conduct in-person batches in the pre-Covid period, but it is not possible now. We are getting good responses from the Marathi families who are abroad. Now that the sessions are online, children from overseas are also able to join the batches,” said Amut Samak, founder, Rangbhasha. The in-person touch and the field surely remain missing from the online sessions; however, the organisers are thoroughly planning the sessions to make them more interactive and productive. “Just two days ago we conducted a session on the art of paper cutting. We were a little doubtful if children will be able to understand the instructions online, but it turned out very well. Children were enthusiastic to make items from paper. We have a series of sessions planned for them,” Harshada Pendharkar head, Bhintibaherchi Shala (School beyond walls) “Some online sessions are fun. I loved the paper cutting session with my sister. Whatever I learned I taught it to other children in my building,” said Aditi Pande, a student who attended the online session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/summer-camps-move-online-in-pandemic-hit-year-101619365266551.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Parents demand state board to return Class 10 exam fee||Parents of Class 10 students have demanded that the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Certificate (MSBSHSE) return the examination fees of ₹500, since there will be no exam this year. Pragati Kulkarni, mother of a student in 10th standard said that the board has not refunded the fee as of yet. “We paid the exam fee when the exams were declared. As the exams are cancelled, the fee should be refunded to us. Even though it is a small amount for many, for some families it is a huge amount. Also, if the exams are not conducted offline, then the fees should be refunded,” said Kulkarni. Every class 10 student had to pay ₹500 each ahead of the final board exam as exam fees. As per MSBSHSE, this year, 16, 00,249 students were registered with the board to appear for Class 10 examination. The total funds for this year amount to around ₹80 crore. However, the state board has gone ahead with the preparations to take offline exams and many sources suggest that some part of the fee may be utilised. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Apte Prashala said that the board has already started with the preparations for offline exams and most part of the funds must be already utilised. “The board charges the exam fees as they have to set papers and invite teachers of various subjects to set papers. Also, the basic stationary like answer sheets are also provided to the schools by the state board. Also, the questions are printed which also requires funds. As the board was all set to take the offline exams. They would have already spent at least one-fourth of the sum,” said Sinnarkar. She further added that question papers are also transported to various centres across Maharashtra. “All these arrangements are required to be done by the board. So, some of the funds may have been utilised,” said Sinnarkar. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the board has already set the papers. “Some question papers were already printed by the board. Also, the paper setters are given some remuneration which is part of the expenditure. As the board had planned offline exams, the planning and action was already done by the board,” said Gaikwad. He further added that as the decision of how the students of Class 10 will be evaluated, is not taken yet, the board may take time to refund the fee. “As discussions are still ongoing about how Class 10 students will be evaluated this year, the board is taking time to refund the fee. This is the first time in the history that Class 10 exams were cancelled and hence there is a delay in the decision,” said Gaikwad. There was no response from officials of the MSBSHSE, despite several attempts to reach them over call and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-demand-state-board-to-return-class-10-exam-fee-101619365146537.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Light rain with cloudy skies in Pune for the next few days: IMD forecast||The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune has forecasted light rains in the next few days for the city and surrounding areas. As per the weather department, the sky in the city will remain cloudy for the next few days with chances of light rain. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said in the next few days, the day temperature will be less than 40 degrees Celsius due to cloudy conditions. “There is a possibility of light rain on April 26 and April 27 along with thunderstorm and lightning. Cloudy conditions will continue in Pune city until April 28. The day temperature will be 38 to 39 degrees Celsius, and the night temperature forecast is for 19 to 20 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi. On Sunday, the day temperature was reported at 38.9 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar whereas Lohgaon reported 39.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday as per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune. The day temperature in Shivajinagar was 0.7 degrees warmer than normal and for Lohegaon, the day temperature was 1.6 degrees warmer than normal on Sunday. The night temperature reported in Shivajinagar was 19.6 degrees Celsius which was 0.7 degrees cooler than normal whereas, the night temperature at Lohegaon was 22.2 degrees Celsius, 1.2 degrees warmer than normal. As of Sunday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 43.3 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri and the lowest minimum temperature in the state was reported at 19.6 degrees Celsius in Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/light-rain-with-cloudy-skies-in-pune-for-the-next-few-days-imd-forecast-101619365086512.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Satara rural police barricade district border, all vehicles scanned for e-passes||The Satara rural police have put a check post near Shirwal on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway where every single vehicle is stopped and checked for an e-pass. The Satara rural police are accompanied by local district officials, home guards and Sarola village gram panchayat workers. In some cases, the vehicle is allowed to proceed without an e-pass after verifying the reason to travel, such vehicles are charged ₹500 by the local gram panchayat workers.“Each and every vehicle is strictly checked by our policemen, and those having valid police e-pass to travel are being allowed to go ahead. As this system has been newly started from the last two days, passengers without e-pass are fined ₹500 and then sent after verifying their emergency reasons. There are many passengers who are in a rush for medical emergencies but don’t have an e-pass, so we fine them and allow to proceed. All others are sent back to Pune district from this check post,” said police sub-inspector Vrushali Shinde attached to the Shirwal police station. All non-essential travel has been suspended by the Maharashtra government, and the district borders have been sealed after the e-pass enforcement to travel outside Pune came into effect. No strict checking is being done at the Khed Shivapur Toll Naka by the Pune rural police.The Pune district border ends near the Sarola Bridge over Neera river just before Shirwal city on the highway. The barricading has been placed from the middle of bridge, where goods carrying vehicles and private vehicles are separated in two lanes for checking. A staff of around 10 to 15 policemen, including traffic police is deployed in two shifts round the clock at this check post. All the emergency services vehicles allowed by the state government and people with valid e-pass are only allowed to pass. Even the buses of companies and other private works are not allowed. Kiran Sakhare, a passenger travelling from the check post said, “My brother is serious in Sangli and I had come to Pune to get some medicines for him. I did not know about the new e-pass system, but it is emergency situation for our family. I paid the fine and now headed to Sangli.” Similarly, at the Khed Shivapur toll naka, Pune rural police have deployed their policemen at the check post but there is no strict checking going on here, as vehicles are randomly checked as it falls under the Pune district jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/satara-rural-police-barricade-district-border-all-vehicles-scanned-for-epasses-101619365026508.html
25-04-2021||Pune||‘Bamboo Park’ in the works on SPPU campus||A bamboo park garden is in the works on the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus as a result of an MoU that was recently signed by the university with Garett Motion Technologies. The company is going to spend ₹68.85 lakh funds from its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) on this project. The company is going to work on this project with the help of United for Nation, a social organisation. This park will be developed on the backside of the Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj statute inside the SPPU campus on a total land of 5 acres where 2,000 bamboo trees will be planted. This garden and project will benefit SPPU’s own Bamboo centre, as currently the number of bamboo trees have fallen. On completion, the park will produce a large number of bamboos which will help raise funds. SPPU vice chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “It is the first time when such a bamboo park garden is going to be developed in any university in the state. Along with studies of environmental science about bamboo, it will also help generate funds for the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bamboo-park-in-the-works-on-sppu-campus-101619364966503.html
25-04-2021||Other||Pune newspaper vendors’ union vaccinates all its delivery staff||PUNE With the city reporting a surge in Covid cases, the Pune newspaper vendors’ union has vaccinated its vendors. This has further ensured the safety of vendors, while at the same time removing the fear of spreading thee infection once they enter housing societies to deliver newspaper copies every morning. According to the vendors’ union, it tied up with a hospital to vaccinate the vendors. “We have vaccinated newspaper vendors at Joshi hospital. The newspaper delivery agent bringing your copy to your doorstep is safe and is doing his duty. At the same time, all the newspaper vendor centres are being sanitised regularly. The delivery agent is taking all the precaution,” said Vijay Parge, president, Pune newspaper vendors’ union. He also underlined that newspaper copies delivered to every household are safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-newspaper-vendors-union-vaccinates-all-its-delivery-staff-101619364186521.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||‘Please help us in whatever way you can’: Kejriwal to industrialists amid Delhi oxygen crisis||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday requested the country’s top industrialists to help deal with the shortage of oxygen in the national capital as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to mount. “Please help the Delhi government if you have oxygen and tankers... Help us in whatever way you can,” Kejriwal wrote in a letter, reported ANI.Delhi is struggling to cope with a record number of Covid-19 cases as hospitals faced an acute shortage of oxygen for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, and began to turn away patients and shift those already admitted for treatment. The chief minister has also written to his counterparts all over the country, urging them to send oxygen to Delhi.“Delhi does not produce any oxygen. Due to the severe rise in corona cases in the last few days, many Delhi hospitals have run out of oxygen. Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements.” Kejriwal told other chief ministers in his letter which he asked to be treated like an SOS message.Delhi has been allocated a daily oxygen supply of 480 MT by the Centre, which Kejriwal says is falling short since the current requirement is near 700 MT per day. “The central government is also helping us a lot in this regard. However, the intensity of the spread is so severe that it is proving inadequate. Therefore, I would be grateful if you could provide us with any oxygen, along with tankers, from your state or any organisation in your state. I would be personally grateful for your support,” Kejriwal wrote in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/please-help-us-in-whatever-way-you-can-kejriwal-to-industrialists-amid-delhi-oxygen-crisis-101619363062090.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to order 30 lakh doses of Covishield to inoculate residents between 18-45||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the health department to order 30 lakh doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, from the Serum Institute of India for vaccination of the 18-45 age group.He also gave directions to use the Chief Minister Relief Fund for meeting the vaccine requirements of the poor.Singh asked the department to immediately place an order for the 30 lakh doses with the Serum Institute of India so that the supplies can start coming in at the earliest, even though as per information provided by the central government for delivery of vaccines for the 18-45 age group is not expected before May 15, according to a government statement here.To ensure free vaccination of the poor in government hospitals, he said in addition to the CM Covid relief fund, CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds should also be tapped into.The Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) should be asked to support the vaccination of industrial workers covered in the scheme, and the Board for Welfare of Construction Workers for construction labourers, Singh added.Reviewing the vaccination strategy, the chief minister requested the expert group led by virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang to submit the strategy for prioritisation of the 18-45 years group (vulnerable groups in high risk areas - high transmission, high mortality, including construction workers and industrial workers, in its first report by April 29). He also said that in pursuing the 18-45 age group vaccination strategy, the state government will not compromise on vaccination of the 45-plus age group. The chief minister further said the government will consider approaching Astrazeneca (India) directly to allow the Punjab government to avail the lower price of ₹162 per dose available to the global community.The state has so far received 29,36,770 doses of Covishield and 3.34 lakh doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Out of the available stock of vaccine till April 22, 25.48 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.64 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin had been utilised, leaving the state with only 2.81 lakh doses of Covishield and 27,400 doses of Covaxin in its stock.The health department had on April 22 written to the Union health ministry seeking additional supply of 10 lakh doses of Covishield, to be made available on priority to enable the state to meet its immediate requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-order-30-lakh-doses-of-covishield-to-inoculate-residents-between-1845-101619360212682.html
25-04-2021||Other||Pune facing acute shortage of Tocilizumab, Itolizumab, both used for treatment of Covid-19||PUNE Following the shortage of the Remdesivir injection, used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms, Pune is now also facing an acute shortage of Tocilizumab and also Itolizumab, both used for treatment of Covid-19.Often referred to as Toci, Tocilizumab is also used to treat severe cases. The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) expects fresh stock of Tocilizumab and Itolizumab to only be available by April 28. A senior FDA official said, “There is absolutely no stock available in Pune or, the nearby districts. We are getting calls from everyone including references from the district collector and also the health minister and CM’s office, but since we do not have any stock there is no way we can help them.” Dinesh Khivasara, drug Inspector, FDA, Pune, said, “Both Tocilizumab and Itolizumab are not available in the district since April 15 and fresh stock is expected to come only by April 27-28. The medical firm had stopped importing the drug as it did not find it useful in treating Covid-19 patients. However, now, since demand has gone up they have started importing it again and hopefully we will get fresh stock soon.” Patients are now left to fend for themselves and some have had to travel to nearby districts to get the drugs. In one such case, a patient’s relative in Pune tried to source the medicine while the patient was admitted in Baramati. The relative, requesting anonymity, said, “My distant relative is admitted ad I tried calling FDA officials and also the chemist association, but none of them have the stock and they have told us that the new stock will come only in the next few days. We are trying to source the medicine from Mumbai, or nearby districts, but until we know for sure we cannot risk travelling.” Two such patients, both from Vishwaraj Hospital located in Dhanori in Pune, and have been prescribed Tocilizumab. One relative said, “Ideally, the hospital should have the medicine. We are also trying to find the injection from Mumbai and Delhi, but it is not available anywhere.” The relative of the other Covid patient said, “The patient is 61- years old and the entire family has tested positive, so they are not able to move out. We are in West Bengal now and using social media contacts to get the medicine. We even called our known contacts in Delhi to see if they can get the drug, but it is not available anywhere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-facing-acute-shortage-of-tocilizumab-itolizumab-both-used-for-treatment-of-covid19-101619359746163.html
25-04-2021||Bhopal||'Corona curfew' in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal extended till May 3||The 'corona curfew' imposed in Bhopal of Madhya Pradesh to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases has been extended till May 3, an official said on Sunday.The curfew in the state capital was set to end at 6 am on April 26.It has been extended in Bhopal and Berasia town of the district till 6 am on May 3, an order by Collector Avinash Lavaniya said.A week-long 'corona curfew' was first imposed in Bhopal city from 9 pm on April 12 to curb the rising cases of Covid-19. It was further extended for another week from April 19 to April 26.It has now been extended for one more week.Essential services will be exempted from the corona curfew and people arriving in the city or leaving by rail, bus etc will not be inconvenienced, officials said.Bhopal on Saturday reported 1,776 fresh cases, pushing its infection count to 78,934, including 707 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/corona-curfew-in-madhya-pradesh-s-bhopal-extended-till-may-3-101619357899519.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal clamps night curfew in 4 border districts||With virus cases surging across Himachal Pradesh, night curfew will be imposed in Solan, Sirmaur, Kangra and Una — the four districts sharing a border with Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand — between 10pm to 5am from April 27 to May 10. The call was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur at his official residence Oakover on Sunday. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, technical education and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, forests minister Rakesh Pathania, chief secretary Anil Khachi, additional chief secretary Prabodh Saxena, health secretary Amitabh Awasthi were in attendance. It was decided that reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests taken at least 72 hours before visiting the state will be made mandatory. In case, a person visiting the state has not undergone the test, they will have to remain quarantined at their place of residence for fourteen days, with the option of getting themselves tested after seven days. Local bodies, in both urban and rural areas, will be roped in to ensure effective implementation of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines in their respective areas. They will be empowered to initiate legal action against violators. A special task force will be constituted at the local level to ensure enforcement of SOPs at all religious, social, political and cultural gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-clamps-night-curfew-in-4-border-districts-101619356452592.html
25-04-2021||Lucknow||No hospital in Uttar Pradesh to turn away Covid-19 patient: State government||No hospital in Uttar Pradesh will turn away patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and if state-run hospitals are short of beds, they can be sent to private hospitals and the government will bear the expense, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Sunday, Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal told news agency ANI.The decision comes as several hospitals across UP are facing an acute shortage of beds, which has forced Covid-19 patients and their families to run from one hospital to another. In Ghaziabad, the occupancy of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds is almost full while that of Covid-19 beds is around 80 per cent. Similar scenes are being witnessed in Noida where hospitals are trying to arrange as many beds as they can. In the capital city of Lucknow, hospitals are asking for a referral letter from the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office, a family member of a Covid-19 patient told Reuters on April 21.Last week, Union minister VK Singh tweeted and sought help for a person who was infected with Covid-19 but was unable to find a hospital bed in Ghaziabad.Uttar Pradesh, the second worst-hit state from the pandemic, has so far added over 1.05 million cases and reported 10,959 deaths. On Saturday, the state added 38,055 Covid-19 disease cases, the highest ever single-day spike, and 223 people died. Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Meerut, etc are some of the regions which are contributing the most towards UP’s daily cases and deaths.Chief minister Adityanath also announced on Sunday all Covid-19 hospitals in Uttar Pradesh will be required to publicly announce the number of vacant beds twice a day and all patients admitted in government hospitals will be given Remdesivir doses free of cost, according to an official statement. No fees will be charged for cremating patients and rates have been fixed for Covid-19 testing and treatment, the statement showed. All those belonging to the unfortunate sections will be given masks free of cost, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-hospital-in-uttar-pradesh-to-turn-away-covid-19-patient-state-government-101619355677083.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Volunteer groups introduce ‘Plasma premiere league’ to attract more donors||There is a desperate need for plasma and as people are appealing for plasma donors in an individual capacity, the Vande Mantaram Sanghtna and Yuva Phoenix Society have started a group programme called the “plasma premier league”, where they are reaching out to mandals, dhol-tasha pathaks (drum groups) and a larger group of volunteers who can help reach out to recently recovered Covid patients and appeal for donations. They are also appealing to youth to donate blood before the vaccination drive for those above the age of 18 kicks off in the city. “According to government guidelines, after vaccination, a person cannot donate blood for 28 days. What we need is to appeal to youth to donate blood before they are vaccinated,” said Dr Chinmay Umarji, who held a blood donation drive on Sunday. Vaibhav Wagh, heading the Vande Mataram Sanghatana, said, “Everyday, we get as many as 100 phone calls asking for help with injections, beds and plasma donations to save the lives of friends and families. Since we can’t do much in terms of getting injections, we decided to look at plasma donation as a segment, where if we worked together as a group we could help get donations faster.” He conceived the idea of the Plasma Premier League which kickstarted on April 14. “The idea is to appeal to thousands of people to come forward and donate plasma, by offering prizes of ₹50,000, ₹30,000 and ₹20,000. We have 10 teams in Maharashtra participating and we have tied up with the PMC to help us connect with recovered patients,” said Wagh. It is not easy to convince recovered patients to donate. Rohit Dhayarkar of Swaroop Vardini is one of the participants in the PlasmaPremier League. He said, “Each team is given a target of getting 100 donors to agree and donate. We have a list of people to call, but it is taking time to convince people to come forward and donate blood or plasma. Most often the patients are afraid of weakness or of contracting corona again. We are not giving up and will keep trying until we can encourage many of the recovered to donate.” Another group, the Shiv Surya Dhol Tasha Pathak, has managed to get 25 people to donate. “We have played for around 150 mandals and are calling out to everyone for help. It is taking time to reach out and convince recovered patients, but once the gravity of the situation is explained, some are ready. They have to undergo an antibody test before they can donate,” said Ravindra Bodake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/volunteer-groups-introduce-plasma-premiere-league-to-attract-more-donors-101619355606114.html
25-04-2021||Other||PMC-built Covid hosp in Baner to be ready in a month’s time||PUNE A Covid hospital is to open its doors for patients within a month in Baner. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials and corporators have visited the site for a joint inspection of the building.“This is a 200 bed-hospital with 150 oxygen beds and 50 for ICU,” said Amol Balwadkar, corporator for Prabhag 9.This hospital is on survey number 33 is being built by the PMC. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, and city engineer Prashant Waghmare inspected the hospital on Friday.“This hospital is being built with the mayor’s fund of ₹1.5 crore, along with CSR donors and the PMC,” said Mohol. This hospital be for patients from areas like Baner, Balewadi, Pashan, Sutarwadi, Someshwarwadi, Panchavati, Sus, and Mahalunge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcbuilt-covid-hosp-in-baner-to-be-ready-in-a-month-s-time-101619353025947.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||90% of Covid-19 patients will recover at home: Dr Naresh Trehan||A top doctor on Sunday dispelled rumours around the coronavirus disease and said that Covid-appropriate behaviour will help break the chain of surging infections across the country. Dr Naresh Trehan of Medanta - The Medicity said 90 per cent of those who have contracted the viral disease will recover at home if they take their medication on time. “As soon as your RT-PCR report comes positive, my advice would be to consult your local doctor. All doctors nowadays know the protocol and will begin your treatment accordingly,” Dr Trehan said.Dr Trehan also said Covid-19 patients can also try other things to keep fit. "Yoga's 'anulom vilom' exercise is very effective in expanding our lungs because when you take a deep breath, the exchange of oxygen is more,” he added.Also read | Bharat Biotech seeks extension of Covaxin’s shelf life. All you need to knowTrehan was among four senior doctors who spoke on ways to step the fight against the pandemic as India on Sunday reported a record daily rise of 349,691 new infections, taking its overall tally to 16.96 million infections. As many as 2767 people also succumbed to the disease on Sunday, according to the health ministry data, taking the death toll to 192,311. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), head of department of medicine at AIIMS Dr Naveet Wig and director general Health Services Dr Sunil Kumar, also addressed issues related to the coronavirus pandemic.Also read | Don’t panic and stock oxygen, Remdesivir at home: AIIMS chief to Covid patientsDr Trehan said also said the demand for oxygen shot up by three times due to the spike in the Covid-19 cases and that the issue is related to its transportation. "This is a challenge. The steel industries, which are the biggest manufacturers of oxygen for their own consumption, offered to provide oxygen. But the issue is related to oxygen transportation. For this, special tankers have been ordered and the government is helping them in transportation. The supply chain can improve in five to seven days," he said, according to news agency ANI.The Medanta chairperson said there is no need to panic. "The understanding of patients, wastage of oxygen and judicious use of oxygen by the hospitals can bridge the supply of oxygen. We have to use the resources carefully," he said.Also read | ‘Glaring lapses...’: Parliamentary committee report flagged concerns over oxygen supply last yearHe also said doctors should ensure that the oxygen should be used in a judicious manner. "Patient's lungs' condition, blood test reports, comorbidities and age create a scenario under which we can say if it is right for them to be hospitalised... I would like to tell doctors to keep in mind that who has to be recommended to hospital,” he said regarding the hospitalisation of those who have tested positive for Covid-19."The balance between Covid care centres run by hospitals and hospitals must coordinate. This will rationalise the use of oxygen, increase the availability of beds and the public will not panic,” he said. “We can win the war if the public will support us. The government is responding to the demands…” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/90-of-covid-19-patients-will-recover-at-home-dr-naresh-trehan-101619352555078.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||‘To not cause confusion’: Aaditya Thackeray deletes tweet on free Covid-19 vaccination in Maharashtra||Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Sunday the government will not charge any resident of the state for the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) only to delete the post later. “The Govt of Maharashtra has decided to vaccinate its citizens free of cost. This is not something that we think of as a choice, but a duty that we consider of utmost importance: protecting the citizens from Covid,” Thackeray said in his initial tweet.However, minutes later he deleted the tweet and said in another post that he did not want to create any confusion regarding the “official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind.”“The official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee and we must await it’s recommendation for a fair policy for all sections of society. My apologies for the confusion if it all it may have caused,” the Maharashtra cabinet minister said in the follow-up tweet.However, before Thackeray, Maharashtra’s minority minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led-government will vaccinate the entire state’s population above the age of 18 years free of cost and that global tenders will be invited for the vaccination drive. The state currently has 57.1 million residents between the ages of 18 to 44.On the other hand, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday those beneficiaries who can afford the vaccine dose should pay for it and the government will pay on behalf of the poorer sections.I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion regarding the official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind.Maharashtra has so far administered vaccine doses to 14,230,213 of which more than 12.3 million people have been given the first dose and 1,903,207 have been given both doses, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 7am. The state worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic has added over 4.22 million cases, 63,928 deaths and 3,468,610 recoveries till now. On Saturday, 676 people died while 67,160 more people were found to be infected.Maharashtra, apart from being placed under Section 144 which will remain valid till May 1, is also under strict restrictions on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance and weddings from April 22 till May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-vaccinate-all-residents-against-covid-for-free-aaditya-thackeray-101619352773597.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Good samaritans extend help: Langar at doorstep, Iftari for the needy||The new wave of Covid-19 has gripped humanity so tight that it’s difficult for most to move out and help others in need. In these hard times, and amid the surging Covid cases in the Capital, there are a few noble souls who are serving the Almighty, by helping mankind. Doorstep delivery of langar The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee (DSGMC) besides serving langar to a large number of underprivileged and migrant labourers, has started langar delivery service for Covid affected families in the Capital. “To help people tide over this wave of coronavirus, we have started delivery of langar to houses of families affected by Covid, especially the old people who have no caretakers. The meals are prepared in a hygienic manner at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, whereas deliveries are coordinated from Bangla Sahib, gurudwara Moti Bagh and Rakab Ganj Sahib. We’re also providing 20 rooms at Guru Arjun Dev Ji Sarai with beds and oxygen arrangement,” says Kashmir Singh, manager, DSGMC, informing that the committee has also offered the government to convert langar halls in various gurdwaras into Covid facilities. Celebrating the spirit of RamzanDuring the month of Ramzan, the committee at Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah has initiated a food drive to aid the underprivileged families in the area around the dargah. “We are providing food to more than a thousand people, including the daily wage workers whose source of income has been affected due to the pandemic,” says Peerzada Altamash Nizami, joint secretary of the committee, adding, “We’re distributing the food boxes while following all SOPs. Around 1,000 boxes, which contain samosa, pakodi, jalebi, mixture, juice, dates, dal and wafer are prepared everyday in the complex by our volunteers and then distributed.” Senior citizens and pregnant women firstIn Delhi’s Dwarka, ISKCON temple is extending support to the Covid patients, in the fight against the pandemic. “We are delivering nutritious food, in southwest Delhi, to Covid patients, and specially focus on the needs of elderly people and pregnant women. We’ve just launched a helpline (+919717544444) and are getting over 200 calls each day,” says Ram Kishore Das, who manages the Food for Life department at the temple. He adds, “There are around 20-25 people involved in making these meals. When people ask us if they need to pay anything for the meals, we just tell them — Prasad khao, Corona ko harao!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallika For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/good-samaritans-extend-help-langar-at-doorstep-iftari-for-the-needy-101619350091968.html
25-04-2021||Other||Manipur markets, shops allowed to open on rotation basis to tackle Covid-19 surge||Close on the heels of the closure of the Ima Keithel, an iconic women’s market having three different buildings and adjoining temporary markets, for ten days, district authorities in Manipur have announced different forms of restrictions including the rotational opening of shops and early closure of markets to tackle the surge in Covid-19 infections, officials said.The deputy commissioners of districts issued separate orders in this regard in the past few days as a preventive measure in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.The deputy commissioner of Imphal West district, where the state capital is located, issued an order on Saturday, directing only one in every three shops, located at 16 important markets under its jurisdictions, to open on rotation.At the same time, one in every three shops located along the eight important streets in and around Imphal will be allowed to open on rotation apart from applying the same pattern in the busy Thangal and Paona Bazars, the two major markets in the state.“This order shall have immediate effect and remain in force until further orders,” the order said. Earlier, all public transport vehicles were also directed to carry passengers up to maximum half capacity and ensure every traveller wears face masks, besides imposing night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am till April 30.On the other hand, as a preventive and precautionary measure against the second wave of Covid-19, deputy commissioner, Senapati district, issued an order on Thursday, asking all shops at Senapati town, 60 kilometres north of Imphal, to close down by 2 pm.As per the order, all such shops in the hill town (Senapati) where shopkeepers are seen without masks will be forced to close for three consecutive days. The order also directed that the vehicles driven without people wearing masks will be seized over and above the penal provision.The Manipur government announced the closure of the Ima Keithel, also known as Nupi Keithel (women’s market), for ten days since April 21. The women’s market was reopened only on February 15 this year after it was shut for nearly 11 months amid the Covid-19 outbreak.On Saturday, Manipur reported 130 new Covid-19 positive cases, breaching the highest single-day spike this year again. With this, the state’s total infection tally jumps to 30,281 besides increasing the total number of active cases to 705, officials said. Even though 29,193 patients (including 13 on Saturday) have recovered so far, the recovery rate has been reduced to 96.40% in the state, sources said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 deaths stands at 383.As of Saturday, 6,59,403 people were screened at the entry points of the state while 6,02,832 were tested for Covid-19 across various testing centres in the state.So far, a total of 1,23,720 people, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in Manipur have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. On the other hand, 62,146 healthcare workers and frontline workers have received their second shot of vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-markets-shops-allowed-to-open-on-rotation-basis-to-tackle-covid-19-surge-101619348346359.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt to float tendre to procure Covid vaccine, Remdesivir from international market: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra has formed a five-member committee which has been tasked to draft a tender to purchase vaccines from global vaccine makers, a week after the Centre announced that all adults will be eligible for a coronavirus vaccine and doses can be sold via the market from May 1.The committee, which will be headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, will facilitate the process of purchasing vaccines as well as drugs like remedesivir, an anti-viral drug that is part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday.“The state cabinet has empowered a committee to take all the decisions about purchase of both remdesivir drug and the Covid vaccine,” Pawar said following a review of Covid situation in Pune on Saturday.Additional chief secretary of finance department Manoj Saunik, principal secretary of public health Dr Pradeep Vyas, secretary of medical education department Saurabh Vijay and principal secretary of industries department Baldev Singh will be part of the committee.The state government is expected to float the global bid by early next week by taking state cabinet’s nod for the expenditure. “The base rate, quantity of vaccines and the Remdesivir desired, expected turn around period will be finalised soon. The bidding will be for all vaccines currently available in international market as well as two available in India. The imported stock of the vaccines is however unlikely to be available before the launch on May 1,” said an official from the public health department. On April 20, following a state cabinet meeting it was decided that Maharashtra will use its development funds to procure vaccines, including those that need to be imported as “ready to use”.“We currently have two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, but if the need arises, we have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” state health minister Rajesh Tope had said after the meeting.On Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had held an online meeting with Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla on Wednesday, where he was told that the company’s production of Covishield has been booked till May 24, Tope said.In light of that, the state will start negotiations with manufacturers of imported vaccines as it will not be able to purchase stock from Serum Institute of India, which makes Covidshield, till third week of May, and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, as it has not released its prices, Tope added.“A plan is being worked out… since foreign import is now allowed and there is Bharat Biotech, we will get in touch with them. The vaccination drive for [age] 18 to 44 will start on May 1, but the stock is expected to be limited. In that age group, there are roughly 55 or 57.5 million people. So, we will require about 120 million doses, including the wastage, over a span of four to five months, depending on how soon we get the stock,” Kunte had said last week.According to a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau on April 19, adults under the age of 45 would be able to receive vaccines once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups.In the third phase of the vaccination strategy, the government will make pricing, procurement, eligibility, and administration open and flexible. Vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. The remainder will need to be supplied to Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group only.If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although the government’s release did not indicate a cap.On April 21, SII announced the price of its Covishield vaccine in the open market. While one dose of this two-dose vaccine will cost ₹600 for private facilities, it will cost ₹400 for the state governments. It also provided a price comparison with other vaccines available in the open market, where the “Russian vaccine” and “Chinese vaccine” costs ₹750, and the “American vaccine” costs ₹1500. The Union health ministry on Saturday issued a clarification saying that the Centre will procure both the vaccines at ₹150 only. And those doses will be provided free to the states.US pharma major Pfizer is in talks with the Centre to deploy its jab for India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme and said that it had offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine to the government.Pawar said on Saturday that Maharashtra wanted to begin vaccination for all adults from May 1 which is also Maharashtra Day and Labour Day. “In addition to Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine, the other approved vaccines including US made Pfizer or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and other vaccines will be included in the tender. Also for remdesivir which is currently under acute shortage will also be procured through a global tender,” Pawar said. Sputnik V made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, was approved formally on April 13 and its initial doses are expected to be imported. On Monday, pharma giant Johnson & Johnson applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct Phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as for an import license.Highlighting the increasing demand of liquid oxygen Pawar said that Maharashtra’s quota from Jamnagar plant has been reduced to 125 Metric Tonnes (MT) from 250 (MT) by the Centre. “On Saturday I got to know that this quota has been reduced. I request not to reduce our quota from that plant. Empty oxygen tankers are being airlifted to fast track the oxygen supply. They can come back by road or on train,” Pawar said.“Some plants which were shut down in the past are being reactivated. Sugar factories have been asked if liquid oxygen can be generated from there. For Pune, 30 oxygen plants are proposed and will be installed,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-govt-to-float-tendre-to-procure-covid-vaccine-remdesivir-from-international-market-ajit-pawar-101619347566235.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Theatre of the future, and reality||I was recently asked about “Theatre of the future” in an interview. The pandemic has changed many definitions about what was earlier considered “normal” and watching live online performances is a part of it. In the past year, theatre lovers must have attended at least one such show. I suppose this is what the interviewer was expecting when she posed the query. But I do believe that with the technology currently available, online performances are a compromise. More of a placeholder for the real thing. I feel that in the next few years, after this pandemic is over, we will see an increase in plays in the genre of immersive theatre. Immersive theatre blurs the lines between the audience and the performers. They are usually performed at unconventional venues unlike traditional auditoriums, such as hotels, run-down mills, warehouses, and the like. The concept of “fourth wall” (the imaginary wall between the audience and performers, which is an integral part of most plays) is destroyed completely. In fact, in most of these plays, the audience becomes an active part of the performance! A friend of mine had watched a performance of “Macbeth”, retitled “Sleep No More”, at a hotel in the UK. What he narrated seemed fascinating! The opening of the play was presented at the entrance. After that they could choose the floor they wanted to visit. Each floor had a different part of the play being performed. The audience could choose to leave that scene midway and go and watch another scene. Or they could stay and follow the journey of a character. They could walk with the character and witness her or him meeting other characters and perform different scenes. In the end, all characters converged on a floor where the climax was played out. I too had watched a play when I visited the UK around three years back. It was a spin-off of “Murder on the Orient Express” by Agatha Christie. I was extremely excited to watch it! The set was built in a run-down warehouse in London. While the production design was wonderful and the audience was made to feel like passengers on the train, complete with real dinner and wine, and was also made to participate in the investigation, the performances were strictly ok. So was the overall approach towards the script. While it was a new theatre watching experience for me, the impact was less than impressive. But I cannot judge the entire genre based on a lone performance of a play. Some plays do not even follow this traditional approach of introduction, conflict, resolution of storytelling. They rely more on the experience of the performance at that moment. And that choice is made by the audience! So, there is a possibility that a part of the audience might not watch the climax of the play, they might decide to follow a character who might be inconsequential to the story of the play but is someone they relate to more. The outcome of the play is different for every audience member and it depends solely on the choices that they have made! The linearity of story is not very important in such performances. We have seen variations of this genre in other mediums as well. Video and computer games have followed this interactive genre since a long time. The outcome of many such games depends on how the player plays and the options he chooses. There isn’t a specific “end” to the story that we as an audience have been conditioned to. Even the eerily predictive show “Black Mirror” experimented with this format in the latest episode of theirs titled “Bandersnatch”. The audience had to choose the decisions the protagonist made and the outcome of the show depended on that. There were nearly nine outcomes that I experienced. I am sure there might be more. Films are also gradually experimenting with virtually reality. I had attended a demonstration for the same and it is very similar to immersive theatre, wherein the audience could choose where to look at during a scene and decide to follow a particular character. These experiments are being conducted in India as well, but not in a large number. But after the pandemic is over, my guess is that the number of venues for such experiments will increase as most people will be working from home. People will also be open to watching more abstract content as the reality we are currently living in is nothing less than bizarre!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-theatre-of-the-future-and-reality-101619347266702.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Through Sara’s eyes: Musings of a 10-year-old schoolgirl||PUNE My parents are wicked. They named my Didi, “Laxmi”, and me…guess what? Saraswati! And do you even know what our surname is? Mochemadkar. I mean, does that make any sense to you? That’s why I have decided that I’m not going to call my mom “ma” and my dad “papa”. I have thought of some secret names for them.” (sic) The musings of a 10-year-old schoolgirl Saraswati, who strongly prefers being called Sara, make for the subject matter of actor Vibhawari Deshpande’s soon-to-be-launched “Sara Chi Diary”. The volume, most of which is in Marathi, is a compilation of 45-odd diary entries of Sara, who has a take on almost everything. Though actor and playwright Deshpande is seasoned as a creator of plays, “Sara Chi Diary” will mark her debut as an author. “The book is a collection of selected pieces, part of my column for one of the city’s weeklies. Through this column, Sara came to life. And she started penning reflections of the world as she saw it,” said Vibhawari, adding that the column’s popularity gave her the courage and encouragement to create “Sara Chi Diary”. “Of course, the book is more nuanced, has more characters and greater flow,” she said. Almost a year-and-a-half back, Deshpande discussed the book’s concept with Devayani Abhyankar, director of a local publication house Continental Prakashan. And “Sara Chi Diary”, almost spontaneously, found its way forward. Sara, as Deshpande imagines her to be, hails from an urban, upwardly mobile, liberal family that allows her to realise her individuality and express opinions. Nonetheless, in her most natural element, Sara feels more like an “underdog,” especially in the presence of her prodigious and pretty-looking elder sister. Her emotional conflicts, complaints, curiosities, states of funk, and moments of joy: the diary is filled with her thoughts aplenty. To add an element of cheer and colour to the diary, Deshpande joined forces with city-based visual storyteller Sayali Bhagali-Damle. “Every diary entry has an illustration, and children, as well as adults, find them engaging,” she said. The diary notes are honest and unfiltered. According to Sara, her mother is absolutely sweet, and so she has named her “Marmalade”, while her father is a photographer at heart (trapped in a mundane corporate job), which is why she addresses him as “Paparazzi”. The anecdotes in the diary do not just surround Sara’s immediate family, they also involve her comments on what she sees around, news, and people she meets, and so on. One of the pages in the diary speaks about how she gives away an expensive, imported drawing kit to an underprivileged girl, daughter of a construction worker, who lives near her house. They become friends and later Sara discovers how gifted the girl is at art. “Such incidents are common with children. They are far more sentient than we usually imagine them to be, and we sometimes tend to oversimplify their emotional insights. Their interpretation of information around them that they process daily may be naive, but it is worth acknowledging,” said Deshpande. The Covid pandemic delayed the publication of the book. “Once the lockdown is called off, and life gets back to normal, the book launch will be planned,” said Vibhawari, adding that in the present times, everyone needs a dose of positivity and everyday humour, which she believes the book offers generously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/through-sara-s-eyes-musings-of-a-10-year-old-schoolgirl-101619346905599.html
25-04-2021||Other||No trace of third abducted ONGC employee||While two of his colleagues were rescued by security forces from Nagaland on Saturday, there’s no trace yet of Ritul Saikia, the third Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) employee abducted by the United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) from Sivasagar in Assam on Wednesday, officials said.“I am not aware of the status of the third ONGC employee. I have been told that efforts are still underway to rescue him and security forces are looking for him. The other two who were rescued in Nagaland have returned to Assam,” Sivasagar superintendent of police, Amitabh Sinha, said. Amid efforts to rescue him, the banned outfit issued a statement on Saturday that the three abducted ONGC employees had been released by ULFA-I and said Saikia could have been killed by army bullets or kept hidden somewhere by the government agencies. The three employees, Ritul Saikia, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (both junior engineer assistants) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), all from Assam, were abducted from a workover rig site of ONGC inside the Lakwa tea estate. According to the police, five armed persons came to the rig site in an ONGC ambulance and abducted the three employees at gunpoint. The ambulance was recovered later close to the Assam-Nagaland border, around 11 kilometres away, leading to suspicion that the abducted persons could be in Nagaland. On Saturday, Alakesh Saikia and Mohini Mohan Gogou were rescued from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland. The operation was carried out jointly by personnel from the Indian Army, the Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police with help of inputs provided by Assam Police. “On Friday night, nearly 500 security personnel from Indian Army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police tried to rescue the three ONGC employees we had taken into custody on April 20. As a result, an encounter took place between both sides from nearly 10 pm to 2.30 am,” said the ULFA-I statement released on Saturday. The statement added that keeping safety of the three employees in mind, ULFA-I cadres released them at Tokko Singkhu village of Mon in Nagaland in a healthy condition and proceeded to their destination. It alleged that though the security forces were aware of it, they resorted to firing at the spot moments after ULFA-I cadres left the area. “News reports say that two officials, Mohini Mohan Gogoi and Alakesh Saikia, were rescued from the village by Nagaland Police. But Indian Army has not released any information on Ritul Saikia. That’s why we suspect that Ritul Sakia may have been killed in firing by the Indian Army or army-police may have kept him hidden,” the ULFA-I statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-trace-of-third-abducted-ongc-employee-101619346786919.html
25-04-2021||Bangalore||Day-2 of weekend curfew in Karnataka: People by and large remain at home||With Karnataka observing the second day of the weekend curfew aimed against Covid-19, Bengaluru and most other parts of the State wore a deserted look on Sunday. Businesses and restaurants remained shut, and vehicles stayed off roads. From 6 AM to 10 AM, the administration allowed people to purchase essential items like milk, grocery and vegetables barring which people largely stayed indoors. To restrict unnecessary public movement, certain flyovers and streets were barricaded. After 10 AM, the police started enforcing the restrictions and were seen questioning people still on roads. While those with genuine reasons were let off, the others loitering around were punished and vehicles were seized. There were similar reports from other parts of the State. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said people voluntarily have restricted movement and this would help in Covid management. Speaking to reporters here, he said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa spoke to Deputy Commissioners of the districts on Saturday and gathered information from them. According to Covid-19 guidelines in place from April 21 to May 4, night curfew has been imposed in the entire State from 9 PM to 6 AM every day; there would be weekend curfew from 9 PM on Friday to 6 AM on Monday. Amid reports of lockdown-like measures that are in place during weekends may be extended to other days of the week, Bommai said, "Such proposals did not come up during the meeting on Saturday, so I don't want to comment. For now, things will continue as they are." The government had on Saturday hinted at lockdown-like measures through the week, with a couple of Ministers and the Chief Secretary indicating about it while stating that the State Cabinet is likely to discuss and take a call at its meeting on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/day2-of-weekend-curfew-in-karnataka-people-by-and-large-remain-at-home-101619345241759.html
25-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 63 fresh Covid-19 deaths, 5,741 new cases||Jharkhand's Covid-19 death toll rose to 1,778 as the state reported 63 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, the health department said in a bulletin on Saturday.Altogether, 5,741 new infections pushed the coronavirus caseload of the state to 1,90,692, it said.Jharkhand now has 43,415 active cases, while 1,45,499 people have so far recovered from the disease, the bulletin said.Of the fresh fatalities, 15 each were reported from Ranchi and East Singhbhum, seven from Koderma it said. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts.The new coronavirus cases included 1,364 from Ranchi, 810 from East Singhbhum, 448 from Ramgarh and 320 from Hazaribagh.At least 42,523 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-63-fresh-covid-19-deaths-5-741-new-cases-101619344545495.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Lockdown in Delhi extended for another week. Check what's allowed||The Delhi government on Sunday decided to extend the existing lockdown in the national capital till May 3 as the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to surge. "Lockdown is the last weapon wielded against coronavirus. It was important to use this weapon since the cases are out of control. So we have extended lockdown in the city by a week till 5 am on Monday (May 3)," chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said during a press conference.Here is what is allowed and what not during the lockdown that has been extended for another week due to the massive surge:Pregnant women and patients for medical health facilities can travel with the production of a valid identity card. People going to get vaccinated against Covid-19 are also exempt and will have to show a valid ID card.Central government officials, judicial officers, officials working in the offices of diplomats of other countries as well as persons holding any constitutional post are also exempt with a valid ID card.All essential services providers like medical personnel, staff, people working in banks, insurance offices, stock-related offices, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and delivery of essential goods like food, pharmaceutical are allowed with a valid ID card.Also read: Delhi's Covid situation not improving, says Kejriwal, announces oxygen portalPeople coming from or going to airports, railway stations/SBTs are exempt on the production of valid ID cards.Electronic and print media, students appearing for exams and people moving for wedding-related gatherings up to 50 people and funeral or last rites related gatherings up to 20 people are also allowed with a valid ID card or admit card in case of examinations.Private security services, manufacturing units of essential services and units of nonessential goods having onsite workers production units or services, which require continuous process, cold storage and warehousing services are also allowed to open.Religious places are permitted to be open however visitors are not allowed and public transport is allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity.Intra-state and inter-state movement of essential goods is not prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-in-delhi-extended-for-another-week-check-what-s-allowed-101619340262420.html
25-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government launches Covid-19 helpline||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Sunday informed that the state has started a Covid-19 helpdesk that will function 24 hours from today."The helpline numbers are 2225624 and 2225000. Director RCH Dr. Laxman Singh Ola will be incharge of this helpdesk. You can avail help from any district of the state and register your complaints," said the Minister.Raghu Sharma also talked about the requirement of oxygen in Rajasthan and said, "We have nearly 14,389 oxygen supported beds and 4,477 ICU beds are available. There is no shortage of beds. However, it is important that the Centre provides us oxygen in the required amount. Till now 140 MT liquid medical oxygen has been allotted to us by the government. However, our requirement is more than 250MT."He also informed that the positivity rate is 6.08 per cent and the recovery rate is 73.69 per cent in the state. The death rate is 0.70 per cent."Directions to increase the RT-PCR Covid-19 testing to one lakh have been given," he added."We have provided 67 Covid-19 testing facilities out of which 38 are government-run and 29 private," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-government-launches-covid-19-helpline-101619342471515.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Businessman's vanity vans help police, healthcare workers amid Covid-19 curbs||In an effort to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Mumbai-based businessman Ketan Rawal has provided his vanity vans to the Mumbai police free of cost in order to facilitate the personnel serving amid the partial COVID-19 lockdown in the city.Speaking to ANI, Ketan Rawal said, "I am providing these vanity vans to the police personnel so that they can take rest, eat food and use the washroom while on duty."Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"These vanity vans are equipped with a bed, washroom, dressing table, and AC, similar to a bedroom," he added.Elaborating on how he is helping the health care workers, Rawal said, "I have also provided three vanity vans, which have three rooms each, to the COVID-19 care centres for doctors and nurses who have been working for 24 hours.""The vans are sanitised once every day in the morning," he added.Rawal further said that he is ready to provide his vanity vans to hospitals as well. "I am also ready to provide my vans to hospitals to save peoples' lives provided COVID-infected patients get required treatment," he added.Currently, he has provided 12 out of the 50 vans he owns to the police and health care workers.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 5,888 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths and 8,549 on Saturday. The case tally in the city stands at 6,22,109.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/businessmans-vanity-vans-help-police-healthcare-workers-amid-covid-19-curbs-101619338907501.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Tears, prayers, police, JCB: How Delhi's Saroj Hospital saved over 100 lives||On a gloomy Saturday afternoon, the staff at the Saroj Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi broke down and started praying anxiously as lives of more 100 patients hung by a thread amid rapidly depleting oxygen supply.An oxygen tanker had reached the hospital after the staff spent hours running around in search of supplies and making frantic calls to the government and police.But it could not enter the area where the hospital's oxygen tank is. The problem: its larger-than-normal size. The solution: an excavator, which broke down a portion of a wall.The hospital ran out of oxygen in the afternoon and the supply from the vendor never came.The situation was tense amid fears of a repeat of the tragedy at the Jaipur Golden Hospital, where 20 patients died due to lack of oxygen."We really didn't know what to," Pankaj Chawla, the owner of the hospital, said."This was the time we started discharging patients. We told families that we don't have oxygen and they can take their patients to some other healthcare facilities," Chawla said.The hospital, run by a trust, discharged 34 patients during this time. Since the rest were on ventilators, their families were asked to arrange oxygen cylinders."Most of the patients said, 'we will stay... it's the same situation everywhere. Let's see what happens'. Thirty-four were medically okay to go," Chawla said.The hospital went to the high court to get an order for urgent relief, but help still did not come immediately. It borrowed oxygen cylinders from various healthcare facilities, while some Delhi government officials worked in the background.Later, the city government allotted a tanker to it on a sharing basis."The tanker came to the hospital, but it was so big that it couldn't get into the area where our LMO (liquid medical oxygen) tank is," Chawla said. "We started breaking down a wall and a ramp with electronic hammers and whatever we had, but it was taking time and the tanker had to go to the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital."Government officials told the hospital that the tanker would come back after an hour."That is the time everybody thought nothing can save us. All of us, my doctors, my staff started crying. We were running out of luck, too," Chawla recalled.The hospital staff and some police personnel rushed to get some cylinders filled.Twenty cylinders were brought to the hospital in a Delhi Transport Corporation bus. Those cylinders lasted 40 minutes and actually saved the day, he said."In the meanwhile, we called the mayor, fire department... brought in a JCB (excavator), which broke a portion of the wall and the ramp," Chawla said.The police brought the tanker back after delivering oxygen at the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital.At present, there are over 100 patients at the hospital, majority of them on oxygen support."It could've been another Jaipur Golden tragedy, perhaps, of a bigger size... All this time, the families were there, helping us," Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tears-prayers-police-jcb-how-delhi-s-saroj-hospital-saved-over-100-lives-101619338499183.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Connecting people one plasma donor at a time||While you may recognize him as the digital content creator who leaves you in splits with his viral memes and reels, 29 year old RJ Abhinav has also been driving home smiles by being a plasma enabler, connecting eligible plasma donors with recipients through the power of his social media. The Delhi boy has been attempting to put together a data base of plasma donors to help critical patients in need. Abhinav’s insta handle is full of videos, stories and post about plasma donation, busting myths and creating awareness. “Plasma donors in Delhi are very less, nobody is coming forward. Everyone is scared. Jinko Covid hokar theek ho gya hai they are scared to come out because of the fear of getting infected again. However, they should understand that they can take precautions and donate plasma. Something is bigger than their fear and that is - the value of the life, that they can save through donating their plasma. There are so many plasma requests but they aren’t able to find the right donors. That’s why I am asking people to send me details. Even if I get one or two donors, I can help those who are in urgent need. I am also a part of a group that includes social media influencers and people who are active on social media, and we share details and maintain an excel sheet of plasma donors.” Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients.The power to save someone’s life is truly a superpower. Encouraging the youth to step forward without hesitation Abhinav says, “Millennials enjoy watching Superhero movies because they admire the power of these superheroes saving other people’s lives. Donating plasma if you have antibodies against Coronavirus is your superpower to save someone’s life. You get to be the superhero / heroine of the patient’s life!” Abhinav, a plasma hero trying to bridge the gap between plasma donors and recipients has been collating and sharing the data of plasma requests and donation with a group of like minded troopers, while protecting the privacy of donors. “There are people from different states and we are trying our best. We don’t broadcast the number of donors anywhere. Because once you put up the number, that guy or girl who wants to donate receives calls from all over the places. I request people to message in my inbox. When there is any need, we match the donor and help them. I don’t have the exact number of people I have helped since everyone who is a part of the group is updating the list and using it to help others, I presume, the number must be between 20 to 30,” says Abhinav. There are people who can donate plasma but the panic about visiting the hospital and donating plasma is stopping them. “Fear is genuine. But if you face antibodies, there is least chance you will get Covid again till the degree that it will harm you. You have an advantage of having those antibodies over others who are struggling with their lives. There are people who need you. Hospitals are making sure that you donate in an environment which is free from people and much safer. Take all the precautions, a slight risk and convince yourself. A doctor calls for a plasma donation when they don’t find any other alternative. When somebody is calling for plasma, the condition is critical. You have antibodies, you have defeated and koi aur nahi kar pa rha hai so why not help him or her,” asks Abhinav.You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/connecting-people-one-donor-at-a-time-101619339045932.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's LNJP hospital receives oxygen refill, Pentamed seeks urgent supply||Amid an acute oxygen crisis in the national capital, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital here received a supply of the life-saving gas in a cryogenic tanker around 10 am on Sunday, officials said.It came as a huge relief for the hospital which was running on its backup stock of oxygen.However, the situation is grim for hospitals like Pentamed in Model Town that had sent an SOS on Twitter around 11.30 am saying oxygen stock was left for 30 minutes only.The hospital officials claimed they didn't get any refill even after sending an SOS on oxygen shortage last night also. There are around 50 patients in the hospital and most of them are on oxygen support.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageLNJP Hospital's Medical Director Dr Suresh Kumar said, "We had exhausted our oxygen stock and were using the backup which would have lasted for two hours only."AAP MLA Raghav Chaddha, who is also the chairman of LNJP Hospital's Rogi Kalyan Samiti, had earlier tweeted about the cryogenic tanker on its way to refill oxygen stock in the hospital."Within the next 30 minutes, LNJP will receive liquid oxygen supply via cryogenic tanker. The tanker is on its way," he tweeted around 9.55 am on Sunday.Chaddha had also helped Sir Ganga Ram Hospital get one metric tonne of oxygen around 12.20 am. The hospital has also received five metric tonnes of oxygen in the early hours of Sunday.The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate on the issue of making medical oxygen available to hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, observing that citizens cannot be left to die.The court also made it clear that the efforts which Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government.While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight. Metro Hospital, in Gurgaon's Palam Vihar, which claims to be in its "last leg of medical oxygen", had made an urgent appeal for help to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and other ministers."INOX commitment to replenish liquid medical oxygen remain unfulfilled . Only 1.5 hours to go. Please help us urgently," the hospital tweeted around 10.41 am tagging the Prime Minister Office, PM Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Haryana chief minister Mahonar Lal Khattar, Railway Minister PiyushGoyal, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij among others.Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its COVID-19 deaths with 357 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Saturday as well as over 24,000 fresh cases. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in a 12-day period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-lnjp-hospital-receives-oxygen-refill-pentamed-seeks-urgent-supply-101619338183818.html
25-04-2021||Kolkata||Union minister Babul Supriyo tests Covid-19 positive for second time||Union Minister Babul Supriyo Sunday informed that he and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and hence he wont be able to vote in Asansol on April 26. Supriyo has tested positive for the virus for the second time. He, however, said mentally he will be with the BJP candidates of the Asansol area and will monitor the situation from home. "Both me & my wife have tested positive. Me for the 2nd time!! V Sad that I won't be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th polls where 'desperate' @AITCofficial goons hv already unleashed their terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls," Supriyo tweeted."However, the #TMchhi terror machinery who I hv handled (well) since 2014 may not rejoiceWil b doing my duties frm my room & b right by my candidates mentally in everyway possible to ensure 9/9 seats there," he said in a series of tweets. Supriyo, a two-time MP from Asansol, is contesting assembly election from Tollygunge assembly seat where voting is over. The seventh phase of elections in 36 assembly segments in West Bengal will be held on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/union-minister-babul-supriyo-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619337283532.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's latest Covid-19 positivity rate at 29%, says CM Kejriwal as lockdown extended||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the capital’s positivity rate for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), from the samples tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, has come down from more than 30% to around 29% as he announced that the ongoing lockdown in the city, which was to end at 5am on Monday, will now last till 5am on May 3.Also Read | Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week till May 3: CM Arvind Kejriwal“We saw during the lockdown that the positivity rate reached an unprecedented 36%. It has gone down a bit in the last two-three days, it has slipped below 30% today and is at around 29 today. I’m not saying that Covid-19 is towards its end in Delhi but these are the current facts,” Kejriwal said. “It may rise or end but we pray to God that we are rid of coronavirus soon,” the chief minister further said. The national capital’s latest Covid-19 numbers will be released later in the day.Delhi’s positivity rate first neared the 30% mark on April 18, with 25,462 samples testing positive for the viral disease out of 85,620 tested for it, or a positivity rate of 29.74%, according to a health department bulletin. The rate, which denotes the % of samples testing positive out of total samples tested for the disease in a 24-hour period, fell to 26.12% on April 19, that day’s bulletin showed.Since then, however, it stayed above 30%, at 32.82% (April 20), 31.28% (April 21), as well as a record high of 36% on April 22, as referenced by the Delhi chief minister in his address on Sunday. The corresponding figures for April 23 and 24 were 32.43% and 32.27% respectively. According to the April 24 bulletin, 24,103 out of 74,702 samples tested in the preceding 24 hours returned positive results.Delhi, which entered a six-day lockdown at 10pm on April 19 as announced by Kejriwal earlier that day, has a current infection tally of 1,004,782, as per the health department bulletin. Thus far, 16,705,947 samples have been tested for Covid-19, giving the city an overall positivity rate of 6%. The virus has also claimed 13,898 lives thus far in the Capital, while 897,804 people have defeated the infection. Active cases, meanwhile, are at 93,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-latest-covid-19-positivity-rate-at-29-says-cm-kejriwal-as-lockdown-extended-101619335056386.html
25-04-2021||Other||‘Fill vacant doctors post soon’: Bihar CM directs officials as Covid-19 cases rise||As Bihar reported 12,359 fresh Covid-19 cases, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday directed the health officials to complete the procedure of regular appointment of doctors and paramedic staff on priority.“The state has a sanctioned strength of 13,500 doctors (approximately) and is facing acute shortage of paramedical staff like OT assistants, laboratory assistants, ANM, x-ray technicians, ultrasound technicians, ventilator assistants, data operators, etc., in 700-odd hospitals of the state,” Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA) general secretary Dr Ranjeet Kumar said, adding that nearly 30-40% of the posts in the state, both of doctors and paramedical staff, are lying vacant.He asked the officials to fill the vacant medical and paramedical posts in every district through walk-in interviews. The chief minister, who held a high-level meeting in the wake of a shortage of doctors for the treatment of Covid-19 and other patients, asked the officials to ensure that vacant posts are immediately filled.As per people aware of the development, there are 4,133 ANM vacancies against sanctioned posts of 9,130 in Bihar while there is a shortage of 2,000-odd medical members against 4,000 sanctioned posts.With Covid-19 cases increasing day by day, the state is feeling the need for doctors as more than 500 doctors and health workers of the two leading hospitals in Patna - AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) - have been infected with Covid-19 during the ongoing second wave, according to agency reports. Altogether, 384 employees of AIIMS Patna, including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, have been infected during the second wave so far, medical superintendent CM Singh told a news agency.“The situation is the same in medical colleges which are functioning on half the teaching strength. Of the 4,000 teaching posts, nearly 50% are vacant,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, Bihar.The IMA, Bihar chapter, wrote a letter to the chief minister on Friday asking him to appoint doctors as an emergency measure. “There is a provision of quick appointment of doctors and others in epidemic time. All such people who are ready to join can be recruited on contract on different posts by appointments under epidemic provisions removing all obstacles,” said Dr Kumar.“This war needs a big army of doctors, paramedics, nurses and support staff more than what we need in normal times. Situation if not corrected can be disastrous,” the IMA said in the letter.Dr Kumar said that doctors and health care workers (HCWs) are continuously working for the last 14 months without any leave. “They are exhausted and need some rest on intervals. More than 15% of them are infected. Many have died. It is the demand of time in the public interest,” said Kumar.The state reported 77 deaths in the last 24 hours while the active cases climbed to 81,960. “Seven districts, including Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Saran, Nalanda and Begusarai, reported more than 500 positive cases on Friday,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fill-vacant-doctors-post-soon-bihar-cm-directs-officials-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101619334485709.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 and crematorium: Delhi's slum dwellers grapple with smoke, stench, and fear of disease||The smoke hangs in an ash grey cloud over their homes and the acrid smell from more than 200 cremations a day doesn’t leave, they say, permeating as it were their very pores. For the residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Camp, living next to a crematorium is as much a struggle as keeping Covid-19 at bay.Being in such close proximity to a crematorium is never easy, say the residents of the slum colony in west Delhi. But when the number of bodies being burnt goes up from about three to four a day to about 200-250, it’s about visitations of death and also the fear of the contagion looming large over every aspect of their lives.They wake up to the smell of burning bodies and sleep to it at night, said Saroj, one of the 1,500 odd people living in the 900 shanties in the slum colony located just a few metres away from the Paschim Puri crematorium."It is a very scary situation. We keep seeing ambulances pass by and constantly there is smell and smoke, whether it is day or night,” the 38-year-old ragpicker told PTI.The fear of contracting Covid-19 is constant and the glowing fires from the crematorium that now operates 24X7 allows neither peace of mind nor sleep, she said.On the night of April 14, a fire broke out in the slum cluster and Saroj and scores of her neighbours are still recovering from that. There were no casualties but 30 shanties were burnt.Half of Saroj's house also got burnt in the fire. And just as she was recovering came the weeklong lockdown aimed at breaking the chain of Covid-19 transmission.Though there are no official figures, Saroj’s neighbour, 35-year-old Kakoli Devi, said about 300 bodies were cremated on Thursday. In the last two days, about 200-250 bodies were cremated. "We have arranged for a truck and we will leave this place for our village in Maharajganj (in Uttar Pradesh). At least we will be spared this constant looming feeling of death," Kakoli said."Everyone is holed up inside the house. We don’t even switch the fans on because we fear we will get corona through the air. The atmosphere has been particularly traumatic for children," said the widow with three children. Many others, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, are also planning to leave for their villages. Several people had left earlier as the second wave of Covid-19 gathered pace and those that are left fear their homes won’t be livable for much longer given the continuous smell and stench. Many residents said it was not so bad earlier because the cremations took place at the far end of the crematorium. Now with the numbers going up – Delhi on Saturday recorded 357 deaths, its highest yet, and over 24,000 fresh cases – the entire area is being used. When the residents protested, officials, they said, told them they have government orders to do so.Saroj, who lives with seven family members, including three children, is also planning to go back to her village in Uttar Pradesh. With the cases rising, she has lost her job as a ragpicker."Some days we just drink water, some days we get food through NGOs. The situation is terrible." The stigma of living adjacent to a crematorium has also led to some people losing their jobs as domestic workers in the upscale Paschim Vihar colony near by.A 16-year-old girl, who worked as a part-time domestic help, said her employers asked her not to come to work because her house is close to a ‘shamshan ghat’."They fear we will carry corona with us so we are thinking of returning to our village. But even that costs money. We will need ₹2,000-2,500. How can we afford it?” she asked.Another 12-year-old said some have the option of returning to their villages but he doesn’t have any place to go. This is where his family has lived for decades."Where do we go? if we leave, what will we earn? Already our earnings have drastically reduced in this corona pandemic," said the young boy who does part-time domestic chores in Paschim Vihar.Vijay Kumar, a social worker at child rights NGO CHETNA, said many children are into substance abuse and are being roped in by crematorium workers to help in carrying the bodies."They are not given any protective gear and are being tempted with money - the more the number of bodies they carry, the more they money. It is very risky for them," he said.Sanjay Gupta, director of CHETNA (Childhood Enhancement Through Training and Action), is worried about the long-term impact.Children, already living in tough lives, are seeing corpses of Covid patients being burnt day and night in front of them. “This will leave a deep impression on their mental well-being and thinking,” he said.With this fear, the children are ready for migration along with their whole family as the people of the community are also involved in this cremation process which can be an active source of spreading corona,” Gupta added.He said it is time for people to come forward and help children. Instead of cremating corpses inside cities, the government should make arrangements somewhere outside, maybe in border areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-and-crematorium-delhi-s-slum-dwellers-grapple-with-smoke-stench-and-fear-of-disease-101619332324285.html
25-04-2021||Patna||Bihar transporters rue their fate over business contractions, seek relief from govt||A year after the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, transporters in Bihar are ruing their fate owing to declining passenger footfalls and contraction in business due to restrictions imposed on public transport and night curfew in the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 across the country.“Only 10,000 buses are plying across the state as well inter-state routes as against the strength of 60,000 buses. The footfall of passengers has declined drastically in the last week owing to the rise in Covid cases. Transporters are now facing economic hardships again,” said president of the Bihar Motor Transport Federation (BMTF) Uday Shankar Singh. The BMTF is an apex body of transporters in Bihar.Singh said transporters who have a big fleet of buses have curtailed plying their buses by almost half in different routes, be it Patna-Muzaffarpur, Patna-Darbhanga, Purnea and neighbouring states of Jharkhand and West Bengal.“Last year, we faced nationwide lockdown when our business came to a halt. Things started improving a bit from October but now again we are facing the same ordeal. There is not even enough money to complete two trips in a day as the number of passengers has declined. There are also restrictions on seating while recurring costs of insurance, road tax, wages to staff have to be given. What to do?” said Mukesh Sharma, another transporter who is only running 12 buses now out of 25 buses he owns.“The Mithapur bus stand is almost deserted now. Only a few buses could be seen,” he added.Truck operators are the worst hit. “The surge in Covid cases has now forced truckers to shut their business. Labourers have left for their villages fearing getting infected while business orders mainly ferrying goods and other articles have reduced drastically over the week. Almost 25% of the total trucks operational in the state have gone off the road. More are likely to shut their operations because of lack of manpower, especially drivers and labourers to offload the goods,” rued Bhanu Shekhar Singh, president of Bihar state truck owners association.He said there are 5 lakh trucks in the state of which 50% were hit hard by the government’s restrictions on 12-14 wheels trucks to ferry stone chips and sand while the rest are now hit by the fall in business due to the Covid-19 surge.Giving another insight into the poor business in truck operations, Purshottam, an operator, said the government must give relaxations to the truckers to ferry stone chips and sand else this sector would not be able to sustain for long due to economic non-viability if the pandemic persists. “From where will we give road tax and insurance and loan repayment? It is totally unviable now to run trucks,” he added.The transporters, especially bus owners, are upset with the state government for not putting curbs on the operationalisation of buses coming from New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. “At a time when inter-district traffic of passengers have fallen, buses from New Delhi and UP are coming with ease ferrying migrant labourers mostly. The majority of these buses have no permits and easily get through borders in connivance with local transport officials. Why are these buses not stopped at the borders where migrants could be tested and asked to use local transport to go home?” said another transporter, wishing not to be quoted.DemandsIn wake of the decline in business in the transport sector, the BMTF has demanded the state government should immediately give relief to the bus and truck operators by suspending road tax payment for at least two months as it did last year when there was a nationwide lockdown.“We want that transport department should suspend road tax from bus and truckers for two months effective from April 2021. I will be writing to the transport department soon,” said BMTF president. Another BMTF member said transporters this time would look for legal options to seek relief if the state government does not suspend road tax and other charges.Many transporters also felt the state government was shying from imposing full lockdown apparently to deny various sectors including transport to seek relief.“What is the point of night curfew and restrictions on seat limit when passengers and business are almost negligible. A full lockdown is a must. That way we will have a claim on seeking relief,” said another transporter, seeking anonymity.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-transporters-rue-their-fate-over-business-contractions-seek-relief-from-govt-101619326385405.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Adar Poonawalla has assured 'maximum support': CMO Maharashtra on vaccination||Serum Institute of India (SII) has assured Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of 'maximum support' in vaccinating the people in the state at the earliest, chief minister's office (CMO) said on Saturday. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country with 6,94,480 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has been assured of maximum support by Mr Adar Poonawalla and the Serum Institute of India to ensure maximum vaccination at the earliest in the State of Maharashtra," the CMO tweeted.CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has been assured of maximum support by Mr. @adarpoonawalla and the Serum Institute of India to ensure maximum vaccination at the earliest in the State of Maharashtra."We are proud to have a world-class institution like Serum Institute of India in our state and we look forward to a strategic partnership for the safety of our citizens from Covid-19," it said in another tweet.Covishield, the Covid-19 vaccine produced by the SII, is one of the three anti-coronavirus vaccines approved for use in India. The other two are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian manufacturer Gamaleya Research Institute's vaccine Sputnik V.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 count has been over 60,000 for some time now and the state recorded  67,160 fresh infections on Saturday. With this, the total active cases in the state reached 6,94,480. As many as 63,928 people have died due to the virus in the state so far, according to the state health bulletin.To curb this surge, Centre has asked states to ramp up their vaccination drive and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has on several occasions reiterated the need to spread awareness among the masses and ensure people get both their doses of the vaccine.May 1 onwards, everyone above the age of 18 will be considered eligible for getting a vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/adar-poonawalla-has-assured-maximum-support-cmo-maharashtra-on-vaccination-101619321529059.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||₹7,594 crore paid to wheat growers through direct benefit transfer scheme in Punjab: Officials||A sum of ₹7,594 crore has been transferred to the bank accounts of 2.26 lakh wheat growers in Punjab under the newly implemented direct benefit transfer scheme, officials said on Saturday.Over 93 per cent of the total arrival of wheat has been procured during the ongoing Rabi marketing season, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said.She said 71.48 lakh metric tonnes of the 76.32 LMT arrivals had already been procured, which accounts for over 93 per cent of the total arrival.This was despite the fact that nearly 300 per cent more wheat has arrived in the mandis this year as compared to 29.32 LMT arrival recorded during the corresponding period last year, she said in a statement here.The official said the state government has already set up 'farmers help desks' in the grain markets across the state wherein Mandi Board officials and IT professionals assist the peasants for registering on the Centre's 'Anaaj kharid' portal to ensure timely payment directly into their bank accounts under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme.As many as 7 lakh of the 10 lakh farmers have already uploaded their documents on the said portal in the state till date.Principal Secretary Food and Civil Supplies, K A P Sinha said there was no shortage of gunny bags in the grain markets.However, there were initially some problems due to the non-functioning of jute mills in Kolkata at its full capacity due to the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal, which had adversely impacted the supply of gunny bags in Punjab.He also said that 14.2 crore gunny bags had already been used for packaging of wheat, besides one crore bags per day were being supplied to all the grain markets across the state.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal demanded immediate sacking of Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for allegedly failing to make proper arrangements in mandis for the wheat season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-7-594-crore-paid-to-wheat-growers-through-direct-benefit-transfer-scheme-in-punjab-officials-101619320055252.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||More antibodies in women to fight Covid-19: BMC sero survey||A sero survey by Mumbai's civic body has found that women have more antibodies than men to the fight the coronavirus.It also showed that sero positivity in non-slum areas was increasing, while it was decreasing in slum areas, which matches the current trend that a large number of patients are being detected from the former in the current Covid-19 surge, officials said.Sero positivity entails a blood test showing a positive result for a particular antibody, a civic official explained.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation survey, details of which were revealed on Saturday, showed sero positivity among women was 37.12 per cent as against 35.02 per cent in men."In the sero survey, 41.61 per cent sero positivity was found in blood samples taken from municipal dispensaries in slum areas. Overall, 36.30 per cent sero positivity is found in 10,197 blood samples collected from citizens from all 24 wards in Mumbai," it said."The samples were tested for antibodies in BMC's molecular biology laboratory in its Kasturba Hospital premises. The first survey in July last year had found 57 percent sero positivity in slum areas of three wards, while the one in August showed 45 per cent sero positivity in slum areas," an official said."Blood samples taken from private laboratories in non-slum areas showed sero positivity of 28.5 percent in the current survey. In the first survey conducted in July last year, this figure was 16 per cent for three wards and 18 per cent in the one held in August," he added.The sero survey, held in March this year, was carried out using the "unlinked anonymous sampling method" with blood samples collected from those who had not been vaccinated, and was the third after similar exercises in July and August last year, a BMC release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-antibodies-in-women-to-fight-covid-19-bmc-sero-survey-101619317467409.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||CM Thackeray thanks PM Modi after Centre approves supply of 4.35 lakh vials of Remdesivir to Maharashtra||Chief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray expressed his gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Centre gave its nod to the supply of 4,35,000 vials of Remdesivir to the state. "The Central government today has approved the supply of 4,35,000 vials of Remdesivir to Maharashtra till April 30th. CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has thanked the Hon'ble PM Narendra Modi for accepting his request," the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a tweet. Earlier 2,69,000 vials were being sent to the state, a statement by the CMO said.CM Thackeray had intimated PM Modi about the problems caused by the shortage of Remdesivir and requested him to approve a consignment of the antiviral medication to the state, according to the CMO.Last week, Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne also said that the state was facing a shortage of Remdesivir due to the increase in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.  “We need at least 60,000 doses of Remdesivir daily and are currently facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 doses daily. Our problem is the number of patients is increasing daily,” said Shingne.A day after this, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has sufficient supply of the drug Remdesivir to fulfil the demand for the day. “We have sufficient (supplies of Remdesivir) as per today’s demand but the only challenge is of distribution. I appeal to doctors to use medical oxygen and Remdesivir properly,” Tope was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Maharashtra reported 67,160 cases of Covid-19 disease and 676 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin on Saturday. With this, the total active cases in the state reached 6,94,480. As many as 63,928 people have died due to the virus in the state so far. Maharashtra, which continues to be the worst-hit state by the pandemic, now has 42,28,836 infections in total and 34,68,610 patients have recovered from the disease so far. (with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-thanks-pm-modi-after-centre-approves-supply-of-4-35-lakh-vials-of-remdesivir-to-maharashtra-101619316211657.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 arrested for snatching bid that claimed woman’s life in Amritsar||Police on Saturday arrested two persons who were involved in a snatching attempt near Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) in Amritsar wherein a woman lost her life after falling off a moving auto-rickshaw on April 16. The accused, Gurpreet Singh, alias Billi and Suresh Prashar, alias Sunny are residents of Chheharta locality in the city. Rajini Sharma (21) of Kartar Nagar area had sustained critical head injuries after two bike-borne persons pulled her out of the auto-rickshaw while trying to snatch her mobile phone. She later succumbed to her injuries. A case under section 304 (culpable homicide), 379-B (theft by force), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (every member of the assembly) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Islamabad police station.Addressing a press conference, police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “A team was formed to crack the case and the two have confessed their crime. We have also recovered the mobile phone that was snatched from the victim. Gurpreet is wanted in one more snatching case while Suresh is wanted in three other criminal cases.”Covid norms were flouted during the press conference as nearly 30 policemen huddled together throwing social-distancing norms to the wind with some seen without masks.On Friday, the city police registered 13 cases against street vendors, owners of banquet halls and others for violating the pandemic norms. Gill said, “Covid norms were properly followed at the press conference and officials were wearing face masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-arrested-for-snatching-bid-that-claimed-woman-s-life-in-amritsar-101619300162809.html
25-04-2021||Other||Patiala GMC awaits Centre’s nod to import oxygen plant from Germany||With the entire infrastructure in place, Government Rajindra Medical College and Hospital is awaiting the Centre’s nod to order mobile oxygen generation plant from Germany.The hospital has come up with a proper infrastructure worth ₹84 lakh for setting up the plant, which would not only cater to its oxygen needs but of other medical institutions too.“We will make the plant operational in two days if we get the required equipment for producing oxygen as all other prerequisites are already in place at the hospital,” said hospital’s medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi.Notably, a similar plant will be set up at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar.He added that the proposed plant will be able to produce 20,000 litres of oxygen.Meanwhile, one of the officials said the state government has already sent the file for approval to Centre, but has not received any response yet.“After a go-ahead, an order will be placed for the import of oxygen generation plant as the formalities have been completed so far,” he said.It may be mentioned that following the increase in demand of medical oxygen in state hospitals due to the sudden surge in Covid cases, even chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to immediately facilitate setting up the plant.No dearth right now, says medical supdt With the influx of Covid patients at Rajindra hospital, the authorities are claiming that there is no dearth of oxygen supply as they have sufficient storage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO).Medical superintendent Dr Rekhi said presently, the hospital has 12,000 litres LMO plant and small oxygen generator having capacity of 6,000 litres.“Around 250 patients are presently admitted in the hospital and all are provided with the required oxygen needs. Moreover, we have also kept an oxygen tank on standby in case of emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-gmc-awaits-centre-s-nod-to-import-oxygen-plant-from-germany-101619299562864.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyers oppose HC bar council’s move to appoint ex-IG Kunwar Vijay as panel member||A section of lawyers on Saturday opposed the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council’s decision to appoint former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh as member of its disciplinary committee. It was on Friday that a high court bench had questioned Kunwar Vijay’s role as Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) member in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case probe. “Seeing this conduct of the respondent (Kunwar Vijay), one may harbour an idea that he may be indulging in theatrics to fulfil his own post-retirement political ambitions as several officers have done after demitting office,” the bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat had observed. The judgment came on the day when the bar council led by chairman Minderjeet Yadav held a ceremony in which the former IPS officer was handed over his licence to practise as an advocate besides making him a member of the disciplinary committee. The disciplinary committee of the bar council, which has more than 1 lakh members from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, investigates complaints against lawyers in the two states and the UT. “The move is in total violation of section 9 of the Advocates Act, 1961, and transparency. It is requested that the decision be reconsidered immediately keeping in view the high traditions of the council,” Baltej Singh Sidhu, former secretary of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association said in a letter to the council. Sidhu said he personally held nothing against the former IPS officer. “Kunwar Vijay does not know how lawyers work. As per rules, a member of the committee has to have 10-year experience,” he said.Kunwar Vijay, who did his bachelor’s in laws (LLB) from Panjab University in 2010, approached the council to grant him licence after his resignation in the aftermath of a high court judgment of April 9 in which SIT probe reports were set aside in the Kotkapura firing case and the Punjab government was told to constitute new SIT excluding him as member. Bar council chairman Yadav said a meeting was called on Monday to reconsider the decision in view of complaints that Kunwar Vijay does not fulfill criteria as a disciplinary committee member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawyers-oppose-hc-bar-council-s-move-to-appoint-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-as-panel-member-101619299082698.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdwara in UP’s Ghaziabad starts ‘oxygen langar’ to help Covid patients||Amid the spiralling Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the Gurdwara Samiti of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad has started a unique initiative “oxygen langar” to help patients infected with the virus when the life-saving gas is in short supply.Though the group isn’t providing cylinders for home, patients can come to the Indirapuram gurdwara and use them till their oxygen levels normalise. The group has helped 250 Covid-19 patients so far.On Friday, distraught family members of many Covid-19 patients queued up outside the gurdwara. The volunteers were seen fitting the oxygen apparatus in their vehicles.Indirapuram Gurdwara Samiti president Gurpreet Singh ‘Rummy’ said the group has managed to arrange 25 big cylinders but they aren’t enough. He said the group doesn’t have enough empty cylinders to help those in need but will arrange more.On the black marketing of oxygen cylinders, Rummy said it is unfortunate that people are using a pandemic for minting money.The samiti has publicised its phone numbers so that patients’ family members can take an appointment before coming to the gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdwara-in-up-s-ghaziabad-starts-oxygen-langar-to-help-covid-patients-101619298966786.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Minutes away from disaster||Hospitals in Delhi continued to send SOS messages on running out of oxygen supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minutes-away-from-disaster-101619295044226.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC gives Punjab 6 months to devise mechanism to check illegal mining||The Punjab and Haryana high court has given six months to the Punjab government to put in place a robust mechanism to stop illegal mining and deal with complaints related to it.The high court bench of justices Jaswant Singh and Ashok Kumar Verma passed the order on February 26 (made available now) on a plea of Bachittar Singh of Rupnagar, who had alleged that royalty was being collected from trucks carrying gravel and had demanded a CBI probe. The HC had ordered a preliminary CBI probe acting on the report of a judicial officer after he found that collection of royalty from trucks laden with mining material was going on. Subsequently, Punjab had sought recalling of the order and submitted that FIRs have been registered and measures are being put in place to check illegal mining. It had also requested the court to allow the state to probe these FIRs and recall order on the CBI probe.The high court has now disposed of the plea, but directed the state to conduct a probe into three FIRs and also take action against the officials if found guilty in departmental probes. It has also asked Punjab to apprise the court by August about its proposal to bring in amendments in the mining regulation law as well as other measures for receiving and redressal of complaints pertaining to illegal mining.“We find that measures proposed by the state government are sufficient and effective in dealing with illegal nakas for collecting gunda tax,” the court said in its judgment to the proposal of the government that district-level task force would be set up and online complaint redressal system would be put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-gives-punjab-6-months-to-devise-mechanism-to-check-illegal-mining-101619295182370.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 92, Punjab sees highest single-day deaths this year||Punjab on Monday reported 92 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the coronavirus this year, pushing the death toll to 8,356, according to a medical bulletin. The earlier high this year was 82 deaths, reported on April 19. The state saw the maximum daily death toll of 102 cases in September last year. According to the bulletin, Punjab reported 5,724 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 3,32,110.A maximum of 11 deaths each were reported in Amritsar and Mohali, followed by 10 in Ludhiana, eight in Gurdaspur, seven in Patiala, six each in Jalandhar, Bathinda and Sangrur, three in Muktsar, two each Tarn Taran, Pathankot and one in Fatehgarh Sahib. Among fresh cases, 861 were detected in Ludhiana, 802 in Mohali, 592 in Bathinda, 544 in Jalandhar, 465 in Patiala, 218 in Hoshiarpur, 385 in Amritsar, 217 in Pathankot, 220 in Mansa, 206 in Gurdaspur, 107 in Ferozepur, 170 in Fazilka, 151 in Rupnagar, 142 in Sangrur, 109 in Muktsar, 100 each in Tara Taran and Faridkot. The number of active cases rose from 43,943 on Friday to 46,565, the bulletin said. A total of 2,949 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,77,189, it said.There are 61 critical patients who are on ventilator while 556 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 69,03, 246 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, the Punjab government provided 147 oxygen concentrators to the worst-hit districts in the state’s Malwa region. Minister Som Prakash shifted to Fortis Mohali: Senior BJP leader and Union minister Som Parkash, who was under home isolation after testing positive for Covid on April 19, was shifted to Fortis, Mohali, on Saturday. He was admitted to ICU after dip in his oxygen saturation level. Som Parkash has Covid pneumonia with significant lung involvement and raised biomarkers. He is on oxygen support and being managed medically as per guidelines. He is being monitored closely in the ICU and the next few days would determine the trajectory of his stabilisation,” the hospital authorities said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-92-punjab-sees-highest-single-day-deaths-this-year-101619294763405.html
25-04-2021||Other||2,030 new cases, 8 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported 2,030 novel coronavirus infections, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 58, 374.With 15 Covid-induced fatalities — eight in Kashmir and seven in Jammu — the total death toll reached 2,126, health officials said. Of the new cases, 1,196 cases are from Kashmir while 834 are from Jammu, besides 176 travellers. So far, 132 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past one week, the UT has recorded over 1,500 cases. On Tuesday and Wednesday, J&K recorded 2,030 and 2, 204 daily cases respectively.Officials said with 591 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 530 in Jammu district, 180 in Baramulla, 99 in Anantnag and 83 in Kulgam.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 18,064, officials said.As many as 944 patients have recovered, including 584 from Kashmir and 360 from Jammu.As many as 1, 38, 184 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 87.25% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Dulloo calls for intensified testing, vaccination Jammu: To tackle the recent surge of Covid 19 cases, financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo on Saturday impressed upon the officers for effective implementation of the five-pronged strategy in J&K which includes testing, containment, isolation and treatment, Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination. He made these remarks during a review meeting at civil secretariat here to analyse district-wise Covid-19 scenario. Dulloo directed the officers to expedite the testing and vaccination drive, study the increase of the test positivity rate and take remedial measures accordingly. “We have to gear up all our efforts at all levels, only then we will be able to tackle the surge of cases. Testing has to be increased significantly at all designated facilities and bring down the test positivity rate in each district. All the testing facilities have to make sure that the set targets are met on daily basis” he said, adding that installation of oxygen generation plants needs to be expedited which would augment the oxygen supply of our hospitals. He directed the officers that there should be no delay in the result of RT-PCR tests and directed the GMCs to make sure that they do perform 2, 000 tests each daily. Calling for an increase in the pace of vaccination, he directed the officers to make all the necessary arrangements to accelerate the vaccination drive to the population. He said that by vaccinating more people, we will be better equipped to fight the disease, adding that they have an adequate supply of vaccines in all districts. Regarding the containment strategy, the FC said that restrictions in the 127 containment zones have to be implemented fully, adding that testing in containment zones has to be increased significantly. He also said that the number of contacts traced for every positive case should be increased to 20. Regarding the treatment of home isolation patients, the FC directed that they should be monitored regularly and necessary instructions passed to them. He directed the district authorities to fully activate their control rooms and periodical calls should be made to the home isolation patients on regular basis. He appealed to the people to go back to the basics and follow the norms of social distancing, maintaining personal hygiene and wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2030-new-cases-8-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101619294762302.html
25-04-2021||Other||With 2,073 new cases, Himachal’s sees biggest single-day spike since outbreak||With 2,073 fresh infections, Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike since the pandemic outbreak, taking the state’s caseload to 86,138. The toll mounted to 1, 291 after 24 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 360 were recorded in Kangra, 317 in Solan, 269 in Shimla, 265 in Mandi, 207 in Sirmaur, 194 in Hamirpur, 184 in Bilaspur, 142 in Una, 92 in Kullu, 31 in Chamba, 17 in Lahaul-Spiti and seven in Kinnaur. Meanwhile, the active cases count reached 13,411 even as 877 more recovered from the disease. Kangra is the worst hit district with 14, 425 cases so far, followed by Shimla where 13, 355 people have been infected and Mandi with 12,740 cases. Solan’s caseload climbed to 11, 205 while Una has 6,125 cases, Sirmaur 5,811, Hamirpur 5,410, Kullu 5,406, Bilaspur 4,578 , Chamba, 3,790, Lahaul-Spiti 1,699 and Kinnaur 1, 594.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-2-073-new-cases-himachal-s-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-since-outbreak-101619294583730.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Constitute new SIT to probe Kotkapura firing case: Bajwa||Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Saturday urged the Punjab government to constitute a new special investigation team (SIT) to ensure justice in the Kotkapura firing case at the earliest. Bajwa said the investigation should preferably be concluded within a month, and subsequently after filing of challan, an application should be filed before the trial court requesting for an expeditious trial preferably on day-to-day basis. “I had suggested this earlier as well. The high court has also made similar observations by directing that the investigation of these FIRs should be concluded as expeditiously as possible, preferably within six months from the date of constitution of SIT,” he said in a statement here. The Rajya Sabha MP said it has also been stated in the judgment that justice needs to be delivered to the victims who have been waiting endlessly. He said the Congress was voted to power by the people of Punjab based on its poll promise to punish the perpetrators of these sacrilege cases. “Hence, they should not be made to wait for justice by the government and expeditious investigation is the need of the hour,” he added. The Congress leader said that without commenting on the investigation that has been conducted and focusing on the time frame within which a party has to fulfil its poll promises regarding these cases, the high court judgment, instead of being challenged, should be implemented in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/constitute-new-sit-to-probe-kotkapura-firing-case-bajwa-101619294582232.html
25-04-2021||Other||J&K goes into 34-hour lockdown||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday announced a weekend lockdown from 8pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday. However, essential emergency services movement, work and scheduled marriages up to permissible gathering norms shall remain exempted, subject to production of wedding cards/ID cards etc. The district magistrates may issue passes wherever necessary. Sinha also announced that the Covid 19 vaccine will be available free of cost for people in the 18 to 45 age group across the UT. The LG made these announcements via Twitter on Saturday evening. “Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8pm, 24th April (Saturday) till 6am, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed,” he posted on his Twitter handle. Earlier, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had imposed a night curfew in all 20 districts of the UT. It had also imposed various curbs in the UT and said that public transport will ply with only 50% seating capacity. The UT administration had said that only 50% shops in market complexes, bazaars and malls within the municipal limits or urban local body will be allowed to open in a staggered manner. In another post, Sinha informed, “It has been decided that Covid-19 vaccination for people in the age group of 18-45 years will be provided free of cost in the UT. The cost of vaccine will be fully borne by the government of J&K. The health department will constitute a panel to work out the logistics.#LargestVaccineDrive”. “If your age is between 18-45 years, register yourself for Covid-19 vaccine. Registration for vaccination starts from 28, April, 2021 on https://cowin.gov.in,” he posted in another Tweet. Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing an alarming rise in the number of Covid 19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-goes-into-34-hour-lockdown-101619294404572.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab shuts iron, steel industries to divert oxygen for medical use||Following the death of six Covid patients in an Amritsar private hospital because of non-availability of medical oxygen, the Punjab government on Saturday ordered the closure of operations at the state’s iron and steel industry where oxygen is used to divert the life-saving gas for medical use.The government has also decided to establish oxygen control rooms at the state and district-level, said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, while directing Amritsar deputy commissioner to initiate a thorough investigation into the tragic incident at the private hospital.Ordering closure of industrial operations at iron and steel plants, said the CM in a statement, adding that the state government will convey its decision to the Centre.The CM said sudden influx of patients from neighbouring states had put added burden on oxygen requirement of Punjab.Punjab has witnessed a sharp increase in demand for oxygen over the past a few days. The demand for oxygen currently stands at 250 metric tonnes per day and is further expected to go up to 300 MT in coming days on account of spiralling Covid cases.The CM also asked for a feasibility report from the power department on use of thermal plants for providing oxygen for medical use.Reacting to reports of increase in the price of oxygen by suppliers, Amarinder asked the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation to discuss, negotiate and settle the pricing with bulk suppliers and inform principal secretary, medical education and research, on the final decision.The CM also ordered Punjab Health Systems Corporation to procure 100 more oxygen concentrators, including 50 approved earlier, in addition to 234 already being used in Covid facilities.Principal secretary, industries, has been directed to set up the state control room at Udyog Bhawan, Chandigarh, with support from director, industries and commerce, with other officers, as required, to be provided by the personnel department. The state control room will ensure that all oxygen supply from within Punjab and from outside is closely supervised and directly monitored by the government.Chief secretary (CS) Vini Mahajan said that two senior officers Harpreet Sudan and Rahul Gupta are being posted to the state control room to coordinate all activities.After chairing a high-level meeting to review the Covid situation, Mahajan said the state government has provided 147 oxygen concentrators to the worst-hit districts in the Malwa region.The CS directed the health and family welfare department to ensure 100% testing in micro-containment zones as early detection can be helpful in saving the precious lives.She also instructed the department to immediately make functional 104 helpline 24x7 for medical oxygen requirements in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-shuts-iron-steel-industries-to-divert-oxygen-for-medical-use-101619294402587.html
25-04-2021||Other||3 LeT over ground workers arrested from Baramulla||Police on Saturday claimed to have arrested three over ground workers (OGWs) of Lashkar-e-Taiba for their alleged involvement in a series of bank robberies in Baramulla and Budgam districts and the killing of a civilian in central Kashmir.As per the police, the arrested persons were working for local Lashkar operatives from Budgam.A police spokesperson said that on the intervening night of April 23 and 24, the Baramulla Police and 29 Rashtriya Rifles initiated a joint operation following a specific input and arrested the three OGWs, identified as Rahil Ahmad Parray of Kanihama, Arif Ahmad Mir of Mazhama and Naseer Ahmad Bhat of Singhpora. “The trio was involved in the robbery at J&K Bank, Khare Sherabad, on April 22 and a string of other robberies including the Grameen Bank, Ogmuna, Grameen Bank, Panzinara, and J&K Bank, Chandipora.”They had taken away Rs. 9, 51,896 INR in all from these banks, the spokesperson added. “They were also involved in the looting of ₹3, 50, 000 INR from a petrol pump in Budgam on February 18. They also had a role in the killing of a civilian, namely Naseer Ahmad Khan of Buchipora Magam on April 11, and were working on the directions of designated LET terrorists Yousuf Dar alias Kantru and Abrar Nadeem Bhat.”Police recovered ₹24,500, a Chinese pistol, two magazines, 25 live rounds, two 12 bore rifles, three cartridges, two pouches, a multipurpose knife, three PPE kits, a weapon tying chain and three vehicles (Alto K-10 JKOSG 5626, Alto-800 JK05G -45664, and an Alto¬ K 1O without number plate) from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-let-over-ground-workers-arrested-from-baramulla-101619294103093.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 cases hit 1 million||An unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi in its fourth wave – the worst so far – pushed the number of total infections in the national capital so far past the one million-mark, with the latest 250,000 cases coming in just 11 days as the city’s health care infrastructure creaked under the massive caseload and hospitals made urgent appeals for life-saving supplies.On Saturday, Delhi reported 24,103 cases and record 357 deaths. The positivity rate – the proportion of tests that are positive for Covid-19 – continued to soar at 32.27%, with nearly one out of every three samples tested across the Capital returning positive.The authorities scrambled to get oxygen tanks to hospitals where Covid-19 patients were gasping amid the world’s worst Covid-19 surge, as many criticised alleged government negligence over the public health crisis spiralling out of control.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged his counterparts in other states to provide oxygen to the national capital, saying all available resources were proving to be inadequate owing to the severity of the latest surge. “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” Kejriwal tweeted.The first case was reported in Delhi on March 2 last year. It took 419 days for the tally to touch one million. While the first 250,000 cases took 205 days, the second 250,000 cases came in 57 days – Delhi’s tally crossed the half-million mark on November 18, 2020.From there, as the pace of infections came under control, the third phase slowed down considerably – it took 146 days for the tally to cross 750,000.However, pushed by the mammoth surge of infections in recent weeks, it took only 11 days for the latest 250,000 cases.Across the country, 349,158 infections were reported on Saturday. The active cases in the country have crossed the 2.5 million-mark.In Delhi, there are 93,080 active Covid-19 cases, taking the total Covid-19 tally of the city to 1,004,782. The death toll in the national capital mounted to 13,898. The positivity rate in Delhi stood at 32.27% and the case fatality rate was at 1.38%. As many as 74,702 tests, including 42,346 RT-PCR and 32,356 rapid antigen tests were done, according to the official health bulletin.A total of 22,695 people also recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 897,804.On Saturday, 20 people died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital as the facility waited for oxygen to be replenished.With the worsening of conditions at the hospital, the Centre announced exemption of basic customs duty on import of Covid-19 vaccine, medical-grade oxygen and related equipment to boost domestic availability and directed the customs department to clear all import consignments, including life-saving drugs and equipment used in Covid-19 treatment on priority.The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to boost oxygen availability in the country.“The PM emphasised that there was an immediate need to augment the supply of medical grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals. The PM stressed that all ministries and departments need to work in synergy to increase the availability of oxygen and medical supplies,” a statement said.A day after 25 patients died at the Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the city’s biggest and most high-profile health facilities, the Delhi high court asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected Covid-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the mounting cases as a “tsunami”, and also warned it will “hang” any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals in the Capital.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour-long hearing on a holiday on the issue of the escalating oxygen crisis in various hospitals in Delhi. “We will not spare anyone,” the bench said.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said: “The number of infections is likely to start coming down soon. The high mortality will continue for another week after that. However, the number of new infections coming down is still no good news because the absolute numbers would be high and the health care system is overwhelmed.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-cases-hit-1-million-101619293272284.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||20 die as O2 pressure dips in Rohini hospital||Twenty Covid patients, mostly admitted to the critical care unit of Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, died on Friday allegedly due to low oxygen pressure as the hospital struggled with depleting oxygen stock, officials said. Despite this, officials said the hospital received the requisite supply of oxygen only on Saturday, after it raised the alarm twice.“We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in the critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen stock was over by about 10pm (on Friday) and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the hospital.For over 1.5 hours, officials said patients were completely dependent on the backup oxygen cylinders.According to officials, Jaipur Golden hospital was supposed to receive its quota of oxygen at 5.30pm on Friday but got an emergency supply at around midnight after raising alarm. While it received an additional 1,500 cubic metres of oxygen -- 40% of its quota allocated by the government -- later, officials said it was facing a crisis again by morning.“We are again in a crisis situation, 200 lives are on the line. Last night, we were at least able to save most patients. We will not be able to do that today. We have exhausted our backup,” said Dr Baluja.Along with representatives from Maharaja Agrasen, Batra, and Saroj hospitals, Dr Baluja approached the Delhi high court on Saturday to secure supply of oxygen.With oxygen levels depleting, officials said the hospital somehow managed to hold on till 1.30pm on Saturday when they received another 1,000 cubic metres of oxygen. By 7.15 pm Saturday, the hospital again had to tweet an SOS, “Next impending oxygen crises in Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over 200 lives at stake if liquid medical oxygen is not supplied by 9:00 pm tonight.” The hospital said it received another 1,000 cubic metres of oxygen around 9 pm, which it said will last till at least 5 pm on Sunday.The appeal comes a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged the severe oxygen crisis faced by the national capital and “catastrophic” events that may follow if the demand for liquid medical oxygen is not met. Kejriwal said some state governments are stopping tankers meant for Delhi to meet their requirement.“Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here? Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central government when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state?” Kejriwal said during the Covid-review conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.A police officer, who did not want to be identified, said that around 11 pm on Friday, police had received information regarding the deaths of 20 Covid patients due to oxygen shortage at Jaipur Golden Hospital. The police contacted the district administration that was also unaware of the deaths.“Both the agencies contacted the hospital management but it denied that any deaths had taken place because of (lack of) oxygen. However, they flagged the oxygen crisis in the hospital by saying that they only had half an hour stock,” the officer said.“It’s to be probed if the 20 patients died before the oxygen supply was made or after it. As of now, we have not received any complaint from any concerned agency or from the family of any dead patients,” the officer added.Security beefed upMeanwhile, the Delhi Police’s intelligence unit (special branch) alerted the Rohini district police about a potential law and order problem and suggested deployment of adequate security personnel at the hospital. Within minutes, nearly 50 police personnel, led by an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and inspectors, reached the hospital premises and joined the private security guards to ensure law and order was not disrupted.The police are on high alert to ensure no violence breaks out after several hospitals reported that lives of patients are at stake because of inadequate oxygen supply.A senior police officer said, “Since the hospital management (Jaipur Golden Hospital) declared that 20 patients died on Friday night due to low oxygen pressure which resulted from the hospital running out of its oxygen supply, we anticipated a backlash from the family and relatives of the deceased. Also, after the hospital issued an SOS about the lives of 200 other patients, we reviewed the situation and accordingly deployed police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-die-as-o2-pressure-dips-in-rohini-hospital-101619292917720.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Will hang anyone blocking oxygen supplies, warns HC||The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government about their preparedness to deal with the peak of the second Covid wave expected by mid-May, terming the mounting cases a “tsunami” and warning that it will “hang any person” who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals.Talking tough, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour hearing on the escalating crisis in city hospitals on a day when 20 patients died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital for lack of oxygen. The bench asked both the Centre and the Delhi government to “interact and co-ordinate” with each other for ensuring adequate supply of oxygen.The Centre called the Delhi government a “cry baby” before the court and said it was the latter’s “incompetence” that led to the deaths of people. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, asked the Delhi government to manage the procurement and distribution of oxygen on their own and not depend on the Centre for everything.Mehta said the state governments were responsible for the transportation of the oxygen from various sources and the Delhi government had to do it on its own.“So far we have ensured that nobody in the country was left without oxygen. States and Union territories which do not have industries have also arranged for tanks but the Delhi government has yet not coordinated with the suppliers,” Mehta said.The bench questioned the Delhi government over its citing of the shortage of cryogenic tankers to procure oxygen from Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinganagar.“We make it clear that the efforts the GNCTD (government of the national capital territory of Delhi) has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised, and they should not leave it entirely to the central government to act in this regard,” the court recorded in its order while directing the Delhi government to arrange tankers and other logistics for timely procurement of oxygen.“Citizens cannot be allowed to die like this… In case cryogenic tanks are less in supply, we are hopeful that the Centre may work this out in coordination with the GNCTD, who cannot leave it completely on the Centre,” it said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said the city government did not have enough cryogenic tankers because Delhi is not an industrial state.“We got 309 metric tonnes yesterday as against the 480 MT allocated by the Centre. It’s a chaotic situation with disorderly function. Some incidents are bound to happen. We fear we will lose many people... human lives are being lost every day,” Mehra said.During the proceedings, four city hospitals — including Jaipur Golden, where the tragedy took place a few hours ago — complained that there was nobody to coordinate with them on oxygen and essential medicine supplies.“We have already lost 20 lives. We are literally gasping for breath and pleading. The cases are slipping out of our hand. We are trying to ask every authority but to no avail,” senior advocate Sachin Datta for Jaipur Golden said.The bench expressed concern over this as Mehra informed the court that the Delhi government had constituted a team of officers to coordinate with hospitals. As Mehra said the government was not getting information about the quantity of oxygen supplied from suppliers and re-fillers, the court directed the suppliers and re-fillers to give all such information to the city government.During the hearing, the court also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to submit their plans on preparedness after it cited a report by IIT Kanpur predicting that the peak of cases would be hit in mid-May.Mehta told the court that this was being considered and the country had to be prepared for the worst. He said steps had been taken to streamline the passage of oxygen and a strong message had been given to the suppliers in this regard by the top leadership.The court also suggested providing Delhi Police security to hospitals as patients were being discharged from there due to the lack of oxygen supply.“Let’s face the reality. If admissions aren’t being made, we know how people react. We don’t want a law-and-order situation. If riots break out at hospitals, what will happen? There are deaths taking place,” it said.The matter will now be heard on Monday, April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-hang-anyone-blocking-oxygen-supplies-warns-hc-101619292701316.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi may be extended by a week||The Delhi government will extend the lockdown in Delhi by at least one more week, senior government officials said on Saturday.“An order to extend the lockdown will be issued on Sunday by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The decision has been taken owing to the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and the high positivity rate which has led to a large number of hospital admissions and an oxygen crisis. In such a situation, if the lockdown is lifted, there could be a serious law and order situation,” said a senior government official privy to the development.On April 19, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown that is supposed to be in force in Delhi till 5am on April 26 (Monday). This is now likely to be extended by another week, officials said.Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and traders’ associations on Saturday demanded an extension of the restrictions, quoting the high number of daily cases being reported in the Capital.“We have been demanding that the lockdown should be imposed for at least 14 days. Delhi is reporting at least 25,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day even as the number of tests is coming down. There is such a crisis for oxygen, in such a situation one cannot even imagine opening up economic activities,” said Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary United Residents of Delhi (URD) — a joint forum of RWAs.In a statement, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said more than 100 leading associations from across the city have decided to observe “voluntary self-lockdown” of Delhi markets from April 26 to May 2.“Trade leaders of Delhi have opined that opening of markets in the city would be a suicidal step. In case the markets stay open, and if any trader or any other person gets infected with Covid-19, they will not even be able to get the required medical facilities. Over and above it will be an extra load on the government which is already fighting for restoration of proper medical facilities with the help of the Central government. So, it has been unanimously decided that it will be appropriate to continue closure of shops for one more week from Monday,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT.Government records state that a high proportion of patients in Delhi currently are on supplemental oxygen and under ICU care which has led to a quantum increase in medical oxygen requirement in various Covid-related health establishments. On April 22, the DDMA even stated that in many cases, the existing contractual arrangements with suppliers have either been disturbed or the health facility’s oxygen requirement has exceeded the contractual quantity, thereby leading to “widespread disruption” in the supply chain leading to a precarious situation. “Furthermore, local supply side disruptions in the neighbouring states is leading to wide variation in day-to-day delivery of oxygen to Delhi,” it stated on April 22.While the restrictions are not entirely a curfew, movement will be prohibited unless someone is seeking or providing essential services, medical help, or has to go to a handful of exempted workplaces, such as government offices. People in some of these categories will require an e-pass from the government, while others will need to show an identity card. The rules are almost identical to those for the weekend and night curfews imposed in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-in-delhi-may-be-extended-by-a-week-101619292436290.html
25-04-2021||Other||Two arrested for running shops in Ludhiana’s containment zones, one held for loitering||Police on Friday arrested three people for lockdown violations in Dugri, which is a containment zone, and booked another 51 for violating the night curfew that starts at 8pm. The Dugri police arrested Gulshan Kumar for roaming around the containment zone without a valid reason. Besides, Bhupinder Singh of Phase 1, Dugri, was arrested for opening his chicken shop in the containment zone and a street vendor, Vijay Singh, of BRS Nagar, was held for selling fast food in the sealed area. He was also not wearing a mask.Among those booked for night curfew violations, nine were in the Division Number 2 area, six in Division Number 3 and five in Division Number 1.Similarly, police in Daresi, Basti Jodhewal and Division Number 4 lodged four cases each; and Salem Tabri, Haibowal, PAU and Sarabha Nagar three each.Division Number 6 police booked two fish and chicken shop owners for keeping their shops open after permissible hours, while the Daba police booked a sweetmeat shop and a welding workshop owner for the same violation.Division Number 5, Division Number 8 and Koomkalan police also filed one case each.Apart from the 54 FIRs, 500 mask violators were fined ₹1,000 each. The police have already registered 179 cases against violators in the past three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-running-shops-in-ludhiana-s-containment-zones-one-held-for-loitering-101619291521969.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Summer break likely from May 1 in Chandigarh govt schools||As per education department officials, one-month summer vacations for government schools may be announced from May 1 onwards , the same day the 2021-2022 academic session is set to begin.UT director of school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “We have held a meeting to discuss the option. A final call will be taken next week by senior officials.” The UT administration has directed all educational institutions, including schools, to remain closed till April 30 except for all urgent and time-bound academic and non-academic activities. An order regarding the summer vacations will be issued close to the end of the month.As per sources, a month-long summer vacation is being considered, after which the Covid situation will be re-examined and classes for the new session will start. There won’t be online classes also during this duration. All pending exams and formalities for the previous academic year will have to be finished by April 30.No change for pvt schoolsMeanwhile, private schools will continue as per their normal academic schedule. Speaking about this, president of the Independent School Association, HS Mamik said, “We had earlier considered announcing early summer vacations, but now, we will proceed as per the normal schedule. Online classes for students are going on and summer vacations will be held from around May-end up to July. We will take a call over starting offline classes after that.”Kavita Das, principal of St John’s High School in Sector 26, added, “It is important to keep students occupied and ensure that they effectively utilise their time, while they stay at home due to the rising number of Covid cases. We will continue with online classes, which students don’t have many problems following and hope to open the schools later once the situation improves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/summer-break-likely-from-may-1-in-chandigarh-govt-schools-101619291285544.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Panjab University senate polls to start on May 3||The polling for the election of six members to the senate from the faculties of Panjab University has been postponed from Monday (April 26) to May 19.Now, the senate polls will begin on May 3, with the election for the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges.Six members are elected to the PU senate from the faculty of arts, science, medical science, languages, law and combined faculties. Twelve candidates are in fray from the constituency, which has 754 eligible voters. There is no change in the schedule of the other seven constituencies of the PU senate so far.The decision comes two days after the university had announced that the meetings of faculties will be held online on Monday, prior to the physical voting at the venues.The order issued on Saturday states that the varsity has received representations from some members of the faculties, seeking postponement of the election, as they won’t be able to participate due to the Covid surge.It also mentioned that concerns have been raised over the validity of online meetings of faculties in the absence of any supporting provision in the PU calendar.Subhash Sharma of BJP group, who has objected to online meetings of faculties, said, “The election process should be held as per the rules and regulations in the PU calendar. The meetings of the faculties cannot be held online, as it is illegal, and we won’t take part in it.”Goyal group raise concern over postponementIn a letter issued to voters, members of Goyal group who were contesting from the constituency of faculties, expressed concern over the varsity’s move to reschedule election at this stage.Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal, Keshav Malhotra, Rajesh Gill, Ronki Ram and Anu Chatrath in the letter said that the move is in defiance of a High Court order. They said that the election was rescheduled just 48 hours prior to voting and the only agenda is to delay and defeat the democratic process.Navdeep Goyal said, “If this is the case, then all decisions taken by the university in online meetings are invalid. The semester exams were held in online mode twice and the meetings of Board of Finance (BoF) was also held in online mode in absence of any such regulation in the PU calendar. With the logic given for rescheduling the elections, there will be a big question mark on the degrees issued by PU in contravention to regulations.”Former senator Ashok Goyal, said, “It is the outright murder of democracy by forces who do not want elections to be held. It has already been delayed by more than eight months. We demand an independent inquiry into how this happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-panjab-university-senate-polls-to-start-on-may-3-101619291231737.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Limited oxygen supply choking private hospitals in Chandigarh||Private hospitals in Chandigarh are scrambling for medical oxygen cylinders amid a surge in demand and dwindling supply.As the private suppliers have reportedly hiked the prices, the Chandigarh administration has now decided to provide oxygen cylinders to private hospitals from the central quota set for the UT.At least three private hospitals in the city, which have around 60 to 70 Covid-19 patients from the region, have stated their helplessness in getting adequate oxygen with private suppliers unable to meet the required capacity.Dr Hardeep Singh Santokh of Santokh Hospital, Sector 38, said: “While our demand has doubled from 20 cylinders to 40, the supply is scarce, leading to a crisis-like situation. Also, the suppliers have doubled the prices of filled cylinders, from ₹240 per unit to ₹500.”Dr Sanjay Bansal, owner of Eden Hospital, Industrial Area, and Dr SPS Chawla, administrator at Landmark Hospital, Sector 33, said there was a problem with refilling the cylinders, and the rising prices were putting further stress on the supplies.Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta said the administration on Saturday decided to allocate five tonnes of oxygen for filling cylinders of both private and government hospitals.“Cylinders of private hospitals will be refilled through the bottling plants located in Punjab by Sunday, as per the requirement,” he said.Mohali hit by shortage of empty cylinders Meanwhile, in the neighbouring Mohali district, the administration claims that it has ample supply to meet oxygen demand, but there is a concern over the shortage of empty cylinders. Now, the district authorities have written to the department of industries to divert empty cylinders for hospital supply.“We are constantly monitoring the availability of oxygen in each of the hospitals with dedicated Covid beds. As of now, there is sufficient oxygen available with each of them for both Covid and non-Covid patients,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.The Punjab government has already provided five tonnes of additional oxygen to Mohali district, which would soon be made available to hospitals, said a senior administrative officer.“As of now, Hitech Industries Limited is supplying oxygen to various hospitals, while two suppliers — Hind Air and AGPL — are out of stock. We are in touch with the state government to provide them with liquid so that the growing demand of oxygen is met without any constrain,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/limited-oxygen-supply-choking-private-hospitals-in-chandigarh-101619291161928.html
25-04-2021||Other||Mansukh Hiran murder: Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane suspended after arrest||Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, who was arrested on Friday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder cases, has been suspended from the service. Mane is presently in NIA custody till April 28. Additional commissioner of police (armed police) Virendra Mishra confirmed the development. Mane, a 1995-batch Maharashtra Police service officer, was in charge of Mumbai crime branch’s unit 11 until he was recently shunted out to the local arms division as a part of the clean-up drive undertaken by police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, after another officer, Sachin Vaze, was arrested by NIA in both the cases. Meanwhile on Saturday, an NIA team took Mane to three spots at Thane where they inspected in connection with Hiran’s murder. Sources said that the team visited Manpada junction and Gaimukh, where Hiran was allegedly smothered. After revisiting the two spots along Ghodbunder Road, the team took Mane to a creek at Reti Bunder, Mumbra, where Hiran’s body was found dumped on March 5.On February 25, a Scorpio car was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note. A case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and had reported it stolen on February 17. On March 5, Hiran was found dead in at a Mumbra creek. It was later discovered that Vaze had borrowed Hiran’s car in November and returned it in February. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was named the main accused in the Antilia case and was arrested by NIA on March 13. On March 24, the agency began probing the murder too and named Vaze the main accused in that case also. To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged management of the case. Singh subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. Singh then approached the courts, when no action was taken against Deshmukh. The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the central agency conducted registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 24. According to NIA sources, Mane was purportedly part of the conspiracy hatched to eliminate Hiran. He was present at crime intelligence unit (CIU) office on March 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden Scorpio near Antilia. According to an NIA officer, Vaze had also assured the trader that he would get him out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after the 48-year-trader refused to take the blame and get arrested in the case. The officer added that Mane was also allegedly present at the meeting attended by Vaze, Vinayak Shinde – a former constable arrested in the Hiran case – and an ex-police officer before the murder at Chakala in Andheri. According to NIA, Mane was under suspicion from the beginning. When NIA began the probe, he was the Kandivli crime branch’s unit in-charge. Incidentally, the person who made the last call to Hiran around 8.30pm on March 4, the day he went missing, identified himself to be a crime branch officer from Kandivli and had drawn the victim out of his Thane residence on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road. The next day, Hiran’s body was found in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra. Beside Mane, Vaze and his colleague at CIU, Riyazuddin Kazi, have been suspended from service after their arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-mumbai-police-inspector-sunil-mane-suspended-after-arrest-101619291101293.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||State’s CFR sees sharp rise in past three days||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has seen a marked increase in the past three days — it was 1% between April 22 and April 24, up from the 0.40%-0.70% recorded in the previous three weeks. The CFR is the percentage of deaths per total cases.The state on Saturday recorded 67,160 new Covid-19 infections and 676 deaths, taking the tally and toll to 4,228,836 and 63,928.The state recorded its highest single-day toll of 773 on Friday, indicative of the increase in CFR from 0.69%, 0.53% and 0.48% in the third, second and first weeks of April respectively.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state government on the management of Covid-19 cases, attributed multiple reasons to the high death toll. “The patients are being admitted late after developing complications, in addition to the shortage of beds and oxygen,” said Salunkhe. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 694,480.According to Dr Jeevan Jain, a leading physician Lalbaug, the problem is the delay in diagnostic reports and treatment. “The diagnostic centres are overburdened and it takes four to five days to get reports. In this, precious time is lost and complications set in. After this, there are no beds and this has contributed to the high number of deaths,” said Jain. Jain who has treated more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients says he looks at every patient with fever as potential Covid-19 patients and hence starts treatment on those lines.“I start with mild antibiotic, anti-inflammatory drugs and immune boosters so that precious time is saved,” he added. In addition, the state continued to face shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and Remdesivir injections.Meanwhile, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that state will float global tenders for Remdesivir and vaccines.In view of the shortage of Remdesivir injections, the Central government will provide 435,000 vials to Maharashtra by April 30.Previously, the central government used to provide 269,000 vials to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/states-cfr-sees-sharp-rise-in-past-three-days-101619291041375.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Record 11 Covid deaths take a toll on Punjab’s Mohali district||The number of Covid-19 deaths reported this month crossed the 100 mark in Mohali district on Saturday, with a record 11 people succumbing to the virus.The tricity’s total stood at 14, highest in the second wave, with three deaths reported in Chandigarh and none in Panchkula. In terms of fresh cases, there was a dip across the tricity, as 1,765 people tested positive, down from an all-time high of 2,201 recorded on Friday, a drop of 20%.As many as 802 cases surfaced in Mohali, followed by 711 in Chandigarh and 252 in Panchkula.Chandigarh had reported record 828 cases on Friday, while Mohali and Panchkula logged their all-time high on Thursday, with 931 and 459 cases, respectively. Meanwhile, the daily positivity rate remained high in Chandigarh and Mohali, recorded at 19.4% and 17.7%, respectively, while it stood at 9% in Panchkula. A positivity rate of 19.4% (which is approximately 20%) means that of every five persons sampled, one tested positive.24-yr-old among those dead in ChandigarhEleven deaths reported in Mohali were the highest in a day since the outbreak, which took the toll to 540. Among the fresh cases, 280 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 163 in Kharar, 157 in Dhakoli, 80 in Dera Bassi and the remaining spread across the district.The total has climbed to 40,969, of which 32,387 have been cured and as many as 8,042 are still active. In Chandigarh, a 24-year-old man was among the three people who succumbed on Saturday. A resident of Sector 25, he had acute intestinal obstruction and pneumonia and died while undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. A 51-year-old woman and 61-year-old man from the city also succumbed, taking the death toll to 433. Of 37,943 people tested positive so far, 32,608 have recovered while the number of active cases has climbed to 4,902. Panchkula saw 45% drop in cases, with only 252 surfacing as compared to 453 on Friday. Also, in much relief, no death was reported after four days.However, civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur clarified that 558 people tested positive in the district on Saturday, but addresses of only 252 could be confirmed. “The remaining will be checked tomorrow, and some of these cases might be added to Panchkula’s tally,” she said.The district has reported 18,737 cases so far, of which 15,909 have been cured, 2,648 are active and 180 patients have succumbed. Hospitals running out of ICU bedsThe steep surge in cases has put a pressure on the health infrastructure across the tricity, with hospitals running out of beds for critical patients.In Chandigarh, all ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) as well the Covid hospital in Sector 48, while only one remains vacant at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 17. Of 303 Covid beds at the PGIMER, 255 are already occupied, including 57 ICU beds with ventilators.At GMSH-16, only one ventilator out of seven is available while 88% of the 200 beds with oxygen support are occupied.Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, is better placed with only 58 out of 155 beds occupied, and 18 out of 31 ventilators still available.The hospital in Sector 48 has all its 17 ventilators occupied, though 70 of the 100 oxygen beds are still vacant.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that critical care beds from other ICUs are being shifted to Covid-19 ICUs to meet the exigency.Meanwhile, Panchkula is left with not a single ICU bed for critical patients. Hospitals in the district have 451 beds dedicated to Covid patients, of which 58 are with ventilators and 323 with oxygen support. While ventilator beds have reached 100% occupancy, only 72 oxygen beds remain vacant.Overall, the occupancy (including for moderate cases) stands at 77%, with 346 of the 451 occupied.Additional deputy commissioner Mohammad Imran Raza, in a statement issued on Saturday, said the district has a sufficient number of Covid beds and adequate supply of oxygen, and private hospitals have been asked to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients.In Mohali, which is the worst hit in the tricity in terms of infection and deaths, 95% beds dedicated to critical Covid cases are occupied. As of now, the district has 789 beds for Covid patients needing tertiary care, of which 220 are for critical cases (Level-3) and 569 for those needing oxygen support (Level-2). While 504 L-2 beds have been occupied, 208 have been occupied in L-3 category. Overall, the occupancy stands at 90.2% with only 77 beds left vacant. To meet the increased demand for beds, the district administration has already directed seven private hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The total bed capacity in private and government facilities is 1,844. “We are also considering converting the L-1 facility (for patients not in need of urgent medical attention) in Gharuan, which has 1,000 bed capacity, to L-2 by providing oxygen supply. Apart from this, we are in touch with the army to set up a facility in Mohali as well,” said a senior administrative official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-11-covid-deaths-take-a-toll-on-punjab-s-mohali-district-101619290982662.html
25-04-2021||Other||Trouble looms for former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after FIR||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh is likely to be in more trouble as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) and conducted searches at his residences. Leaders from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government feel that the recent developments could make it difficult for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader to make a political comeback.CBI is probing the allegations against Deshmukh made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh claiming that the NCP leader, during his tenure as home minister, had told officers from the crime branch to collect ₹100 crore a month from commercial establishments. The Bombay high court (HC) had ordered a preliminary inquiry by CBI into the allegations made by Singh. CBI had recently questioned Deshmukh and staff from his office in connection with the case.The ruling parties have alleged the probe by the central agency to be politically motivated and an attempt to defame the state government and its leaders.NCP’s Maharashtra unit chief Jayant Patil condemned the raids at Deshmukh’s residence.“CBI appears to be using the court’s inquiry order to defame Deshmukh. Four people have been grilled by CBI so far, but it is not clear if the agency has submitted its preliminary inquiry report to the court. The probe is being conducted on the complaints by the police officers who have either been arrested or are under scanner in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran death cases. The raids by CBI are for the political reasons,” he said.His party colleague and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik questioned why has the National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran death cases, not revealed what it found about the roles played by suspended cop Sachin Vaze and his bosses in the police.Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut raised questions over the searches conducted by CBI. “Something fishy is going on. Hon Bombay HC had asked CBI to conduct preliminary probe and submit a report. Raids on his residence, lodging an FIR against him… this is a bit too much. It does not seem to be logical (sic),” he had tweeted, adding that he hopes that the action against Deshmukh was restricted to the HC directives.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged that CBI action was being used by the central government to divert the country’s attention from its failure in handling the pandemic and incidents like the deaths of patients at Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi.Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil said that there are few more leaders in MVA government to “face the music”. “Some of them have been facing the probe, while some others are in the offing. There needs to be an inquiry of transport minister Anil Parab, one Mr Ghoadavat who has been named by Vaze in the extortion racket. Vaze has also named deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. MVA leaders are blaming BJP for the [CBI] action, but it’s a court ordered inquiry,” he said.Though the ruling party leaders have been claiming the probe to be politically motivated, they secretly admit that the situation should have been handled properly. “Like the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, we faulted on handling this case too. The ruling parties should have acted quickly in taking action on Singh’s allegations by appointing the probe panel immediately. Deshmukh should have been removed from the department immediately. Instead of it, the NCP top brass went out of the way and stood by him without taking any action,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity.An NCP minister said that the party failed to anticipate the judicial intervention, which was actually the writing on the wall. “More importantly, we could not keep our own serving officers like Singh from taking steps against the government,” he said.Retired IPS (Indian Police Service) officer PK Jain said that the entire episode of the alleged ‘extortion racket’ was shoddily handled by MVA government. “The government did not take cognisance of the very serious allegations levelled by a senior IPS officer, and it was against the spirit of the SC (Supreme Court) order in the Lalita Kumar case that mandates for an FIR in corruption charges. But the government did not even take cognisance of the allegations when they were brought to the knowledge of chief minister, his deputy or even NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Had the government initiated an inquiry at the time the allegations had been levelled or divested the minister of the portfolio, CBI could not have got the chance to step in,” he said.An NCP leader said that the CBI probe may make it difficult for Deshmukh to make a political comeback. “BJP has systematically used the central agencies against the leaders from the Opposition parties. Many of them joined BJP. Deshmukh may have to pay a huge price for the entire episode,” he said.Patil said that blaming BJP for the action was laughable as it was court ordered probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trouble-looms-for-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-after-fir-101619290861293.html
25-04-2021||Other||Demand for charter flights saw uptick last year amid curbs, safety concerns: Experts||The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic last year led India, much like the rest of the world, to place curbs on visas and travel to contain the transmission and spread of the virus. The ongoing second wave of the pandemic, which is more infectious, means that the status quo is likely to be maintained in the months to come. In the absence of regular international and domestic flight services and preference for safety, health and hygiene coupled with the need to adhere to social distancing norms for domestic travel, industry experts said international private or business jet operations that were so far considered a travel mode for the “elites” by policy makers in the country recorded an uptick last year. “We ended 2020 better than 2019 with a 10% increase in business in spite of the loss during the lockdown period. We see this trend continuing in 2021 as well,” said Rajan Mehta, chief executive officer, Club One. The private aircraft charter firm witnessed a gradual rise in business from August and saw a perceptible rise during September to December. “The percentage of international bookings has increased because prior to the pandemic, the ultra-wealthy would use private aviation for their domestic journeys but preferred first or business class on commercial airlines when it came to their trips outside the country. This has changed dramatically post-pandemic as they now prefer the safety, convenience and hygiene of a private jet over money,” said Mehta. The segment performed better than the scheduled airlines business – which suffered a much larger impact in the Covid-hit 2020 – as private charters were a preferred mode of transport by customers during lockdown that kept their businesses afloat for companies across the country, said industry insiders. Many first time travellers are also using charter flights to fly to their destinations keeping safety in mind. JetSetGo Aviation recorded a nine-fold increase in its bookings’ queries with around 70% from new fliers, said Kanika Tekriwal, its chief executive officer and founder. Stating that the demand for charter aircraft in India has been growing consistently – backed by more than 6,000 ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWIs) residing in the country – Tekriwal said compared to the growth in 2019, the company was unable to match their progress in 2020. “However, considering 2020 was a dent to all normalities, the industry saw a tremendous growth in its business, as private flying was considered to be a more suitable option due to Covid-19 safety measures with less touch points,” she added. However, KM Unni, chief operating officer, Reliance Commercial Dealers Private Limited, said nearly 95% of private charter fleet was grounded in the first quarter of 2020, owing to government restrictions on flying commercial and general aviation aircraft. “Just about 5% fleet was under service as air ambulances ferried medical supplies and medical staff. The largest customers for private charter operators are corporate houses, especially in auto, real estate, power and infrastructure sectors. But due to the pandemic, none of these sectors seem to be doing well in the current circumstances,” said Unni, adding, “There is a chance of revival only if the economy does well.” ‘Unfavourable regulations’ Though favourable changes in regulations governing the private charter segment in the past two-three years have helped boost the business further, industry leaders said high tax structure, high cost of operation, dearth of MRO (maintenance, repair, and overhaul) capabilities in the country are contributing to the stagnation in private charter business. A 15% percent IATT (inland air travel tax) was levied on air tickets/charter flights in the 1990s, which was a big hurdle in promoting aircraft charter industry in India. This was abolished in January 2005 with protracted efforts from the industry. However, a 10% service tax was introduced in May 2008, which later increased to 12% and finally culminated into GST (goods and services tax) in the year 2017. “Currently 18% GST is being levied on aircraft charter flights, which is again a major hurdle in the promotion of the aircraft/helicopter charter industry in India,” said Sanjay Malhotra, president, Jubilant Enpro Pvt Ltd, while pitching for 5% on aircraft/helicopter charter flights. “Aircraft/ helicopter import/ acquisition procedure needs to be relooked at with a view to ease the procedures, if possible, and promote aircraft/helicopter charter industry and tourism in India,” he added. Stating that there have been numerous barriers as operators in the Indian private aviation industry, Tekriwal said about 25-30% costs, excluding fuel, are dollar denominated, and the rupee depreciation falls back poorly on the aviation industry. These challenges handicap the industry to grow rapidly in the country. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) is one of the important sections of the aircraft/airline industry. The jet fuel prices are not reduced in proportion to the fall in international crude oil prices. “When there is a rise in crude prices, it increases the fuel cost, which eventually increases the operation cost of the airline. Besides, it compels airlines to go for an upward fare revision to offset the increased cost of operations. No GST should be implemented on fuel as it hits cost of operations very high,” said Tekriwal, adding the need to work around the ease of purchasing the aircraft into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demand-for-charter-flights-saw-uptick-last-year-amid-curbs-safety-concerns-experts-101619290741390.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Hiran case: Mane suspended from police force||The Mumbai police on Saturday suspended inspector Sunil Mane, a day after he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, additional commissioner of police (armed police) Virendra Mishra said.His suspension order was issued in the morning, the official said.A team of officials from NIA on Saturday, took Mane to the spots where Hiran is suspected to have been smothered to death and a Mumbra creek where his body was found on March 5. The agency is conducting a probe into the murder and the recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February.After Mane’s arrest, a special NIA court in Mumbai remanded him to the central probe agency’s custody till April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hiran-case-mane-suspended-from-police-force-101619290362119.html
25-04-2021||Other||Punjab govt to hold competitions for students to spread positivity amid pandemic||To engage students in productive activities while the schools are closed due to a spike in Covid cases, the state education department has decided to hold online educational competitions from May 1 to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Students will participate in competitions including essay writing, poem recitation, slogan writing, and debates.They will make videos of the activity and share them on the class WhatsApp groups. Last year, over 40,000 students participated in the same online contests in the district and 10 students bagged top positions at the state level. The topics of the competitions will be based on the life, teachings, and achievements of the guru. The aim is to make students aware of the teachings and life of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) issued a letter to all district education officers, (secondary), to make maximum students participate. It is the responsibility of principals to make students register online for the competitions.The competitions will be held at the school, block, district levels, and then state level. SCERT will issue certificates to the winners.Lakhvir Singh, DEO, secondary, said, “The school principals have been informed about the same so that they can ensure maximum participation. Participating in these competitions will make students aware of the teachings and life of the ninth guru.”The essay writing competition will be conducted from May 1 to May 31 at the school level and from September 1 to 7 at the block level. The selected students will participate at the district level from October 1 to 8 and winners of the district level will participate in the state-level competition from November 1 to 15.Schools will conduct the poem recitation contest from June 1 to June 31 at the school level. The winners will participate from September 9 to 15 at the block level. The district-level contest will be held between October 9 to 16. The winners of the district-level contest will participate at the state level from November 16 to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-to-hold-competitions-for-students-to-spread-positivity-amid-pandemic-101619290142998.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Send us whatever O2 you can spare: Kejriwal to CMs||With Delhi hospitals on Saturday turning away Covid-19 patients on account of the acute oxygen shortage being faced by them for the fifth consecutive day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote an urgent SOS to chief ministers of all states, requesting them to send to the national capital whatever surplus oxygen and tankers that they could spare.Requesting that his letter be treated as an SOS, the chief minister said, “Delhi does not produce any oxygen. Due to the severe rise in corona cases in the last few days, many Delhi hospitals have run out of oxygen. Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements.”While Delhi’s daily oxygen allocation is 480MT, Kejriwal has said that the city currently requires about 700MT, given the surge in fresh Covid-19 cases -- the national capital has been reporting nearly or over 25,000 cases every day for the past one week at least.Kejriwal said he would be grateful if chief ministers could provide Delhi with any oxygen, along with tankers.“The Central government is also helping us a lot in this regard. However, the intensity of the spread is so severe that it is proving inadequate. Therefore, I would be grateful if you could provide us with any oxygen, along with tankers, from your state or any organisation in your state. I would be personally grateful for your support,” he wrote.Kejriwal’s letter came on a day when the Central and the Delhi government, in a first, sent empty tankers to Durgapur in West Bengal, via an Indian Air Force C17 carrier, to be filled with liquid medical oxygen and brought to Delhi by rail, even as several hospitals continued to send SOS messages to the city administration requesting urgent oxygen supply to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients.The Delhi chief minister also tweeted: “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate (sic).”On April 22, Kejriwal, in a press conference, had appealed to all states to put up a united front against Covid-19.He urged all states to help each other and assured them that if Delhi had oxygen in excess, his government would supply it to other needy states.OXYGEN LOGISTICSA senior Delhi government official said the city administration is arranging supply tankers on war footing and is also preparing a proposal for the Central government, suggesting a reallocation of oxygen to Delhi from plants that are nearer to Delhi than from cities such as Durgapur (West Bengal), Kalinganagar and Rourkela (both in Odisha) which are about 1,300-1,600km from the national capital.“Airlifting empty tankers and bringing filled ones to Delhi via rail will take around three days. But sending and bringing back tankers only via rail will take up to four days as a goods/tanker train moves at a speed of 50 kmph. Delhi’s situation is such that we need the full quota of 480MT oxygen supply every day, which is not possible till the time these far-flung areas are dropped from Delhi’s list and nearer (oxygen) plants are allocated to us. Till then, Delhi will continue to have a shortfall of about 100MT, no matter how much effort the government puts in. Also, Delhi’s current need for medical oxygen is around 700MT,” the official said, asking not to be named.“Hence, we are trying to arrange tankers from these far-flung areas itself so that we can save a day or two at least (in transporting the tankers to these areas), until a new arrangement on allocation of oxygen is devised by the Central government,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/send-us-whatever-o2-you-can-spare-kejriwal-to-cms-101619289578138.html
25-04-2021||Other||Vijayan urges PM to make vaccination free||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala on Saturday reported another high of 26,685 Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 20.35%, according to state health ministry data, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent another letter to the Prime Minister, requesting him to make vaccination free of cost in the present scenario. Vijayan told reporters that the three-tier price mechanism for vaccines -- ₹150 for the Centre, ₹400 for state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals -- will lead to exploitation and weaken the fight against the pandemic. Citing some reports, he said ₹600 (equivalent to US$ 8) per shot is the highest in the world and the vaccine firm was distributing the same to neighbouring Bangladesh at half of the cost. “I have written another letter to the Prime Minister citing these facts. Vaccine price is quite high, some studies show. We want the government to stick to its age-old policy of giving vaccine free of cost,” the CM said. He said he had a meeting with private hospital managements on Saturday and asked them to increase their bed capacity to the maximum. “We will have to learn a lesson from the trauma of some of the states in north India. We have enough stock of oxygen, but we may need more beds. There is no need to panic, but we have to be vigilant,” he said, adding the weekend 48-hour lockdown-like curbs were successful. “It is good that people responded well. We may have to tighten the restrictions further going by the caseload,” he said. Many busy roads and markets remained empty because permission was granted to only emergency services. Meanwhile, for the third consecutive day caseload crossed 25,000 -- out of 1,31,155 tests, 26,685 were tested positive. The state also reported 25 fatalities taking the death toll to 5080. The active caseload reached 198,576. Among the infected, 75 are health workers and 30 policemen, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vijayan-urges-pm-to-make-vaccination-free-101619289601278.html
25-04-2021||Other||K’taka mulls full lockdown amid surge, CM to hold cabinet meeting||Bengaluru Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar on Saturday said the state government was in favour of a full lockdown in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, but people were against it. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, he said the current situation “does not give enough time for the government” to have health-related facilities in place “without a lockdown”. “The government wants to do it. Everyone says it’s for the best. But people don’t want it. People want everything to be let loose and that those who’re dying should continue dying. All people should be responsible. The government alone cannot do everything. People should step out only if necessary. At least, they should wear masks,” Kumar said. “Hospital beds can’t be created overnight. It will take a minimum of 15 days to put beds, oxygen line and ventilator. For starters, we need to get this equipment. It takes at least 15 days. Even if we get these in place, we still need doctors and nurses in place. There are limitations, so we are trying with what we have… even our doctors and nurses are turning positive,” he said. Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru have been recording unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases amid the surging second wave. On Saturday, Karnataka reported 29,438 new Covid-19 cases and 208 new deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 234,483 while 14,283 people have lost their lives in the pandemic. Bengaluru alone accounted for 17,342 cases and 149 deaths of the total on Saturday, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin. According to a senior government official, chief minister BS Yediyurappa is likely to seek opinions from his colleagues on imposing lockdown-like restrictions for a week in the state, during a Cabinet meeting scheduled on April 26. The move comes at a time when citing the explosion of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka and especially Bengaluru, which has over 150,000 active cases, the highest for any city in the country, the state’s Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 has asked the state government to impose stringent restrictions, including lockdown for 14 days to break the chain. The panel has also recommended to the government to increase the number of beds to tide over the crisis. The TAC members also foresee the third wave Covid-19 in October-November and have, accordingly, insisted that the government should complete the vaccination of vulnerable age groups before the next wave hits. An epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and a member of the state TAC on Covid-19, Dr Giridhar Babu told news agency PTI: “I have on record said that there are two main strategies. Firstly, we need to reduce the number of cases and that will happen only by a stringent lockdown for at least 14 days. Secondly, we should expand the bed capacity by taking as much as possible beds from all the private medical colleges, nursing homes and hospitals.” Babu said the state may witness the peak of the second wave by the May end or the first week of June. On Thursday, the government announced a partial lockdown, asking the shops and establishments that are not listed in the government order as ‘essential services’ to remain shut till May 4. The ban was apart from the complete weekend lockdown in the state. In the partial lockdown, no restrictions were put on the movement of people. However, this is expected to be reviewed during Monday’s meeting, the senior government official added. On Saturday, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar asked all private and government medical colleges to reserve beds for Covid patients in three to four days. He, however, excluded emergency beds, and those meant for mother and childcare and dialysis from the reservation. “The state hopes to get an additional 7,500 beds by doing this. All hospitals with less than 30 beds should only admit non-Covid patients. All private hospitals with more than 30 beds have to now reserve 80% beds for government-referred Covid patients, including ICU beds, ventilator beds, high-dependency units, and high flow nasal cannula beds. This is an emergency situation,” Sudhakar added. Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka went on a weekend lockdown on Saturday. Apart from few incidents of police cracking down on violators, the lockdown was complete, said senior police officers in the state. The city’s roads bore a deserted look on Saturday, with most shops, including supermarkets, shut. In the four hours between 6 am and 10 am, when shops involved in essential supplies are allowed to operate, people were seen queuing up to buy groceries and other essential supplies. “The order has not made it clear if we were allowed to step out to buy the supplies or they were to be delivered. Since I had to buy meat, I came out. Police didn’t stop us but only asked us to return home before 10 am,” said Janet Rodriguez, a resident of Cooke Town in Bengaluru. Apart from eateries, all shops remained closed in the city and the roads were empty with barely any traffic, except for delivery executives. A shopkeeper in the area said there was no panic buy. “Even on Friday night, there was no big rush. Even today (Saturday) morning, only our usual customers came,” he said. In Bengaluru, police seized 1,041 two-wheelers, 45 three-wheelers and 65 four-wheelers for violation of the curfew on Saturday. “We have adequate police presence across the city, and we are ensuring that people stay at him. It is just the first day, we believe the situation will streamline by tomorrow,” said a senior police officer. While the state and particularly Bengaluru have been recording unprecedented spike in the cases and deaths due to the virus, experts said besides the complacency from people and lack of planning, the biggest reason was due to the fact that the government stopped listening to the expert panel’s advice. The state’s TAC on November 30 last year had submitted a report to the government, recommending it to prepare for the second wave of Covid-19. The report, a copy of which is available with the Hindustan Times, asked the government to prepare beds, ICUs, ICU-ventilators, and make arrangements for oxygen availability, vital drugs, and other infrastructure, including ambulance services in both private and public hospitals. “An early recognition of the second wave in the state could be done by closely monitoring the seven-day average growth rate… at the district and state levels. The second wave is expected during January-February 2021,” the report stated. Though the second wave came a month late, the government failed to prepare as advised by the experts. One of the most important recommendations of the TAC was to stop mass gatherings. “Super-spreader events during December and January should be strictly restricted and events such as weddings and other social gatherings should be permitted only in open areas and with an audience of not more than 100 persons. A maximum of 200 persons should be allowed at all political and public events, 50 at death ceremonies, and 20 at funerals,” the report read. A member of the TAC said even though state health minister K Sudhakar had pushed for these recommendations, the cabinet didn’t agree to enforce them. “The onset of the second wave was warned by the experts in Karnataka on November 30, 2020. We missed the timing, and the quantum is higher than expected. Governments had all the time to review and prepare,” tweeted TAC member Dr Girighara Babu. “The bed capacity is hardly sufficient for few days. It is also necessary to reduce the speed of transmission. There are only a few options any Government can have when the cases surge rapidly and resources are limited. We need stricter mitigation and containment, starting now,” Babu said in another tweet. Apart from the government turning a blind eye to the recommendations, the complicacy from both civic authorities and the public played a major role in the situation going out of control. “There were two things the BBMP and the respective district administrations should have done. The first step was to impose strict enforcement of social distancing norms. It was done in the initial days, but over a period, markets, malls and other places returned to normalcy. Weddings had guests beyond permitted numbers and political rallies were held with people standing shoulder to shoulder,” said a TAC member on the condition of anonymity. “The second step was to prepare enough hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators and oxygen supplies. We had specifically recommended this in November, February and March but no one was ready to believe our projections,” he added. According to experts, Karnataka used to get 200-300 tonnes of oxygen and it worked for us in the first wave. However, in the second wave, the requirement doubled to 600 tonnes. “As per the chief minister’s letter to Prime Minister (on Friday), the state would require 1,500 tonnes of oxygen in the coming month. The expert committee had projected such rise in the cases, but no one listened,” the expert added. While the government was against any extension of lockdown as it was taking a toll on the economy, experts echoed the government had to impose restrictions. “We are in a partial lockdown right now. We are doing it in the peak of the crisis, if we had taken similar measures earlier, we could have averted this situation where we are reporting close to 100 deaths every day,” said a senior IAS officer, on the condition of anonymity adding that the government recommended to imposed stricter measures, several times. Experts also pointed out that despite the projections from the TAC was of the larger wave, the government’s planning used the numbers from the previous surge. “On the second day of the second wave, we crossed the highest number reported in the first wave. We are now reporting over 100% more cases than the last wave. The government failed to listen to the experts there as well,” a health expert added. (With inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-mulls-full-lockdown-amid-surge-cm-to-hold-cabinet-meeting-101619289541437.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||ITO graveyard to stop Covid burials||Amid an unprecedented surge in Covid fatalities, Delhi’s biggest burial ground at ITO has run out of space to bury those dying of the infection and may not take in more bodies from Sunday, graveyard officials have said. Since April first week, when cases started rising, the burial ground has accommodated around 230 bodies.Though there are other burial grounds in Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar, Okhla and Shastri Park, which are also being used for burying Covid-19 victims, the Ahle-Islam Qabristan at ITO takes in the maximum load of Covid and non-Covid deaths.At the ITO cemetery, a nearly three-acre plot was set aside last year when the pandemic broke out for burying those dying of Covid. Since March, the graveyard has seen at least 1,200 Covid-related burials, officials said.Covid fatalities have increased rapidly in the last three weeks. In January, Delhi reported an average of 10 deaths daily, which reduced to 2 in February and 4 in March. The average daily deaths is 109 this month.Mohammad Shamim, supervisor of the burial ground, said, “We have completely run out of space... We will not be able to take Covid bodies from Sunday... So, we have written a letter to the Delhi Waqf Board and government officials to allot space in other areas for Covid burials.”Delhi Waqf Board is the custodian of most graveyards in Delhi.Arshad Ali Fehmi, member of the 10-member managing committee of the ITO graveyard, said, “We have been writing to multiple agencies asking for another land... At ITO, we have run out of space...”Graveyard officials have also requested authorities to send Covid bodies to other graveyards in Rohini, Dwarka, Nizamuddin and Seelampur. “Before Covid, we used to get around 8-10 bodies every day. But now, we are getting nearly 50 bodies on an average...,” said Fehmi.Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan said they have not received any letter from the officials running the ITO burial ground. “We will make arrangements, if they approach us,” he said.Jai Prakash, mayor of North MCD, said they wrote to the Delhi Waqf Board earlier this month. “We asked them to identify land for burial but nothing has happened on that front so far. We have increased around 300 platforms for Covid cases in multiple cremation grounds...,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/itograveyard-to-stop-covid-burials-101619289415563.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Online classes without break taking toll on teachers||A typical day in the D’Sa household starts at 6am when Belinda D’Sa, 42, a college professor starts her day with preparing breakfast for her family of three, before waking up her daughter for her classes. By 7.30am, D’Sa is ready to start back-to-back lectures for undergraduate students of a Vasai college where she teaches Bachelor of Arts students. “Before the pandemic, I would wake up at 6am and be off to college by 7am; our maid would cook and ready my daughter for school. Now I end up doing all the work and conduct classes at the same time. My lectures go on till around 11.30am, following which I focus on household chores. The list of things-to-do is never ending,” said D’Sa.Her routine resonates with several teachers who have spent a large part of last year understanding technology from scratch in order to be able to teach virtually and ensure that lectures are kept interactive enough so students do not lose focus during class. “After lunch, I take a small break before I start helping my daughter with her studies as well as prepare PowerPoint presentations (PPTs) for my next day’s lectures. I teach seven different batches of students and end up preparing at least four to five PPTs every day,” she added. Meenal Bhole, a teacher from Vidya Bhawan High School and Junior College in Ghatkopar, said that soon after schools moved online, teachers started experimenting with various online learning tools. “We learnt how to make videos and edit them, made study material and used various tools to make our teaching interesting. With time, we realised what needs to be improved. For instance, we first made 30 to 40-minute explanatory videos. Slowly, as we realised that students have a very short attention span even to see these videos, we made small clips of 10-15 minutes,” she added. Most schools require teachers to teach for two-three hours every day. However, in actuality, teachers end up working almost throughout the day. “I have a class from 8 to 10 in the morning but after that I quickly finish my chores and take an extra class for students to solve their doubts between 2pm and 4pm. Evenings are spent in making content for the following day — PDFs, PPTs and videos. We also have assessments to do and projects to check,” said a teacher from an ICSE school in the city. The pandemic forced education institutes to think on their feet and immediately embrace technology, and while online classes threw challenges in front of teachers and students alike, the worst hit were students on the margins who needed extra attention, especially in the virtual mode. In some cases, teachers now had to take over the role of a counsellor as well.“I have set aside an hour every evening and informed students and parents that they can call me during that time to discuss their issues or anxieties. Many parents had tested positive in the past few months and were worried that their children would lose out on studies as they had their mobile phones in hospitals. We gave them assurance and spoke to the children to ease their pressure,” added Bhole. Besides teaching, the real challenge for teachers was to keep students engaged in the online mode. “Every day we struggle to make teaching interesting and try to innovate so that students stay on their screens and listen to the classes. Especially with the younger kids, it’s a challenge to keep them away from distractions. There have been instances where children have put their screens off, removed someone from the class or played pranks. We need to be patient yet vigilant to address these issues,” said Ruiee Kapoor, a teacher from St Elias School, Khar. The worst-hit have been first-year undergraduate students of professional courses with delayed start to the academic year, many of whom started their first lectures as late as in March and April this year. The bigger challenge has been for teachers who have already been busy conducting lectures and examinations for other UG batches, and have now started from scratch with the first-year batches. “Usually all classes and exams would be over by May end and teachers would get at least two-three weeks of break before starting the next academic year. This year, while the second, third and fourth-year students finish their classes, teachers are busy with the first-year batch which will continue till July-August 2021 at least,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra. He added that while teachers have the advantage of conducting classes from home, many are reaching the point of exhaustion. “If this continues, and teachers don’t get a break, they will reach a breaking point and we will have to think of ways to ensure they get ample rest before the start of the next academic year,” added Thampi. Over the past one year, teachers have been working relentlessly, working on holidays, keeping their personal priorities aside. This year, as summer breaks are just a few days away, the state education department is yet to announce vacations for teachers. “We have not taken a break for an entire year and wish to get just a few days off. We hope the government takes a call on this soon and announces vacations,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of Teachers’ Democratic Front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-online-classes-without-break-taking-toll-on-teachers-101619289121282.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi runs low on oxygen, high on cases for fifth day||Delhi woke up on Saturday to the news of at least 20 Covid-19 patients dying due to alleged low oxygen pressure at a private hospital in the city as the government scrambled to move medical oxygen to city hospitals amid a raging surge in Covid-19 cases and four medical institutions moving the high court to demand replenishments.For the fifth day in a row, Delhi hospitals and nursing homes posted SOS messages on the social media and wrote to the government, warning their oxygen supplies were running precariously low.Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, where twenty patients under critical care died, raised alarm twice on Saturday to get oxygen supply. Two other private hospitals in the city completely exhausted their supply and requested their patients to either get an oxygen cylinder or look for beds in other hospitals.This was at a time when there were just about 12 ICU beds vacant across city hospitals, according to the Delhi government app.One of the biggest Delhi government-run hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur, had to reduce the number of beds from over 900 to 700 on Saturday due to the high oxygen requirement. According to senior officials, the hospital oxygen plant had been running over capacity due to the high load of Covid-19 patients.“When a hospital is planned, it is estimated that 20 to 30% of the beds will need oxygen supply. But, since we take in only very sick Covid19 patients, 100% of our beds need oxygen support. And, 50 to 60% of the beds need high flow oxygen. This was putting too much pressure on our plant. So, we decided to reduce the number of beds,” the official said.Admission to the emergency department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences was also restricted for an hour so that the hospital could manage its gas pipeline to meet the increased requirement for oxygen.Saroj hospital in Rohini, which needs around 3,500 cubic metres of oxygen a day, received 2,250 cubic metres. On Saturday morning, the hospital informed the relatives of the patients to either look for oxygen or oxygen beds in other hospitals.The family of a 45-year-old patient admitted to the hospital arranged two oxygen cylinders and an oxygen concentrator to ensure that he received continuous care. “What is the hospital supposed to do if they are not getting oxygen? The government should arrange all this,” said the brother of the patient, who did not wish to be named.At 2.30pm, when the hospital’s oxygen tank ran dry, a team of 180 doctors and nurses were deputed to administer oxygen to patients with small cylinders, usually used while transporting patients.“We somehow managed to help all our patients. There was a team of 180 doctors and nurses who kept monitoring the oxygen of each patient. The stable ones – not on ventilator or high flow – were given oxygen intermittently to conserve oxygen. The oxygen tanker came to the hospital in the next 35 minutes. If it hadn’t, we wouldn’t have lasted long,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of the hospital.Batra hospital ran out of oxygen at 2.30pm on Saturday. The hospital had to refill 210 of its oxygen cylinders thrice to keep the patients going till 4.45pm when it got a refill of medical oxygen. The hospital raised alarm bells at 9am, with oxygen being supplied only to patients on ventilators or dependent on high flow. The rest were being given oxygen through cylinders. Even after receiving the supply, the hospital has decided to keep the flow to the building with non-ICU patients low.Sir Ganga Ram hospital said healthcare workers had to manually pump oxygen for half a day to at least 29 critical patients who were on ventilator due to reduced oxygen pressure.“The whole administration is busy in making frantic calls. Patients are suffering. To run ventilators, oxygen reservoir should have 3,000 cubic metres of pressure. We are getting supplies of 500 to 1500 cubic metres only . We have 516 Covid patients, 129 of them in ICU and 29 on invasive ventilation. These 29 patients are on manual ventilation since midnight,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman, Sir Ganga Ram hospital.Referring to the hearing in the high court, the office of Delhi health minister said as against 480 MT of oxygen allocated to Delhi, only 309 MT was received on Friday, which is the main cause behind the crisis. “Delhi government has also stated that the root cause of this issue was that in the revised allocation plan devised by Central government, for the first time ever, 102 MT of supply for Delhi has been allocated to plants far away in Odisha and West Bengal, more than 1,000 kms away. This was done without Centre making any corresponding arrangement for tankers to supply this oxygen or any consultation with Delhi government,” the health minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-runs-low-on-oxygen-high-on-cases-for-fifth-day-101619288982023.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to set up 16 oxygen plants at 12 hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday announced to set up 16 oxygen plants at 12 hospitals across the city. These plants are estimated to produce 43 metric tons (MT) of oxygen on-site itself, from atmospheric air. It will take one month for the plants to be commissioned, as the tendering process for the same is ongoing, the BMC said. Once completed, the plants will have a life span of a minimum of 15 years and a maximum of 30 years. The project is estimated to cost ₹90 crore. The civic body announced on Saturday, “Once commissioned, these plants will decrease BMC’s dependency on third parties for oxygen supply. It will also cut cost by more than half if compared to the cost of the acquiring equal amount of oxygen as Jumbo cylinders from the market.” P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects) will be in charge of implementing this project. Mumbai presently utilises 240 to 250 MT of oxygen per day across hospitals in the city. BMC has two suppliers on board to meet this demand. However, in its statement, the civic body said on Saturday, “Considering the increasing demand of oxygen for the rising number of Covid-19 patients, many of whom require constant and measured oxygen supply, the government and administration find themselves in a tight spot to ensure supply from market always meets demand. To decrease this dependency, such oxygen plants will be set up.” This will also ensure the civic body has permanent infrastructure for the manufacture of such an important resource, the statement said.Presently, BMC has an oxygen generating plant with a capacity of about 500 cubic meters per day at Kasturba Hospital, set up two years ago, and a project at Hindu Hridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Hospital in Jogeshwari with a capacity of 1,740 cubic meters per day, set up a year ago. “Oxygen generation projects in both these hospitals are functioning well and they are becoming very valuable during the period of Covid-19 infection. Both of these projects are based on the technique of generating oxygen from atmospheric air,” BMC said.When supplying oxygen to patients using the pressure swing absorption technique, the air is first compressed at the appropriate pressure in the plant and then filtered. This removes impurities from the air such as dust and other particles. The purified air available after this process is collected in an oxygen generator. Both the nitrogen and oxygen gases are separated from this pure air by a chemical mixture called zeolite, ​​in the oxygen generator. Separated oxygen is stored at an appropriate pressure. It is then supplied to the patients through ducts or pipes.On April 18, the Twitter handle of the health ministry tweeted that of the sanctioned plants, 33 had been installed in various states and Union territories, including Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Bihar and Maharashtra, among others. “In addition to the 162 plants already sanctioned, [states] have requested Government of India for more than 100 such additional plants, which are also being sanctioned,” the verified ministry handle stated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-set-up-16-oxygen-plants-at-12-hospitals-101619289061300.html
25-04-2021||Other||Virar hospital fire: Hospital blocked rear emergency exit point, say sources||A startling disclosure has come to the fore that the management of the Vijay Vallabh hospital in Bolinj, Virar (West) had allegedly blocked the rear emergency exit by constructing a wall and a room. The sources revealed that many of the victims had to use the main entrance door at the time of the blast in the air conditioning unit on Friday. Fifteen Covid patients were charred to death after a fire broke out on the second floor of a four-storey private hospital, Vijay Vallabh Covid Care Hospital, in Virar in the early hours of Friday.However, Gangatharan D, VVMC commissioner skirted the issue and said he was unaware of the same. He said the probe is being done by the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate and refused to comment further on the issue. According to hospital sources, the wall was constructed a month ago by the management. At the time of the incident, there were 90 Covid-19 patients admitted at the hospital. The sources said that at the time of the incident, the ambulances were parked outside the main entrance. The chaos in shifting the burn patients to other hospitals could have been smooth if the rear exit existed, said the source. Sanjaykumar Patil, the deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, said, “The probe has been handed over to the crime branch. We are studying all the documents related to the structural, fire and electrical audits. Till now, no arrests have been made against the hospital management, doctors and staffers in the case, but we are probing all possible angles,” said Patil.Around 17 patients were in the intensive care unit (ICU) on the second floor of the hospital, constructed in 2014, said the source. The ward boys had to take out the victims through the main door, said the source.The Vasai civic body had conducted a fire, structural and electrical audit a few months ago. The wall was constructed a month ago, without the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) in the know, said Manoj Patil, a social worker from Vasai. “There is a huge question on the authenticity of the audit certificates issued to the hospital by the Vasai civic body. The electrical audit of hospitals is to be done every six months by the Public Works Department and the Vasai civic body needs to be questioned over this,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virar-hospital-fire-hospital-blocked-rear-emergency-exit-point-say-sources-101619289001233.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Pune: 8 Remdesivir black marketeers nabbed over two days||In three different actions by the police in Pune district in the past two days, nine people have been arrested and 14 doses of the experimental Covid-19 treatment drug have been recovered collectively by Pune city and Pune rural police.In one case, a nurse from a Covid centre in Hadapsar was found helping a pharmacist who was arrested on Thursday by Pune city police.The nurse was identified as Ribika Vairagar (35), a resident of Pisoli and working at a Covid hospital in Hadapsar while the pharmacist, arrested earlier, was identified as Ankit Vinod Solanki (26) who works in a pharmacy attached to a hospital in Kondhwa.“It started with them selling the doses that were left over from the patients who had succumbed to the infection but as the demand increased, the cost also increased and the nurse started stealing the injections, from our primary investigation. As per their statement, they have sold 70-80 injections in the past month or so at fluctuating rates,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 of Pune police.While three injections were found from Solanki during his arrest, the woman was found in possession of four more.The police found a link to the woman while investigating Solanki’s source of Remdesivir. The nurse allegedly stole the injections which were procured either by the relatives and the hospital that employed her for patients.In the second case, four people were arrested for selling Remdesivir injection on the black market in Pune on Friday. The accused were selling the experimental drug used for treatment of Covid-19 for ₹37,000 per injection. One vial was recovered from them.The four were identified as Nikita Gopal Tale (25), a resident of Mahatma Phule nagar in Bhosari MIDC; Rahul Balasaheb Valunj (27) and his younger brother Rohan (20) both residents of Chaphekar Chowk in Chinchwad; and Pratik Gajanan Bhore (26), a resident of Anusaya Park in Pune. The four are in police custody until Monday.“Rahul is an engineer who works in the robotics field. He had gained access to the injection. We are investigating how he got it. Bhore and Tale are in the marketing field and work for a business card printing company,” said senior police inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2 of Pune police.In dual action by the Pune rural police, three people were arrested for selling Remdesivir on the black market and recovered 6 vials of the drug from two separate cases on Saturday. While one action was in Daund, the other was in Narayangaon area of Junnar.The ones arrested in Daund were identified as Akshay Rajesh Sonawane ((24) a resident of Gandhi chowk area of Daund and Suraj Sajay Sable (23) a resident of Shalimar Chowk area of Daund. The two were selling one dose for ₹32,000 and were found in possession three vials, according to a statement issued by the Local crime branch of Pune rural police.In the second case, in Junnar, one man was found selling one vial of the drug for ₹45,000 each. The man was identified as Rohan Shekhar Ganeshkar (29) a resident of Alephata area of Junnar, was found in possession of three vials of the drug.In all the cases, various laws including Indian Penal Code, DPCO 2013, Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, and Essential Commodities Act was registered at three different police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eight-remdesivir-black-marketeers-nabbed-over-two-days-101619285101046.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six patients die at Amritsar pvt hospital gasping for oxygen, probe begins||In the first such incident in Punjab, six critical patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, died on Saturday morning after the medical oxygen supply dried up at Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital in Amritsar. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the hospital was authorised only to admit only Level-2 Covid-19 patients but it admitted four level-3 patients without informing the health department. As ordered by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Amritsar deputy commissioner constituted a two-member inquiry panel with instructions to submit a report within 48 hours. “Due to the shortage of cylinders in the district, oxygen supply at Neelkanth Hospital dried up this morning, resulting in the death of six patients. Of the dead, two were from Gurdaspur district, one from Tarn Taran and three from Amritsar district. All six patients were in a critical condition when they were admitted to the hospital on Thursday or Friday,” Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said. During the incident, around 12 Covid-19 patients were being treated at the hospital. As per hospital authorities, around 25 oxygen cylinders were supplied to the Hospital on Friday, against the requirement of 50. At around 1am on Saturday, the oxygen dried up and the six patients, including a 28-year-old Gurdaspur man, died around 3am, after gasping for two hours. The other deceased were above the age of 48. Family members of those died raised slogans against the district administration and hospital authorities. They blamed the hospital authorities for charging a big fee and still not providing basic life-saving facilities. “My 80-year old mother-in-law was among the dead. We were paying ₹20,000 per day since Thursday to the hospital. The hospital authorities forced us to sign consent form saying that the hospital is not responsible if it runs out of oxygen. Strict action should be taken against them,” said Vicky of Amritsar. BLAME GAME BEGINS The private hospital authorities blamed the district administration for the incident, saying they had conveyed the shortage of oxygen cylinders on Friday itself. Neelkanth Hospital managing director Sunil Devgan said, “We had been seeking oxygen supply for the last 48 hours but the administration bought the oxygen cylinders for government hospitals. Administration is responsible for the shortage in private hospitals.” Khaira said, “AT a meeting on Friday, we had told the owners of private hospitals not to admit any critical patient if they are short of oxygen. We could arrange only a few cylinders for GMCH, where more patients are admitted. If Neelkanth Hospital was short of supply, they should have referred the patients to other hospitals.” The civil surgeon also said the hospital didn’t have any senior doctor on night duty in their Intensive Care Unit (ICU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-patients-die-at-amritsar-private-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619244539968.html
25-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad runs out of ICU beds, records over 1,000 Covid-19 cases||Ghaziabad’s intensive care beds are almost full while the overall occupancy of Covid-19 beds was around 80%, according to official data released on Thursday.The district has 38 Covid hospitals, four of which are public. It has 2,909 beds, of which 2,326 are occupied. Only 38 of the 563 beds remained vacant on Thursday night.“That vacancy is mainly because there is no oxygen for those beds,” said an officer from the health department who did not wish to be named. “It is not like as if there are no people who do not need an ICU bed. They are forced to look for beds in other districts due to the oxygen crisis.”The state control room records indicate that the district on Thursday witnessed its highest single-day spike of 1023 cases and eight deaths.The experts said that with rising number of daily cases, there is urgent need for more beds, but regularisation of oxygen supply is a major roadblock in increase of beds.“The conditions on the ground is a major concern. During present times, we must make optimum use of resources. Beds cannot be increased if regular oxygen supply is not ensured and as a result patients will keep roaming around in search of beds. There are hospitals which cannot use ICU beds because of lack of oxygen supply. So, people occupying beds without any major symptoms should leave it for others,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).“Administration should gear up and rope in charitable institutions or NGOs for more beds. The cases are expected to rise further, and we expect that they will reach peak by start of mid of May,” he added.“The trend is headed towards a peak which is higher than the one witnessed last year and some studies indicate that peak will be reach in May. So, we have to wait and watch. Roping in more beds will mean that oxygen supply is to be regularised and it is expected that it is expected to take couple of days as per developments taking place. All precautions are must in present times,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and detailed query raised to him about the issue of occupancy, new beds and lack of oxygen supply. Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city) also did not take calls for a response.“The chief minister held a video conferencing on Thursday evening and directed officials that beds of L2 and L3 category need to be increased besides every hospital must display the availability at their premises. An order will be issued soon. He has also directed that RT-PCR testing also need to be increased,” said an officer from health department who wished not to be named.Cases spikeThe sample positivity rate, number of positive samples per 100 tests, in the district in April till date was 5.71% on Thursday. The district suffered eight deaths due to Covid-19, taking its total death count to 125.As per state control room records, it took two days each for the total case count to jump from 29000 to 30000, 30000 to 31000 and 31000 to 32000. On Thursday, the district reached an overall tally of 33000 cases in a single day which is fastest achieved since March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-runs-out-of-icu-beds-records-over-1-000-covid-19-cases-101619117271143.html
