26-04-2021||Gurugram||Bhondsi nature park to be turned into Covid care centre||With an aim to boost the health infrastructure amid the coronavirus crisis, a Covid-19 care centre is likely to be built at Bhondsi Nature Park, according to the officials on Monday.Chinar Chahal, sub-divisional magistrate, Sohna, said, “Amid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, we are trying to find places where new health infrastructure could be built. A team had visited the Bhondsi Nature Park last week as it has a lot of space available. A temporary structure would be set up there. The district administration and the health department are likely to set up a Covid-19 care centre there, after estimating the total cost.”The Haryana Forest Development Corporation officials, meanwhile, said that it will be a temporary structure with around 50 oxygen beds. “We and the forest department are trying to find places that could be used for treating Covid-positive patients. The existing infrastructure at the eco-tourism destination, Bhondsi Nature Park, suits the requirements to an extent, so a temporary structure with around 50 oxygen beds could be built there,” said a senior official from the forest development corporation, requesting anonymity.The official added that the forest rest houses in other blocks of Gurugram, if required, could also be converted into Covid-19 care centres on further instructions by the district administration. Gurugram has been witnessing a continuous spike in the number of Covid-19 cases since the past few days, with the district reporting over 3,000 cases on a daily basis for the past five days.On Monday, Gurugram reported 3,555 fresh Covid-19 cases, and seven deaths. At present, Gurugram has over 27,000 active cases, with a doubling rate of 28.82 days, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bhondsi-nature-park-to-be-turned-into-covid-care-centre-101619461039726.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||17 RWAs write to DC for more empowerment, enforcement of measures||Around 17 Resident Welfare Association (RWAs) from Gurugram sent a joint letter to Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, on Sunday evening, asking for more empowerment and enforcement of measures to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 at their respective condominiums, societies, and plotted housing colonies.In the letter — a copy of which was accessed by HT — the RWAs have appealed to Garg to give them the power to take action against those violating home isolation norms repeatedly. They also highlighted that, despite a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in their residential areas and informing the local primary health centres (PHCs) about the same, the areas are either not named in the administration’s list of containment zones or added after a prolonged delay.Garg had issued an order to the RWAs on April 7, directing them to take action to encourage residents to stay indoors, discourage private functions, and ensure that everybody wears masks. His order, however, had not mentioned or given any executive powers to the RWAs for taking action against the violators. “Any suggestion or advice that can help reduce or contain the spread of the virus is always welcomed, especially during this Covid-19 crisis. All the demands of the respective RWAs will be examined, and the administration will take the next step on the matter accordingly,” Garg said on Monday.Barring Carlton Estate in DLF 5, the remaining RWAs are either located near Sohna Road or Golf Course Extension Road. The remaining 16 RWAs that submitted the joint letter to the Garg via email are: Wembley Estate, Tatvam Villas, Unitech Escape, Unitech Harmony, Uniworld Gardens, Vatika City, IREO Uptown, Grand Arch, Malibu Towne, Orchid Petals, The Nile, Vipul World, Tatvam Villas, Central Park 2, Nirvana Country, and TATA Raisina.Pawan Tharwani, president, Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA), said that there were several towers in the condominium that have been reporting a lot of Covid-19 infections. Despite informing the local PHC about the situation repeatedly, two of these towers have not been mentioned in the list of containment zones yet. “There is no prior information given or taken from the RWA on several measures. The lack of communication and clear directives on behalf of the administration are an obstacle in the efforts of the RWA to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Hence, in our letter, we have stated that the criteria for containment zones should be made clear, and the list should be updated on a daily basis. We are thus seeking the DC’s intervention in the matter,” said Tharwani, adding that two towers in the condominium were added in the list of containment zones two weeks ago, much after the RWA had highlighted the rise in the cases there.Tharwani also said that the administration had informed the RWA after three days that the two towers were included in the latest list of containment zones.Several RWAs also highlighted that they are not “empowered enough to deal with the repeated offenders and nuisance makers, who have been violating isolation norms or safety protocols”.Rear Admiral (retired) Kapil Gupta, president, Unitech Escape RWA in Sector 50, said that action can be taken against the RWAs for not implementing Covid-19 norms as per the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority (HSDMA) guidelines. “While the government has the right to take action against the RWAs for failing to take restrictive measures, they also need to realise that we have no power or authority to take action against the violators now. Even if a person under home isolation steps out, there is a little we can do, besides requesting him/her to comply, or make a complaint to the administration. Hence, we have requested the DC to give us executive powers and contain the spread of the virus,” said Gupta.In the letter, the RWAs have also highlighted non-availability of basic Covid-19 related medicines, medicines being sold at inflated prices, shortage of oxygen cylinders, concentrators and ambulances, private ambulance owners charging hefty amounts, shortage of RT-PCR tests, non-availability of oxygen beds in hospitals, non-availability of yellow garbage bags for Covid-19 waste segregation and collection, late removal of bio-medical waste from residential areas, and shortage of vaccines, due to which the residential vaccination camps are being cancelled, among other such observations. In addition, they have also appealed to Garg to hold a video conference call with the RWA representatives, to understand their difficulties and address the issues mentioned in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/17-rwas-write-to-dc-for-more-empowerment-enforcement-of-measures-101619461038401.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Patients in home isolation struggle to get antiviral drugs||Covid-19 patients in home isolation are struggling to get antiviral drugs over the last 10 days, with many taking to social media and some even paying procuring stocks from those black marketing them.Officials said that the shortage of drugs to treat Covid-19 patients, including remdesivir, is mainly due to panic buying. “People have stored the medicines thinking there is a lack of supply, whereas the manufacturers have been asked to double their production and the consignments are expected midweek. While people are stocking up these medicines expecting a shortage, those who are in dire need are not getting them, due to which several Covid patients in home isolation are suffering, with many developing serious complications,” Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said.According to the data available with the health department, 26,137 Covid-19 patients are in home isolation in the district, most of who consult doctors on video calls.Chemists familiar with the situation said that only favipiravir, an antiviral, and tocilizumab, an immunosuppressant, besides multivitamins, are available at a few stores.Prince Philkana, a resident of Palm Drive, who has been in isolation for the last two days said he has been trying to arrange medicines for his ailing mother and himself, but to no avail. “People are messaging me to pay more than the market price, but it is only available in Delhi and other states. Chemists in Gurugram said they have not received the stock for the last 10 days,” he said.Another resident, Vatsala Arora, said she was trying to buy antiviral medicines for her husband who tested positive, but has not been able to do so. “People are black marketing these medicines and there is no support from the local administration. The government should cap the charges and these should be available for the residents. We are struggling every day, while the mafias are getting data of home isolation patients and contacting them for the supply,” he said.In a few instances, hospital staffers were also stealing the drugs to make a quick buck, as reported by HT over the past few days.Doctors said that many private hospitals recommended remdesivir to patients in home isolation, but due to the non-availability of the same, they are in a panic. “Lots of patients are also consulting doctors of their home town who have been prescribing these medicines even at a stage where it is not required,” said a senior doctor at a government hospital.Meanwhile, chemists said they have run out of antiviral medicines, with many stopping home deliveries due to rising demand and increasing pressure.Jatin Chachra, a chemist in Jacobpura, said that there is high demand for remdesivir, tocilizumab, Medrol tablets, zinc tablets, Mucinac and Tazact over the last 10 days. “People are ready to pay ten times the cost, but there is no supply in the market. There are a few available medicines, but people pick them as soon as the supply hits the market,” he said, adding that a few people were found stocking up to sell at higher prices.A chemist in Basai Road, Vineet Madan, said that the situation is getting difficult to manage with every passing day. “People threaten us to give medicines thinking we are stocking them. Families beg us and cry, pleading with us to give them a few doses, but it is unfortunate that despite regular follow-ups with the stockists, we are unable to fulfil the needs of customers who are in dire need,” he said.Chauhan, on the other hand, said that strict action will be taken against those found black-marketing the medicines. “We will take action against persons hoarding these medicines without need, if we receive complaints against them,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/patients-in-home-isolation-struggle-to-get-antiviral-drugs-101619460978331.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospital, realty firm tie up to treat moderately ill patients in empty flats||Amid an acute shortage of Covid-19 beds, a multi-speciality hospital and a real estate company have tied up to shift 300-400 mild to moderately ill Covid-19 patients to empty flats where oxygen beds will be placed, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Monday, even as the city continues to face a shortage of beds.“A tie-up between Medanta hospital and M3M (a real estate developer) has been done in Gurugram where beds with oxygen facility will be arranged in empty flats, where less serious patients will be shifted from Medanta Hospital. Through this, 300 to 400 more beds for Covid-19 patients can be made available,” a release by the district administration stated.As per the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3), a real-time portal managed by the district administration, there were only four oxygen, three Intensive Care Unit (ICU), and a solitary Covid-19 ventilator bed available in Gurugram across its 43 Covid-19 hospitals on Monday night.Khattar was in the city on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation and visit oxygen plants, the release stated. Issues of oxygen supply, availability of beds and remdesivir stock were the main points discussed with senior officials from across the state through video conference at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines.A key development in the conference was the formation of a centralised control room at Chandigarh, to monitor the status and arrangements of Covid-19 across Haryana, under principal secretary Vijendra Kumar.Khattar said that Haryana has been allocated 162 metric tonnes of oxygen from the Central government and the same will be distributed based on their assessments. He said that district drug control officers have been made responsible for arranging as well as ensuring the correct distribution of oxygen.In the meeting, it was also decided that medical students who have undertaken the fourth and fifth year examinations of PGIMS, Rohtak, and those doing MD and MS will also be taken to fill any shortfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-realty-firm-tie-up-to-treat-moderately-ill-patients-in-empty-flats-101619460979000.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Smaller hospitals struggle to transport oxygen supplies||More than 20 hospitals with low bed capacities in the city are struggling to replenish their oxygen supply on a daily basis, with hospital staffers having to restock and transport the cylinders from facilities across the district, according to hospital administrations.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, the director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, which has a capacity of 70 beds, all of which are occupied by Covid-19 patients, said that the hospital staff is involved in refilling and transporting oxygen cylinders. “It is sad to see more than six staff members are only involved in arranging oxygen supply. The administration only shares the location but is not delivering the supply. It is taking more than eight hours to arrange four oxygen cylinders,” he said.Dr Aryan also said that he contacted the deputy commissioner and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), asking them to hire private vehicles for the deliveries. “The cost of oxygen and vehicle can be taken from the hospitals. This way we will get the oxygen supply at our doorstep and the staff can focus on patients health instead of arranging oxygen. There is no support from any department and it seems it is an individual battle, we are fighting for our patients’ lives and officers have turned a blind eye,” he said.Dr Ashok Khanna, of Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14, said that they are managing oxygen on their own with great difficulty. “There is shortage everywhere and we are managing to get oxygen every day from different places so that 28 patients can get proper oxygen,” he said.Private hospitals that do not have oxygen plants in their hospitals are dependent on cylinders, which are already short in the market.Doctors of private hospitals said they were assured that oxygen supply will be streamlined last week, with supplies arranged from plants in Panipat and Bhiwadi of Rajasthan, but to no avail. Hospitals have cited genuine concerns about medical oxygen availability even after the supply was resumed from the Bhiwadi plant.Dipankar Sethi, general manager, operations, Sethi Hospital in Model Town, said that the oxygen supply was not reaching the hospital on time. “It is the responsibility of the hospital to arrange and manage oxygen. We are running to Manesar and Sector 37 to get the oxygen cylinders refilled. Despite repeated reminders to the administration, we are not getting oxygen,” he said.On the other hand, the district administration said that all demands were met and regular oxygen supplies were sent to private hospitals.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said the mobile numbers of all the officials have been shared with the private hospitals. “We are responding to all calls and messages throughout the day and the teams are on their toes. If any hospital is alleging that they have not received oxygen supply, then I have all the records (to show that) they have regularly being supplied. We are trying to increase the oxygen supply and demands are being met,” he said.Garg said they are regularly coordinating with oxygen plants and with the two companies in Bhiwadi and Panipat to increase the supply. “Hospitals have been assured that oxygen supply will be streamlined this week as logistics are being arranged. There has been an improvement, as compared to last week and we are hopeful to overcome this issue at the earliest,” he said.Hospitals in the city have been grappling with a shortage of oxygen supply amid the spiral in Covid-19 cases.On Sunday, six critically ill Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support died at two private hospitals due to a shortage of oxygen. Staff at the hospital alleged that they had raised the alarm with the authorities concerned well on time, but did not get the supply despite assurances.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, where four patients died on Sunday, said that if the situation remains the same, the hospital will have to shut operations as families of other patients are also panicking. “Raising voice against the administration will leave an impact but we cannot play with the lives who are admitted in our hospital and have faith in us,” he said.Officials said that it is a difficult situation for all parties concerned and they are regularly coordinating with the hospital staff on daily basis. “Even a green corridor has been created by police for the regular and quick supply from Bhiwadi and Panipat. We are also trying to tie up with the local suppliers for delivery,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/smaller-hospitals-struggle-to-transport-oxygen-supplies-101619460918366.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Two more deaths in Gurugram as hospitals grapple with low oxygen supply||Two critically ill Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support at the Center of Diabetes and Allied Sciences (CDAS) died late Sunday evening due to oxygen shortage, according to the hospital management, which took the number of deaths due to oxygen shortage in the district to six, all reported over the last two days.Dr S Raghunandan, vice-president, CDAS, said that they alerted the local administration about the shortage two hours before the supplies ran low, but did not get any help. “A 60-year-old woman died at 8.25pm and a 61-year-old man died at 8.35pm on Sunday due to lack of oxygen. There was another death but that was not related to Covid,” said Dr Raghunandan.“We are facing a huge problem due to shortage of oxygen supply. The local supplier has refused to supply. We are managing our operations with the minimum oxygen supply we can manage,” said Dr Raghunandan.CDAS in Sector 47 has a capacity of 50 beds, of which 38 are occupied by Covid-19 patients.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, where four Covid-19 deaths were reported due to low oxygen on Sunday, said on Monday that the situation has not improved. “We are still struggling for oxygen cylinders and there is no help from the administration. My son who is also a doctor is struggling in queues to get the cylinders filled from Manesar. We are not even getting eight cylinders a day, whereas we require 25 in a day. Where is the oxygen going? This is a question we want to be answered,” he said.Officials of the district administration refuted the allegations made by the hospital managements but admitted that there is a shortfall in oxygen supply.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said they have been delivering oxygen supply to all the hospitals and they have records of all the deliveries, but failed to share the same. “We were informed regarding the deaths later but we were not aware that the situation was grim and patients could die. The hospitals are creating pressure tactics. We are here to meet their need, not their greed. There is a WhatsApp group where all the private hospitals, nodal officer, chief medical officer (CMO) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner has been added and prompt action is taken on each request,” he said.Garg said that at present, the district is receiving 35 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, against a requirement of 50 MT. “We are adding more beds and will need more oxygen, for which we are trying to increase the supply through both plants in Panipat and Rajasthan,” he said.Also, the district administration directed hospitals to report shortfall in supply at least six hours in advance, as it is not possible to respond to requests made an hour or less before the supply runs out.Garg said, “We have asked private hospitals to inform us six hours in advance if they are facing a shortage of oxygen so that timely oxygen can be managed. We need this much time to arrange and send oxygen supply as it’s not readily available with us.”The city has been grappling with a shortage in oxygen supply for the past 10 days amid a huge surge in coronavirus cases. Many hospitals on Monday also reported a shortage in oxygen and took to social media platforms, seeking immediate help from the district administration. At 6.51pm on Monday, a Twitter user posted that Genesis Hospital in Sector 84 was running out of oxygen, with 12 to 13 patients requiring oxygen support.Officials of Genesis Hospital could not be contact for comment on the matter.Many family members of Covid-19 patients said they paid exorbitant amounts, up to ₹1.5 lakh, to get oxygen cylinders.Dr Raghunandan of CDAS said, “We were standing in long queues on Monday to get oxygen cylinders but our demands are not met. The doctors at the hospital are running pillar to post to refill cylinders, leaving patients. We have never felt this helpless in our entire career.”Many hospitals said that they have stopped new admissions due to lack of oxygen supply. “We have limited oxygen now and the situation is getting worse day by day. We are getting very less supply of oxygen and cannot run a hospital like this,” said a senior official of W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56.“Issue continues with the oxygen supply. We are making our own arrangements on a daily basis,” said Dr Devlina Chakravarty, the managing director of Artemis Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-more-deaths-in-gurugram-as-hospitals-grapple-with-low-oxygen-supply-101619460918976.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||SP, Congress engaging in politics of lies: UP minister||UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh on Monday lashed out at the Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) for engaging in “politics of lies” to defame the BJP government.“During these pandemic times, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhiji and SP chief Akhilesh Yadavji should focus on helping the people instead of trading in politics of lies,” he said.His statement made to the media came a day after the Congress government in Chhattisgarh announced it was sending 16 tons of oxygen for a private hospital in Lucknow. “On being informed by Priyanka Gandhiji on phone about acute crisis of oxygen in Lucknow, a tanker of oxygen has been sent for Medanta Hospital in Lucknow,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had tweeted on Sunday.However, Siddharth Nath claimed the opposition leaders, desperate to regain lost political ground, were engaged in political stunt instead of helping the people.“Everyone knows what the Congress government had done last time in the name of sending students from UP, back to their villages, during the lockdown announced by the government in the first Covid wave,” he said.“Instead of questioning us, the Congress would do well to question their own chief ministers on what they have done to help the common man hit by the pandemic,” Siddharth Nath said.The UP minister also hit out at the SP chief. “Instead of raising fingers at the BJP government, the SP should tell what all it did to better health infrastructure in the state during its four stints in power,” he said.The UP government’s counterattack came after Congress leaders, including its state chief Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ and other party leaders in the state took to twitter to thank the Chhattisgarh chief minister even as his party leaders, including former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra targeted the BJP, accusing it of hiding the reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-congress-engaging-in-politics-of-lies-up-minister-101619460138195.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||IIM-L professors brainstorm on ‘oxygen audit’ project||A team of professors at the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (IIM-L) is currently working on the procedure to be adopted for oxygen audit under which they will track and monitor usage of oxygen in hospitals to ensure optimal utilization. The team is led by professor Suresh Jakhar with professor Arunabha Mukhopadhyay, Prof Ajay Garg and Prof Kshitij Awasthi as other team members. The IIM-L professors are busy developing a procedural and monitoring framework for oxygen supply and optimal utilization by hospitals. “Initially we will develop parametres for collecting information from each hospital on daily basis and centralised oxygen unit will monitor it,” said one of the team members. The team members held quite a few virtual interactions with each other to finalise on how to go about it. The teachers at IIM-L held meetings with larger group of experts drawn from other institutes. IIM-L is working with UP government, IIT-Kanpur and IIT BHU for oxygen audit in the hospitals of UP. Prof Archana Shukla, director, IIM-L is part of high-powered group comprising of additional chief secretary home, Awanish Awasthi, director IIT-K, Abhay Karandikar and director IIT BHU Prof PN Jain and medical experts among others. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced the oxygen audit a day after launching a digital platform for monitoring oxygen supply system. He asked officials to strike a balance between demand and supply of oxygen. He also asked them to “distribute oxygen in a transparent manner.” Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said efforts were on to ensure rational utilisation of oxygen in hospitals. The health department and the medical education department have issued guidelines for the use of oxygen in Covid-19 pandemic. The state government had also received guidelines for the judicious use of oxygen as a therapy to treat Covid-19 patients, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iiml-professors-brainstorm-on-oxygen-audit-project-101619460018234.html
26-04-2021||Other||Giving social distancing the go-by, SAD protests ‘slow’ wheat procurement in Ludhiana||Disregarding the ban on political gatherings amid the rapidly rising Covid-19 cases in the state, nearly 60 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders and workers on Monday held a protest against the “slow and poor” wheat procurement in the district.Targeting civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu through slogans, the protesters gathered at the Kochar Market Chowk without any social distancing and many of them had their masks lowered.Among the leaders present were former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, leader of SAD legislators in assembly MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon and district Youth Akali Dal president Gurdeep Gosha.Police deputed on the spot said action will be taken against the protesters as per law.The protesters were headed towards Ashu’s house in Model Gram, but were stopped by police at the Kochar Market Chowk. Traffic leading to the chowk from ESI Hospital road was also diverted for around an hour due to the protest. Amid sloganeering, Grewal and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said there was severe shortage of gunny bags at the grain markets, forcing farmers to store the wheat in trolleys or at their houses. “The Congress leadership is making tall claims regarding the procurement process, while due to shortage of gunny bags, even the procured wheat has been lying in the open and payment is being delayed to farmers,” they said.Holding Ashu responsible for the delay, Ranjit Dhillon and Gosha demanded Ashu’s removal from the post of cabinet minister. On flouting of Covid safety norms, Ranjit claimed social distancing was ensured and everyone was wearing masks. “The protest was necessary to wake up the government from its deep slumber. While the Congress government has failed to serve the public, the Aam Aadmi Party has also failed to perform its duty as the opposition. In fact, it has been working as the B-team of Congress,” he alleged. Refuting their claims, Ashu’s wife and councillor Mamta Ashu said all arrangements were in place for wheat procurement. “Over 85 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has been procured in the state and payment is being transferred directly to the farmers’ bank accounts. While the farmers are satisfied with the process, SAD is staging protests just to gain political mileage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/giving-social-distancing-the-go-by-sad-protests-slow-wheat-procurement-in-ludhiana-101619459778959.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s main vegetable market a ticking bomb amid surge in Covid cases||In a stark contrast to March 2020, when strict Covid restrictions were imposed at the city’s main vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass to control huge gatherings, the administration and market committee are now turning a blind eye even as thousands of residents throng the market everyday. Visitors are seen ignoring social distancing norms and without masks. This, even though 1,389 fresh infections were reported from the district on Sunday, the highest single-day spike so far.Apart from individual buyers, the market is thronged by around 450 arhtiyas, their staff, farmers, thousands of street vendors, retailers and other visitors. Farmers/transporters from other districts and nearby states also visit to sell their produce.The market is open on six days (Monday to Saturday) in a week. Last year, the administration had restricted the operations of the market to three days a week and working hours were fixed from 9am to 11am, after videos and pictures of huge gatherings at the market went viral on social media. Further, the concept of establishing ward-wise “mandis” was introduced in the city, wherein only registered vendors were allowed to purchase vegetables and fruits from the main market. They used to supply it to street vendors assigned to specific wards, who further sold it to residents.The system remained in force till mid-June. The administration also faced trouble restricting the entry of vendors in the main market and controlling the rush of residents at earmarked ward-wise mandi sites.Gurminder Singh, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, “Strict and immediate action should be taken to restrict gatherings at the main market. Supply of vegetables and fruits is necessary, but the lives of residents should not be put at risk and an alternative needs to be found. The street vendors roam the entire city and can spread the virus rapidly.”Meanwhile, the arhtiyas said that the administration should focus on enforcing Covid norms, rather than bringing business to a halt.Amarvir Singh, an arhtiya, said, “Shutting down the market is not a solution, as arhtiyas, farmers and vendors will suffer huge losses and daily turnover of over ₹3 crore will be affected. The administration should rather impose strict restrictions and those flouting norms should be fined ₹5,000. Further, we also urge the administration to allow shops selling veggies and fruits to open on Sundays, as they are essential items and perishable goods.”Officials of the market committee stated that steps are being taken to make sure residents and arhtiyas follow the Covid norms, but no restrictions have been imposed till now on working or entry in the main market.Tek Bahadur, secretary of the market committee, said, “We have issued notices to arhtiyas to ensure wearing of masks and social distancing. No directions have yet been received from the administration to impose any restrictions on entry or working of the main market. Stalls have been installed to spread awareness and staff has been deputed to keep check.”In April last year, district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur had tested positive for the virus and deceased assistant commissioner of police Anil Kumar Kohli was also suspected to have contracted the infection while he was deputed at the vegetable market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-main-vegetable-market-a-ticking-bomb-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101619459599269.html
26-04-2021||Other||Govt teachers’ door-to-door campaign inspires 8,000 Ludhiana kids to join school||Going the extra mile amid the pandemic, teachers and school heads of government primary schools have been making door-to-door visits to enrol more children in Classes LKG to 5.The initiative has made a difference as the teachers have been able to motivate as many as 8,000 children to join school. The number makes for 27% of the total 29,000 students enrolled at the district’s 993 government primary schools this year.According to teachers, a considerable number of these children had never been to school and were found playing in parks or in slums. Through the door-to-door campaign, teachers have been educating parents regarding the facilities and achievements of government schools, and providing them contact numbers of teachers. Children of parents convinced on the spot are registered through the ePunjab Schools portal.Apart from this, parents can register their wards through the online admission forms of the respective schools. Government Primary School, Chanan Devi, has enrolled 300 children through personal visits, including 95 who moved over from private schools and 60, who never went to school. Head teacher Jaswinder Kaur said, “We visited slum areas near Jagraon Bridge, parks near Chand Cinema and enrolled children aged between two and six. A large number of out-of-school children were found playing in the parks. We encouraged them to join school through stationery and candies.” Similarly, Government Primary School, Jawaddi, added 50 students through the door-to-door drive. “We also utilised the public address system of gurdwaras to inform parents about the ongoing admission process. The door-to-door campaign is effective in motivating parents to get their children to attend online classes.” “To enhance enrolments in the current session, we have been holding meetings with school heads, block primary education officers and tracking the new registrations. A large number of children have also shifted from private schools,” said Kuldeep Singh, deputy district education officer, elementary, Ludhiana.In all, 1.17 lakh students are currently enrolled in the district’s government primary schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-teachers-door-to-door-campaign-inspires-8-000-ludhiana-kids-to-join-school-101619459119566.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana runs out of Covid vaccine||The district has run out of both Covishield and Covaxin stocks, with only around 100 vaccine doses available at the civil hospital. These will also run out by mid-Tuesday.Due to the low stocks, the vaccines were administered to just 8,822 residents on Monday, while the number was 13,276 on Sunday despite the lockdown and 17,003 on Saturday. The health department had already stopped supply to around 75 private hospitals in mid-April. Civil surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar confirmed that the health department had only around 100 doses of vaccine, which will be administered at the civil hospital on Tuesday. “We are expecting more supplies by Tuesday evening, as we had placed an order for around 1 lakh doses recently. The state government will allot the quota to districts after receiving supply from the central government,” he added.Adequate remdesivir available: Top copAmid reports of blackmarketing of remdesivir injections in Ludhiana, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal took to social media on Monday to say that there is no shortage of the injection in the district and the administration was ensuring adequate supply at all Covid care hospitals. He said hospitals had been requested not to blindly prescribe the injection, as not more than 0.5% may actually need it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-runs-out-of-covid-vaccine-101619458819242.html
26-04-2021||Other||Daily Covid cases dip by 46% within a day of Sunday lockdown||The complete lockdown on Sunday was followed by a huge dip in daily Covid-19 cases on Monday, with 753 people testing positive for the virus – a 46% drop from the all-time high of 1,389 recorded the day before. The death count, however, remained high, as 10 more residents – the youngest of them aged 28 – succumbed to the virus, pushing the toll to 1,309.With the fresh cases, the active cases crossed the 7,000 mark for the first time ever, reaching 7,112, while the district’s caseload surged past 50,000. In some relief, of the 50,356 patients infected so far, 41,935 (83.2%) have successfully beaten the virus, ahead of the national average of 82.62%.For the past five days, the daily positive cases had remained over 800. While 879 cases were reported on April 21, another 880 were added on April 22. The number of cases then recorded a 13% jump with 995 cases on April 23. A day later, the infections came down to 861, only to see a spike of 61% with 1,389 cases on April 25. As many as 104 Covid positive patients are admitted at government hospitals and another 964 patients are recuperating in the isolation wards of private hospitals in the district, while 8,219 are under home quarantine. A total of 24 patients are on ventilator support in different hospitals. 8 women among deceasedAmong those who died on Monday were two men, aged 57 and 53, from Jawaddi and Basti Jodhewal, respectively. Apart from the 28-year-old from Kailash Nagar, the female deceased included three aged 68, from Ramgarh village, Haibowal and Rajguru Nagar, a 60-year-old from Arya Mohalla, a 48-year-old from Basti Jodhewal, and two aged 43, from BRS Nagar and Khanna. The latest cases included 77 from Dugri’s Urban Estate, which has been under lockdown since April 18. So far, 8,605 residents have undergone rapid antigen tests in the area.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance in public and sanitising hands frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/daily-covid-cases-dip-by-46-within-a-day-of-sunday-lockdown-101619458519160.html
26-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt fixes upper limit of ambulance fare amid Covid-19 situation||Rajasthan's transport department on Monday issued an order to fix the maximum fares of ambulances and vehicles used in carrying bodies in the state.Fares of both kinds of vehicles have been made uniform under which ₹500 will be charged for the first 10 kilometres. Apart from this, an additional fee of ₹350 will be charged for a PPE kit and sanitisation.Transport Commissioner Mahendra Soni said action will be taken against the ambulance owner on charging more than the pre-determined rates from Covid-19 patients and for carrying the bodies.According to the order, the rate for availing an ambulance is ₹500 for the first 10 km. After 10 km, the fare for vehicles such as a Maruti Van, Mahindra Marshal, Mahindra Maxx, etc. is fixed at 12.50 per km, ₹14.50 per km for Tavera, Innova, Bolero, etc. and ₹17.50 per km for bigger vehicles/ambulances.Calculation of the fare has been done while considering diesel rate of ₹91 per litre, he said.He said the order was issued looking at the problems faced by the people due to the arbitrary rental price of ambulances under the present circumstances caused by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-fixes-upper-limit-of-ambulance-fare-amid-covid-19-situation-101619456971525.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Farmer unions to hand out food packets, essential items to hospitals in Delhi||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agricultural laws, on Monday said they will distribute food and essential goods to hospitals in the national capital.According to a statement releases by the SKM, farmers sitting on several borders of Delhi will distribute food packets and other important goods to hospitals in the city.Already, farmers on the Ghazipur border are distributing food at the bus terminals, railways stations and hospitals in Delhi. The packing process will be started on Tuesday at the Singhu border as well, it stated.A group at Tikri border announced essential services will be provided and asked people to contact the SKM if any needy person in Delhi is not able to get food, the statement said.Volunteers are helping vehicles carrying medical oxygen or other services that are coming in the way of the farmers protest to reach the destination with full support, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmer-unions-to-hand-out-food-packets-essential-items-to-hospitals-in-delhi-101619458014331.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||UP govt fudging data to show fewer deaths: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday charged the state government with fudging coronavirus death numbers and said the data shown by it was contradicted by the rush at crematoriums.“While on one hand the government is showing fewer deaths on the other hand there is no let-up in cremations. There is an emergency of breaths because of lack of oxygen, beds and medicines. The way people are dying, it’s genocide like situation,” said the former UP chief minister.In a statement, Akshilesh said short-sightedness and mismanagement of the BJP government, despite warnings from experts, has turned UP into ‘Corona Pradesh (Corona state). “The BJP must quit its arrogance of power and should start thinking like family members of Covid patients. It must immediately start making arrangement of oxygen cylinders at Covid patients in home quarantine. Patient is a patient, be at hospital or home,” he said.Akhilesh also demanded that prices of vaccines should be uniform and people be inoculated free-of-cost.“The government has failed to the extent that even BJP MPs and MLAs are not satisfied with the current state of affairs and warning of sitting on dharna. The phone numbers of hospitals and doctors that the BJP government is publicising are all wrong. Such an insensitive government was never seen in the state,” he said.The former chief minister further said that the government also failed on checking black-marketing of drugs and oxygen in the state. He said “Medical experts and scientists had been indicating that the second wave of Covid pandemic would be far more severe, but the BJP government was busy trying to win praise. The BJP government has no moral right to stay in power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-fudging-data-to-show-fewer-deaths-akhilesh-yadav-101619458037982.html
26-04-2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: On his way for Covid-19 test, man accuses cops of misbehaviour||A man in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on Monday claimed policemen misbehaved with him and beat up the driver of the autorickshaw in which he was travelling to get tested for coronavirus.In a video clip, the man, who identified himself as 44-year-old Loknath Gautam, said policemen posted at Choithram crossing stopped the autorickshaw, pulled him out during which his T-shirt tore, and hit three-wheeler's driver.The police did not relent despite being told several times that he was going to a private laboratory to get himself tested, the man claimed.In the video, the man can be seen with his T-shirt torn while the autorickshaw driver has scratch marks on his hands.Inspector Amrita Solanki of Rajendra Nagar police station said she was aware of the video but no complaint had been lodged with them."If he files a complaint, we will probe it thoroughly and action will be taken," Solanki said.Indore, the state's worst coronavirus-hit district, is under 'janata curfew' with movement of people and vehicles restricted only for emergency and essential purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-on-his-way-for-covid-19-test-man-accuses-cops-of-misbehaviour-101619456793464.html
26-04-2021||Other||Pratapgarh village head bags national level award for outstanding work||50-year-old village head of Shahabpur village of Kunda area of Pratapgrah, Prabhakar Singh, has been awarded Nanaji Deshmukh Gaurav Gram Puraskar for transforming his village in to one of the best gram panchayats of the state.The award, given virtually by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday, came with a citation and a cash award of ₹10 lakh which was transferred to gram panchayat account.Singh was just 24 when he was elected as village head in 1995. By then, Singh had done his post-graduation and had bagged a gold medal (1990) as NCC cadet from the then President and Prime Minister as Parade Commander at Republic Day. Later, he joined as Yoga teacher at Patanjali Yogpeeth.Singh has done several path breaking works at his village, including implementing rainwater harvesting, women empowerment, widow and elderly pension, better facilities like convent school in the village, solar lights etc.He had also been former block chief (Kunda 2000 to 2005), district convenor Patanjali Yogpeeth of Pratapgarh, associated with ‘waterman’ Rajendra Singh and his national water fraternity as district coordinator, district brand ambassador for Ganga Haritima Abhiyan, awarded Navratna Pradhan Uttar Pradesh, awarded Ganga cleanliness campaign by chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Deendayal Upadhyaya Panchayat empowerment National Award 2019 (seventh place in the state) by Prime Minister and again in 2020 (being at first place in the state) by PM Modi.The latest in his treasure is Nanaji Deshmukh Gaurav Gram Puraskar which is annual award given by the Ministry of Panchayati Raj.It awards the best performing Panchayats/States/UTs across the country under the incentivization of panchayats in recognition of their good work. Awards are given under various categories namely, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP), Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA), Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) Award and e-Panchayat Puraskar (given to States/UTs only). “During the award ceremony, the PM clicked the button and transferred the award money (as grants-in-aid) to the panchayat’s account. Shahabpur was the only one in UP among gram panchayats across the country,” said Singh. Talking of how the money would be spent, Singh said now that the seat of village head has been reserved for women candidate, he would propose before the panchayat that behind every 10 houses, one public urinal for women including an incinerator for solid waste should be installed. Besides, a unit for manufacturing sanitary napkins for women should also come up at his village. “The village should also have its own ambulance, panchayat’s own garbage vehicle running on e-battery, provision of projector in each school, farm equipment bank for farmers etc are some of the works that would be done from the prize money,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pratapgarh-village-head-bags-national-level-award-for-outstanding-work-101619457557960.html
26-04-2021||Noida||Noida sees record single-day jump of 15 Covid-19 deaths; 655 new cases recorded||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar Monday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-linked deaths, with official data showing 15 people succumbed to the viral disease in 24 hours.The district also recorded 655 new infections that pushed its overall tally of cases to 36,645, while the active caseload reached 6,300, according to the figures released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the brighter side, 406 patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 30,176 in the district, the fifth highest in the state, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar now has a death toll of 169 with a mortality rate of 0.46 per cent. The recovery rate of patients dropped marginally to 82.34 per cent from 82.69 per cent the previous day, the numbers showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP reached 3,04,199 from 2,97,616 on Sunday as the overall recoveries climbed to 8,04,563 and the death toll surged to 11,414 on Monday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-record-single-day-jump-of-15-covid-19-deaths-655-new-cases-recorded-101619456252626.html
26-04-2021||Pune||State asks districts to restart plants, modify nitrogen plants to generate O2||Pune: To augment the needs of the rising demand for oxygen to treat Covid-19 positives, the state government has asked district collectors to identify the Oxygen Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants which are shut and could be restarted. The state has also asked the districts to identify Nitrogen PSAs which could be modified and used for generating oxygen. Earlier, deputy CM Ajit Pawar has said that the state is identifying the defunct O2 plants which could be restarted. Following the central government’s orders, the state has requested district collectors to check PSA plants for oxygen which could be reactivated with slight modification. The state has also asked to find if any of the PSA plant for nitrogen could be modified to generate oxygen in less than a week. Packaging and food processing industry needs nitrogen and there are many PSA plants for nitrogen generation in the districts. The state in its letter by principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, health department stated, “We are struggling to augment the supplies of oxygen, while we are trying to increase the availability of oxygen by moving quantities from outside the state. We should also explore setting up new PSA oxygen generation plants and re-purposing PSA plants for nitrogen.” The letter mentions the state is also setting up new O2 PSA plants in various locations through SDRF funds. It says, “It seems that there are several PSA plants for oxygen installed in various parts of our state over the years and are lying unutilised. Recently, one such plant at Satara is now being activated which would generate sufficient oxygen to fill 2400 Jumbo cylinders every day.” Pawar said, “We are trying to restart oxygen plants which were shut as power supply was cut or because the companies had gone bankrupt. Minister Nitin Gadkari has said he would ensure smooth supply in the Vidarbha region.” “Some of the PSA plants for nitrogen probably can be re-purposed to generate oxygen with slight modification in very short time. It seems that while a new oxygen generation plant will take 3 to 4 weeks to install, retro fitting existing PSA plants for nitrogen probably can be achieved in less than a week,” stated the letter. Pune is planning to set up 30 new oxygen generation plants in the district and has also received 75 oxygen concentrator plants through CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-asks-districts-to-restart-plants-modify-nitrogen-plants-to-generate-o2-101619455097747.html
26-04-2021||Pune||For the first time since April 9, Pune’s active cases count goes below 0.1 million mark||Pune: For the first time since April 9 when Pune crossed the 0.1 million active cases of Covid-19, on Monday, Pune reported less than the grim figure of people undergoing treatment for Covid or are in home isolation because of the infection. The active cases count as per the state health department in Pune district went down to 99,977. With a drastic fall in the number of new Covid cases, as 6,162 new cases were reported on the day, the total number went up to 820,000 cases of which 693,000 lakh have recovered, 9,089 have been declared dead and remaining are active cases. Pune rural reported 2,211 new Covid-19 cases taking the total to 192,539 and with 11 more deaths the toll went up to 2,407. Pune city has reported 2,666 new Covid cases taking the final to 413,349 and with two more deaths the toll went up to 5,160. PCMC reported 1,285 new cases which took the total to 196,919 and with one more death the toll went to 1,467. After replenishment of vaccine stocks arrived on Sunday, Pune also saw boost in the number of vaccinations as 78,668 people got the vaccine with 43,096 from Pune rural, 24,702 from Pune city and 10,870 in PCMC. Of the total vaccinations, 75,153 were of Covishield and the remaining Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/for-the-first-time-since-april-9-pune-s-active-cases-count-goes-below-one-lakh-101619454677663.html
26-04-2021||Pune||MTDC to offer free yoga sessions, immunity-booster meals||With the city showing signs of improvement in the recovery of Covid positive patients, the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), is also gearing up with yet another plan, after their work-from-nature offering. MTDC has stressed upon wellness and medical tourism by offering people who have recovered from corona immunity-booster meals and free yoga sessions. “We are tying up with Ayurvedic and yoga practitioners locally where our resorts are situated. The emphasis will be on providing facilities for Ayurvedic treatment and yoga therapy to tourists who have recovered from corona. We will start yoga sessions and set up meditation centres,” said Deepak Harane, regional manager, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation. “This second wave has proved to be severe and has affected tourism everywhere. The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation is implementing long-term measures for tourists in the post-epidemic period. This lockdown has seen people frustrated with the constant work from home and living under stress. iIt is very natural to look for a getaway,” added Harane. He added that despite the curfew, cleaning, repair and sanitation work at tourist accommodations there was a good response of 100 per cent occupancy in December 2020 and January 2021. Suhas Parkhi, manager MTDC, Mahableshwar said, “We are tying up with yoga teachers and charges will be included in room tariff. We also are setting up an immunity booster menu - Spanish soup and tomato-ginger soups, which are known to be good immunity boosters, will on the menu. We will also give tourist vitamin C and vitamin D tablets.” Yoga and meditation facilities will start in the first phase at Koynanagar, Matheran, and Mahabaleshwar. In the next phase these facilities will be available in resorts at Tarkarli, Ganpatipule, Malshejghat, and Panshet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mtdcto-offer-free-yoga-sessions-immunity-booster-meals-101619453717545.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Fight over loud music escalates to brutal attack||A school child’s father was attacked with a sharp weapon, along with three others from his family, allegedly as a result of a fight that started over loud music during online school hours. The fight, that happened six months ago in Shantinagar Vasahat area of Dhankwadi, led to an attack on four people of a family. The injured man was identified as Mahadev Adsul (36), while the police are on a lookout for four men from his neighbourhood for the attack. The ones injured include Adsul’s wife, his maternal aunt and maternal cousin, according to his complaint. Adsul’s son attends online school lessons in the light of the norms necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. The accused routinely played loud music and television in the locality and disturbed Adsul’s son’s classes. A fight had erupted between the neighbours in November 2020. Since then, the tension between the two families kept increasing, according to the complaint lodged by Adsul. A case under Sections 307, 326, 504, 506, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station against four people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fight-over-loud-music-escalates-to-brutal-attack-101619452637599.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Suspended PSI booked under POCSO for sexual harassment of minor||A police sub inspector was booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) act for sexual harassment of a minor girl and her elder sister after he got drunk with two men booked for black marketing of Remdesivir. The incident happened a week ago and the case was registered after an internal inquiry was concluded against him. The officer is currently under suspension and is facing a case for outraging a woman’s modesty and molesting a minor girl, a student of Class 11 living in Pune. “The inquiry was concluded after investigating the contents of the complaint that was received. The case has been registered at Chaturshringi police station and is being investigated by the police station officials,” said Ramesh Galande, assistant police commissioner (ACP), Khadki division of Pune who conducted the internal inquiry. The PSI was identified as Deepak Mane, attached with Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch, who conducted a raid and arrested two siblings for trying to sell the Remdesivir injection, an experimental drug used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Pune police crime branch’s Unit 4 had arrested two siblings identified as Pradeep (25) and Sandeep Devdutt Late (23), residents of Balewadi and natives of Beed. They were found selling the injection for ₹25,000. A case under various laws was registered at Chaturshringi police station on April 16. They were remanded to police custody and later released on bail by the court. During the period of the investigation, PSI Mane got acquainted with the accused and had allegedly gone to their house to drink. In the state of being under the influence of alcohol, PSI Mane had inappropriately touched a 16-year-old girl in the locality of the accused man’s house and her elder sister as well, according to the girls’ complaint. A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Assistant police inspector Chavan will be investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suspended-psi-booked-under-pocso-for-sexual-harassment-of-minor-101619452577515.html
26-04-2021||Ranchi||Soren writes to Guj CM to ensure delivery of oxygen equipment||Chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren on Monday wrote to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani, requesting him to intervene and ensure timely delivery of medical oxygen-related equipment such as tanks, cylinders and vapourisers that were reportedly stuck with manufacturers in Gujarat. “My sincere request to the Gujarat CM to take cognizance of the delay in delivery of liquid medical oxygen tanks, cylinders and vapourizers from manufacturers in Gujarat. In this hour of crisis, it will be good if we all could work together, ensuring timely service,” Soren said. In the letter, Soren said Jharkhand was an oxygen surplus state. “Unfortunately, we are struggling with flow constraints in the supply-chain due to paucity of oxygen cylinders despite having refillers available in Jharkhand. I have been informed that many of our orders of LMO (liquid medical oxygen) tanks, vapourizers and cylinders are pending with manufacturers in Guajarat,” he said in the letter. Through the letter, Soren sought the Gujarat CM’s assistance in getting the orders delivered. “This will allow us to make oxygen available to hospitals and subsequently the people who desperately need it,” he further said in the letter. Earlier on Sunday, the CM inspected two oxygen refilling plants in Ranchi to take stock of the situation capacity of the plants to produce oxygen. The plant operators raised the issue of pending orders with Gujarat manufacturers and Soren assured them to deal with the issue, officials said. Many oxygen plant operators told the CM that they will double oxygen refilling and supply if they get delivery of orders from Gujarat. Last week, the CM claimed there was no shortage of oxygen production in the state, as it produces more than 550 tonnes of oxygen daily against the requirement of 100 tonnes. However, shortage of oxygen cylinders posed a challenge. The state has a mere 8,739 medical oxygen cylinders. However, the state was trying to increase the number of medical oxygen cylinders from various sources. Officials said they were also trying if they could use industrial oxygen cylinders for medical purposes. Jharkhand has around 17,000 industrial cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/soren-writes-to-guj-cm-to-ensure-delivery-of-oxygen-equipment-101619452518737.html
26-04-2021||Other||CPI(Maoist) ultras blow up part of Howrah-Mumbai rail track in Jharkhand||Suspected members of outlawed outfit CPI (Maoist) blew up about a metre of railway track on the Howrah-Mumbai main line between Sonua and Lotapahar stations under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) in West Singhbhum district in the wee hours of Monday, officials said. “Around 2.15am Monday, Station Manager of Sonua received information that in between Lotapahar and Sonua stations at km 322/19-23 Loco Pilot of N BOST/KAV (Goods Train) found heavy jerk on Up line. Following this, all movement in the Rourkela-Chakradharpur section is being immediately stopped and eight mail express/passengers trains and several goods trains are controlled at different stations as a security measure,” Manish Kumar Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM), Chakradharpur division of SER, said.The incident took place during a day-long Bharat Bandh called by Maoists on Monday in support of the ongoing farmers’ protests. The Maoists alleged suppression of people’s movement by the government, as stated in the banners, pamphlets and posters splashed near the blast siteIt brought train movement on the Howrah-Mumbai main Up line to a standstill for hours. Besides, hundreds of lives were saved as Geetanjali Express and Ahemdabad-Howrah special Covid-19 Express were to pass through the track.Pathak said patrolling teams were sent for inspection with security personnel, while a Railways team reached the indicated jerk site with RPF and State Police and started investigation.“During investigation of the site, it was found that the Up main line track was sabotaged and blasted rail piece flowed around 35 metres from the site. Restoration work was immediately started after getting security clearance. Down line was given fit around 7.15am the third line around 8.35am. Movement over the lines has resumed,” said Pathak.After necessary clearance and fitness from all departments, train movement was restored in Up line between Sonua -Lotapahar section around 9.35am. The train movement over Chakrdharpur and Rourkela section was also normalised. Junior Administrative Grade inquiry was also ordered by the Railways.Earlier on Sunday last, Maoists splashed posters, banners and pamphlets calling for Bharat Bandh in areas under Sonua police station, Lotapahar and other areas in the district.Maoists’ IED blast bid foiledIn yet another incident, police and CRPF joint team foiled a Maoist land mine blast bid at Rengarbera village under Goilkera police station in West Singhbhum district Monday. “A team of CRPF along with bomb detection and disposal squad ) of Jharkhand Jaguar recovered an IED planted under a Flag pole on Rebgarbera-Arahasa road. They safely blasted the IED, which otherwise could have inflicted major damage to forces and villagers,” Sudhir Kumar, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cpimaoist-ultras-blow-up-part-of-howrah-mumbai-rail-track-in-jharkhand-101619452517514.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Elderly couple robbed of valuables worth ₹15.8 lakh in Aundh||A senior citizen couple was robbed by three unidentified people who forcefully entered their house and locked them inside their bathroom on Sunday evening, according to their complaint to Pune police. The three were carrying a knife and allegedly beat up the cook working for the elderly couple, according to their complaint. The men opened the wooden cupboard in the couple’s bedroom and ransacked it to find and flee with ₹70,000 cash, diamond and gold jewellery, and U.S dollars, collectively worth ₹15, 80,000, according to the police. The three spoke in Hindi and threatened to kill the couple if they informed the police, according to their complaint. A complaint in the matter was lodged by 73-year-old woman who was with her husband and their cook in their house in Sadhu Vaswani Nagar area of Aundh at 8:30pm on Sunday when the theft took place. Police sub inspector Mohandas Jadhav of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 392 (robbery), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/elderly-couple-robbed-of-valuables-worth-rs-15-8-lakh-in-aundh-101619452518205.html
26-04-2021||Other||‘Right drug at the right time holds the key in Covid management’||PATNARight drug at the right time in the right measure holds the key in the treatment of Covid-19 and every effort should be made to discourage self-medication and prevent unnecessary panic-buying of drugs like Remdesivir and others, according to Dr Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.Dr Nischal was addressing doctors from Bihar on the inaugural day of the four-day updated training session in Covid-19 management. He said that use of steroids and anticoagulants also needed to be used judiciously, especially in the early part of infection, as indiscriminate use could have adverse effect. “The key is to know when to use which drug and in what measure. There is no role of fancy drugs in the majority of patients,” he said. There has been a scamble for Remesivir and a few other drugs, which has led to shortages, panic-buying and black-marketing in the state. The Bihar government also sent a special plane for procurement of Remedesivir from Ahmedabad. Nischal, who was part of the central team that visited Patna last year, also spoke on important aspects of clinical management and infection control during the virtual session to underline the fact that doctors and healthcare workers needed to be safe to face the challenge. “The spurt in Covid cases is a clear warning that people must mend their ways to stay safe. All we need to do is to mind our social behaviour, as further complacency can be fatal,” he said. The virtual training has been organized at the request of the Bihar health department. Bihar State Health Society executive director Manoj Kumar had on April 21 written to AIIMS (New Delhi) director Dr Randeep Guleria regarding the need for an updated training of Covid-19 case management and changes in the protocol. The first-day training was organized by Nischal and his team for the principals, superintendent , faculties of medicine/pulmonary medicine and others engaged in Covid management at all the nine medical colleges of the state. With the positive cases also rising in other parts of the state, the next three training programmes will be organized in batches for the district and subdivisional level health workforce engaged in management of Covid-19 related care and services, including civil surgeons, ACMOs, other districthealth officials, deputy superintendents, hospital managers etc. A similar training was organsied last year also by AIIMS (New Delhi) doctors from the departments of medicine, pulmonary medicine, paediatrics and infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/right-drug-at-the-right-time-holds-the-key-in-covid-management-101619452457500.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Two in custody for breaking into seven flats in Mhalunge||Two men were remanded to police custody on Monday while one is on the run from the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for breaking in and stealing valuables from seven flats located in a single locality in Mhalunge. The two were identified as Omkar Kale, Vignesh Bhosale, both in their 20s, according to assistant police inspector (API) UR Khade of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. “The CCTV coverage in the area showed three people involved in the act. These two were arrested and produced in court today (Monday) and remanded to two days in police custody,” said API Khade. While six of the flats are located in Swastik Muhurtam society in Mhalunge, Mulshi, one flat is located in neighbouring Galaxy Irila society. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Meet Milind Navle (25) who lives in one of the six flats in Swastik Muhurtam and is a native of Ahmednagar. Navle lost a laptop worth ₹25,000, a wristwatch, and a hair trimmer machine, collectively worth ₹27,200, according to the police. The residents of the other flats have not yet returned from their native places and therefore, the extent of the theft is yet to be known. “The complainant came back and found his lock broken so he checked with other houses and found five other houses in his building and one other house in the neighbouring building broken into. So, he lodged a complaint on all their behalf. They are all natives of various states and have gone home for lockdown,” said API Khade. A case under Sections 454, 457, 380, 34, and 511 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-custody-for-breaking-into-seven-flats-in-mhalunge-101619452398552.html
26-04-2021||Other||Steam inhalation kiosks come up at rly stations||BETTIAHIn a bid to keep its employees safe from coronavirus infection, the Railways has set up steam inhalation kiosks at half a dozen railway stations under Samastipur division in the form an innovative contraption that expels steam from pipes connected to a pressure cooker used in kitchens. Ashok Maheshwari, divisional railway manager (DRM), Samastipur division, said, “We want every employee to take steam at least thrice during the duty hours to boost immunity.” Steam inhalation kiosks are available at Narkatiaganj, Raxaul, Darbhanga, Saharasa, Jainagar and Samastipur stations. “We have also arranged electric gadgets for steam inhalation at all railway stations falling under our division,” said DRM.“The most striking feature of this facility is that three or four employees can inhale the stream at the same time,” said Umesh Kumar, chief crew controller, Narkatiaganj.“Steam inhalation is certainly helpful in respiratory and congestion issues and boosts the immunity power,” said Akhileshwar Prasad Singh, civil surgeon, East Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/steam-inhalation-kiosks-come-up-at-rly-stations-101619452397978.html
26-04-2021||Other||Patients face social stigma||PURNIA/SAHARSAApart from battling the coronavirus pandemic in an isolated room, patients are facing even the bigger challenge of social stigma in some areas.A 55-year-old man in Simri Bakhtiyarpur block of Saharsa district had to take to social media after vegetable vendors, milkman and others stopped visiting his house.“As soon as the news of my Covid infection spread, they all stopped visiting my house. My two small children had to go without milk for two days and we had to eat without vegetables. I then put out the appeal on a WhatsApp group and got help from outsiders, but not from the neighbourhood where I was born and brought up,” the man said.Block development officer (BDO) of Simri Bakhtiyarpur, Manoj Kumar, said he would look into the matter if a complaint is made. Simri Bakhtiyarpur has reported 115 Covid cases so far. At Dandkhora in Katihar, a Covid patient complained that neighbours had even shut their windows and doors and treated him like an untouchable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patients-face-social-stigma-101619452397449.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Yogi launches 24x7 digital oxygen supply monitoring system||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a digital platform for 24x7 live monitoring of the oxygen supply system across Uttar Pradesh to deal with the current shortage of the medical gas in government and private hospitals.He noted that a large number of Covid-19 positive were staying in home isolation and added that oxygen should be supplied to the needy at home as well. Besides, the state government will conduct oxygen audit to maintain a balance between the demand and supply chain, he said.The installation of oxygen plants should be expedited in private medical colleges, he added. Along with the Covid care fund, the CSR funds should be utilized for the purpose, he said. The chief minister asked the medical education department to play a pivotal role in the installation of oxygen plants.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the digital platform had been established in coordination with the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), medical education, medical health and family welfare, transport and home departments by Rodic Consultants Private Limited.The representatives of the company would be present in government and private hospitals to ensure smooth supply of oxygen in a timely manner, he said.The monitoring system will have live information on the demand of oxygen by hospitals in various districts, allotment, loading of oxygen in the vehicles, live location of vehicles moving on the highways, the supply of the oxygen and utilization, he said.A web portal link has been created for the supply of the oxygen. It can be used by officers and employees associated with the oxygen supply chain. Representatives of the company will upload the oxygen requirement details of the hospital on the portal. While tracking the online presence of the vehicles engaged in oxygen supply on the portal, the nearest vehicle will be sent to the hospital that required immediate supply, he saidVehicles engaged in oxygen supply work will be connected to this platform. Representatives of the company will be also present at the refill stations to expedite oxygen supply. Efforts were also being made to ensure availability of drivers in every oxygen vehicle for their regular movement, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yogi-launches-24x7-digital-oxygen-supply-monitoring-system-101619446120853.html
26-04-2021||Other||CM reviews Covid scene, hospitals battle oxygen crisis||PATNAChief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the officials to ramp up oxygen supply to all the government and private hospitals in the state designated to treat the Covid patients.Kumar chaired a high-level meeting with senior officials instrumental in the state’s fight against the pandemic, which had so far claimed at least 2,200 lives over the past one year, and directed them to augment supply of oxygen and vital medicines to arrest the casualty figures that have been rising alarmingly.While the CM was reviewing the situations in different hospitals, Indira Gandhi Institute Medical Science (IGIMS), a leading state government hospital engaged to treat Covid patients, had been sending emergency calls to the district authorities to replenish the oxygen stock that was about to run out in an hour. IGIMS director Manish Mandal, who made frantic calls to the Patna district magistrate, could not be reached out for latest update.Other government and private hospitals faced a similar oxygen shortage in the afternoon, forcing the attendants to take the patients to look for safer hospitals. Amarendra Malaviya, who admitted his mother at Royal Hospital at Bailey Road, was desperately searching for a hospital with assured oxygen supply. “My mother’s blood oxygen level was hovering 70-75% and I can’t leave her unattended,” said Malaviya, while shifting her mother to another hospital at Boring road.The chief minister, who visited different parts of the city to take stock of the district administration’s preparedness, asked the officials to stay prepared for further rise in Covid cases. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit made a comprehensive presentation about the department’s strategy to deal with exponential rise in Covid infections. Health department officials informed the CM that they were coordinating with oxygen and medicine suppliers and said that crisis would be over soon. The principal secretary said the delivery system of the department has been strengthened to meet any exigency.Health minister Mangal Pandey, who had claimed that about 120 metric tonnes of oxygen was being supplied daily to Patna hospitals, did not answer repeated calls over prevailing crisis of oxygen and many essential drugs. Citing the health department’s figure, the minister said as many as 11,801 persons, out of around one lakh tested, were found to be positive for Covid infections on Monday. Earlier, on Sunday, 12,795 persons were tested positive. Deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad, Renu Devi, development commissioner Amir Subhani, director general of police SK Singhal, principal secretaries to the CM Chanchal Kumar and Deepak Kumar, additional chief secretaries, road construction and home, Amrit Lal Meena and Chaitanya Prasad, respectively, attended the meeting, which was a video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-reviews-covid-scene-hospitals-battle-oxygen-crisis-101619452338296.html
26-04-2021||Pune||City receives light drizzle, more rain forecast||The city on Monday experienced thunderstorm and lightning along with drizzle reported at some places during the evening hours, as forecasted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday. As per the IMD, cloudy weather may continue until April 28 in Pune. “On April 27, the city may experience partly cloudy conditions along with thunderous activity and lightning. The day temperature will be around 38 degrees Celsius and night temperature will be around 22 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials. Along with Pune, Central Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha, Konkan and Goa will also have partly cloudy conditions. “Chances of light rain along with thunderstorms and lightning are likely till the end of this month in four divisions of Maharashtra,” said IMD Officials. Shivajinagar also reported 39.2 degrees Celsius during the day which was 1.1 degrees warmer than normal whereas Lohegaon reported 39.6 degrees Celsius on Monday which was 1.6 degrees warmer than normal, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The night temperature at Shivajinagar was 22.2 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon was at 23.8 degrees Celsius. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at Akola at 43.1 degree Celsius. And the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 19.2 degree Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-receives-light-drizzle-more-rain-forecast-101619451557354.html
26-04-2021||Pune||SPPU plans to conduct exam for final year students in June||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is planning to conduct the final year examination in the month of June and declare the result immediate by the month of august, according to SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. “All the graduate and post graduate final year students plan to pursue higher studies. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have already delayed examinations for this academic year, so we are trying to at least complete the exams for final year students as early as possible. Along with the exams, the result will also be declared immediately, may by in the months from June to August this process will be done. Once the exam for final year students is completed, we can focus on other semester students as well,” said Prof Nitin Karmalkar, SPPU vice chancellor. Once the ongoing first-semester exams are over, it is expected that the registration process for final year examination will begin by May 10, 2021. Students will be able to fill up the online forms until May-end and by June 15 the actual examination will start, by July-end exams will get over and by August 15 all subjects’ results will be declared. “Once we open up the online registration forms for final year students’ exams, students need to fill it up fast so that it will be easier for us to conduct the exams. There are around 6 lakh students for final year, and we will be trying to take the exams by June only,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. Vasudha Mujumdar, a final year science student said, “Our entire career is dependent on the final year exams and the marks we get. If the exams are held in time, then it would be good for us, we can choose our further career options and take admissions accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-plans-to-conduct-exam-for-final-year-students-in-june-101619451437473.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Remdesivir black marketeer tests positive for Covid-19||A man arrested for selling Remdesivir on the black market on Sunday, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Krushna Bhaskar Havne (25), a resident of Birasaheb Rupnar Hospital in Indrayaninagar, Bhosari. A native of Wadwani, Beed district, Havne works as a receptionist at Rupnar hospital and lives in the hospital too, according to police. “He was selling one vial for around ₹35,000. He has not yet revealed the source of the vials. Based on preliminary investigation, he seems to have sold around 10 vials before he was caught. We are investigating the case further,” said Prashant Amrutkar, assistant police commissioner, crime branch, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. “We are looking for a bed for him. I’m not aware of the symptoms, but we have to find a government hospital bed for him as he is under arrest,” said senior police inspector Shivaji Gaware of Bhosari MIDC police station. When asked about the police custody of the arrested man, sub-inspector (PSI) NB Chapale of Bhosari MIDc police station, who is investigating the case, said, “We could not take custody yet, as he has tested positive for Covid-19 and we have brought him to a hospital.” The police have seized three vials of the drug from Havne. Whether he sourced the injections from the same hospital or somewhere else is yet to be known, according to PSI Chapale. A case under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code; Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, was registered at Bhosari MIDC police station. Gym trainer turns black marketeer Two men, including a gym trainer, were remanded to police custody on Sunday, a day after three vials of Remdesivir were seized from them while they were trying to sell it for ₹70,000 each, according to a statement issued by officials of Unit 1 of Pune police, who carried out a raid to arrest them. The two in police custody were identified as Rahul Sunil Khade (22), a resident of Pathare Vasti in Lohegaon, and Vijayraj Dinkar Patil (31) a resident of Kharadkarnagar in Wadgaonsheri, according to the police. “Patil is a gym trainer and Khade works in a hospital and sourced the three vials found in their possession. They are in police custody till Tuesday. They have sold the injection to people before this. We are investigating it,” said sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad of Unit 1. A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code, DPCO 2013, Essential Commodities Act 1955, And Food and Cosmetics Act 1940 was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/remdesivir-black-marketeer-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619451257358.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Pune railway division cracks whip on mask violators||The Pune railway division has decided to fine passengers without a mask in a massive crackdown on violators of Covid-19 norms. The state government has strictly curtailed non-essential travel among a series of restrictions to help curb the spread of Covid-19, but some passengers travelling back home or those arriving in Pune have been found wanting in following Covid norms. Since an order was released by the railways on April 17, a total of 63 passengers have been caught and a fine of ₹12,700 has been collected from them until Monday. “As we all know that Covid cases are on the rise and everyone should strictly follow the safety rules for their own safety, however, it was noticed that some of the passengers traveling from the Pune railway station are reluctant to wear face mask or follow other Covid safety measures. So, a fine of ₹500 was ordered to charge from such violators and accordingly we have fined 63 passengers with fine collection of ₹12,700 till now,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. Currently, there has been a heavy rush of passengers at Pune railway station due to the strict lockdown in the state. Mostly labour and workers from Pune and around are going back to their home states and villages. Welcoming this move of railways, Harsha Shah, president of Railway Pravasi Group said, “The railway station is a place where crowding will be there, but our own safety is in our hands. Covid has infected most of us and still if passengers do not wear a mask while traveling then they should be fined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-division-cracks-whip-on-mask-violators-101619451137355.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai may be gaining the upper hand in fight against Covid-19: Health expert||Mumbai may have turned the corner in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as only 3,792 cases were reported on Monday despite 41,000 tests being conducted to detect the infection, a senior health expert said.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force and a renowned endocrinologist, said the turnaround was due to the metropolis tacking the surge with the "ATM strategy", which is 'Assess, Triage and Transfer, and Management'."Mumbai drops to 3792 cases on 41 k tests clearly we r turning around with ATM strategy of Assess Triage and Transfer and Management congratulations team MCGM." he tweeted.As of Sunday, the country's financial capital had a caseload of 6,27,651 cases, including 12,783 deaths, with the active cases being 75,740.While Mumbai saw an addition of a record 11,163 cases on April 4, the numbers started dropping over the past few days, with Sunday seeing 5,542 cases.Dr Joshi, who was mentioned in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme on Sunday, told PTI that Mumbai's second wave peak may be over and the flattening phase could have begun."During the first wave, Mumbai used to hardly conduct 15,000 to 18,000 tests. However, during the second wave, the test numbers range between 40,000 and 50,000. Mumbai has passed the peak as cases are plateauing, but the plateau could be longer," Joshi said.He added that the second wave the country is facing is "more furious" than expected, which has been the trend worldwide, and appealed to people to adhere to Covid-19 norms strictly even after current restrictions in the state are relaxed.He said people must follow Covid appropriate behaviour and stressed the need to continue masking policy, zero tolerance for violators of norms etc even after the numbers dip, as "we cannot say the worst is over".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-may-be-gaining-the-upper-hand-in-fight-against-covid-19-health-expert-101619448903620.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Pune receives 50 of 165 ventilators announced by Javadekar||Pune: On April 10, Union minister Prakash Javadekar had announced that Maharashtra will receive 1,121 ventilators from the Centre and Pune district’s share will be 165. Pune has received 50 of these ventilators operational at medical centres. The remaining units are expected in 3-4 days, according to a district official. According to the Pune division dashboard for bed availability on Monday, there are 1,420 ventilator beds in Pune district, including 751 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Though the number of ventilator and oxygen beds has increased, shortage is reported at hospitals treating critical patients. “The 50 units are used by hospitals and Covid care centres,” said Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner. Of the 1,121 ventilators promised to Maharashtra from the Centre, Gujarat will provide 700 and 421 will be received from Andhra Pradesh. Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said that the units will arrive at Mumbai and distributed in the state. Though more recoveries than positive cases have been recorded in Pune city since the last few days, the count of patients on oxygen support and critical cases have increased. In the last six days (April 19-April 25), the number of patients on oxygen support and the number of critical patients has increased by 693 and 102 respectively. The Pune guardian minister said that the hospitalisation numbers are higher in Pune because many patients from other districts have been admitted in hospitals. “Oxygen demand has been increasing in Pune. Outstation patients have also been admitted in hospitals. New Covid Centres should be opened only after the permission of the health department to ensure adequate oxygen supply,” said Pawar at a Covid review meeting in Pune. Med infra for Covid cases The hospital bed availability data updated by Pune division dashboard at 6 pm on April 26 For Pune district Total allocated beds for Covid-19: 28,758 Vacant 4,505 Allocated isolation beds with oxygen:13,032 Vacant 710 Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator: 1,800 Vacant: 56 Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 1,421 Vacant 5 For PMC Total allocated beds for Covid-19: 11,761 Vacant 1,357 Allocated isolation beds with oxygen: 6,896 Vacant isolation beds with oxygen: 259 Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator: 620 Vacant beds for ICU without ventilator: 0 Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 751 Vacant ICU beds with ventilator: 2 For PCMC Total allocated beds for Covid-19: 9,145 Total vacant beds for Covid-19: 1,701 Allocated isolation beds with oxygen: 3283 Vacant isolation beds with oxygen: 266 Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator: 711 Vacant beds for ICU without ventilator: 50 Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 386 Vacant ICU beds with ventilator: 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-receives-50-of-165-ventilators-announced-by-javadekar-101619449517173.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees dip in Covid cases with fewer tests, records 48,700 infections||Maharashtra on Monday reported 48, 700 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections and 524 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. The number of new Covid-19 cases witnessed a steep decline of 17,491 infections in comparison with Sunday when 66,191 people were found positive. The Covid-19 caseload in the state now stands at 4,343,727, while the death toll increased to 65,284 after more than 500 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the bulletin also showed. On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 832 fatalities, the highest single-day deaths since the pandemic hit the country.The worst-hit state discharged 71,736 patients in the last 24 hours, a rise of 10,286 from Sunday. Total 222,475 samples were collected to detect the virus in the state on Monday. Testing in the state has decreased in a day as 289,525 samples were collected on Sunday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The state capital of Mumbai witnessed a rise of 3876 new infections in the last 24 hours. The number of cases in Mumbai, which is also one of the major hotspots districts of the country, saw a steep fall in the number of cases for the second straight day. The number of deaths in the financial capital was reported to be 70 on Monday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) data.On Sunday, Mumbai reported 5542 fresh Covid-19 cases in a single day. The fall in the number of new cases reported on Monday can also be attributed to less testing as more than 40,000 samples were collected on Sunday, in contrast, to merely over 28,000 in the last 24 hours, as per the data.Mumbai has more than 70,000 active cases as of Monday with a recovery rate of 87 per cent, which rose for another day in the last 24 hours, BMC data showed. The number of active containment zones (slums and chawls) also fell to 104 on Monday--against 114 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-dip-after-48-700-infections-recorded-in-last-24-hours-death-toll-reaches-65-284-with-524-fatalities-101619445123342.html
26-04-2021||Pune||19 engineers to oversee maintenance of furnaces in Pune city||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed 19 engineers at various crematoriums in the city to oversee repair and maintenance of electric/gas furnaces, in order to keep them functioning uninterrupted for cremation of Covid fatalities. The civic body has also ordered them to maintain a record of the daily number of Covid fatalities brought to the crematoriums, the number of ambulances with bodies waiting for cremation and the time when furnaces are not occupied. The order has been issued to facilitate the cremation of Covid bodies and reduce the waiting period. “These engineers have been appointed at 19 out of 21 crematoriums in the city. Because of the second wave of Covid, the burden on crematoriums has increased. There should be a contact person for the administration to oversee the operations at crematoriums. We should know what are the problems occurring, how many bodies have been cremated, and which crematoriums are overburdened,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner. The appointed engineers have also been instructed to make sure furnaces are functional. In order to keep furnaces functional without interruptions, a gap of 30-50 minutes between two cremations has been advised. Periodically, after 15 days, furnaces are closed and chimneys cleaned. Heating coils in electric furnaces and gas burners in gas furnaces will be checked. As HT has reported earlier, the number of Covid-19 fatalities cremated in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad for the past two weeks, has far outnumbered the official death toll being reported by the state health department. Officials from PMC involved in monitoring the crematoria claimed that 170 bodies have been cremated each day in the past one week. Of these 170 bodies, 120, on average, are Covid victims. PMC has taken various steps to reduce the waiting period for cremation of Covid victims. It has allowed cremations of Covid bodies at all crematoriums in the city. Also, the system of online cremations has been started. Many volunteers have been helping the civic officials at the crematoria to reduce the load. “The recent measures have reduced the load and decreased the waiting period,” Khemnar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19-engineers-to-oversee-maintenance-of-furnaces-in-pune-city-101619448197065.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces daily night curfew, full lockdown on weekends amid rising Covid-19 cases||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced daily night curfew and full lockdown on weekends amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. "Due to continuous & rapid rise of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, (the) cabinet today has decided to impose daily lockdown from 6pm to 5am and weekend lockdown from Friday 6pm to Monday 5am. Urge you all to stay at home and step out only if absolutely necessary. Seek your full cooperation," Captain Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.Singh earlier said that he is against the imposition of a lockdown in the state and predicted that the situation in the state would get worse, according to a report by news agency PTI. He also said that a full lockdown leads to migrant exodus and economic woes. He highlighted that Ludhiana, which has reported 1,300-plus cases on Sunday, remains a cause of concern.The chief minister in a meeting with state government officials said that all measures are being taken to secure medical oxygen. The Punjab government inaugurated Vardhman Steel Plant in Ludhiana on Monday to boost its oxygen supply. "We are getting 1500 cylinders of oxygen per day from Vardhman Steel Plant. This is a big help in this situation," Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, who was present at the inauguration, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "It is covering a major part of our need although we need 2,800 cylinders per day," Sharma added.The state recorded a single-day spike of 7014 cases on Sunday, which pushed the tally of infected to 339,090. With 76 deaths the toll rose to 8432, according to the medical bulletin released by the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-announces-daily-night-curfew-full-lockdown-on-weekends-amid-rising-covid-101619448087369.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Vaccination drive picks up pace in Pune district||Pune: After a slack reported in the past few days, the vaccination drive picked up pace in Pune district on Monday. According to authorities, 71,386 beneficiaries were vaccinated across Pune district on Monday as compared to 10,397 on Sunday. The number of beneficiaries on Saturday was 24,157. So far, as per the Co-WIN dashboard, record inoculation in the district was reported on April 5 when the drive covered 79,480 beneficiaries. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that the current stock will suffice till April 28. “On Monday morning, our vaccine stock was over 110,000 doses. More doses are expected by Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning,” said Dr Deshmukh, adding the vaccine dose count that Pune district will receive is unclear. “The state government distributes vaccines based on positive cases and coverage of vaccination drive. We are expecting record doses because of our extensive vaccination coverage,” said Dr Deshmukh. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), zilla parishad, said that the weekend saw less number of vaccinations due to shortage of vaccine supply. “On Monday, we covered over 64,000 beneficiaries by 5 pm,” said Prasad. On Saturday, only 383 vaccination centres were functional with 305 with Covishield and 78 giving Covaxin vaccine. The Sunday figure of centres across the district was 107 with 86 administering Covishield and 21 Covaxin. On the vaccine stock, Dr Dilip Patil, the state’s immunisation incharge, Maharashtra has received around 10 lakh doses of vaccines as on April 25. “Of these 9 lakh doses are of Covishield and one lakh of Covaxin. Covaxin has been given for the second dose only. So far, Maharashtra has received 1.5 crore doses of vaccines,” Patil said. In Pune rural, stock of 20,582 vaccines remain as of Monday evening.The jab count The inoculation numbers have seen a rise in Pune district April 26 Vaccination in Pune-- 24,702Vaccination in PCMC-- 10,870Vaccination in Pune rural-- 43,096Vaccination in Pune district-- 78,668Total centres-- 581April 25 Vaccination in Pune—1,706 Vaccination in PCMC—7,327 Vaccination in Pune rural—1,364 Vaccination in Pune district—10,397 Total centres--107 April 24 Vaccination in Pune—5,517 Vaccination in PCMC—8,370 Vaccination in Pune rural—10,270 Vaccination in Pune district—24,157 Total centres--383 Source: District administration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-in-pune-district-101619447597022.html
26-04-2021||Noida||Noida Metro to suspend services during weekend curfew||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will suspend its services during the weekend curfew imposed by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government on Saturdays and Sundays, to discourage passenger movement on these two days. NMRC caters to the National Capital Region’s Noida and Greater Noida areas.“To discourage passengers movement on curfew days, Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has decided not to run any service on the curfew days i.e. Saturday & Sunday. Therefore, NMRC metro services will not be available on these days,” ANI quoted NMRC managing director Ritu Maheshwari as saying.NMRC is in charge of managing the ‘Aqua Line’ which connects the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida, encompassing 21 stations, over a distance of 29.7 kilometres. NMRC had suspended services for 5 months during the nationwide lockdown imposed in March of last year and resumed normal operations in September. Commuters on the Aqua Line also had to abide by Covid-19 preventive measures once services were resumed.The Yogi Adityanath-led government announced a weekend lockdown in all districts of the state from April 26 till May 15. The lockdown hours have been fixed from 8pm on Saturdays till 7am on Mondays. Adityanath also ordered a penalty of up to ₹10,000 against those found outdoors without a mask. This lockdown was imposed in addition to a night curfew that was already in place in districts with more than 500 active cases of Covid-19. During both night curfew and weekend lockdown, only essential services are allowed to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-metro-to-suspend-services-during-weekend-curfew-101619445763488.html
26-04-2021||Pune||PCMC to reimburse caretakers for Covid victim cremation||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will provide for free wood and cow dung cakes for cremation of residents who died of Covid. The spike in virus-related deaths has left caretaker at crematoriums unable to manage funeral requirements. The PCMC administration has decided to reimburse the cost incurred in performing final rites at crematoriums. The order states that funeral expenses like wood and cow dung cakes will be reimbursed every month. PCMC had given permission on April 15 to cremate Covid victims as per the traditional rites. The cost of cremation is ₹6,000 which includes wood and cow dung cakes, to be borne by the bereaved families. “The decision was taken unanimously with the five firms that manage the crematoriums without any discussion. The civic administration has told us to manage everything. Around 10-12 bodies are cremated every day and each funeral costs ₹6,000. Hence, PCMC should release some advance amount instead of reimbursement,” said one of the caretakers on request of anonymity. Nigdi and Bhosari crematoriums are managed by Shubham Udyog, while Chinchwad and Nehrunagar is run by Jai Bhavani Enterprises and Sangvi crematorium comes under Mahalaxmi Swayam Rojgar Seva Sanstha. With rise in Covid deaths, PCMC on Sunday decided to add four new crematoriums for Covid victims at Morwadi, Kalewadi, Pimple Gurav and Pimprinagar respectively. “PCMC could have looked at the option of arranging one truckload of wood for each crematorium every day to lessen our burden,” said a caretaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-to-reimburse-caretakers-for-covid-victim-cremation-101619443456573.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Police step in to perform funerals of those living alone or those with relatives living far away||When an army lieutenant colonel, posted in Leh, called up the Delhi Police seeking help with the cremation of his father-in-law, who had lived in Dwarka and had succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday, a team of policemen came forward to perform the last rites of the elderly man. A police team, in PPE kits, collected the body and took it to the cremation ground where it was cremated as per the Hindu rituals.With entire families contracting Covid-19, they are unable to make the funeral arrangements for the deceased in their families; leaving the police with no option but to shoulder the responsibility of arranging these funerals. Police have also made the funeral arrangements of those who had lived alone or when families back out of the responsibility for fear of the virus. In two similar cases reported on Saturday, police cremated a woman on her brother’s request in Dwarka while in Karol Bagh, they made arrangements for the cremation of an elderly couple who had died of Covid-19.Talking about the army officer’s relative, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said they had received a call on Saturday, around 3pm, from lieutenant colonel Soumen Mondal that his father-in-law, who lived in Dwarka, had died of Covid-19.“Mondal said since his father-in-law had Covid, no one was willing to help them with the cremation. Mondal expressed his inability to come to Delhi at such short notice. On his request, the personnel from the Dwarka North police station made arrangements for the cremation of Mondal’s father-in-law Biswanath Pramanik. We arranged everything and the last rites were performed as per the rituals,” Meena said.The DCP said the same evening, a team of policemen from Dwarka South police station cremated a woman on her brother’s request. “We received another call later that day reporting that a woman, Jai Matnani, who had tested positive for Covid had succumbed to the virus during treatment. The caller was her brother. He said there was nobody to take the responsibility of her cremation. Therefore on humanitarian grounds, we took over that responsibility and her body was immediately shifted to a cremation ground in Dwarka’s Sector 24 and she was cremated as per the Hindu rituals,” the DCP said. In another such case reported from Karol Bagh, a Delhi police team cremated a man and his wife who had died of Covid within just three days of each other. According to the police, on April 21, information was received that an 84-year-old resident of Karol Bagh, Bal Krishan Sharma, who had tested positive for Covid, had died. “It was reported that the man lived with his wife Kanak Sharma, 76, who too was positive for the virus. The couple’s only daughter lives in the USA and his granddaughter who had come to Delhi is hesitant in performing their last rites. Finding no other alternative, a police team from Desh Bandhu Gupta Road police station arranged for Sharma’s last rites at the Panchkuiyan Road cremation ground,” deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said.He said police also arranged milk, groceries etc. for his wife Kanak Sharma. “However, on Saturday, Kanak has also succumbed to the pandemic. Her neighbours informed police and once again we took over the responsibility of her funeral and arranged an ambulance. Her last rites were also performed at the same crematorium,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-step-in-to-perform-funerals-of-those-living-alone-or-those-with-relatives-living-far-away-101619441956422.html
26-04-2021||Pune||PCMC issues order to convert society clubhouse into Covid isolation centres||Pune: To avoid contact of Covid positive patients with other family members, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issued an order directing housing societies to convert clubhouses into isolation centres. “As the number of patients is increasing, many residents do not have space for home isolation. So, housing societies with clubhouses should turn it as isolation centres for virus-affected residents,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner. PCMC medical officers will visit these clubhouses twice a day, according to civic officials. According to PCMC, high-risk persons with comorbidities, below 10-year age group, senior citizens and pregnant women should not be allowed in clubhouse isolation centres. “The isolation centre clubhouses are more successful in societies having 1BHK flats as those with more rooms will prefer to be confined in their home. Many societies had converted clubhouse into isolation centres last year. Residents feel that PCMC should make more arrangements for Covid positive patients,” said Tejaswini Sawai, chairperson, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation (PCCHSF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-issues-order-to-convert-society-clubhouse-into-covid-isolation-centres-101619441656495.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||UP govt fudged coronavirus fatality number, alleges Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of fudging coronavirus death number, saying the data shown by it is contradicted by the rush at crematoriums.The former UP chief minister further alleged that the BJP government’s mismanagement and short-sightedness has turned the state into a "corona pradesh"."Fake data is being given to show fewer deaths while a rush is being witnessed at crematoriums," Yadav said in a statement."It is the government's failure that even BJP MPs and MLAs are not satisfied with the current state of affairs. The number of doctors, hospitals and other facilities given by the BJP is mostly fake. Such an insensitive government was never seen in the state," he said."The BJP should shun its pride of being in power. They should think like family members of Covid patients and ensure availability of oxygen at their homes," Akhilesh said, accusing the party of not paying any heed to experts’ warning about the second wave of the infection.The SP chief also demanded uniformity in rates of Covid vaccine in the entire country and appealed to his party workers to help people battle coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-fudged-coronavirus-fatality-number-alleges-akhilesh-yadav-101619440682098.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||In home isolation? Restaurants provide quarantine meals at doorstep||Restaurateurs, chefs and food aggregators are doing what they do best — cooking and feeding the hungry. And in the second wave of the pandemic, they’re continuing to do so by providing healthy home-style meals to those recovering from Covid-19.While some eateries have suspended services and takeaways but are delivering free Covid-19 meals, others have launched special daily tiffins and 14-day quarantine meal plans at nominal charges.“The only way I know to help the community and contribute to these tough times right now is by cooking. And it’s one thing I’m good at it,” says chef-owner Radhika Khandelwal at Fig & Maple, who made a conscious decision to suspend all delivery and takeaway services and provide free meals to all households battling Covid-19 in Greater Kailash 2. She says, “We are offering a set menu of nutritious, safely packed meals. The service is free, however, one can opt to pay as they like or contribute to our free meal programme,” who is fully booked for the week, catering to meals for 57 families along with her partner Ravish Bhavnani. She’s also willing to do grocery runs and lend books.As a gesture to give back to the society, another restaurateur Neha Gupta, founder, Beyond Designs Bistro is also helping those in distress. “The idea is that government has allowed us to have delivery and takeaways, and as our bistro kitchen is open and chefs are working, and we got several messages on our social media from families who had been affected, so we are just using the opportunity to lend a hand in these times, ” says Gupta who has prepared healthy, safe and home-style daily tiffins at nominal charges for 70-80 families so far. Whereas some have a fixed menu for the week to choose from, chef Sareen Madhiyan, executive chef, Punjab Grill is preparing and customising meals as per the need and taste of customers. He says, “We’ll be speaking to the customers and prepare a healthy menu accordingly. The idea behind is to provide meal for people who are suffering from Covid-19 and are staying alone by themselves.” The lunch and dinner options are offered at an affordable price and delivery is available all over Delhi-NCR.Moreover, there are a few who are catering to only those in NCR. Richa Kharbanda, owner, Quirky Perky, says, “We saw so many posts on social media from Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore where restaurateurs and chefs came forward to help those affected by Covid-19, so we decided to take the initiative in our area [Ghaziabad] at marginal costs. Kharbanda who sends out 38-40 thalis in a day is also taking requests from those abroad and want fresh produce delivered to kin here. Apart from restaurants and cafe, recently, food aggregator Zomato announced quick delivery for Covid-hit. Deepinder Goyal, founder tweeted, “Today, along with thousands of our restaurant partners, we just rolled out a “priority delivery for covid emergencies’’ feature on the Zomato app...Thousands of restaurants have pledged to prioritise these orders in their kitchen above all others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-home-isolation-restaurants-provide-quarantine-meals-at-doorstep-101619440099958.html
26-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congressman joins call for CBI probe in Prajapati encounter case||Two senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and at least one Congress leader in Rajasthan have demanded a CBI probe into Kamlesh Prajapati encounter case after a couple of videos that went viral on social media cast serious doubts over the police version of the events leading to the notorious criminal’s elimination in Barmer last Thursday.Barmer police claimed to have killed Prajapati, a notorious smuggler booked in seven cases in the district and also for a hit and run case in Pali, in retaliatory fire during a raid on Thursday night when he tried to escape after attempting to kill one police man.However, two videos of the alleged encounter of 6.25 and 10.08 seconds in lengths respectively, circulating on social media on Sunday, show the cops broke the windshield of the gangster’s car in the outskirts of Barmer city under Sadar police station area, pulled him out and bundled him into another vehicle. Prajapati is not seen firing in the video but one policeman is seen firing three rounds at him. The video clips were allegedly sourced from the CCTV footage which captured the encounter. However, no authority has confirmed its authenticity at this stage.After the videos emerged, both the Congress and the BJP leaders accused the Barmer police of killing Prajapati in cold-blood and demanded a fair inquiry into the alleged encounter.Union minister and BJP parliamentarian from Jodhpur, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said it was “police killing” done in the name of an encounter.“...It is seen in the video that Kamlesh was first cornered and beaten and then shot. There were no signs of any fight at the scene. This is a very sensitive and suspicious episode... ”.Shekhawat alleged that the state’s Ashok Gehlot government and the police could not be trusted therefore a CBI inquiry should be ordered.“Police are acting at the behest of the chief minister, therefore the investigation of any state-level investigative agency cannot be trusted,” he tweeted.Leader of opposition (LoP) in Rajasthan assembly Rajendra Rathore said Barmer police had planned Kamlesh Prajapati’s killing.“Gehlot saheb has always been ready to conduct a CBI inquiry. I am requesting the chief minister to show sensitivity... ...case should be investigated by the CBI,” he said, while pointing out that Prajapati’s community was very angry with the police over the incident.Former Barmer MP and Congress leader Manvendra Singh said it a “fair investigation” followed by “punishment to the guilty” alone will restore faith in the conduct of state police.“It is clear from the CCTV footage that whatever the police leadership told me is far from the truth,” he said. He also referred to two instances of doubtful police encounters of criminals Chatur Singh and Anandpal Singh, in 2016 and 2017 respectively.“I am requesting the chief minister to conduct a fair investigation of this case according to the public sentiments,” Singh added.Congress MLA from Barmer’s Pachpadra constituency too had termed the encounter as fake and demanded a CBI probe two days ago on April 24.However, an official from the state home department, who didn't wish to be named, said that the demand for a CBI probe was not being considering as of now.Barmer superintendent of police (SP) Anand Sharma told HT that the National Human Rights Commission’s directives for dealing with police encounter cases was being followed and a judicial inquiry in the case had already begun.The NHRC directives say that a death in police encounters would not be considered an offence if it is caused in the exercise of either the right to private defence or of power of arrest, under Section 46 of the CrPC. The four point guidelines by the commission mandate that all encounter cases are entered in police register, investigated by an independent agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-congressman-joins-call-for-cbi-probe-in-prajapati-encounter-case-101619439918394.html
26-04-2021||Other||Vaccinating entire country seems tough but is certainly achievable||Given the alarming rate at which the coronavirus is spreading and mutating, there is an urgent need to considerably scale up the vaccination programme in the country. From May 1, the government has opened up vaccination to all those above the age of 18 years. That is a welcome step. However, if the vaccination is to serve the purpose of halting the spread of the disease and also bringing down the intensity of the infection, we have to treble the rate at which we are giving the jabs now or else the entire exercise would be futile. Let’s look at the staggering numbers that we need to inoculate- roughly about 840 million adults. Since each person needs two doses, the number of doses doubles to 1680 million and if we take into consideration the 140 million doses already administered, we need to push roughly about 1540 million jabs.As per government statistics, in 95 days the government gave over 130 million doses. So it works out to about 1.36 million doses per day. At this rate, we would be completing our vaccination only by May 2024. Worse, by then, the total number of jabs required to be given would have multiplied , as those who took the shots in the first and the second year would be eligible for re-vaccination or booster doses. In other words, the entire vaccination programme would become unmanageable.On the other hand, if we treble the rate at which we are vaccinating the people and administer 4 million vaccines per day, we can vaccinate the entire 18 plus age group by the end of May 2022, including those who become eligible that year. And that should be our target. It is not an easy target, given the fact that we need to have a continuous supply of four million doses of vaccine every day. But keeping in mind the dreadful consequence of delayed vaccination- uncontrollable infections caused by a variety of mutated viruses, we need to do everything possible to get that supply --- step up existing productions, get more companies to produce the vaccines, import as much as possible --–well, we cannot borrow or steal, but we can certainly beg for vaccines when we need it to save lives, there is no shame in it.Pricing of the vaccine is equally important. The centre as well as the states have to ensure adequate availability of the vaccines for free at government facilities and at very reasonable rates at private facilities, to make sure that the price of the vaccine does not become a deterrent in the mass vaccination programme. We may need the vaccines desperately, but given our numbers, we are also the biggest consumers of the vaccine and we need to use that power to bargain hard for lower prices. The government also needs to ensure that the private sector, I refer here to the hospitals as well as the pharmaceutical companies, does not exhibit the usual avariciousness in this hour of crisis.Today, every country in the world is racing against time to vaccinate its population and those countries that are producing adequate vaccines have a clear advantage. In the United States, for example, roughly about 41 per cent of the population has got at least one dose of vaccination and 27 per cent, two doses. Of course their population is only around 328 million. We are fortunate that we not only produce the most widely used of the eleven different vaccines against Covid-19 in the world today, Oxford Astrazenica or Covishield by Serum Institute of India, but also have our own indigenously produced vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. And we will soon have Russia’s Sputnik V too in our stable.However, being the second most populous country , our demands are huge. SII has said it plans to jack up its production from the present 60-65 million doses to 100 million per month from July and BB said it had scaled up its capacity to produce 700 million doses annually. However, both have export commitments and SII is also having problems with vaccination component imports from the US . But we are likely to have vaccines from more manufacturers –and if we put enough efforts into increasing indigenous production and also imports, we can easily achieve what may seem impossible at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinating-entire-country-seems-tough-but-is-certainly-achievable-101619434270160.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen audit helps Jalandhar civil hospital cut consumption by half||In a bid to check the shortage, Jalandhar civil hospital has managed to reduce its consumption of oxygen by 47.8% on a daily basis after conducting an audit of the life-saving gas. The oxygen audit was completed by additional deputy commissioner (development) Vishesh Sarangal on Monday. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had ordered the audit and it has yielded promising results. Also read: India, Japan PMs discuss cooperation to overcome Covid-19 challenges“By reducing pilferage and plugging leakages, optimum utilisation of oxygen has been made possible. We checked all supply lines and promptly plugged leakages. CCTV cameras were installed for surveillance and logbooks monitored to account for every cylinder used at the hospital,” Sarangal said. The captive oxygen plant at the hospital was also found to be under-utilised, hence patients having high oxygen demands were shifted to plant-produced oxygen. He mentioned that these steps proved to be helpful in reducing the oxygen demand at the hospital from the earlier 410 to 214 cylinders a day. He said it was observed that some oxygen cylinders were not completely filled so officials have been deputed to check on this aspect. Patients in need of oxygen were shifted to rooms nearer the plant, which has a capacity of 130 cylinders, to reduce pilferage and wastage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-audit-helps-jalandhar-civil-hospital-cut-consumption-by-half-101619434150871.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||State govt responsible for tankers: Gambhir slams Kejriwal over oxygen crisis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Gautam Gambhir on Monday sharpened his attack on Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal over the ongoing shortage of oxygen supply in the national capital. Gautam Gambhir said that the state government is responsible for the oxygen tankers while the Centre’s job is to make the gas available. The Delhi government earlier claimed the major reason for the oxygen crisis was the obstruction of tankers from the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Gambhir also alleged on Sunday that eight oxygen plants were supposed to be set up in Delhi but only one has been installed by the Aam Aadmi Party-led (AAP) government till now. “Whose responsibility is this? Is this the responsibility of the BJP? Despite getting funds from the PM Cares Fund for setting up oxygen plants, you (the Delhi government) should have installed eight of them. But you have managed to install only one. And now you’re saying there is a shortage of oxygen,” Gambhir was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read| Oxygen Express with 4 tankers heads to DelhiThe BJP leader and former cricketer announced on Sunday that his foundation—the Gautam Gambhir Foundation—will distribute oxygen cylinders and the antiviral drug Fabiflu to the Covid-19 disease patients across Delhi. They were only being distributed in his East Delhi constituency before that. According to PTI, those in need of cylinders and the anti-viral drug from Gambhir’s foundation will have to submit a doctor’s prescription and their Aadhaar number.As several hospitals in Delhi have been facing issues in getting oxygen supplies on time for the past one week due to which patients have died, Kejriwal said on Sunday that out of the total requirement of 700 tonnes, the Centre has only given 490 tonnes to the Capital. He also said he has also written to chief ministers of other states to help Delhi. After Kejriwal’s appeal, the railways ministry said on Sunday an Oxygen Express from Chhattisgarh carrying four cryogenics tankers carrying Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) will soon reach Delhi Cantonment railway station on Monday night.Also Read| Covid Crisis: 7 steps India took to ramp up oxygen supply amid shortageDelhi on Sunday saw a slight fall in its daily Covid-19 tally after 22,933 cases were reported in the last 24 hours and 350 more people died. The caseload has climbed to 1,027,715 including 14,248 deaths and there have been nearly 919,000 recoveries and 94,592 active cases. The six-day-long lockdown which was supposed to end on Monday has now been extended to another week till 5am on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-govt-responsible-for-tankers-gambhir-slams-kejriwal-over-oxygen-crisis-101619433244070.html
26-04-2021||Other||Monday musings: Pune’s Covid case count begins to flatten... will fatalities follow||With cautious optimism, we can say Pune’s Covid positive cases are on the downward march. The graph plateaued more than a week ago and the trend consolidated further this week. The daily positivity rate in Pune district has been under 25%, with numbers being reported close to the 10,000-mark, every day, for the past two weeks. The daily positivity rate throughout the past week has been: 24.21% on April 24; 24.53% on April 23; 22.78% on April 22; 25.28% on April 21; 27.94% on April 20; 25.28% on April 19 and 28.82% on April 18. Since the Covid-wave hit Pune and Mumbai a month before rest of the country, its subsidence is being noticed early in these cities as compared to other parts of India, where the peak may come later. Fatalities, too, appear fewer as compared to the first wave, thanks to early intervention, ramped up health infrastructure and a better evolved treatment protocol. However there’s big mismatch between number of bodies coming in for cremation and numbers reported by both, the state health office and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). As reported by Hindustan Times in its Monday (April 26) edition, an official coordinating cremation at all 21 crematoria in the city claimed over 170 bodies are coming in for final rites each day since the past one week. However, there’s hope – and cautious optimism. With the graph for fresh cases flattening, fatalities may see a similar trend within a week; the previous wave in Pune has shown fatalities peaked around 10 days after Covid cases. During the first wave, it took 202 days – starting from March 9, 2020, to September 16, 2020, - for cases to peak. The graph of fatalities begun its downward move by September-end, as some positive patients later became critical, and a few of them couldn’t survive. During the second wave, the graph for Covid positive cases began moving upward from early February, crossing the previous peak of 5,048 on September 16 last year, with 5,098 cases on March 21. It hit its peak on April 4, when the day’s positivity rate was 41.2%. Positivity rate reflects the spread of the infection and the number of positives reported for every 100 tests. So what worked to bring down these numbers? The answer can be both – curbs and vaccination. The inoculation drive on weekend was almost crawling due to a shortage of vaccine doses. However, overall, Pune has so far inoculated close to 2 million people, of which 1.724 million have received only the first dose, while 2.69 million have been administered both the doses. This means almost one-fifth of Pune district’s overall population has received a partial shield from Covid, at least from its severity. With the centre’s permission for inoculation of everyone above the age of 18 and aggressive local stakeholders, Pune will continue to vaccinate its population faster than rest of the country. The administration estimates by June 15, entire Pune will be vaccinated if supply of doses is constant and uninterrupted. If vaccination has offered a partial shield, then curbs or lockdown - as the government preferred to call it last week – turned out to be an efficient way of containing the spread of Covid. The restrictions mandated people to stay inside their homes. Roads became deserted and markets empty. This prevented even small congregations, something that the virus loves, as it feasts on gatherings. Earlier in March, the government had imposed a strict lockdown in places like Amravati and Yavatmal, where the tally had substantially risen. Through restrictions, the administration managed to contain the march of Covid after a strict lockdown for two weeks. This brought the positivity rate of Amravati and Yavatmal to 12% and 9%, respectively, on March 17, from 50% and 41%, respectively, a month before that. The harsh restrictions, currently in force till May 1, may be extended further. They have been effective even it has been a heavy price to pay. Had there been no restrictions, the already overstretched health system would have come under further burden and fatalities would have grown far more. When the matter is between life and death, curbs over opening-up is certainly an option worth considering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-pune-s-covid-case-count-begins-to-flatten-will-fatalities-follow-101619433491191.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt says ₹8,180 cr directly credited to Punjab farmers' accounts for wheat||For the first time, farmers of Punjab have started receiving payments directly into their bank accounts against sale of their wheat crop to the Government of India. About ₹8,180 crore has already been transferred directly into Punjab farmers' account, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said.As per the ministry, in the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2021-22, the Government of India continues to procure Rabi crops at MSP from farmers as per existing Price Support Scheme.Wheat procurement is going on at a brisk pace in the procuring States and UTs of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and other States with the purchase of over 222.33 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) up to April 25, 2021 against 77.57 LMT during the corresponding period of last year, it said.The ministry further informed that out of the total purchase of 222.33 LMT, a major contribution has been made by Punjab- 84.15 LMT (37.8 per cent), Haryana- 71.76 LMT (32.27 per cent) and Madhya Pradesh -51.57 LMT (23.2 per cent) of total procurement up to April 25, 2021.About 21.17 Lakh Wheat farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing RMS procurement Operations with an MSP value of about Rs. 43,912 Crore, it said.The ministry stated that up to April 25, 2021, about ₹8,180 crore in Punjab and about ₹4,668 crore in Haryana has been transferred directly into farmers' account.This year, a new chapter has been added in the history of public procurement when Haryana and Punjab also switched from indirect payment of MSP to direct online transfer of benefits to farmers' bank account by all the procuring agencies as per direction of GOI, which is being rejoiced by the farmers of Punjab/Haryana as for the first time they are receiving direct benefits against the sale of their hard toiled crops without any delay and cuts under "One Nation, One MSP, One DBT", said the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-says-rs-8-180-cr-directly-credited-to-punjab-farmers-accounts-for-wheat-101619431347943.html
26-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka under curfew from tomorrow night for 2 weeks. Check what's allowed||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced lockdown-like measures in the state for two weeks in another attempt to stem the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). During the lockdown, which will be in place for two weeks starting from Tuesday night, only essential services will be allowed. "Strict measures to control Covid pandemic will be taken. From tomorrow (Tuesday) night till the next 14 days, there will be a close down for the whole state. From 6am to 10 am, essential commodity shops will be open. After 10am, all shops will be closed," Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru after an over two-hour meeting with his cabinet.The decision is aimed at checking the spread of the infection in the state as it has been consistently reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases for the past few weeks. On Sunday, the state recorded another biggest single-day spike in cases as it reported 34,804 infections which pushed the total caseload in the state to 13.39 lakh, while 143 related fatalities pushed the death toll to 14,426, according to the state’s bulletin. Of the new cases reported, the capital city of Bengaluru alone accounted for 20,733 cases. The active cases in the state stood at 262,162 while the positivity rate stood at 19.70 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.41 per cent, during the same period. On Saturday, the state reported 29,438 new Covid-19 cases. The state is already under a night curfew and weekend lockdown.Read more: Pune, Bengaluru Urban have more than 1 lakh active covid-19 cases | 10 pointsWhat’s allowed?Only stores selling essential items will remain open for people only from 6am to 10am.Activities related to manufacturing, agriculture, construction and medical will continue during the period.Takeaway from restaurants and home delivery of alcohol has been allowed during the period.Interstate transportation of goods will also be allowed during the period.Read more: 10 states account for 74.5% of new Covid-19 cases in India. All you need to knowWhat’s not allowed?Garment factories will be prohibited during the period of the lockdown.Public transportation will also not function during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-under-curfew-from-tomorrow-night-for-2-weeks-check-what-s-allowed-101619429256691.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Professional groups in Chandigarh should set up Covid-19 care centers: IAS Adviser||Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida on Monday said that to reduce pressure on government infrastructure, groups and associations like those of advocates, architects, CAs, traders, PSU should set up small covid care centers in the city.The centers, with 10 or more beds for the members of the various associations, would be run under the supervision of available health workers from private or government hospitals."Our city should be dotted with such mini centers that provide bed, food, and care up to oxygen level. Our community centers are available. Some bhawans can be used. Philanthropists can fund a few of these, meant for the poor only," Parida said in an official statement.However, Parida has earlier said that there will be no weekend lockdown in the city, only night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am on all days will continue till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/professional-groups-in-chandigarh-should-set-up-covid-19-care-centers-ias-adviser-101619429830924.html
26-04-2021||Bhopal||MP: Vaccination centre set up at Bhopal's drive-in cinema site||A drive-in cinema in a hotel in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh will be the site of a vaccination centre amid a surge in coronavirus cases, officials said on Monday.Cinemas and other such entertainment complexes are shut in the state under restrictions put in place to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.The drive-in cinema is located in Hotel Ashoka Lake View, run by the Madhya Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation (MPSTDC), they added."The MPSTDC, the state health department and UNICEF have jointly planned the initiative. Two persons and a driver will be allowed inside in a vehicle after being registered for vaccination at the entrance. They will be administered the doses, kept in the drive-in cinema area for monitoring for 30 minutes and then allowed to proceed," Hotel Ashoka Lake View's senior manager KL Patel told PTI.He said some 75 to 100 vehicles can be accommodated in the drive-in cinema area at a time, and there is space for vehicles to be placed six feet away from each other."Preparations are expected to be completed by April 30 and the vaccination programme at the drive-in cinema would start the next day, with people being given the doses from 6pm to 9pm. If 50 vehicles arrive in this 3-hour period, we expect to vaccinate some 100 people," Patel informed.Madhya Pradesh, as on Sunday, had a Covid-19 caseload of 4,99,304, including a tally of 80,736 in Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-vaccination-centre-set-up-at-bhopal-s-drive-in-cinema-site-101619428873193.html
26-04-2021||Kolkata||BJP Bengal candidate Parno Mittra tests positive for Covid-19||BJP candidate Parno Mittra on Monday said she has tested positive for Covid-19.Mittra, an actor by profession, is the BJP candidate from Baranagar in North 24 Parganas where the election was held on April 17."I wish to share an important update with everyone. I have tested Covid positive. I request whoever has been in, or come into, contact with me in the last 7 days, please do quarantine yourselves, get tested and take care. Lastly, please continue to be safe and wear a mask," she said.I wish to share an important update with everyone. I have tested COVID positive .I request Whoever has been in, or come into, contact with me in the last 7 days, please do quarantine yourselves, get tested and take care. Lastly, please continue to be safe and wear mask 😷 pic.twitter.com/vMfePT2wRkMittra is among the slew of candidates, cutting across party lines, to be diagnosed with Covid-19 amid the elections.BJP's Tollygunge candidate Babul Supriyo, CPI(M)'s Jadavpur nominee Sujan Chakraborty and TMC's Kamarhati candidate Madan Mitra are among the several leaders who were diagnosed with Covid-19, following hectic campaigning.Three candidates have also died of Covid-19 in the state in the mid of the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-bengal-candidate-parno-mittra-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619427708986.html
26-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt announces 14-day lockdown, only essential services allowed||The Karnataka government on Monday announced lockdown-like measures in the state for 14 days, allowing only essential services to operate. The lockdown-like measures will come into effect from 9pm on Tuesday and will continue till May 10.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the essential services will be allowed between 6am and 10am and shops will close after the cut-off time. Shops that sell commodities associated with construction, manufacturing and agriculture will be allowed to operate. The chief minister also highlighted that the public transport services will also remain shut. Yediyurappa said that the decision was taken after consulting the cabinet as well experts.Karnataka under curfew from tomorrow night for 2 weeks. Check what's allowed"Covid curfew will be implemented in the state from 9pm tomorrow onwards for the next 14 days. Essential services are allowed between 6-10 am and after 10am shops will remain closed. Shops dealing with construction, manufacturing and agricultural sectors are allowed to remain open. Public transport will not operate," Yediyurappa said. The chief minister also warned that the government may extend the lockdown if the cases do not decrease and there are no signs of improvement in the state's Covid-19 situation. He further added that the state will provide free vaccination to all including people aged between 18-45 years.The announcement comes after Karnataka reported the highest single-day surge of 34,804 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 134 deaths on Sunday. Karnataka's caseload reached 13.49 lakh on Sunday while the death toll reached 14,426, according to data released by the state's health department. Sunday's surge is the highest single-day surge reported in the state since the onset of the pandemic. Bengaluru Urban reported the highest number of cases as well as deaths. Karnataka currently has 262,162 active cases. The positivity rate in the state rose to 20% on Saturday raising concerns regarding the burden of the pandemic on the state's healthcare infrastructure. Yediyurappa while speaking to reporters also reiterated the state is not facing any shortage in oxygen while highlighting that Centre increased its daily allotment of oxygen from 300 metric tonnes to 800 metric tonnes, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-announces-14-day-lockdown-only-essential-services-allowed-101619427538453.html
26-04-2021||Kolkata||BJP candidate's agent detained for molesting women voters in Kolkata||BJP candidate from the Rashbehari assembly constituency Lt Gen Subrata Saha's agent was detained on Monday for allegedly molesting a few women voters inside a polling booth in the city's New Alipore area, police said.Mohan Rao was detained after several women voters claimed he tried to drag them holding their hands inside Bidya Bharati School, a police officer said."We have received a complaint in this regard and a probe is underway," he said.Rao, however, rubbished the allegations and said no such incident had taken place."TMC activists are trying to create disturbance in the area. This is a deliberate attempt to disrupt the peaceful polling process," Saha said.Polling is underway for 34 seats in the seventh phase of the assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-candidate-s-agent-detained-for-molesting-women-voters-in-kolkata-101619425648534.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||The Robin Hood Army : The army of plasma enablers||Even in the darkest moments, there’s always a glimmer of light. This glimmer shines brightly in the hearts of good samaritans who, amid the second wave of the pandemic, have been helping Delhiites survive and battle the deadly coronavirus infection. One such person is 30 years old Yugank Kapila, Head of Strategy and Operation, The Robin Hood Army, who spends his day dedicated to helping infected patients get better by receiving plasma donations. He does this with the help of his team of driven volunteers, who he terms as his Robins. “Basically since a couple of weeks the situation has become extremely bad and the demand for plasma has surged. To tackle this, the Robin Hood Army has started initiatives in various cities instructing it’s volunteers to go to people that they would know have been Covid positive in the recent past and convince them to donate plasma. From friends, families, house help to guards, the volunteers scan their entire inner circle to identify potential plasma donors and then convince them to donate plasma,” says Kapila.Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients.Kapila, a SAP Consultant in an IT company by profession, understood early on that in order to tackle the chaotic plasma requests on the net, there has to be a process to it. “We have been getting surplus and overwhelming number of plasma requests and we have recruited teams to streamline the process. There’s one team that’s verifying the requests, then the other team collates the request in a particular format and shares it across groups. We then screen eligible plasma donors and connect them to the recipients. We started this initiative thinking even if we could help one person, that would be great,” he says.Motivating potential plasma donors by dispelling their fears, Kapila informs, “A lot of donors are afraid of getting reinfected. But we try to explain to the donors that we will help you take all the precautions when you donate plasma. Don’t be afraid. Think that through this you will be able to save someone’s life. The fear of donating is nothing compared to the value of someone’s life. We try to motivate plasma donors. If the plasma donors have a problem with transportation, we help them with that too.”With plans to utilise the rising curve of infection to save future lives, Kapila says, “The donors on ground aren’t able to match the number of requests from infected patients because the number of infected cases are too many. However, we have been maintaining the database of infected patients who can become potential plasma donors too.”No fear is as big as the joy one gets from saving someone’s life. Kapila concludes, “Please come forward and donate and save people’s life. The joy that you get once you donate is unimaginable. The situation is really bad on ground, and if you are eligible to donate plasma, please do come forward and do it, because you have the power of making a difference and saving a life.”You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-robin-hood-army-the-army-of-plasma-enablers-101619424730524.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Free Covid vaccine for all adults in Delhi from May 1: Kejriwal||Delhi will provide free Covid-19 vaccines for all adults in the National Capital from May 1, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. He also urged vaccine manufacturers in the country to reduce their prices, even as he, once again, pushed the Centre to consider a “one nation, one rate” policy for Covid-19 vaccines. The chief minister’s office stated that the free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said his government had, on the same day, approved procurement of 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccine doses with various manufacturers to boost a massive vaccination drive. The announcement came ahead of the third phase of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive from May 1. In this phase, the Central government has allowed vaccination for all citizens above the age of 18 years. Registrations for vaccination are going to open on the CoWin app from Wednesday. Also Watch | Oxygen Express with 4 tankers to reach Delhi amid shortage in hospitals“As we are seeing, Covid-19 has wreaked havoc in the country. There is only one solution to this pandemic and that is vaccination. Delhi government has decided to give free Covid-19 vaccines to those who are 18 and above,” Kejriwal said. While he did not specifically say that the third phase of the vaccination drive will be rolled out on a massive scale from May 1 itself, the chief minister, however, did say that the government is drafting its vaccination plan on how registered adults can be inoculated on a rapid scale and in large numbers. “Today morning, we have given approval to buy 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccines for Delhi. We are trying to procure these doses as soon as possible so people are vaccinated quickly. It has been found that those who have taken the jabs either do not get Covid-19 or have very mild symptoms upon contracting the infection. Mostly those who get Covid-19 even after vaccination do not require hospitalisation, and even if some of them do get admitted, their condition does not become serious. If everyone gets vaccinated, Corona will be like an ordinary disease,” Kejriwal said. He gave the example of how the United Kingdom controlled its surge in Covid-19 cases by conducting mass vaccination. The Delhi chief minister, once again, flagged his demand for uniform rates for the Central and state governments in vaccine procurement. “One of the vaccine manufacturers is offering a rate of ₹400 a dose to state governments, while the other is quoting ₹600. But both the companies are offering their vaccine at ₹150 to the Central government. My demand is that the rates should be the same for state and central governments,” he said. Also Read | Covid-19: 8 states account for almost 70% of India’s active caseload, says govtKejriwal said the manufacturers are earning a lot of profit by selling their vaccines at ₹400 and ₹600 to states. “This is the time to show humanity. This is not the time to earn profits. Across the country, the Centre and states have capped the prices of various medicines and treatments. I appeal to the vaccine manufacturers to reduce their prices to ₹150. You (manufacturers) have a lifetime to earn profits. This is not the time to earn profits from people when the pandemic has hit the country so hard. I also appeal to the Central government to cap the prices of vaccines in the coming days,” he said. He also urged the Central government to consider a vaccination plan for children. “We have seen that a lot of children and adolescents are also getting infected by Covid-19, and some of them have died. So, the time has come to think of them as well. If the available vaccines are safe for them, the Centre should allow it for them. If they are not safe, then other vaccines should also be developed,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister said beds are being increased further in Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients. “I inspected the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhattarpur which has been opened for patients today from 10am. It has started with 500 beds, which will be increased by another 500 in about two days, then 2,000 and finally, it will be ramped up to 5,000 beds. In addition, we are also arranging 200 ICU beds there. We are increasing Covid-19 beds across Delhi this way. I hope this will help people in this crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-covid-vaccine-for-all-adults-in-delhi-from-may-1kejriwal-101619424010441.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Ramp up Covid-19 testing infrastructure, HC tells Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to upgrade the infrastructure related to testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. The HC asked the government to set up more testing centres and streamline the sample collection process as the caseload in Delhi has been rising exponentially for the last few days.The order was issued by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh after lawyers representing the Centre said they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were delaying the sample collection process due to the pressure, according to news agency PTI. They also claimed that the number of daily tests had gone down to around 60,000 from 1 lakh.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown extended in Delhi by a week till May 3Delhi on Sunday reported a single-day surge of 22,933 Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than what the city has been reporting for the past few days. The dip in numbers is being attributed to the reduced testing in the national capital. While the daily Covid-19 testing count was at 85,620 last Sunday, it was at 75,912 a week later.As the virus spreads, killing around 300 people every day for the last few days, the medical infrastructure of Delhi is in tatters. Hospitals have reported a shortage of oxygen and ICU beds for some days now, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to his counterparts in other states and Union territories asking for help.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though the Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” he tweeted.In an attempt to curb the spread of the virus, Kejriwal extended the Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi by a week on Sunday. The lockdown will now continue till May 3. “Covid-19 is rapidly increasing in Delhi. In view of this, we had earlier imposed a six-day lockdown which was supposed to end tomorrow at 5am. Lockdown is the last weapon to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. At present, the situation is not improving. Many people suggested the lockdown should be extended. Now it (lockdown) has been extended for one more week till Monday (May 3) 5am,” the CM announced on Sunday.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramp-up-covid-19-testing-infrastructure-hc-tells-delhi-govt-101619423237758.html
26-04-2021||Ranchi||Maoists blow up portion of Howrah-Mumbai rail track in Jharkhand||About a meter of the railway track on the Howrah-Mumbai main line was blown away in Jharkhand early on Monday by suspected Maoists, who gave a call for Bharat Bandh on April 26 in support of farmers protests against the three Central farm laws. The traffic on the section under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) in West Singhbhum district was suspended for hours following the blast, said railway officials.A senior railway official indicated that a goods train passing through the damaged section between Lotapahar and Sonua stations alerted the authorities and reported a “heavy jerk”, which led to at least 8 mail/express/passenger trains being stopped at different stations to prevent any untoward incident.“On receiving information, all movement in the Rourkela-Chakradharpur section was immediately stopped and 8 mail express/passengers trains and several goods trains were controlled at different stations as security measures,” Manish Kumar Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM), Chakradharpur division of SER, said Monday morning.He said patrolling teams accompanied by security personnel were sent to the blast site first and it started investigating the ‘heavy jerk’ reported by the goods train loco driver after arriving at the site.“During the investigation of the site it was found that the Up main line track was sabotaged. The blasted pieces of the rail were found up to 35 metres from the site. Restoration work started immediately after getting security clearance. Down line was given a fit at 7.15 am, the 3rd line at 8.35 am. Movement over the lines has resumed,” Pathak said. He added that Maoist propaganda material was also recovered from the blast site.After necessary clearances train movement was restored on the Up line between Sonua -Lotapahar section at 9:35am, also normalising traffic between Chakradharpur and Rourkela section. A junior administrative grade inquiry has been ordered by the DRM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/maoists-blow-up-portion-of-howrah-mumbai-rail-track-in-jharkhand-101619422570149.html
26-04-2021||Ranchi||State suspends mandatory biometric authentication for ration withdrawal till May 31||State food and public distribution department has suspended mandatory biometric authentication for ration withdrawal under Public Distribution System (PDS) in wake of increasing cases of coronavirus infection in the state, officials said on Sunday. The order will be effective till May 31. In a late evening tweet on Saturday, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “In view of Covid-19 infection in the state, distribution of ration will take place at PDS shops through OTP (one time password) system instead of biometric authentication till May 31.” Further decision on the same will be taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation, officials said.The department also issued a notification in this regard. Earlier, PDS dealers in the state demanded the government for temporary suspension of biometric system for ration withdrawal in wake of surge in cases.President of Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Association (FPSDA), Jharkhand, Onkar Nath Jha said, “As many as 10 PDS dealers lost their lives due to the infection this April and over two dozen dealers are infected and undergoing treatment at various hospitals.”He said the biometric system was being used in PDS for distribution of ration. Hundreds of consumers withdraw ration through their thumb impressions on a single biometric device, known as e-PoS machine, at PDS shops. “Hundreds of thumb impressions on a single machine raise threat of spread of infection,” Jha said.More than 57 lakh beneficiaries were enrolled under National Food Security Act in the state. One PDS dealer deals with around 200-400 consumers, Jha said.“We wrote to the Jharkhand chief minister on April 19 to withdraw the online system temporarily. Now, we will distribute ration through OTP authentication. When we will enter a person’s ration card number, the beneficiary will receive a fixed standard OTP,” Jha said.The association, however, demanded government compensation to ration dealers on line of Rajasthan government. “In Rajasthan, ration dealers have also been considered as front line workers. The Rajasthan government announced ₹50 lakh compensation if any dealer dies of Covid-19 infection. We demand similar initiative for PDS dealers in Jharkhand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-suspends-mandatory-biometric-authentication-for-ration-withdrawal-till-may-31-101619421009633.html
26-04-2021||Other||2nd Oxygen Express leaves Bokaro||The second Oxygen Express train of South Eastern Railway (SER) carrying 46.48 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in four tankers left Bokaro Steel City on Sunday afternoon for Lucknow, officials said.Chakradharpur division of SER has readied another two rakes of flat BKDM wagons for transporting oxygen as and when some states book them as per requirement. One of these two rakes was stationed at Tatanagar and another at Rourkela, whereas a third rake has been sent to Bilaspur (Madhya Pradesh).Earlier on Saturday night, the Oxygen Express train with the four empty tankers arrived at Bokaro Steel City Station and the tankers were then taken to Bokaro Steel Plant for refilling.The first Oxygen Express Train was also run from Bokaro Steel City to Lucknow on Thursday last. The third rake with five empty tankers also arrived at Bokaro Steel City on Sunday.The Indian Railways started running Oxygen Express Trains to ensure quick transportation and smooth supply of Oxygen through Roll On-Roll Off (RO-RO) service with road tankers placed on Flat Wagons of Railways. Nearly 150 tonnes of oxygen has been delivered by the special trains.Chakradharpur division senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM) Manish Kumar Pathak said two rakes were ready and stationed at Tatanagar and Rourkela stations under SER for emergency duty. “We have sent a third train to Bilaspur for refilling Oxygen in Jindal Steel Plant from where it will go to the destination station as per booking. Similarly, the two special trains at Tatanagar and Rourkela stations are ready to load Oxygen-filled tankers as per booking from destination states and availability of tankers,” said Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2nd-oxygen-express-leaves-bokaro-101619421010242.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ex-MLA,others booked for flouting Covid curbs||HajipurFormer MLA Vijay Kumar Shukla alias Munna Shukla, his politician wife and three others have been booked for hosting a lavish party in his native place in Vaishali district in violation of Covid guidelines and night curfew in force in the state to check the spread of coronavirus surge, police sources said Sunday.Besides the former JD(U) MLA,his wife Annu Shukla, his younger brother and Mayor of Muzaffarpur Municipal Corporation, Man Madran Shukla, Bhojpuri singer Akshara Singh and the former legislator’s bodyguard Amit Kumar have been named in the FIR registered with the Lalganj police station.The FIR also has mentioned 300 unknown people who participated in the feast where song and dance programme regaled the people.Munna Shukla was seen in a viral video gyrating to item numbers with his former MLA wife and others. His bodyguard fired several rounds in the air on the occasion.The occasion was “upanayana” (sacred thread wearing ceremony) of the former MLA’s nephew in his native village Khanjahachak on Friday night.Station House Officer (SHO) of Lalganj police station, C B Shukla, said the FIR was registered Saturday night and raids are being conducted to arrest the named accused.Shukla had unsuccessfully contested as an Independent candidate from Lalganj seat in the 2020 state polls.The incident comes at a time when the Bihar government has imposed night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in the state and several other curbs to contain surge of the virus wreaking havoc in its second wave in the state along with other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmlaothers-booked-for-flouting-covid-curbs-101619420949590.html
26-04-2021||Other||Testing hub RMRI battles machine snag, infected staff||PATNAThe sudden upsurge in the Covid-19 cases has taken its toll not only on people, but also on the state’s biggest RT-PCR testing facility at the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute (RMRI), a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A large number of its scientists and staff have themselves tested positive, perhaps due to continuous testing of swabs, mainly from Patna. To make things more difficult, one of the machines, COBAS-6800, has also developed snag, bringing down the number of tests daily for the last three days. It has come down from 4,000-4,500 tests carried every day till 4-5 days ago to around 1,500-2,000. While RMRI was the sole testing lab last year in the state, it has now quite a few, including at AIIMS, PMCH, IGIMS etc. However, RMRI still accounts for around 30%-40% of tests in the state. “In the midst of pandemic, my entire team is working round-the-clock. The COBAS-6800, given by ICMR, is a fully automated high-end machine for performing real-time Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and it could handle 1,100 samples in 24 hours. We have got the repairs done Sunday and it should be operational by evening. The capacity will again go up,” said RMRI director Dr Krishna Pandey, who is himself from clinical medicine discipline. Apart from COBAS, RMRI also has Magnapure automatic RNA extraction machine given by the Bihar government and manual RT-PCR, though it is also facing challenge on another front – growing positivity among its scientists and staff. According to a senior official, nearly 10 of the 18 scientists have tested positive, while several staff members and technicians have also gone into isolation after developing symptoms and undergoing tests. Pandey said infection was a reality in the prevailing situation. “But both ICMR and Bihar government are extending help by way to manpower. ICMR has accepted our proposal for increase in manpower till June, which would most likely be extended up to September. The Bihar government has also provided 17-18 employees for data entry and have also asked for further requirement,” he said. A senior official said that due to major increase in positivity rate, the number of samples has increased, while several staff members have also tested positive. “This may be the reason behind some delay in test reports, but things will be alright. On Saturday, there were around 2,860 pending samples. The government is consciously trying to augment resources. Another COBAS machine at AIIMS has also arrived,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/testing-hub-rmri-battles-machine-snag-infected-staff-101619420890405.html
26-04-2021||Other||Oxygen plant goes live at GMCH||BETTIAHA medical oxygen generation plant, recently commissioned at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here, has started functioning to meet the sudden surge in oxygen demand amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Dr Pramod Tiwari, superintendent of GMCH, said the plant has a capacity of producing 280 litres of oxygen per minute. “Work is underway to connect 60 beds in the Covid ward with oxygen supply through pipelines, which is likely to be completed by tomorrow (Monday),” said Dr Tiwari, adding that laying of pipeline has already been done. The GMCH, earlier known as MJK hospital, has 120 beds in its dedicated Covid ward with 12 ventilator beds operational in its intensive care unit (ICU). The hospital has 63 ventilators. The GMCH, however, would continue to refill (medical) oxygen cylinders from Harshidih-based (East Champaran) plant. “We will continue to fetch cylinders from there as per our requirements,” said the hospital superintendent. According to official records, 64 Covid patients were admitted to GMCH till Sunday, of which five were on ventilators, while the remaining were on oxygen support. Since April 1, 34 Covid patients have died here.“There are 2,698 active cases of Covid in West Champaran, while 138 patients have recovered in past 10 days,” said Arun Kumar Sinha, civil surgeon, West Champaran. Meanwhile, anticipating a sharp surge in the Covid patients, the hospital authorities have decided to increase number of beds and other medical facilities required for the treatment of Covid patients. “As we are handling the critical cases of two districts of East and West Champaran, the possibilities of exponential rise in cases cannot be ruled out. Hence, we are prepared to make the arrangements for 90 more beds in the hospital,” said Dr Tiwari. In yet another development, the hospital authorities are contemplating 30-bed ward for suspect Covid cases. “Two patients in our hospital continue to be Covid suspect with symptoms of the virus but their medical reports are negative. We are making the arrangements of 30 beds for such suspect cases,” said the GMCH superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-plant-goes-live-at-gmch-101619420889534.html
26-04-2021||Other||68 dead in 24 hours, hospitals still can’t breathe easy||PATNAShortage of oxygen continued to cripple hospitals in Patna treating Covid-19 patients, forcing their kin and attendants to carry them from one hospital to another in search of a lifeline.As per official estimates, city hospitals require around 7,125 oxygen cylinders per day for patients admitted in critical care units. However, the state government has managed to raise the supply to around 6,900 cylinders per day.Patna district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh said they were working overtime to bridge the shortfall so that no patients dies due to shortage of oxygen. “Today, a defunct plant of oxygen, located at Marcha Marchi area of the state capital, was operationalised to supplement the supply. We have sorted all issues and activated the plants on an urgent basis. Now, we are looking to arrange trained manpower so that the plant could work in 24x7 mode,” he said, adding that three other plants have been activated to supply bottled oxygen.District authorities said PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS, which are main Covid treatment centres of the state government, together required supply of around 2,600 cylinders per day. “The existing plants of oxygen generation at PMCH and NMCH are not capable to deal with the current rush of patients,” said a senior officer.Meanwhile, the state reported 12,795 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 68 related deaths on Sunday. Of the total, 1,848 cases were detected in Patna and 1,340 in Gaya. Currently, the state has over 87,000 active cases. On Saturday, 12,359 Covid cases were reported in Bihar, of which 2,479 were found in Patna alone. The rush at crematoriums to cremate the bodies is such that the kin are being made to wait for up to 20 hours to light the funeral pyre of the deceased.“Around 100-150 bodies are being cremated per day on different ghats of Ganga. Most of bodies are being disposed of as per Covid protocol, even though a majority of them were not confirmed to have died due to Covid,” said an official at Gulbi Ghat.The state health department has issued an advisory to the common people, particularly those in home isolation, to take emergency anti-viral, antibiotic and vitamin supplements along with fever suppressants to take care of those suffering from moderate symptoms of the pandemic. They have been advised to take steam vapour twice daily along with gargling with hot water and salt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/68-dead-in-24-hours-hospitals-still-can-t-breathe-easy-101619420830560.html
26-04-2021||Other||Citing virus, PDS owners want biometric system suspended, threaten strike’ govt unmoved||PATNAAmid the surge in coronavirus cases, fair price dealers’ association in Bihar has demanded immediate suspension of use of biometric machines for authentication of beneficiaries taking subsidized foodgrains, claiming it is becoming a source of infection for the dealers as well as ration card holders .The association has given an ultimatum to the government that if the demand is not met till April 30, all dealers would go on indefinite strike from May 5 onwards and deposit the biometric machines to officials concerned.However, Vinay Kumar, secretary, food and consumer protection department, said all POS machines have the facility for contactless Iris scan. “This can be used for authentication,” he said, adding that there is no plan to exempt beneficiaries from biometric authentication.Barun Kumar Singh, president of the dealers association, claimed around 11 dealers across the state have of Covid-19 in the last two weeks and a large number of them are infected. “Many a times, the servers are down and staff have to help the beneficiaries to use the POS machines, exposing them to risk of contracting the virus,” he said, while demanding an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh for each dealer. “There are total 8.72 crore beneficiaries and around 55,000 PDS dealers in the state. On an average, PDS shops gets around 500 footfalls daily from beneficiaries. There are not adequate safety measures like sanitisers, soaps and PPEs kits for the dealers. The POS machines are also risky now in these times of Covid,” Singh said.He said the association had already written to chief minister, chief secretary and food department secretary on the issue several times. The fresh surge in Covid cases has once again put focus on the PDS system for providing subsidised foodgrains to poor families facing the economic brunt of partial lockdown and return of migrants back home. “If the PDS dealers go on strike, it would badly hit the distribution of subsidised foodgrains,” said the association president.There are total 1.79 crore ration card holders with 8.72 crore beneficiaries availing subsidised foodgrains in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citing-virus-pds-owners-want-biometric-system-suspended-threaten-strike-govt-unmoved-101619420829677.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram launches free doctor consultation for two hours on Zoom as Covid-19 cases grow||In view of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India, the district administration of Gurugram in Haryana announced it is launching a novel initiative for its citizens -- free doctor consultation for two hours, virtually on Zoom, where attendees can talk to a doctor face-to-face in a scheduled online meeting, and receive relevant medical advice free of charge. The Zoom meeting will be held daily from 11am to 1pm, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner (DC) of Gurugram informed.As you quarantine at home and fight the virus, join District Administration Gurugram’s free of cost Doctor consultations between 11AM-1PM everyday on Zoom. In this time of crisis, we are with you in ensuring the best possible care and treatment for your loved ones. #CurbTheVirus pic.twitter.com/1FezZbjjkuGurugram continues to remain the worst-hit district in Haryana registering a huge single-day spike of 3,410 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, in view of which the district administration has ordered imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC with immediate effect, prohibiting the gathering of more than four people at one place, unless specifically permitted."As you quarantine at home and fight the virus, join District Administration Gurugram’s free of cost Doctor consultations between 11AM-1PM every day on Zoom. In this time of crisis, we are with you in ensuring the best possible care and treatment for your loved ones. #CurbTheVirus," detailed a tweet posted from the official Twitter account of DC Gurugram.The notice reads, "Talk to a Doctor, face to face", with the invitation elaborating "District Administration Gurugram is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting to interact with the Medical team".To join the free Zoom meeting with doctors, those living in Gurugram are required to log into the website at 11am and the virtual meet shall last till 1pm. Here are the credentials for attending the meeting:Timing: 11am to 1pmZoom Meeting ID: 819 7816 9398Passcode: 318187For more details on the Gurugram free doctor consultation, citizens are advised to contact the Gurugram DC’s office, following the addresses mentioned at the bottom of the notice.Haryana on Sunday recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 64 more people succumbing to the disease on Sunday as well as 10,985 fresh cases, which pushed the tally to 424,319. Among the districts that reported a big spike in Covid-19 cases are Gurugram (3,410), Faridabad (1,560), Hisar (940), Sonipat (610), Karnal (570), and Sirsa (469).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurgaon-launches-free-doctor-consultation-for-two-hours-on-zoom-as-covid-19-cases-grow-101619418593910.html
26-04-2021||Patna||Bihar Covid-19: Patna hospitals grapple with oxygen short-supply||Oxygen shortage continued to cripple treatment of Covid patients at both private and government hospitals in Patna as their attendants ran from one hospital to another in search of the life-sustaining gas on Sunday.Officials estimate city hospitals need around 7,125 oxygen cylinders per day to treat critical patients, however, the administration has so far managed to raise the supply only to around 6,900 cylinders per day, leaving a shortfall of over 200 cylinders.Kin of Prabhakar Sinha, a Covid patient admitted to a Patna private hospital, which had run out of oxygen, struggled without luck trying to find one oxygen cylinder on Sunday, when Sinha’s oxygen level dropped drastically. He luckily survived after the oxygen supply was restored to the hospital in the afternoon, however, there is still no back up, said a family member. "It has been a nightmare for us. The entire health system has collapsed,” the relative said, wishing not to be named.Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandra Shekhar Singh said they were working overtime to bridge the shortfall so that no patient died for want of oxygen. “Today, a defunct plant of oxygen located at Marcha Marchi area of the capital city was operationalised to supplement the supply. We have shorted all issues and activated the plant on an urgent basis. Now, we are looking to arrange for trained manpower so that the plant could work in 24x7 mode,” said the DM, adding, three other plants have been activated to supply bottled cylinders.Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), the main public Covid treatment centres, together required around 2600 oxygen cylinders per day—one third of the city’s total oxygen requirement. “The existing oxygen generation plants at the PMCH and the NMCH are not capable of dealing with the rush of patients in a pandemic,” said a senior government officer.Rajesh Kumar Rathore, who has been supervising the state Congress task force, set up to help Covid-infected people with oxygen and other essential medicinal supplies, said the state machinery didn’t prepare itself for the current wave of the disease. “The state’s health machinery became complacent and hence woke up rather late... to streamline oxygen supply. We are managing the oxygen cylinders for critical patients, who are quarantined at home after a lot of difficulties,” said Rathore.Bihar continues to log a high number of Covid-19 infections with 12,795 cases, including 1,848 in Patna and 1,340 in Gaya, reported on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to more than 87,000. Apart from this, 68 patients died in the 24 hours preceding the release of the data by the state health department on the same day. On Saturday, Patna alone reported 2,479 fresh Covid-19 cases.More than 1.01 lakh tests were conducted for Covid across the state on Saturday. The rising number of Covid-19 casualties too has thrown up a new challenge in the long-waiting time at crematoriums. In many instances, it has taken up to 20 hours to get a chance to perform the last rites, said an official at one of the ghats along the river Ganga.“Around 100-150 bodies are being cremated per day on different ghats of Ganga. Most of the bodies are being disposed of as per Covid protocol, even though a majority of them were not confirmed Covid deaths,” said an official at Gulbi ghat.The state health department has issued an advisory, asking moderate Covid-19 patients in home isolation to take emergency anti-viral, antibiotic and vitamin supplements along with fever suppressants. They have also been advised to inhale steam and gargle twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-covid-19-patna-hospitals-grapple-with-oxygen-shortsupply-101619419810339.html
26-04-2021||City||‘Free of cost’ Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi for everyone above 18, announces CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday that vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city for everyone above the age of 18 will be "free of cost." Addressing a virtual press conference, Kejriwal said 13.4 million vaccine doses will be procured by the Delhi government.Also Read | These states will provide free Covid-19 vaccines from May 1. Full list here"All of us can see that Covid-19 has wreaked havoc across the country and everyone feels that vaccination is the only way to defeat this disease. The Delhi government has decided to provide free vaccination to those above the age of 18," The Delhi chief minister said. "This morning we gave approval for procurement of 13.4 million vaccine doses in Delhi. We will try to procure these as early as possible and a large number of people are vaccinated," he further said.Those who have received their jabs, the chief minister said, either do not contract Covid-19 or are mildly affected by it. "Most of them do not require hospitalisation and even if they do, their condition does not get serious. If everyone is vaccinated, Covid-19 will become an ordinary illness," Kejriwal said.With daily Covid-19 cases witnessing a rapid and worrying rise, the Union government, on April 19, announced that from May 1, every citizen above the age of 18 shall be eligible to be vaccinated against the viral disease. This will be the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against the pandemic, which began on January 16 and is the largest globally, with registrations scheduled to open from April 28.Also Read | Odisha announces free vaccine for 19.3mn people in 18-45 years groupAccording to the health department's latest bulletin, issued on April 25, the number of people vaccinated in the Capital currently stand at 2,949,187. Of these, 2,383,036 beneficiaries have received their first dose, while 566,151 have received both their doses. In the preceding 24 hours, the bulletin showed, 69,677 beneficiaries were inoculated, including 47,960 who received their first dose and 21,717 who received their second jab as well.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 25th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/pQFQBrmc4iNationally, more than 141 million vaccine doses have been administered, including 995,288 in the previous 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard on Monday morning. Two vaccines are being used currently: The Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot, which is being manufactured here as "Covishield" by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the country's only home-made vaccine against the disease, thus far.A third shot, Russia's Sputnik V, was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-those-above-18-cm-kejriwal-101619418949788.html
26-04-2021||Kolkata||'Why was EC sleeping all this time?': TMC's Nusrat Jahan on poll rallies being banned for Covid-19||"Why was the Election Commission sleeping all this while?" asked Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan Ruhi on Monday after the poll body banned public meetings in the ongoing West Bengal assembly elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking to reporters after casting her vote with her parents in the seventh phase of the polls, Nusrat also said that wherever she has campaigned, she has only seen support for chief minister Mamata Banerjee."Wherever I have been campaigning, I've seen peoples' support for only one face - chief minister Mamata Banerjee's... Why was the Election Commission sleeping all this while?" the TMC MP questioned.She further said, "When Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided not to hold public meetings, the EC called off all public meetings. It listens to the PM and Home Minister more than anyone else," she added.Voting is currently underway in 34 constituencies across five districts of the state. A total of 268 candidates, including 37 women, are on the fray in this phase of the elections.West Bengal currently has 88,800 active coronavirus cases, according to the union health ministry. As many as 10,941people have lost their lives due to the deadly virus in the state.Polling for phases 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the state elections took place on March 27, April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, and April 22 respectively. Polling for the final phase will be held on April 29 while the counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/why-was-ec-sleeping-all-this-time-tmc-s-nusrat-jahan-on-poll-rallies-being-banned-for-covid19-101619417428323.html
26-04-2021||Lucknow||2nd Oxygen Express reaches Uttar Pradesh with 60,000 litres of life saving gas||The second Oxygen Express loaded with 60,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) reached Charbagh Railway Station in Lucknow on Monday morning to meet a shortage of the life-sustaining gas in hospitals treating severe Covid-19 patients across Uttar Pradesh. The train, loaded with four oxygen-tankers, each 15,000 litres in capacity, left Bokaro in Jharkhand at around 2pm on Sunday, said officials.Two of the four tankers to have arrived on the Indian Railways’ second Roll-On-Roll-Off (RORO) service, immediately left for Jhansi and Bareilly (one tanker for each destination) while the remaining two were stationed in Lucknow to meet the increased oxygen demand in the state capital. Ready to drive trailer- truck units with pre-mounted oxygen tankers, roll-on and roll-off the flat railway wagons, saving precious time when hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake. The first RORO Oxygen Express, loaded with 30,000 litres of LMO, had arrived in the state on Saturday, said Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow, Northern RailwaysThe DRM said, one more Oxygen Express, loaded with 75,000 litres of the life-saving gas is expected to arrive in the state on Tuesday as part of state government’s Operation Oxygen. Health minister JP Singh said the Central government had allocated 753 metric tonne of oxygen for the state.Lucknow alone logged 5,187 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 more deaths on Sunday, pushing up the death toll in the city to 1,654. Whereas Uttar Pradesh reported 35,614 fresh Covid-19 cases and 208 deaths, taking the number of infections to 1.086mn and the death toll to 11,165, since early July last year, according to the health department data.Under Operation Oxygen, Railways was requested to transport LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha in around 40 oxygen tankers roped in from across the state.“(Railways) being two times faster.. [in] LMO [transportation] [compared to] road, we approached Railways to bring in Oxygen from Jharkhand Bengal and Odisha to bring relief to UP districts at the earliest,” said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (Home), who was supervising the entire train operation.Railways’ RORO service has also procured oxygen for Maharashtra and its services have also been requested by other states that are severely hit by Covid-19’s second wave.Detailing the intricacies of the operation, Railways said in a statement: “Liquid oxygen, being a cryogenic cargo, has many limitations like maximum speed at which it can be carried, maximum acceleration and deceleration and loading restrictions like availability of liquid oxygen tankers and loading ramps. Route mapping also takes care of the maximum clearances available along the route.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2nd-oxygen-express-reaches-uttar-pradesh-with-60-000-litres-of-life-saving-gas-101619415309935.html
26-04-2021||Patna||Bihar PDS dealers claim biometric system spreading Covid, threaten strike||Bihar fair price dealers association has sought immediate discontinuation of the Aadhaar-based biometric authentication (ABBA) system at state’s approximately 55,000 fair price shops, run under the public distribution systems (PDS), alleging its use was spreading coronavirus. They are threatening to go on an indefinite strike from May 5 and return the biometric machines in protest if the system is not discontinued by April 30. The government has however rejected their demand.ABBA was introduced to check leakages in the PDS, which is also the channel for delivery of additional subsidised foodgrains to the poor under the national food security act.“There are a total of 87.1mn PDS beneficiaries and around 55,000 PDS dealers. On an average, a PDS shop is visited by around 500 beneficiaries daily. There are no safety measures like sanitisers, soaps, PPEs kits for the dealers. The point of sales (POS) machines are also risky in these times of Covid,” association’s president Barun Kumar Singh said. The dealers refer to the ABBA system as POS machines. Singh claimed that at least 11 dealers across the state died due to Covid-19 infection in the last two weeks and a large number with their families were infected. The association has also demanded an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh for PDS dealers.“In PDS shops, there is hardly any social distancing as people come close... to lift the foodgrains. Many times, the servers are down and the staff has to help the beneficiaries to use the POS machines, exposing them to the risk of contracting the virus,” Singh said.He said the association wrote several letters to the chief minister, chief secretary and food department secretary in this regard.“The government can easily stop the use of POS for beneficiaries and make it manual, ensuring less contact and touching. The biometric machines could be used only by the dealers for authentication through thumb impression for the time being. It will protect us all,” he added.There are total 17.9mn ration card holder families totalling 87.2mn beneficiaries under the national food security (NFS) scheme in Bihar.The state government said there was no plan to discontinue the use of the biometric machines for beneficiaries under the NFS scheme. “There is no plan to exempt biometric authentication,” Vinay Kumar, the secretary food and consumer protection department, said in a text message responding to queries on the demands raised by the association.He added that all POS machines have the facility for contactless Iris scan. “This can be used for authentication,” he said, adding, normally 3.5 lakh card holders use the option regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-pds-dealers-claim-biometric-system-spreading-covid-threaten-strike-101619411350357.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Mercury to rise marginally today; Delhi AQI dips to poor category||Delhi is likely to see a mainly clear sky on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 18°C, five notches below normal and maximum temperature was 37.7°C -- one degree below normal.Also Read | ‘Vital medical equipment’ on its way to support India in Covid-19 fight, says UKMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality dropped to the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 210. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 192, which is in the higher end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are high and north northwesterly. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and in the moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-to-rise-marginally-today-delhi-aqi-dips-to-poor-category-101619408349648.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders continue to remain closed||Several borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three farm laws.Farmers have refused to call off the stir despite the current surge in Covid-19 cases and the lockdown imposed by the Delhi government till May 3. They have, however, vacated one carriageway of the Kundli highway at Singhu border.Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Sunday wrote to Delhi Police, asking that the barricades on Delhi side be removed for smooth passage of oxygen, tankers, ambulances, and other essential services.Also Read | Key farm leader says there’s no Covid-19 pandemic, refuses to call off stirFor those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed.The traffic police has advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states.Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi Police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-several-delhi-borders-continue-to-remain-closed-101619407569842.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Centre trying to hide 'failure' in setting up PSA O2 plants in Delhi: AAP||Calling the Centre's claim of Delhi government delaying the site readiness for installing eight Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants in the national capital with the support of the PM CARES Fund as "outrightly false", Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government on Sunday said only one plant has been made operational till date."It is extremely unfortunate that at a time when Delhi government is working closely with Centre to bridge the gap in Centre's allocated quota of oxygen for Delhi, Central government is giving outrightly false statements to hide its abject failure in setting up of PSA oxygen plants in Delhi," the Kejriwal government said in a statement.The Delhi government said it is well known that the Central government decided to set up 162 PSA plants all over India and issued tenders for the same in October 2020."The plants were to be set up by Union Health Ministry through PM Cares fund, and not a single rupee was given to state governments. All these plants were supposed to have been installed by December 2020 and handed over to state governments. However, the Central government gave the contract for 140 of these plants to a single vendor, who ran away. As a result, across India not even 10 of these 162 plants have been made operational till date," it added.Talking about Delhi, the Kejriwal government said that seven of the eight plants in the national capital were to be set up at Delhi government hospitals, and one at Central government hospital - Safdarjung."After multiple follow-ups with the Central government, plants for five hospitals were delivered in early March 2021. Typically these plants take three to four days for installation. However, once again, the vendor was non-responsive and after multiple follow-ups with the Centre, only one of the five plants has been made operational to date," it said.The Delhi government alleged that for the remaining two hospital locations, the plants have not even been received on site."We are shocked to learn that Central government is now making the excuse of site certificate not being available from the Delhi government as a reason for delay in plants. This has never been brought to Delhi government's notice and is an outright lie," it added.The Kejriwal government also said, "The fact that the PSA plant has not been made operational at even Centre's own Safdarjung hospital shows that Centre is caught in the web of its own lies."In order to augment the medical oxygen capacity of Delhi amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, eight PSA oxygen generation plants are being installed in the national capital with the support of the PM CARES Fund, official sources had told ANI.These plants will enhance the capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 metric tonnes. Of the eight PSA plants to be installed in Delhi, one was already installed at Burari Hospital, Kaushik Enclave on March 17.Four plants, one each at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Rohini and Deepa Chand Bandhu Hospital, Ashok Vihar are expected to be completed by April 30.The sources said it is the Delhi government that delayed the site readiness despite weekly reviews since November last year. For Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, Dakshinpuri, the site has been readied as late as April 19 by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government.The site readiness certificate of Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital, Narela has not been submitted by the Delhi government yet, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-trying-to-hide-failure-in-setting-up-psa-o2-plants-in-delhi-aap-101619404219547.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC receives 1.5L vaccine doses, distribution to govt, private centres starts||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday informed that it has received one lakh 58 thousand doses of COVID-19 vaccine, and its distribution to government and private vaccination centres has started.According to a press release issued by the BMC, this will help in smooth vaccination in Mumbai for at least three days from April 26 to 28.Meanwhile, it said that the stock of Covaxin is very limited in the available vaccine stock and the vaccine will be given with preference to those who are to take a second dose at few centers.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUnder the Covid-19 Prevention Vaccination Campaign, 59 vaccination centres have been set up by the corporation and government and a total of 132 vaccination centres have been set up in 73 private hospitals.However, due to the limited availability of the COVID-19 vaccine, vaccination has to be temporarily stopped at some centers from time to time.The vaccination campaign is being planned on a daily basis keeping in view the available stocks of vaccines as the priority is given to the second dose recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-receives-1-5l-vaccines-distribution-to-govt-private-centres-starts-101619398388789.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended by a week on public opinion: CM||Delhi on Sunday extended by a week its lockdown, a “last resort” measure put in place to arrest the alarming spread of Covid-19 in the Capital, as the health care infrastructure remained overwhelmed by a massive surge in infections, with complaints of shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds pouring in from across the city.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown last Monday, citing a relentless surge in Covid-19 infections that inundated hospitals. While he hoped that the lockdown would not have to be extended, the Delhi chief minister on Sunday indicated the battle to control the fourth and the worst wave of infections was far from over.“The situation is concerning. Last week, we imposed a six-day lockdown in the light of the Covid-19 situation which should have ended tomorrow (Monday). The lockdown was necessary. This is our last weapon against the rapidly spreading pandemic. The unfortunate thing is that Covid-19 is still spreading. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of around 36% this week. Even though the positivity rate has today dropped to slightly below 29%, we need more time to observe the trends,” Kejriwal said in a digital news briefing.“In the light of the current situation, we have decided to increase the lockdown by another week. The lockdown now applies till 5am next Monday (May 3),” he said.The chief minister added that the decision was in accordance with public sentiment. “The public opinion is for extension of lockdown,” Kejriwal said.On Sunday, Delhi added 22,933 new Covid-19 cases and recorded 350 deaths, taking the city’s total tally to 1,027,715 and toll to 14,248. The Capital’s positivity rate -- the proportion of samples testing positive for Covid-19 -- was 30.21%, exponentially higher than the 5% threshold that experts say is the sign of an outbreak under control.Essential activities, including the sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, etc., are allowed in the lockdown. There are no restrictions on the movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical attention.With the extension of the lockdown, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order – HT has seen a copy – included some new categories of exemption. They include: services provided by self-employed persons such as plumbers, electricians and those engaged in repairing of water purifiers; courier services; shops that sell educational books for students; and those selling electric fans. However, they will be allowed with a valid e-pass for movement.Kejriwal said: “Delhi is facing a severe shortage of oxygen. We need 700 MT of oxygen every day but the city’s current quota – after recent increase – is 490 MT. Secondly, even the amount allocated to us by the central government is not reaching us. Yesterday (Saturday) we received only 335 MT. The central government has been helping a lot in this regard. I have also written to chief ministers in other states to help us. The chaos, we hope, will be sorted in a few days.”The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to Covid-19 in a 12-day period. Several hospitals in the national capital are grappling with severe shortage of medical oxygen. On Saturday, 20 people died at a Delhi hospital as the facility said its stock of oxygen was running dangerously low.Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia recently alleged that states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were obstructing the movement of oxygen tankers, and sought the help of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in getting the issue resolved.The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected Covid-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the mounting cases as a “tsunami”, and also warned it will “hang” any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals in the Capital.With the worsening of conditions at the hospitals, the Centre has announced exemption of basic customs duty on import of Covid-19 vaccines, medical-grade oxygen and related equipment to boost domestic availability and directed the customs department to clear all import consignments, including life-saving drugs and equipment used in Covid-19 treatment on priority.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his monthly radio address on Sunday that India had been shaken by a “storm”, and called on people to get vaccinated and not “get swayed by any rumour about the vaccines”.In his briefing, Kejriwal said: “At this point, management of oxygen is the key. We have issued an order directing all hospitals and oxygen vendors to provide the government real-time updates on oxygen stock, consumption, and details on departures from plants, arrival in Delhi, etc., every two hours. The situation is tough but I am sure we will overcome this health emergency.”The lockdown order issued on Sunday also specified that there will be no restrictions on the interstate and intrastate movement of all types or goods, cargoes and empty trucks. They don’t need any separate movement passes.Under the previous lockdown order issued on April 19, such an exemption was applicable on interstate and intrastate movement of only essential goods.Earlier in the day, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) too urged the Delhi government to extend the lockdown. “We @CAITIndia urge Delhi LG Shri Anil Baijal and Delhi CM Shri ArvindKejriwal to extend lockdown till 2 May though we know that traders will be the worst sufferers but nation first, Delhi first,” Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of CAIT, tweeted.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Delhi should have imposed a series of restrictions by mid-March. Now the situation has gone out of hand. The government is not left with too many options now than extending the lockdown. They have to scale up bed capacity, increase ICUs and do something about the oxygen crisis. For all that to happen, the spread has to be controlled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-by-a-week-on-public-opinion-cm-101619389572852.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt portal to track supply and stock of oxygen in real time||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the government has developed a portal in which all stakeholders involved in the supply chain of medical oxygen will have to feed real-time updates on consumption, stock, departure and arrival of tankers, etc every two hours, even as, his office said, he wrote to several industrialists in the country seeking their help in addressing the oxygen shortage amid a massive surge of Covid-19 in the city.“Availability of oxygen is a major problem now. So, it has become very important to manage what we have with us. We have opened a portal in which all stakeholders in the supply chain – from manufacturers, re-fillers, vendors to hospitals – will have to update their oxygen stock position in every two hours. The information that needs to be provided include real-time update on oxygen stock, consumption, and details on departures from plants, arrival in Delhi, etc,” Kejriwal said in a video press briefing on Sunday.The chief minister’s comments came a day after the Delhi High Court expressed concerns over four hospitals in the city – including Jaipur Golden hospital, where an incident of oxygen shortage on Friday night led to death of 20 critical Covid-19 patients earlier in the day – complaining that there was nobody to coordinate with them on supplies of oxygen and essential medicines.The Delhi government informed the court on Saturday that they had constituted a team of officers to coordinate with hospitals, but they were not getting information about the quantity of oxygen supplied from suppliers and re-fillers, following which the court directed the suppliers and re-fillers to give all such information to the city government.As he extended the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by a week, Kejriwal also said on Sunday, “Delhi is facing a severe shortage of oxygen. We need 700 MT of oxygen every day but the city’s current quota – after recent increase – is 490 MT. Secondly, even the amount allocated to us by the central government is not reaching us. Yesterday, (Saturday) we received only 335 MT. The central government has been helping a lot in this regard. I have also written to CMs in other states to help us.”Government records showed that Delhi recorded receiving 380 MT oxygen on April 22, 309 MT on April 23, 335 MT on April 24. The data for Sunday was yet to be summarised, said a senior official in the CM’s office.On several occasions last week, Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia alleged that states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were obstructing oxygen tankers headed for Delhi and sought the help of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard.Later, on Sunday, Kejriwal’s office released a press statement that said, “Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to the most prominent industrialists of India, seeking their help in combating the ferocious second Covid-19 wave in the country. CM Kejriwal said that he would be grateful if the leading industrialists, involved in using or producing oxygen and can help with transporting oxygen in cryogenic tankers, come to Delhi’s assistance in its time of need. He wrote that due to an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, it was falling woefully short of our oxygen requirements and asked for this request to be treated as an SOS. He wrote that Delhi did not produce any oxygen, and currently faces an acute shortage of oxygen.“I understand that your organisation either uses, produces or can come in possession of oxygen. I would be grateful if you could provide us any stocks of oxygen, along with cryogenic tankers for its movement. We would also welcome any help in import of cryogenic oxygen tankers from any other country. Kindly treat this as an SOS. I would be personally grateful for your support,” read the statement citing Kejriwal’s appeal, even though the government did not specify who are the industrialists the chief minister has reached out to.HT has learnt that the CM has written to Ratan Tata, Kumar Mangalam Birla, Rahul Bajaj, Mukesh Ambani, and Anand Mahindra.The Delhi government on Sunday also issued an order appointing senior officers and allotting them hospitals in which they will personally keep track of oxygen consumption, arrivals, re-fills, and stocks on a real-time basis. These officers will now act as point of contact between the hospitals and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s control room for distress call regarding oxygen shortage. The officers are also directed to “acquaint themselves with the oxygen suppliers of their allotted hospitals and create a channel with them to follow up and facilitate oxygen deliveries and allotted quantities by directly interacting with their representatives,” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-portal-to-track-supply-and-stock-of-oxygen-in-real-time-101619387179382.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals keep checking their supply meters||Hospitals in the national capital on Sunday continued to remain on edge, operating with precariously low oxygen supplies, waiting endlessly for refills and resetting the clock again to count the hours for which the replenishment will last.The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital — the biggest Covid-19 facility in the city — was running on backup stock after running out of its main supply. The hospital received supply around 10am when it had just two hours of stock. The medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital where at least 20 patients in critical care died of alleged low oxygen pressure on Sunday, had to refuse new admissions over erratic supplies.The Pentamed hospital in Model Town sent out an SOS on Twitter around 11.30am, saying it had oxygen stock that will last only for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, after an all-night scramble for an oxygen refill, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital received five metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the early hours of Sunday, hospital officials said.The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate on the issue of making medical oxygen available to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, observing that citizens cannot be left to die. The court also made it clear that the efforts which Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government.While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight. Metro Hospital, in Gurgaon’s Palam Vihar, claiming to be in its “last leg of medical oxygen”, made an urgent appeal for help to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and other ministers on Sunday.The Delhi government on Sunday announced setting up a portal on which real time information relating to oxygen supply and stocks will be made available.“Availability of oxygen is a major problem now. So, it has become very important to manage what we have with us,” Kejriwal said in a video press briefing on Sunday.Referring to the oxygen supply issues at Lok Nayak hospital, medical director Dr Suresh Kumar said, “We had exhausted our oxygen stock and were using the backup which would have lasted for two hours only.” AAP MLA Raghav Chaddha, who is also the chairman of LNJP Hospital’s Rogi Kalyan Samiti, tweeted about the cryogenic tanker on its way to refill oxygen stock in the hospital.“Within the next 30 minutes, LNJP will receive liquid oxygen supply via cryogenic tanker. The tanker is on its way,” he tweeted around 9.55am on Sunday.Officials at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini said they continued to face oxygen supply problems and denied admission requests from more patients on Sunday, a day after it reported 20 deaths amid shortage of the life-saving gas.“We are having to deny SOS admission requests for COVID patients requiring hospital care,” the hospital tweeted. Around 6pm, hospital’s medical director DK Baluja said he had been assured by officials that an oxygen tanker would reach within half an hour.Gautam Singh, the head of Shri Ram Singh Hospital and Heart Institute, also posted a video message on social media, requesting an oxygen refill for his 100-bed healthcare facility in east Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-keep-checking-their-supply-meters-101619386991932.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Food, medicines, hospital beds: Residents step up in face of crisis||In the midst of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases across the city, as social media platforms emerge as national helplines, several citizens and small-scale collectives have taken up the mantle of helping fellow residents in distress and responding to SOS messages sent by them seeking hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, plasma, and medicines.The second wave of the pandemic across the country — and the fourth in Delhi — has turned out to be the deadliest one yet.For the past 10 days, Jamia Nagar resident Shariq Hussain’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing. Desperate calls for help from affected families have kept the 29-year-old social activist on his toes. Hussain has been providing free oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients ever since cases in the city spiralled out of control.“On a daily basis, 500-700 people are getting oxygen refilled from my house. People from Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, and Bulandshahr have been visiting us for oxygen. I am trying to help as many people as we can,” said Hussain.The service is provided without any cost and the expenses for procuring oxygen are being borne by Hussain alone. “Even as we speak, hundreds of people are standing outside my house. Besides calls from individuals, I also get calls from Delhi Police who divert requests to us,” said Hussain, who lives in Jamia Nagar’s Batla House.The one-man army has hardly slept in the past week and continues to help people while observing fasts during the month of Ramzan. “We are trying to help as many as we can. At times, people die before they can reach us. Dealing with such instances is painful,” he said.Shubham Chawla, a 26-year-old, along with his mother Veenu Chawla and brother Anuj started Mom’s Kitchen — an initiative that provides free meals to Covid patients. The marketing professional’s extended family members are undergoing treatment for Covid and had a tough time securing beds in the city. Dismayed by the perilous situation in hospitals, he decided to divert his energy towards helping those who were in need.“My brother-in-law and grandmother are ill due to Covid. Their condition is quite serious and we were unable to find beds for a long time. We were helpless. After many efforts, we were able to find beds and got them admitted. During the hospital visit, I saw the situation on the ground and the true extent of the crisis hit me. I realised that I was not contributing in any way and felt the need to do something constructive. My mother loves cooking, so I thought we could start by delivering 15-20 free meals in nearby areas to help people,” said Chawla, a resident of Pitampura.Starting with five orders on the first day, the numbers increased to 50, then 100 and currently touch anywhere around 200-250. From people in dire stress to influential families, Chawla has been receiving calls from all across the city.“People often cry on the phone. Some of them even offer money but we refuse any monetary help,” said Chawla. The mother-son duo is also getting help from friends and relatives who assist in handling the growing reach of the food service. They leave food outside houses as a precautionary measure.Yogita Bhayana, a child rights activist, works round the clock with her team of seven to respond to SOS messages they receive on Twitter.“Our volunteers personally go to hospitals to check the availability of beds and wherever they get a lead they inform the patients. There are so many requests and we are not being able to help everyone. I have also started collecting empty oxygen cylinders from families who lost their loved ones and distributing them among those who want them. We are also helping them refill cylinders,” she said.Several citizen groups are also helping with ambulances.Himanshu Kalia and his cancer-survivor wife who runs Shaheed Bhagat Singh Help And Care in north Delhi’s Pratap Nagar have been providing free ambulance services in the National Capital Region.“For the past three or four days, we have been receiving nearly 200 phone calls a day. The frequency of calls we are receiving even at night has increased,” said Himanshu.Despite having 16 ambulances in their fleet, the Kalia couple is able to help move only 20-30 patients to hospitals every day.India Care, a collective that was initiated last year to help people in need amid the pandemic and helped migrant workers extensively, is now working on connecting plasma donors with those in need.Sabita Chandna, a Delhi-based life coach and volunteer at the collective, said they have been inundated with calls and SOS messages in the last week.“Our IT people pick requests we are tagged in on Twitter and put them on our groups of Telegram and WhatsApp. From there, our volunteers pick these requests and work on them. We have also started online registration for plasma donors requesting people to come forward and donate plasma. My inbox is full at present,” she said.One among the multiple networks that have taken shape to aggregate information from social media in the past two weeks is the Covid Citizen Action group — a volunteer initiative that was started by concerned citizens to crowdsource information on the availability of beds, medicines, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, plasma donors, among others. The network is using social media to verify crucial information and provide verified leads and credible information – pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and medicines – to those in distress and follow up on critical cases.(With inputs from Shiv Sunny)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/food-medicines-hospital-beds-residents-step-up-in-face-of-crisis-101619386632357.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Illicit sale of vital Covid drugs hurts desperate buyers||On Saturday, 47-year-old Ganesh Upadhyay, a Janakpuri resident, drove around the city while simultaneously making enquiry calls, to get hold of six doses of remdesivir for his 42-year old wife who was admitted to a private hospital with Covid-19. While the antiviral drug was unavailable at most pharmacies, a neighbour connected him with a dealer in north Delhi, who offered to supply him with the medicine for ₹25,000 a vial. Chemist bodies in the city said the drug retails for between ₹1,000 and ₹2,700.“I tried contacting authorised remdesivir dealers using the list released by the Delhi government, but many numbers were unavailable, while others did not have any stock,” Upadhyay said.Even common pills like paracetamol were hard to come by, he said.With increasing instances of hoarding and black marketing of drugs being reported in the Capital at least five chemist associations in Delhi-NCR on Saturday issued notices to members asking them to stay vigilant against such practices.These notices reiterated that medication used to treat Covid-19 patients such as remdesivir, favipiravir, ivermectin, and others, are to be sold only after a buyer produces a prescription and the patient’s Aadhaar card, to avoid their black-marketing.“This is a very crucial time and there is a shortage of supply of medicines. In fact, many of our members have said they are also running out of regular flu medicines because people are panic-buying. However, in case of any Covid-19 specific medication, we have issued directions that the drugs are to be sold at the maximum retail prescription and only with valid prescription and ID cards,” said Kuldeep Singh Channa, secretary of the Southwest Delhi Chemist Association.Chana said that for instance, a 17-tablet strip of 400mg Fabiflu, which is the most prescribed brand of favipiravir, is to be sold at an MRP of ₹1,224. However, in the black market, this is now being sold for as much as ₹4,000 a strip.Residents across the city said there is a shortage of non-Covid medicines and equipment too.“My mother is a chronic diabetic, and I have been buying insulin syringes from a local shop for years. But supplies of these syringes have dried up for the past week. Since the owner of the shop knows us, he delivers it to our house as soon as he manages some, but the situation is really bad,” said Himanshu Agarwal, a resident of south Delhi’s Munirka.Suresh Yadav, the owner of a pharmacy in Dwarka Sector 6, said supplies have been hit because a large share of the stock of medicines is being diverted to hospitals and pharmacies near Covid care centres.“In the last three hours at least 50 people have come in asking for paracetamol tablets. I am already out of it. People are taking these medicines without a prescription, as a prevention against Covid-19, which is another reason they’re out of stock,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/illicit-sale-of-vital-covid-drugs-hurts-desperate-buyers-101619386236236.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Police told to shore up security outside distributors’ offices||The Delhi government has asked the police to ensure adequate security arrangements outside the offices of Remdesivir distributors, as demand for the antiviral drug soars, with several doctors prescribing the medicine to treat Covid-19 patients.In a letter to Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on April 22, the state government’s special health secretary and drug controller Udit Prakash Rai wrote, “…steep increase in demand of the said formulations (remdesivir) has resulted in long queues… which are now becoming unmanageable and resulting in law-and-order problems… you are requested to provide adequate security arrangement and police staff at these sites.”The Delhi government on April 19 allowed a few distributors to sell Remdesivir injections to those with valid prescriptions.Distributors said they have been bombarded with calls from relatives of Covid-19 patients and are unable to meet the demand.Sandeep Nangia, organising secretary of the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), said, “There are queues of nearly 200-300 people outside the offices of these few remdesivir distributors. But we don’t have enough medicine to meet the demand. This has resulted in a major problem at the distributors’ offices. We asked the drug control department for more security. It has become extremely difficult for these distributors because their contact information has now been made public, even though only a few are allowed retail sales of the medicine.”There are 30 Remdesivir distributors in Delhi.A senior official with the government’s drug control department said there have been complaints from distributors of people queuing outside their offices and misbehaving with them.“We allowed a few distributors to sell the medicines directly to people. But this has resulted in a law-and-order situation outside some offices. This is why we have requested the police to provide adequate security,” said a senior government official aware of the matter.“We are constantly monitoring the situation at all drug centres and hospitals. The local police are sensitised in these areas and appropriate arrangements will be made as required,” said the Delhi Police’s spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-told-to-shore-up-security-outside-distributors-offices-101619386018392.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Airlines fly in O2 concentrators amid shortages||As hospitals across the country struggle with oxygen shortages, a Boeing 737 operated by SpiceJet airlifted 800 oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong to Delhi on Saturday, said airline officials aware of the matter.This week, Air India is also scheduled to bring oxygen concentrators from San Francisco and Chicago to Delhi. Police have also made arrangements at the Delhi airport to ensure smooth and uninterrupted delivery of the Covid-related consignments to their destination.Avani Singh, CEO of SpiceHealth, said the aircraft landed at the Indira Gandhi International airport with the consignment of oxygen concentrators via Kolkata around 7pm on Saturday.A SpiceJet spokesperson said the airline is gearing up to bring as many as 10,000 oxygen concentrators this month from across the globe.An Air India official said that their aircraft is expected to bring in oxygen concentrators from the USA to Delhi this week.An official from the Delhi airport said the customs department has also been told to expedite customs clearance for these incoming consignments. “All Covid related parcels will be subject to speedy clearance on high priority by the custom, be it drugs, oxygen concentrators or any other medical equipment,” said the officer said requesting not to be named.Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson of Delhi Police, said whenever required, they are prepared to escort any vehicle carrying emergency drugs or equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/airlines-fly-in-o2-concentrators-amid-shortages-101619385571918.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Activist Umar Khalid tests Covid-19 positive in Tihar||Jailed activist Umar Khalid tested positive for Covid-19 and has been kept in isolation within the prison complex, according to officials of Delhi’s Tihar jail.Khalid, who was arrested and charged for his alleged involvement in the February 2020 Delhi riots, was lodged inside a cell in jail 2. He is among 240 prisoners who have tested positive for the infection since April 1.The prison complex has 227 active cases of infection among prisoners and 60 among jail officials.On April 20, gangster-turned-politician Mohammed Shahabuddin, another inmate of jail number 2, tested positive and was admitted to a hospital, where he is still being treated.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel confirmed that Khalid tested positive and said he is in isolation.Khalid’s friend Banojyotsna Lahiri, on Sunday said they received a call from the jail informing them about the test result.“We had approached court demanding an RT-PCR test for him. The court asked Tihar to submit a status report on Monday. They got his rapid antigen test result at GTB on Saturday, and was diagnosed positive, with mild symptoms. They gave him medicines and sent him back. So far, he is in good health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/activist-umar-khalid-tests-covid-19-positive-in-tihar-101619384973697.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Cops work to keep oxygen flowing||The Delhi Police spent much of their last 24 hours — from Saturday evening to Sunday evening — escorting oxygen tanks to hospitals, helping individuals with transportations and medicines and even arresting three men allegedly involved in blackmarketing of essential drugs and oxygen.“The police prepared green corridors and made other arrangements for the safe and quick movement of oxygen tankers to several hospitals such as Dharamshila Hospital in Vasundhara Enclave, Safdarjung Hospital, Batra Hospital and St Stephen’s Hospital,” said Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson of Delhi Police.Oxygen cylinders were also arranged for ESI Hospital in Vivek Vihar, Jeevan Hospital in South-East Delhi and Batra Hospital until a tanker arrived there.On Sunday, the police were busy helping individuals in different capacities.In East Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, for instance, the police helped two elderly people move to a hospital after receiving a request from a Singapore-based man on Twitter. In Lajpat Nagar, they cremated a body found under a tree.The police also cracked down on a group of people allegedly involved in black marketing of Remdesivir vials, oximeters and small oxygen cylinders.According to deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj, Alok Tyagi, Somel Gupta and Abhishek were arrested with three vials of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, which were allegedly being sold for ₹40,000 each, 100 oxymeters and 48 small cylinders. Bhardwaj said that the trio,arrested from east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar on Sunday, got fake press ID cards to roam around the city.The national capital has been reeling under the devastating impact of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the city on Sunday adding 22,933 fresh cases of the infection, while 350 more people succumbed to the virus, even as the test positivity rate fell marginally to 30.2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-work-to-keep-oxygen-flowing-101619384765460.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||11k workers to receive financial aid: Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Sunday said it has disbursed financial assistance of ₹5,000 to 200,000 construction workers in the city and 11,000 more such workers will receive the amount in the coming days.In a press statement, the government said, “A total of 210,684 construction workers will receive the cash-transfer as a form of aid, of which 200,000 have already received aid of ₹100 crore and 11,000 workers will be granted the disbursals in the coming days. To help migrant workers, daily wage and construction workers, the government has set up 150 food distribution centres in schools and construction sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/11k-workers-to-receive-financial-aid-delhi-govt-101619384601552.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Woman killed by landlord’s son in outer delhi for refusing his sexual advances||25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her landlord’s son at her rented accommodation in outer Delhi early on Saturday for refusing to give in to his sexual demands, police said.The woman, her husband and their seven-month-old adopted daughter had moved into the rented room on the third floor of the building in outer Delhi only four months ago. Her husband works at a printing unit.According to a senior police officer, the woman’s husband was staying at his workplace due to restrictions on movement. “The 29-year-old son of the building owner noticed the absence of the woman’s husband,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh. The suspect is a graduate and works in a private firm.The DCP said the suspect called his friends over on Friday night and had dinner on the terrace. “His friends left after dinner around midnight. He was the last to leave the terrace,” said Siingh adding the suspect was drunk at the time of the crime.While walking down to his house on the first floor, the suspect noticed the door of the woman’s room open and entered. The woman was sleeping beside her daughter. “He sought to establish physical relations with the woman who threatened to report him to police. The suspect then picked up a kitchen knife and slit her throat,” the DCP said, adding that he then returned to his own room.“Around 11.30am on Saturday, the woman’s young nieces found the door ajar. They walked in to find the woman dead and the baby crying,” the officer said.While investigating the murder, police realised the room had only one entrance and the access to the floor was controlled by the house owner, the DCP said.“When we questioned the landlord’s son, he initially tried to pass the blame on his friends who came for dinner. Eventually he confessed to killing the woman,” said the other officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-killed-by-landlord-s-son-in-outer-delhi-for-refusing-his-sexual-advances-101619383566676.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen Express with 4 tankers heads to Delhi||The first ‘Oxygen Express’ train for Delhi, with four cryogenic tankers carrying liquid medical oxygen (LMO), is scheduled to depart from Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) steel plant in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh on Sunday night, said officials from the railway ministry aware of the development.“One Oxygen Express train carrying four tankers (around 70 metric tonnes of LMO) will depart tonight for Delhi Cantonment from JSPL, Raigarh,” said a spokesperson from the railway ministry.Suneet Sharma, chairman of the railway board, said at a press conference on Sunday that so far, the Indian Railways has transported 10 tankers carrying around 150 metric tonne of oxygen.“Indian Railways is going to deliver more than 140 MT liquid oxygen in next 24 hrs. Currently, nine tankers are already on the run, out of which five will reach Lucknow by tonight (Sunday) and remaining four containers of LMO, which have already started from Bokaro, are expected to reach Lucknow tomorrow (Monday),” read a statement from the railway ministry.The ministry has also asked the Delhi government to obtain more cryogenic tankers. The Railways is also ready to transport oxygen containers on container wagons from Durgapur to Delhi, said officials from the ministry.The move comes at a time when hospitals in Delhi are struggling with an acute shortage of oxygen for the sixth consecutive day, with some even turning away Covid-19 patients. On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote an urgent SOS to heads of other states, requesting them to send whatever surplus oxygen and tankers they can spare for the national capital.While Delhi’s daily oxygen allocation is 480MT, Kejriwal has said the city currently requires about 700MT of oxygen. The national capital has been reporting nearly 25,000 or more Covid-19 cases every day for the past one week.According to a statement by his office, Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to some prominent industrialists, who were not named in the statement, seeking their help in combating the ferocious second Covid-19 wave in the country. CM Kejriwal said that he would be grateful if the leading industrialists, involved in using or producing oxygen and can help with transporting oxygen in cryogenic tankers, come to Delhi’s assistance in its time of need.According to the statement, CM Kejriwal wrote that while the central government is helping Delhi in this regard, the intensity of the spread is so severe that the quantity is proving inadequate.As many as 350 people died of Covid-19 on Sunday, according to the Delhi government’s bulletin. The city also reported 22,933 fresh cases of the infection.Plagued by the acute shortage of oxygen due to a significant rise in Covid-19 cases, more states are seeking the railways’ assistance for delivering LMO via the ‘Oxygen Express’ trains. The national carrier has planned more Oxygen Express trains to Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Delhi and MP in the coming weeks.The first Oxygen Express train departed from Mumbai to Vizag on April 19. Four such trains have also made round trips from Lucknow to Bokaro from April 22 to 24, said railway officials, adding that so far, around 10 oxygen tankers (each having a capacity of 15-16MT) filled with LMO have been transported in these trains.Last week, the Indian railways decided to deploy first-of-a-kind ‘Oxygen Express’ trains to transport LMO and oxygen cylinders in bulk along key corridors, amid high demand from states grappling with the second wave of Covid-19.With several states reporting a shortage of oxygen, the government last week directed them to ensure uninterrupted movement of vehicles carrying medical oxygen along their borders and said they must not impose any curbs on production and supply of essential commodities of public health.A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and state transport commissioners and representatives of the industry on April 17 on issues related to the transportation of liquid medical oxygen.Last week, the railway ministry also approved the transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers under its ‘roll on-roll off’ model as a special case following a request from the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-express-with-4-tankers-heads-to-delhi-101619382787280.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K reports highest single-day spike with 2,381 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,381 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 1,60,755, while 21 fatalities took the toll to 2,147, officials said.Out of the fresh cases, 848 were from Jammu division and 1,533 from Kashmir division while 10 deaths were reported in Kashmir and 11 in Jammu. So far, 153 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past week, the UT has recorded over 1,500 cases. Officials said with 748 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 448 in Jammu district, 200 in Baramulla, 137 in Budgam and 114 in Kupwara. The number of active cases reached 19,558, officials said. As many as 866 patients have recovered, including 639 from Kashmir and 227 from Jammu.As many as 1,39,050 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 87% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.46 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.The month of April has already witnessed 29,795 Covid infections, the second highest monthly total after September 2020 when the first wave of Covid-19 had peaked and the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.1 death, 148 +ve cases in Ladakh 
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana halts for Sunday lockdown, bizmen rue losses||Busiest markets of the city including Ghumar Mandi, Books Market, Gur Mandi, Chaura Bazar, Field Gunj, Karimpura, and Lakkar Bazar, wore a deserted look on Sunday with the state government and district administration imposing lockdown restrictions. Only medical stores remained open. The state and administration took this step to curb further spread of Covid after witnessing a surge in cases for the last 25 days.The lockdown was largely successful as residents remained inside their houses and avoided stepping out without valid reasons. A meagre movement of traffic was witnessed in the city. All shops, stores, offices, malls, restaurants, and hotels remained shut. Around 2,000 police personnel deployed at various locations in the city kept a strict vigil on the movement of people. In the internal parts of the city, some small shopkeepers had opened their shops that had to be shut down by the police. In areas with majority population of labourers including Sherpur, Giaspura, Focal Point, Dhandhari, Daba, and Jamalpur, people were seen gathered in small groups. They were sent back to their respective houses by the police. J Elanchezhian, joint commissioner of police, headquarters, said that the lockdown remained a success. Very few violations were witnessed in the city and the residents’ cooperation was appreciated, he added.A hiccup at ISBTSome people were seen waiting for buses at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar inter-state bus terminal. When a bus for Chandigarh arrived, passengers flouted the social distancing norms and gathered around the conductor to get tickets. They were in a hurry as only 26 passengers were allowed to board a bus at a time. Except for the buses running on the Chandigarh route, all others witnessed low occupancy.Shopkeepers rue lossesThe shopkeepers rued that they were already reeling under losses due to low footfall and now the Sunday lockdown had made things worse as people are usually free on the weekends and go to the markets then. Markets such as Chaura Bazar, Ghumar Mandi, and Model Town usually witness more footfall on Sunday than on any other day of the week. They added that the limit set by the government on the number of people permitted to attend weddings had also affected businesses and very few people were turning up at their shops to purchase clothes and jewellery as a result. Sanjeev Chaudhary, president of Arora Market Chaura Bazaar Association, said, “The lockdown will affect businesses as people from different parts of the state visit our market on Sundays. I deal in ready made garments and due to the government allowing only 20 persons to attend weddings, people have stopped shopping in bulk. This has resulted in a loss for the shopkeepers.”Akalgarh Market, one of the wholesale garment markets of the city, has around 800 shops. Manpreet Singh Bunty, president of Akalgarh Market Readymade Garment Association, said, “Over 90% of our business is done on Sunday. The lockdown had affected us badly. The authorities must come up with an alternative and strictly impose restrictions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance.”There are over 300 shops in the Model Town market that are registered with the Market Association, Model Town. Amarjit Singh, President of Model Town Shopkeepers’ Association, said, “We are already witnessing a low footfall and businesses will collapse if the authorities impose a lockdown every Sunday. A majority of our customers turn up on weekends. The livelihood of the shopkeepers depends on the sales made on Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-halts-for-sunday-lockdown-bizmen-rue-losses-101619382668057.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Traders want curbs on market timings||Representatives of the Capital’s wholesale markets after a meeting on Sunday said they will write to the Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and CM chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding a series of steps to control the spread of Covid-19 in markets, including limiting market timings, weekend shutdowns of these wholesale outlets, and vaccinations for workers.Representatives from at least eight wholesale markets across the city, including Azadpur mandi, Ghazipur mandi, Flower Mandi, Chaudhart Chetram mandi, Murga Machhi mandi, Okhla mandi, Narela mandi and Najafgarh mandi discussed these measures, they said, which will ensure these markets do not turn into Covid-19 hot spots.Stakeholders said the letter is likely to be sent to the L-G and CM on Monday.“The number of cases is growing fast, so the government needs to ensure that preventive measures are taken for crowd control at wholesale markets. During the meeting, representatives from all the mandis put forth their opinions, and we are going to send these to L-G Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal,” said Anil Malhotra, member of the Azadpur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC).Malhotra said that since the bulk of vegetables are sold between 11pm and 11am, and fruits between 5am and 11am, the wholesale should be open only during these hours, and can stay shut for the rest of the day.During the lockdown last year, authorities put in place a slew of measures like drone surveillance, passes for entry into markets, designated spots for loading and unloading of stocks, to keep crowds under control.Meanwhile, retail vegetable and fruit sellers in the city said they were facing problems transporting their stock from the wholesale markets to their shops amid the lockdown.While they said the demand for fruits and vegetables has increased, barricades and checks were delaying deliveries.“People remember the problems during the lockdown last year and started panic-buying early on. Another problem is that because so many people are falling ill, we do not have enough workers to meet the demand for home deliveries. Most of the sale is happening through home deliveries these days and being a small-scale supermarket, we do not have the resources for it,” said Madhukar Tripathi, owner of a supermarket in southwest Delhi’s Palam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traders-want-curbs-on-market-timings-101619382535038.html
26-04-2021||Other||34-hour lockdown: Last year’s nightmare haunts migrant workers, destitute in Jammu||The 34-hour weekend lockdown, which was suddenly announced on Saturday, has migrant workers and the destitute in Jammu worried as memories of last year’s nationwide lockdown return to haunt them. Several beggars and destitute people were seen on deserted streets and outside temples, shrines and empty rotaries waiting for alms and food in vain.50-year-old Prem Kumar, a beggar in Gandhi Nagar, who is crippled since birth and moves around with the help of crutches, said, “Last year, when the Covid pandemic hit the country, a complete lockdown was imposed. The situation was extremely grim for beggars. Now, the lockdown is back again. We pray that it does not last long because we survive on the food and alms given to us by philanthropists.” “Temples, gurdwaras, mosques, churches, markets, restaurants and eateries are closed. Now, we are truly at God’s mercy,” he added. “Some philanthropists came today and gave us food in Gandhi Nagar area. I pray that this pandemic comes to an end because if lockdown is frequently imposed then people like us may starve,” he said. Last year in the middle of the Covid lockdown, the J&K government provided dry ration to beggars, the destitute and daily-wage earners but it didn’t reach everyone because of their enormous population spread across 20 districts of the UT. The lockdown has also put several migrant labourers from Bihar, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha in a quandary. “Last year, was tough for us. We somehow managed to reach home when trains started running. Transporters were already on strike for the past four days and now this lockdown has added to our woes. We have to leave our shanties early morning and walk 7km to reach the construction site,” said Mohan Lal of Bihar’s Kishanganj area. “Daily wage earners will bear the brunt of the lockdown. Unlike government employees, we have to work everyday to earn two square meals for our families. If the government has to impose lockdown, it should allow construction workers to work with Covid SoPs,” he added. His colleague Waheed said, “We appeal the government to allow construction activity and other allied sectors so that we can continue to eke out our living. Otherwise, we may have to head home again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/34hour-lockdown-last-year-s-nightmare-haunts-migrant-workers-destitute-in-jammu-101619382548054.html
26-04-2021||Other||Sunday shutdown: Testing, vaccination centres see lean footfall in Ludhiana||Even as deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma made it clear that residents stepping out to get themselves tested or jabbed won’t face any hurdles during the Sunday lockdown, the footfall at vaccination and testing centres remained lean throughout the day.District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said the numbers picked up as the day progressed. “Reports received from various centres show that 13, 276 vaccinations were carried out through the day,” he said. The number stood much higher at 17,000 on Saturday. A health department employee, on the condition of anonymity, said that people may not have turned up due to fear of police action. Sanjeev Sharma, a resident of Sarabha Nagar, said he had planned to get a Covid test on Sunday, however, he changed his mind at the last minute. “I did not wish to land in any sort of trouble with the police. So I decided to postpone it till Monday,” he said.Deepak Kumar, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “I thought the cops may question my on why I was venturing out during the lockdown. So I felt it was best to wait another day to get the vaccine.”District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Dhagat was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/testing-vaccination-centres-see-lean-footfall-amid-sunday-shutdown-101619382428194.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals should not raise alarm on O2 shortage unnecessarily: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday urged hospitals in Delhi not to raise the alarm unnecessarily over oxygen shortage and appealed to the media to verify claims before reporting.Such acts hamper efforts to provide help to hospitals that really need assistance, said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management in Delhi.“This morning, I got an SOS call from a hospital that had 18 kilo litres of oxygen in stock,” he tweeted.The hospital requires 4.8 kilo litres of oxygen a day and has a storage capacity of 21 kilo litres, meaning it still has three days of supply left, said the minister.Citing another such incident, Sisodia said a small hospital raised the alarm over oxygen shortage, but it was later found that it had been given 30 cylinders, of which 20 were still to be used.“I request hospitals not to raise alarm unnecessarily. Such acts hamper efforts to provide assistance to hospitals that really need help. The media should cross-check before reporting such cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-should-not-raise-alarm-on-o2-shortage-unnecessarily-sisodia-101619382255994.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana police take 7 months to lodge FIR in assault case||Police took seven months and nine days to lodge an FIR in an assault case that took place right outside the gate of Division Number 1 police station. Complainant Mohit Narang, 30, of Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri, alleged that the cops kept dilly-dallying the matter, forcing him to move the Punjab and Haryana high court with a writ petition.The accused in the case are Rashtrawadi Shiv Sena national president Sunil Tangri, his accomplices Surinder Kali, Sunny Tangri, Shalu Bawa and their five unidentified accomplices.Narang said he runs a mobile repair shop in a rented space in Gurmandi. The owner of the rental space wanted him to vacate the shop following which he moved the court for a stay order. The accused then started pressuring him to withdraw the case, which he agreed to. But on July 19, 2019, two days after he withdrew the case, the accused forcefully got him to vacate the shop. “They stole the material kept in my shop. On September 15, 2019, I filed a complaint against the accused at Division number 1. Soon after I came out of the police station, the accused started thrashing me and also stole ₹32,000 from my pockets,” said Narang.“Even though the incident took place outside the police station, no action was taken against the accused. After approaching the police multiple times, I moved a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court against the police inaction. Now, the cops have registered an FIR to save themselves,” he said.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A manhunt has been launched for the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-take-7-months-to-lodge-fir-in-assault-case-101619382247985.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||32 succumb to virus in HP in a day, highest this year||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,363 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, taking the total cases in the state to 87,501 while the death toll mounted to 1,323 after 32 patients succumbed to the contagion, the highest single-day toll this year so far. As many as 82 people have died in the last three days due to the virus. Of the new cases, 423 were recorded in Kangra, 229 in Sirmaur, 224 in Shimla, 149 in Solan, 104 in Hamirpur, 83 in Mandi, 64 in Bilaspur, 38 in Una, 27 in Kullu, 10 in Kinnaur, nine in Chamba and three in Lahaul-Spiti. With 12 deaths, Kangra reported the highest fatalities, followed by four deaths each in Shimla and Mandi, three each in Una and Hamirpur, two each in Solan and Sirmaur and one each in Bilaspur and Una. Meanwhile, active cases in the state reached 13,577 and recoveries reached 72,557. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 14,848 cases, followed by Shimla where 13,579 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 12,823 cases.Solan has 11,354 cases, Una 6,163 cases, Sirmaur 6,040, Hamirpur 5,514, Kullu 5,433, Bilaspur 4,642 , Chamba, 3,799, Lahaul-Spiti 1,702 and Kinnaur 1,604.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-succumb-to-virus-in-hp-in-a-day-highest-this-year-101619382187519.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Pandemic postcard||The evening breeze is cool. The blue sky is darkening. A pale moon has already surfaced. The air is filled with the incessant sound of ambulance sirens. The roads on which those ambulances are running cannot be seen amid the thick tree cover, but these desperate vehicles must be heading to nearby Safdarjung Hospital, or to All India Institute of Medical Sciences.If you count out the sound of sirens, then this corner of south Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village is picture postcard perfect. Stony remains of the 14th century are speckled across an expanse of green. The Hauz Khas lake is glimmering in the distance. The village’s lanes are completely empty due to the pandemic-era curfew. The cafes are closed. The aggressive nightclub bouncers and touts who would crowd the Main Street in less deadly times have disappeared. A few stray dogs are snoozing here and there, immersed in peace. The monument’s rusting metal gate is also locked, with nobody inside but for a lone gardener watering the grass with a long green hose, and a handful of uniformed security guards.The only antidote to the continuous wail of ambulance sirens is the continuous chirping of birds — mostly pigeons. They are settled on one of the monument’s domes, as if it were a community club, standing as close to each other as we humans would in cinema halls before the pandemic. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, the birds all at once scatter away. Some go towards the balconies of the monument-facing village houses, many of which have been turned into AirBnB rooms. Some go towards an amaltas tree that will only bloom next month, with its golden yellow flowers. And some head to a rooftop cafe that was blaring pop music late into the night as recently as last month—which is like another lifetime.Few moments pass. And suddenly a great flock of pigeons fly back from those many directions and settle upon the same dome. Perhaps they are the same birds. This intermittent communal merry-go-round continues for a long time. Finally, the night sets in. The moon is the only visible thing in the black sky. The birds have disappeared. The village is deathly quiet. But the air is still pierced by an ambulance siren now and then, not letting the village residents forget about the city’s unfolding tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-pandemic-postcard-101619381794381.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Assess loss to fruit trees due to snow: Jai Ram to DCs||Two days after the hail and unexpected snowfall caused extensive damage to apple orchards and stone fruit trees across Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur directed deputy commissioners to assess losses.Spring snowfall had caused major loss to fruit crops in Shimla, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur. The snow had scarred apple trees and stone fruit, including peaches, nectarines, cherries, plums, and apricots, in the high and mid-hills.A high-level meeting was held on Sunday to review the loss and relief will be subsequently sought from the Centre. The CM said untimely snow, hailstorm and rainfall had caused heavy losses to apple, wheat and peas in almost all districts of the state, which was a matter of concern. He also directed DCs to ask insurance agencies to send their agents to assess losses to crops covered under the Crop Insurance Scheme so that farmers and horticulturists could be provided compensation immediately. Former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta, who is a legislator from the affluent apple growing region Kotkhai, demanded that the government setup a high-level committee under a Cabinet-rank minister to assess the losses, the decision to shift posts of horticulture extension officers be reconsidered and pending payments of apple crop be released under market intervention schemes. “Farmers in Himachal have incurred a loss of around ₹1,500 crore, and the government must provide relief to them,” said former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assess-loss-to-fruit-trees-due-to-snow-jai-ram-to-dcs-101619382067913.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana left with just a day’s stock of vaccine||Two days after receiving 40,000 doses of Covid vaccine, the district has run out of its stock once again. As per health officials, Ludhiana was left with stock enough for just another day as of Sunday.On April 20, the health department had suspended vaccine supply to private hospitals in view of the supply shortage. In case the stock is not replenished in a day, the district will have to suspend inoculations at its government-run session sites too. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja confirmed that Ludhiana is left with only a day’s supply of vaccine. Dr Juneja said the district had received 40,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Chandigarh on Thursday but this stock has also been used up. “We now have supply only till Monday. We have requested for more vaccines and may get it in a day or two.”Nodal officer Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the health department used to get a fresh supply on routine basis. “We used to have around 30,000 to 40,000 doses in our stock normally, but due to the sudden spurt in the number of vaccinations, we are now facing a shortage,” said the nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-left-with-just-a-day-s-stock-of-vaccine-101619382008004.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||As govt runs out of Covid beds in Shimla, talks on with pvt players||With the coronavirus death toll rapidly climbing in Shimla, the district administration has taken over some civil hospitals and the government-run regional Ayurveda Hospital in Chotta Shimla, even as talks are on with private players to provide beds to Covid patients. The move comes amid reports of beds running out in the two government-run hospitals in the state — the state’s premier hospital, Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, which has 147 Covid beds, all of which are occupied and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU)Hospital, which has 90 earmarked Covid beds against 102 patients admitted at present. “We have ordered the take over of the Ayurveda Hospital and talks are on to take over private hospitals,” said Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi. IGMC has sought the government’s assistance to enhance facilities for Covid patients. “Our hospital has the infrastructure and if required we can increase our capacity to 300 beds. We have done it earlier as well,” said senior medical superintendent of police Janakraj Pakhretia. DDU Hospital medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta said, “We are adding 30 more Covid beds as we have reached full capacity.” The two hospitals also cater to patients from the outer Seraj regions of Kullu, Rampur Bushar, Rohru, Jubbal, Kotkhai. Besides, patients requiring emergency treatment from Kinnaur and Bilaspur are also referred to Shimla . DDU hospital was redesignated as a Covid care centre a week ago. The government has also taken over the civil hospital in Junga. The district administration has also notified the Panchayati Raj Training Institute, Mashobra, as a dedicated Covid-care centre. The centre has capacity to accommodate 34 persons and 30 additional beds are being added to the regional Ayurveda Centre. “The government needs to put in some serious efforts to enhance the bed capacity. Numerous people are in home isolation, some of whom are critically-ill but are hesitant to go to hospitals as they are at full capacity. People in the state capital are struggling to arrange oxygen concentrators,” said former mayor Sanjay Chauhan. While officially 1,033 people are in home isolation, the number of infected patients could be higher as may patients with flu-like symptoms are reluctant to get tested. Shimla has the highest case fatality ratio (CFR) of 2.4. The second biggest hospital in the state, Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College and Hospital, Tanda is also nearly at full capacity . The hospital has a bed capacity of 108, of which 100 are occupied .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-govt-runs-out-of-covid-beds-in-shimla-talks-on-with-pvt-players-101619381828092.html
26-04-2021||Other||Four out of 5 bottling plants in Ludhiana await liquid O2||With four out of the five bottling plants in the district awaiting supply of liquid oxygen, which is currently being diverted to states such as Delhi, authorities are walking the tightrope while trying to balance the supply and demand of oxygen cylinders. Amid the crisis, Ludhiana has offered help to neighbouring districts where the situation is grimmer. While 250 life-saving oxygen cylinders have been sent to Amritsar and Jalandhar, 25 have been sent to Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr).The district has two air separation plants (ASP), which are currently catering to the need of oxygen here.Deputy director of local government Amit Bambi, who has been given the charge of monitoring the oxygen supply, said, “Roughly speaking, the demand of oxygen cylinders, which was around 300 cylinders a day in the beginning of the year, has gone up to 2,000 cylinders a day now. While our two ASP units are generating roughly 1, 600 cylinders of oxygen a day, the gap of around 400 cylinders is being met from the one functional bottling unit, which has 500 MT of liquid oxygen in its stock.”“We have requested the government for liquid oxygen so that the rest of the bottling plants can also be made operational to meet the demand,” said Bambi.He added that in a huge respite, the five big hospitals in the city -- Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, SPS Hospital, Fortis and Mohandai Oswal Hospital – have a direct supply of oxygen. It is the smaller ones that require oxygen cylinders.Supply regulated, prices revisedThe doctors of private hospitals said the supply of oxygen has been regulated.Former president of Punjab Medical Council and member of the core committee of the Alliance of Doctors on Ethical Healthcare (ADEH), Dr Gurinder Grewal, said the price of oxygen has been revised. “Not only has the supply been regulated, the cost of filling oxygen has also been revised. In March, we could get oxygen cylinders refilled for ₹250, but now, it is available at a revised rate of ₹400 per refill.”Gagandeep Singh, owner of Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited, said while the rate of refilling of cylinders from air separation units have not been revised, the bottling units have revised the prices from the back-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-out-of-5-bottling-plants-in-ludhiana-await-liquid-o2-101619381587864.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K streets wear a deserted look amid Covid curfew||Jammu and Kashmir wore a deserted look on Sunday after the administration announced a ‘Covid curfew’ across Jammu and Kashmir from Saturday night to Monday morning. While people stayed inside their homes, police and Central Reserve Police Force jawans were deployed at all significant places. No vehicles were plying on the road, except essential services. At many places, police had blocked the roads with barbed wire and the barricades. On Saturday, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had announced imposition of weekend curfew in J&K after a spike in Covid cases.“Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8PM, 24th April (Saturday) till 6AM, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed, (sic)” Sinha’s office had tweeted. Amid surging cases, the government has already imposed night curfew across 20 districts. However, the weekend curfew was announced after the daily case count started crossing 2,000. The city’s business nerve centre Lal Chowk was empty as the police had barricaded the road last night. Nobody was allowed to move on the road. Likewise all the prominent roads and streets of Kashmir and business centres looked desolate. All the gardens of the city, including the Tulip Garden remained shut. Ordinarily, these gardens attract a significant crowd during weekends, especially tourists. After the surge in cases, tourist influx in the Valley has declined. The decision to impose curfew on the weekend was taken on the suggestion of experts, who have already requested the administration to impose lockdown in Kashmir to keep the situation under control. Some of the experts and doctors had even suggested a prolonged curfew as they fear the health infrastructure in J&K, especially Kashmir, will not be unable to tackle the daily influx of critical Covid patients.“The weekend curfew is good. But the government should go for prolonged curfew for a week or two. This will keep the disease well under control,” said a Government Medical College, Srinagar, doctor.Across Kashmir, police officials were seen encouraging people to sit inside their homes and abide to the curfew.“Great cooperation by the people. Heartening to see. We can limit the spread! Let only those in dire need come out on normal days as well!” tweeted Baramulla senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rayees Mohammad Bhat while posting pictures of curfew in Baramulla on social media. Police also requested people to wear masks.“Whilst we enforce lockdown outdoors, it is more important to take extreme precautions in indoor settings where the virus spreads more. Wear K95/N95 masks in cars,buses,offices. Avoid get togethers & open windows to allow air ventilation,” tweeted the Anantnag police on its social media handle.Meanwhile, Kashmir University has postponed all its offline postgraduate and undergraduate examinations till May 2. The campus will remain closed till April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-wears-a-deserted-look-amid-covid-curfew-101619381470165.html
26-04-2021||Other||Railways plans to deploy 40 coaches for Covid care in Punjab||Under an emergency plan, the Northern Railways has proposed to depute at least 40 coaches for Covid care at four different locations in Punjab.Each coach will have 16 beds equipped with basic amenities that a patient would require — handheld showers, mosquito nets, toilets, power sockets, oxygen cylinders and more.Sources said the number of Covid coaches may be enhanced as per medical requirements.The health ministry has a standard operating procedure (SOP) for deploying such coaches.“The coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid care centres as per guidelines issued by the health ministry,” said Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) GM Singh.Sources said the state public works department (PWD) had approached the railways on Friday about a plan to strengthen medical infrastructure amid a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases.Officials said the PWD wanted mobile care facilities at Bathinda, Ludhiana, Patiala, SAS Nagar, Amritsar and Jalandhar.Railway authorities said no coach converted for Covid patients was used last year in Punjab.As the infection rate is grim in the second wave, intensive plans are being worked out to house the patients with Covid symptoms, say officials.However, the railway authorities stated that the deployment of special coaches is not possible at Ambala and Patiala.“We do not have facilities of electric charging and water for maintaining regular hygiene of these coaches at Patiala and Ambala stations,” said the DRM.Balbir Singh, additional DRM (infrastructure) of Ferozepur, said ten coaches are readily available for utilisation to house the sick patients.“Punjab authorities have been apprised of our preparedness. Railways would need 24-96 hours to upgrade and provide at the required place,” he added.President of Association of Physicians of India (Malwa branch), Dr Vitull K Gupta said such coaches should be parked away from the railway stations.“Since the movement of trains is still on in the region, passengers should be kept away from the isolation wards to avoid virus contraction. We have written to the central authorities to ensure such couches are kept away from platforms,” said Gupta, a public health activist and physician from Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railways-plans-to-deploy-40-coaches-for-covid-care-in-punjab-101619380447989.html
26-04-2021||Other||With only 4 cases so far, Punjab aims to be malaria-free by year-end||In a drastic decline in malaria infections, Punjab has reported only four cases so far this year. With this, the state health department is hopeful of becoming malaria-free by the end of this year.Last year, the state had logged 109 cases, a major drop from the 1,040 cases witnessed in 2019.The data suggests that the state health authorities are close to achieving the target of eliminating indigenous malaria cases in Punjab, despite most of its staff being deployed on Covid-19 duties.In accordance with the national framework for malaria elimination in India, which was launched on February 11, 2016, Punjab was shortlisted in category 1 among 15 states with a vision of having zero indigenous malaria cases by 2021. Also, Punjab health and family welfare department had launched a malaria elimination campaign 2017-2021.Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state nodal officer for National Vector Borne Diseases Control Program (NVBDCP) Punjab, said that the state reported only four cases of malaria in Fatehgarh Sahib district this year, out of which one was imported and three were induced cases.Dr Grover said the main reasons behind the decline in malaria cases include regular focal spray in affected areas, distribution of long-lasting insecticides, bed nets, release of Gambushia fishes in ponds. “We continued the statewide surveillance even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.However, experts said that the favourable season for mosquito breeding starts from June to October, and only after can we determine the exact number of districts to have achieved malaria elimination by the end of 2021.Malaria is a potentially life-threatening parasitic disease caused by female anopheles mosquitoes. Mainly two parasites are common in Punjab — P vivax and P falciparam. Malaria infection has typical symptoms of fever, sweating and chills. World Malaria Day is observed on April 25 every year.Barnala civil surgeon Dr Harinderjeet Singh said that every fever case has to be screened for malaria. He added that people should be aware about source reduction activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-only-4-cases-so-far-punjab-aims-to-be-malaria-free-by-yearend-101619380388854.html
26-04-2021||Other||Multi-crore graft case: ED books ex-GMADA chief engineer for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a case under money laundering charges against former chief engineer of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) Surinderpal Singh, alias Pehalwan, and others in the multi-crore graft case.Besides Pehalwan, ED has also named Gurinderpal Singh, Amit Garg, Gurmesh Singh Gill, Mohit Kumar, along with two firms — Onkar Builders and Contractors, and Rajinder and Company — as accused in the case. The agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR), seen by HT, under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act at its zonal office in Jalandhar on the basis of probe details shared by Punjab vigilance bureau (VB).The ED has registered the case nearly four years after the VB shared the documents with the central agency in August 2017. Sources said the documents shared by VB were sufficient to lodge a money laundering case in 2017. Thereafter, the ED wrote letters seeking more details of the case in 2017 and 2018. The vigilance shared one chargesheet and some other case documents with the central agency in July 2020 in reply to the latter communication to the state agency in January 2019, almost after a period of one and a half years.The ED officials said they were yet to receive the remaining three challans from VB.In November 2019, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed an additional district and sessions court, Mohali, to finish its trial against Pehalwan, in an alleged multi-crore graft case within a year while denying bail. However, in 2020, Supreme Court granted him bail.The state vigilance bureau had arrested Pehalwan, an alleged favourite of the Badal family of Shiromani Akali Dal, on June 9, 2017. According to the vigilance probe, Pehalwan allotted works of around ₹1,200 crore at exorbitant rates. He is also accused of parking his black money in accounts of bogus firms and family members. Pehalwan joined as a junior engineer in Punjab mandi board in 1993. He became a superintending engineer in GMADA in 2014 and officiated as a chief engineer there from 2016.In September 2019, VB had also attached 59 properties of the former GMADA chief engineer amounting to ₹26 crore (approx) as per the orders of a Mohali court. The VB has already filed four challans against Pehalwan and others so far in the case.As per the vigilance probe, Pehalwan had registered three fake companies in the name of family members and made transactions of hundreds of crores through banks. During his GMADA stint, he had formed a fake construction company “Ek Onkar Builders and Construction Pvt Ltd” and illegally allotted it tenders thereby amassing ill-gotten money to the tune of ₹400 crore. He also purchased various properties in Ludhiana, Ropar, Mohali, and Chandigarh amounting to ₹26 crore with the money.The vigilance case against him and others had been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. He also faces two more vigilance cases of disproportionate assets and forging birth certificate to get a government job, registered in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/multicrore-graft-case-ed-books-ex-gmada-chief-engineer-for-money-laundering-101619380387924.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: 35 specialists from 8 dists shifted to medical colleges in Punjab||AMRITSARThe Punjab health and family welfare department has shifted 35 medical officers (MOs) of eight districts to three government medical colleges of the state for 15 days in view of the Covid surge.These MOs, who are specialists of anaesthesia, medicine and paediatrics, have been asked to report at government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot with immediate effect.Nineteen doctors have been asked to report in Patiala, 10 in Amritsar and six in Faridkot. Of the 35 medical officers shifted, 11 are from Patiala district, six each from Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib, four from Tarn Taran, three from Faridkot, two each from Barnala and Muktsar and one from Moga.The order of their transfer was issued on Saturday by the director, health and family welfare department, Gurinderbir Singh. The order directed the civil surgeons concerned to relieve the medical officers with immediate effect considering the Covid-19 pandemic in Punjab. Thirteen of the shifted doctors are specialists in medicine, 12 in anaesthesia and 10 in paediatrics.One of the doctors, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “Instead of recruiting doctors against the vacant posts in the state, the government has started shifting them mostly from rural areas. This will impact health services in rural institutions, which are already suffering due to shortage of doctors.”Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said: “Tackling the Covid situation is the department’s top priority at this point. We can manage with other doctors in the districts.”According to the health department record, nearly 40% posts of doctors are lying vacant in Tarn Taran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-35-specialists-from-8-dists-shifted-to-medical-colleges-in-punjab-101619378707900.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||District-level committees formed to monitor Remdesivir supply in Punjab||AMRITSARTo ensure undisrupted supply of the Covid drugs amid the second wave of the pandemic in Punjab, the food and drugs administration of the health department on Sunday formed district-level committees to monitor the supply, sale and purchase of Remdesivir.Remdesivir, an injectable anti-viral, aims to prevent replication of the virus in the infected people. It was manufactured in 2014 to treat Ebola, and has since been used to treat SARS and MERS. In 2020, the drug was repurposed for Covid treatment and clinical experience has shown that it works best in mildly ill to severe Covid-19 patients.“To control the misuse of Remdesivir and to ensure its easy availability in government and private hospitals, a “State Remdesivir Injection Monitoring Centre” has been formed. Nodal officers have been designated in each district as a part of monitoring committees, who will keep strict vigil on the supply, sale and purchase of Remdesivir,” said commissionerate of food and drugs administration, Punjab, in a letter.The letter reads that Remdesivir will not be sold to any person, firm or hospital without prior written consent or permission from the district nodal officer. In government and private hospitals, the daily usage of the anti-viral drug is over 50 doses, across the state.The move came a day after a Jalandhar-based doctor and his aide were arrested by police for black marketing Remdesivir. During a raid, several empty vials of Remdesivir were found at a medical centre, for which no bill of purchase or receipt of patients was produced.“The state has received the first batch of 3,000 Remdesivir doses from a private firm and we have started distributing it to the district health departments, according to their consumption and Covid patient load. Other stock of 5,000 doses from the same firm is in the pipeline. The Centre has also decided to send another 13,400 doses to Punjab. District-level monitoring teams have been formed to check black marketing and misuse of the drug,”, said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.“No private hospital in Punjab will be allowed to purchase Remdesivir injection directly from the supplier as they will have to take the stock from the district nodal officer, with proper permission and consent form. Also, any Covid-19 patient or their attendant can take the injection from the district health department, after showing Covid-19 test reports or identity proofs.”As per health experts, Remdesivir is an experimental drug for use, the efficacy of which has not been proven yet. But still, being the only anti-viral drug available in the country, people are purchasing it from chemist shops at high price. The injection is given to moderate and severely ill patients but it is not a life-saving drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/districtlevel-committees-formed-to-monitor-remdesivir-supply-in-punjab-101619378588740.html
26-04-2021||Other||NCB nabs man with cannabis worth ₹40 lakh hidden in car from Thane||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested an alleged drug supplier, Jaybharat Rathod, and recovered 28kg of cannabis worth ₹40 lakh from his car. The alleged main supplier, Sunil Bhandari, is a wanted in the case and he and Rathod have been supplying drugs from more than five years and brought the cannabis from Orissa to supply in Thane and Mumbai, said NCB. “On the basis of specific information, a team of NCB officers laid a trap in Badlapur, Thane, on Sunday morning and nabbed Rathod. On searching him, NCB officers found five packets containing cannabis, wrapped in a plastic tape and concealed under the bonnet. On searching further, the officers found that the accused had made a cavity in the rear side of the vehicle, where he had hidden additional nine packets of cannabis,” said NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Each of the packets contained 2kg each of cannabis. During interrogation, Rathod confessed that he is a peddler and the main supplier is Bhandari, who gave him the contraband to distribute to small peddlers in Thane and Mumbai, said Wankhede. NCB has been conducting a continuous operation against drug suppliers and peddlers in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas. On April 21, the agency had raided multiple places in Mumbai and arrested three persons, including a Cameroon national and a wanted drug supplier Sabir Saukat Ali, from Nallasopara and allegedly seized an intermediate quality of mephedrone, 20 ecstasy tablets and ₹9.25 lakh from them. Ali is allegedly involved in exporting cannabis to Qatar from Mumbai. He was wanted in a previous case where he had booked a parcel of 5kg of cannabis concealed in the oxygen pipe of an aquarium through a courier service in Mira-Bhayander area to be sent to Qatar, said Wankhede. Ali is a repeat offender and was earlier arrested in the possession of 10kg of charas. He was also arrested by Delhi NCB a 335-gram heroin case, added Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-nabs-man-with-cannabis-worth-40-lakh-hidden-in-car-from-thane-101619378587277.html
26-04-2021||Other||2 days after fire, Maharashtra hospital’s CEO, director held||Two days after 15 people lost their lives in the fire at Vijay Vallabh Hospital, Virar, the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate’s crime branch early on Sunday arrested the medical facility’s chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director, Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, for culpable homicide and other offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Dr Mahesh Patil, deputy commissioner of police (crime), zone 3, MBVV, said. A police officer said that despite it being mandatory to renew fire safety licence every six months, the hospital had not renewed its licence since last September.“The hospital is one of the top three private Covid-19 facilities in Vasai-Virar region and should have focused on the fire safety,” said the officer.The Vasai court on Sunday afternoon remanded the two accused in police custody till Monday. Another director, Bastimal Shah, and a few doctors and staff are also booked and are yet to be arrested, said Dr Patil.Meanwhile, a fire brigade official said there was a delay in calling the fire department. “We received the call informing about the fire on Friday at 3.13am, following which we reached the spot in five minutes and doused the fire by 3.45am. Two nurses had noticed sparks in the central AC unit and the hospital staff had unsuccessfully tried to douse the flames using fire extinguishers, in which 15 precious minutes were wasted. They should have called us immediately. We will mention this aspect in our report to the police and other agencies,” said the official.“When we reached the spot, we rushed to the ICU (intensive care unit) on the second floor and rescued four patients and admitted them to other hospitals. But two patients died during the treatment, while two others are undergoing treatment at Chandansar Covid Care Hospital and Priyadarshini Hospital, Virar (East),” said the fire brigade official.According to the police, 70 more patients who were admitted in the first, third and fourth floors have been moved to hospitals in the Vasai region and to the Jumbo Covid centre at Dahisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-days-after-fire-maharashtra-hospital-s-ceo-director-held-101619378527938.html
26-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccination camps in open spaces too: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced that it will hold Covid-19 vaccination camps in open spaces as well. “To prevent the spread of infection, the state government has decided to ensure the second dose of vaccination at a rapid pace to those who are already inoculated with the first dose. For this, the government is now arranging to set up camps in open spaces/areas so that people do not fear infection,” the government said in a statement. The government said it took the decision as it was observed that in the last several days that people were apprehensive about getting infected during vaccination in hospitals. The government will run the immunisation programme rapidly with its own resources and increase the vaccination centres in the state. At the same time, the vaccination programme will also be conducted in the multi-national companies and offices in the state. So far, a total of 1,17,77,209 vaccine doses have been administered in the state. This includes the first dose of a total of 97,79, 846 vaccines and as many as 19,97,363 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccination-camps-in-open-spaces-too-up-govt-101619378527279.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to order 30 lakh doses of Covishield for 18-45 age group vaccination||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the health department to order 30 lakh Covishield doses for vaccination of the 18-45 age group, with directions to use the CM Covid Relief Fund for meeting the vaccine requirements of the poor. Amarinder asked the department to immediately place the order with the Serum Institute of India so that supplies can start coming in at the earliest. According to the information provided by the central government, the delivery of vaccines for the 18-45 age group is not expected before May 15. To ensure free vaccination of the poor in government hospitals, Amarinder said in addition to the CM Covid Relief Fund, corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds should also be tapped into. Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) should be asked to support the vaccination of industrial workers covered in the scheme, and the Board for Welfare of Construction Workers for construction labourers, he added. Reviewing the vaccination strategy, Amarinder requested the expert group led by Dr Gagandeep Kang to submit the plan for prioritisation of 18-45 years group (vulnerable groups in high risk areas – high transmission, high mortality etc including Construction workers and Industrial workers) in its first report by April 29. The CM made it clear that in pursuing the 18-45 age group vaccination strategy, the state government will not compromise on vaccination of 45-plus age group. “The government will consider approaching Astrazeneca (India) directly to allow Punjab government to avail the lower price of ₹162 per dose available to the global community,” he said. The state has so far received 29,36,770 doses of Covishield (including 3.5 lakh doses meant for AFMS and central healthcare workers) and 3.34 lakh doses of Covaxin. Out of the available stock of vaccine till April 22, 25.48 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.64 lakh doses of Covaxin had been utilised, leaving the state with only 2.81 lakh doses of Covishield and 27,400 doses of Covaxin, according to an official spokesperson. The health department had on April 22 written to the Union health ministry seeking additional supply of 10 lakh doses of Covishield to be made available on priority to enable the state to meet its immediate requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-order-30-lakh-doses-of-covishield-for-18-45-age-group-vaccination-101619378467789.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s women entrepreneurs serving hope, bouncing back amid pandemic||CHANDIGARH: As author-critic Eugene Briffault writes: “Those who underestimate women where culinary matters are concerned forget their high level of achievement which has earned them the accolade of cordon-bleu. It is impossible to bring more skill and delicacy, more taste and intelligence to the choice and preparation of dishes than women have brought.” Shattering stereotypes with their game-changing performance in a male-dominated world, women entrepreneurs of Chandigarh are increasing taking up leadership roles in the food and beverage industry. These women are not only changing the tricity’s dining culture with their entrepreneurial, pioneering and culinary skills, but are also coming up with dynamic solutions to the challenges the industry faces amid the Covid-19 pandemic. We spoke to some such women in the tricity about their journey so far and the challenges ahead. THE STARTERS “My mom started a little bakery when I was a year old. That inspired me to be a pastry chef,” says Gayatri Sood, 28, of Monica’s Pudding & Pies. Brooklyn Central’s Annu Bains, 56, says she didn’t really have any plans to join the industry as she’s an interior architect, but it was destiny that took her on the path of hospitality. For Puja Aggarwal, 39, of Back to Source, it was her love to cook and feed a large number of people that made her take up this career. So Delhi Khari Baoli’s Binny Mahajan, 43, says that hospitality is in her blood. STAYING AFLOAT AMID CHALLENGES “After the lockdown and now with the second wave of Covid, the challenge our industry faces is eliminating fear from the minds of customers so that they can resume coming out to dine,” says Aggarwal. “There will be changes in terms of sanitation and infrastructure with the Covid SOP in place. It’s an added responsibility to ensure safety of our staff and customers and regain their trust,” she says. “We have seen changes in almost every field since the pandemic hit. As a bakery, we were involved in happy moments of people’s life: Birthdays, anniversaries, weddings and baby showers. But now, people are going for small gatherings,” says Sood. “Luckily, they want an equally special cake to celebrate the occasion. So, we make smaller cakes and hampers for families,” she adds. Bains says, “Covid has taken away some sheen off the restaurant industry. Lots of places have downsized or shut down world over. Staying afloat is the biggest challenge.” “We are laying stress on following Covid prevention protocol for the staff and the customers. We have stopped giving out hard copies and have switched to digital menus with QR codes,” she says, adding, “With the vaccine drive in place, we are hoping for normalcy to return soon.” UPGRADE, UPDATE, ADAPT Mahajan believes that Covid has made lasting changes in the way we live, work and eat. “Post-Covid, ours is the worst-hit industry. People’s eating habits have changed. Eating out is out of the question for many, especially due to the fear of contracting the virus. The joy of bonding over food and drinks is barely there since last year,” she says. “So, to survive this crisis, we have been upgrading our packaging and infrastructure because now, customers will only want to dine at places where they trust that the food served is hygienic and there’s no threat to their health and safety,” Mahajan adds. GLORIOUS LAST CHAPTER “The key to success is consistency in taste, Instagramable plating, good service, sustainable practices, innovation in the menu, and customer feedback. Also, as Danny Myers says in the book, Setting The Table: Always write a great last chapter. That’s what we endeavour to do,” says Bains. Mahajan says, “Every building needs a strong foundation; similarly, every successful working woman has a strong family support. My pillars are my husband, in-laws, sister and my kids. My children are my problem-solvers. Today’s kids come up with such unique and easy solutions to challenges that it amazes me. Above all, constantly pushing yourself to do better is a must.” “It’s important to maintain quality. We keep reviewing our products to suit the requirement,” says Sood. For Aggarwal, “Giving your 100% to the job at hand, and using best quality and natural ingredients while cooking lead to long-term success. Whenever you serve others or cook for them, it should be a manifestation of what you expect others to serve you. That way, you’re bound to be satisfied with your work, get noticed, and flourish.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-women-entrepreneurs-serving-hope-bouncing-back-amid-pandemic-101619378408430.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects bail of man who fleeced couple of ₹2.53 crore||The Bombay high court (HC), while observing that though a couple had not been diligent in verifying the person to whom they were paying money on the pretext of helping a widow living in Iran and transferred her husband’s wealth of 1.8 million dollars to India, refused to grant bail to the accused who had extracted ₹2.53 crore from the couple in the name of the Iranian woman. The accused, a foreign national, who was arrested in February 2019, sought bail on the grounds that there were other accused who pocketed the money. The single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of David Markas, was informed by advocate Ashish Baraskar that his client was a foreign national but had a valid visa and all his documents were in order in the year when the alleged offence took place.Baraskar further submitted that in their complaint the couple had not mentioned the name of the applicant and he had not played any part in the offence as he did not receive anything from the spoils of the crime. In light of these submissions, Baraskar sought regular bail for his client.According to the couple, they had been to Bangkok in 2017 and on their return, the husband befriended a woman claiming to be from Iran on Facebook. The woman claimed to be an American citizen but was living in Iran after her husband had died in a war. She further convinced the man that her husband had left $1.8 million for herself and her 12-year-old son but her deceased husband’s brother was forcing her to marry him. Hence, she sought help to transfer the amount to India which the couple agreed.The couple was contacted by different people asking them to deposit various amounts to different processes and parcels sent by the Iranian woman. It was only after the couple transferred around ₹2.53 crore to various accounts mentioned by the callers and visitors to their homes, did they realise that they were being cheated.The police laid a trap when the applicant called the couple to the domestic airport to hand over ₹16 lakh for a machine they had been told about earlier.Additional public prosecutor PN Dabholkar opposed the bail application and said that the mobile phone used by the accused was the same from which the couple was contacted regularly, hence his complicity in the offence with three others could not be ruled out; therefore his bail application should be rejected.After hearing the submissions the court observed, “Undoubtedly, the informant and her husband should have been diligent and careful but the fact remains that both of them were misled and with clear deceit they were made to part with their huge amount.” The court further said, “There is no doubt that the applicant himself had called the informant to the domestic airport to collect the amount. Therefore, he is a party to the larger conspiracy of extracting money from the informant by cheating her. In light of this, the court said that as the offence was serious and as such cases were on the rise it was not granting bail to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-bail-of-man-who-fleeced-couple-of-2-53-crore-101619378407269.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases dip: Is Mumbai’s second wave curve flattening?||As the number of cases in the city has been on the decline on a week-on-week basis (between April 4 and April 24), state Covid-19 taskforce member Dr Shashank Joshi said that the flattening of the curve has started in the city. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that the situation will have to be monitored until April 30, before claiming that the decline of the second wave in the city has started. The worrying part is the number of deaths going up on weekly basis.As the testing in the week between April 18 to 24 has gone down, the positivity rate too has gone down simultaneously. The positivity rate in the first week between April 4 and 10 was around 20% that went down to around 18% between April 11 to 17, followed by around 17% between April 18 to 24.According to the state health department data, between April 4 and April 10, 69,037 cases were reported followed by 190 deaths. During the same period, 341,614 tests were conducted. Further, in the next week between April 11 and April 17, 60,506 cases were reported followed by 357 deaths. During the same period, 335,187 tests were conducted. In the last week, between April 18 and April 24, 51,128 cases were reported followed by 425 deaths. In this period 297,738 tests were conducted.During this period, the active cases went up from 73,281 on April 4 to 91,110 on April 11 and then recorded a decline to 86,443 on April 17, to 78,226, as of April 24.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday said, “Although the daily number of patients in Mumbai has stabilised between 8,000 and 10,000 in the last 15 days, the next 15 days are even more important.” According to Chahal, it is only after April 30 one will be in a position to say whether the number of cases being reported in the city is witnessing a downfall or not.On Sunday, 5,498 cases were reported in the city followed by 64 deaths. This took the total case tally to 627,644 and toll to 12,790. The recovery rate in the city is 85% with 537,944 recoveries, and mortality is 2.03%. There are 75,498 active cases in the city. Dharavi reported 37 cases taking the total to 6,325.Meanwhile, Dr Shashank Joshi, said, “Whenever there is a peak, the number of deaths tends to increase. However, this all will come into control within the next two weeks. For now, we can say that the flattening of the curve has started in the city and pockets of the state. However, we do not need to be relaxed but only be prepared and cautious anticipating the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-dip-is-mumbai-s-second-wave-curve-flattening-101619378347781.html
26-04-2021||Other||Can’t book WhatsApp group admin if common intent not proved: Bombay HC||Observing that the in-charge/admin of a WhatsApp group cannot be held liable for an obscene content posted in the group by members unless common intent is proved, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently quashed the first information report (FIR) registered against a 33-year-old Gondia resident in 2016. The man was booked on the complaint of a 41-year-old woman after “sexually coloured” remarks against her were posted in a WhatsApp group, of which the Gondia resident was an admin. A division bench of justice ZA Haq and justice Amit Borkar, while hearing the criminal application by Kishor Tarone, then the president of the youth wing of a political party in Gondia district, was informed by advocate Rajendra Daga that the application challenged the FIR and chargesheet registered against his client at the Arjuni-Morgaon police station and sought to set it aside. Daga submitted that as per the FIR lodged by the woman, despite being a group admin, Tarone neither removed the co-accused who posted the objectionable remarks in the group nor sought an apology from him and was thus named an abettor in the case. Tarone was booked for punishable offences for making sexually coloured remarks, sexual harassment and (abetment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. However, Daga submitted that there was no incriminating evidence against his and hence, the FIR should be quashed. After getting conversant with the functioning of the messaging service, the bench observed, “Once the group is created, functioning of the administrator and that of the members is at par with each other, except the power of adding or deleting members to the group. The administrator does not have power to regulate, moderate or censor the content before it is posted on the group. But, if a member of the group posts any content, which is actionable under law, such person can be held liable under relevant provisions of law.” Noting that there was no criminal liability on a group admin for members’ posts, the bench said, “In the absence of specific penal provision creating vicarious liability, an administrator of a WhatsApp group cannot be held liable for objectionable content posted by a member of a group, unless it is shown that there was common intention or pre-arranged plan acting in concert pursuant to such plan by the member and the administrator.” The bench further said, “When a person creates a WhatsApp group, they cannot be expected to presume or to have advance knowledge of the criminal acts of the member of the group.” The bench, while quashing the FIR against Tarone, noted, “In our opinion, in the facts of present case, non-removal of a member by administrator of a WhatsApp group or failure to seek apology from a member, who had posted the objectionable remark, would not amount to making sexually coloured remarks by administrator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-book-whatsapp-group-admin-if-common-intent-not-proved-bombay-hc-101619378347271.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 7,014, Punjab logs highest-ever single-day spike in Covid cases||ChandigarhSeventy-six more people died due to coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as the state reported another record single-day spike of 7,014 cases, taking its infection tally to 3,39,090, according to a medical bulletin. The state had seen 6,762 cases on April 23. With 76 more fatalities in the past 24 hours, the death toll in the state reached 8,432, according to the a medical bulletin. Amid a record jump in infection numbers, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged people to exercise restraint on non-essential travel. Fourteen people died in Patiala, nine each in Amritsar and Ludhiana and six in Hoshiarpur. Ludhiana recorded the maximum 1,389 cases, followed by 893 in Mohali, 648 in Jalandhar, 569 in Amritsar and 495 in Patiala. A total of 5,315 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,82,504, the bulletin said.There are 74 critical patients who are on ventilator while 584 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 69,61,532 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.The CM expressed concern over the situation across the country and appealed to people to exercise greater restraint.“We cannot let the situation in the state go out of hand. Our daily cases are currently ranging around 5,500-6,000 with over 10 per cent positivity in the past one week,” he said. “There are already signs of stress on the health system with increased demand for oxygen. The state is also receiving persons from neighbouring states for treatment, some of whom may be relatives of our people. In such a scenario, it is important that we collectively fight the pandemic,” said the CM in a statement. Meanwhile, all malls, shops, restaurants, and markets remained shut on Sunday in the state. The government had announced stricter curbs, including the closure of markets. Only shops dealing in essential items such as medicines and vegetables remained open at some places. 26 deaths at Rajindra Hospital in 24 hoursPatiala: Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, reported 26 deaths due to the virus in the past 24 hours. Most of the patients belonged to Patiala district and some from the neighbouring districts.The district health department on Sunday recorded 14 deaths, highest since the pandemic outbreak. Over 250 patients are admitted in hospital’s Covid care centre, and eight patients are on ventilator support.The influx of patients has increased at Rajindra hospital as people from Haryana and Delhi have started approaching the facility for Covid treatment due to shortage of beds and oxygen supply in their states. Dr RPS Sibia, Covid care in-charge, said the mortality rate is high this year as patients are approaching the hospital in an advanced and critical stage.“Most of the patients are in very critical state with 30-40%of oxygen saturation level. On Sunday, one of the patients came to the hospital 18% of oxygen level. We immediately provided with oxygen supply and rushed him in ICU,” Dr Sibia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-7-014-punjab-logs-highest-ever-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-101619378288350.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar hospitals continue to face shortage of oxygen||Even after six patients died at a private Amritsar hospital for want of oxygen on Saturday, government and private hospitals in the holy city are struggling to meet the requirement of the life-saving gas.The district administration and the health department are on toes as private hospitals in the district, which are running short of the oxygen supply, are refusing to admit the critical Covid-19 patients.Six critical patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, died on Saturday morning after the medical oxygen supply dried up at Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital in Amritsar. The incident has increased the hardship for the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, the only government-run hospital in the Punjab’s Majha region with Level-3 treatment facility, as the patient load is increasing every hour. Also, the private hospitals are referring critical patients to GMCH because of oxygen crisis. “Against the requirement of around 32 MT of oxygen per day, we are receiving only 25 to 28 MT. The private hospitals are struggling to arrange oxygen cylinders as a result of which we are asking them to refer critical patients to government hospitals,” said Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. Khaira added, “The situation is grim as the GMCH is also struggling to meet the requirement of the medical oxygen. We are making regular requests to state health department for ensuring proper supply.”Till filing of the story, GMCH was only left with 4-5 hours of the oxygen supply while they are expecting to receive another batch of oxygen cylinders, later in the night. GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said: “The patient load is increasing in the hospital after the Saturday incident. At present, over 200 Covid-19 patients are admitted to the hospital of which over 140 are on oxygen support. Sooner or later, the others will also require oxygen supply, but we are receiving very less supply. At least 15 MT are required in the hospital daily which will gradually increase due to more admission of the Covid-19 patients.”The district administration has set up a Covid-19 civil control room at the Red Cross building where people can consult health experts in case of emergency. Also, people can visit the control room if they require oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-hospitals-continue-to-face-shortage-of-oxygen-101619378107887.html
26-04-2021||Other||Vax for 18+: KDMC identifies 75 spots for new centres||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has identified nearly 75 places to carry out the vaccination for 18 years and above age, which is slated to begin from May 1. Most of these places are civic schools and other plots. “As a part of preparing for the next vaccination drive which will cater to citizens above 18 years of age, we have had a meeting, in which we have identified places for the vaccination drive. However, we have to finalise them once the guidelines from the state government are released. The guidelines shall be provided this week,” said Sandip Nimbalkar, medical officer, KDMC. The civic body also claimed that it will have to outsource people to carry out the vaccination drive to avoid a staff crunch. “We will have to outsource people to fill in the manpower required for carrying out the vaccination drive,” said Nimbalkar. Presently the KDMC is conducting the vaccination drive only at its civic centres, while the vaccination at private centres is closed due to lack of doses. The civic body received a fresh stock of 12,000 Covishield and 1,000 Covaxin doses on Sunday. On Sunday all the private centres were shut, while the civic centres were functioning. Beneficiaries, however, complained that the second dose is not available in any of the centres even after following up for one week. “I checked almost four to five centres for the second dose. It is not available anywhere. How will the civic body run the vaccination drive for those above 18 years of age?,” said Madhavi Joshi, a resident of Adharwadi in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vax-for-18-kdmc-identifies-75-spots-for-new-centres-101619377867263.html
26-04-2021||Other||Centre created barrier by hiking Covid vaccine prices: DK Shivakumar||BengaluruKarnataka Congress unit president DK Shivakumar said on Sunday that the Centre is creating a barrier by increasing prices of Covid-19 vaccines, demanding that free vaccination be provided to all.“India is probably the only country which is discussing vaccine prices, when it’s being given for free across the world. Why has Karnataka govt still not announced FREE VACCINATION for all? I demand that free vaccines be given to all citizens & a roll-out plan be shared asap,” Shivakumar tweeted.The statements come days before the inoculation is scheduled to open up for 18-45 age group from May 1 to help contain the surge of Covid-19 cases.The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister BS Yediyurappa for their lack of preparedness to deal with the second wave.“Instead of encouraging people to get vaccinated, @BJP4India govt has created a barrier by increasing the prices of vaccines. Mr. @narendramodi, Instead of PR events like ‘Tika Utsav’, ensure free #Covid19 vaccination to everyone,” said Siddaramaiah, leader of the opposition and former chief minister said.Though Karnataka is yet to announce the vaccine strategy, the government is expected to take a call on this at a cabinet meeting scheduled on Monday. Karnataka has ordered 10 million doses of vaccine costing ₹400 crore for the first phase.“Where are the 25 MPs from @BJP4Karnataka hiding during this time of crisis? These MPs should sit in front of @PMOIndia @narendramodi’s house & demand the necessary facilities required to tackle the pandemic,” Siddaramaiah posted in a six-part post on Twitter.Vaccine makers have announced the price at which they would sell the vaccine in the open market. Serum Institute of India has said that it will charge ₹400 per Covishield dose for the state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals. Hyderabad-based vaccine major Bharat Biotech would charge ₹600 for state governments and ₹1200 for private hospitals.Siddaramaiah also hit out at the BJP for celebrating the 5-kg rice scheme announced by the Prime Minister. He said the same leaders were trying to end the Anna Bhagya, a scheme to provide 7kg free rice during his term from 2013 to 2018.“@BJP4Karnataka leaders are celebrating the 5kg free rice scheme announced by @narendramodi but the same leaders made all attempts to end #AnnaBhagya scheme which provided 7kgs of free rice. This is an example for @BJP4Karnataka’s sickness,” Siddaramaiah said.“I have always been suggesting the govt to provide 10 kgs of free rice to all distressed people till the pandemic is over @PMOIndia should immediately consider this suggestion & ensure everyone gets 10 kgs of free rice,” he said in another post.He said that the BJP government is trying to reduce the amount of rice for the poor, asking Yediyurappa to “end this injustice immediately so that poor people don’t curse you.”BJP REACTION TO BE ADDED||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-created-barrier-by-hiking-covid-vaccine-prices-dk-shivakumar-101619377810407.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh man missing for a month, community members hold protest in Peshawar||Members of the Sikh community protested in Pakistan’s Peshawar city, demanding the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial government find a local youth from their community who has been missing for the last one month.Speaking at the protest outside the Peshawar Press Club on Saturday, community leader Parvinder Singh said Avinash Singh was well-educated and his family had no ill-relations.Scores of protesters, including women and children, demonstrated, holding banners and placards. They alleged Avinash had been kidnapped by anti-social elements.They demanded to know how could Avinash be missing for over a month and yet the local police had knowledge in the matter. Avinash is believed to be about 25 to 30 years old.The demonstrators said Avinash was missing from the jurisdiction of Gulberg police station.They demanded the provincial government take all possible steps to find Avinash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-man-missing-for-a-month-community-members-hold-protest-in-peshawar-101619377809883.html
26-04-2021||Other||4 die in Rewari due to alleged shortage of oxygen supply||Four Covid-19 patients died at a private hospital in Rewari allegedly due to a shortage in oxygen supply.The incident took place at Virat Hospital on Sunday at around 2.30pm in which four persons, including three residents of Rewari and a 48-year-old Delhi man, died due to low pressure of oxygen, alleged their kin.Families of the victims blocked the road outside the hospital and raised slogans.Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav and civil surgeon Dr Sushil Mahi reached the spot and tried to convince them to end the protest. Later, police were called to control the situation.The son of a 56-year-old woman who died on Sunday said that his mother was admitted at the hospital and was on oxygen support.“My mother complained of difficulty in breathing and requested the hospital staff to help but to no avail,” he said.Dharmender Kumar, operational head of Virat Hospital, said that 114 Covid-infected patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.“Four patients have died today. We have been complaining of shortage of oxygen since Sunday morning but the health department officials are not responding. We need over 300 oxygen cylinders on a daily basis but our supply was reduced,” he added.Rewari civil surgeon Dr Sushil Mahi denied that the patients died due to shortage of oxygen.“We had provided additional 140 gas cylinders to the private hospital on Saturday evening and there is no shortage of oxygen supply. Had low oxygen pressure been the cause of death, other patients would have also been impacted,” he added.Former minister and senior Congress leader Ajay Yadav reached the hospital and blamed the district health officials for not providing oxygen supply to the private hospital.“People are dying and the civil surgeon has failed to control the situation. People are forced to arrange oxygen cylinders on their own to save lives of their loved ones,” Yadav added.Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar, who has additional charge of Rewari DC, said that a committee under the supervision of ADC Rahul Hooda has been formed to investigate the matter and submit report within 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-die-in-rewari-due-to-alleged-shortage-of-oxygen-supply-101619377808919.html
26-04-2021||Other||Karnataka cabinet to take call on lockdown today||BengaluruKarnataka minister for large and medium industries Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday that the government is deliberating if it has to go in for a complete lockdown as a measure to contain the Covid-19 surge in the state and its capital, Bengaluru.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has already put in place a night and weekend curfew which has now turned into an almost lockdown-like situation in the southern state, which is among the worst-hit regions in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic.“There are discussions going on if we should have curfew on other days as well. There are discussions to impose a complete lockdown or not,” Shettar told reporters.Yediyurappa will chair a cabinet meeting on Monday to discuss if the state will go into a lockdown and other Covid-related issues, at least two people aware of the developments said.“We also do not want to go in for a lockdown but the situation is such that if we don’t put restrictions, the people will not come under control,” Shettar said.“Earlier we had a lockdown for three months, this is about 8-10 days and we have to break the chain,” he added.The statements come on a day when Karnataka and its capital registered 34804 and 20733 new infections, highest single-day spike,. The positivity rate in Karnataka reached almost 20% in the 24 hours on Saturday, raising concerns on the rapidly deteriorating health crisis in India’s IT capital and the rest of the state.Bengaluru accounted for 77 out of the 143 fatalities reported on Sunday.The active cases in Karnataka stood at 262,162, of which Bengaluru accounts for 180,542, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Almost all 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least a 100 new infections with just Gadag and Haveri registering 76 and 99 cases. Kodagu, the coffee growing district of Karnataka, registered 1077 new infections while Tumakuru reported 1153 cases, indicating the extent of the spread in the second wave, which is expected to peak in the first week of May. An analysis by Hindustan Times has estimated Bengaluru will report around 25,000 cases per day by the beginning of May.The Yediyurappa-led government faces criticism for making little or no preparations to deal with the surge in the second wave despite clear warnings provided by the technical advisory committee (TAC) in November last year.Though Yediyurappa had categorically denied that there would be no lockdown in Karnataka, his government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions in Bengaluru and across the state, which allow only shops and industries dealing with essential services to operate and prevent movement of people. The restrictions have added to the air of uncertainty in Karnataka and its capital as small traders, businessmen and others are unsure of when things would return to normal nor have any clarity on if the administration will provide some financial relief for the losses due to the closure.The government, in an addendum to the existing guidelines, said that the number of people allowed for a funerals and cremation will be less than five.K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister, said on Sunday that the chief minister will have to take a call on announcing compensation packages, if any.The surge has also resulted in an acute shortage of hospital beds in Karnataka and Bengaluru with less than 40 intensive care unit (ICU) and those with ventilator beds available in India’s IT capital.“(The) government is mulling to set up modular ICU and ventilator beds at Victoria and other teaching hospital campuses,” Sudhakar said. He added that around 85 beds in one building on Victoria campus and 180 beds in PMSSY will be reserved for Covid. “Along with this 100-150 bed makeshift hospitals will be set up. Makeshift hospitals will also be set up on other suitable medical college hospital campuses,” he added.The minister said 5000 portable oxygen generators for Bengaluru and 1000 each for all districts will be provided. “75% of the beds in all private medical colleges will be reserved for Covid-19. 2000-3000 additional beds will be set up in makeshift units at all government hospitals within 15 days,” he said.He also added that the Centre has allocated 1,22,000 Remdesivir to the state and increased daily allocation of medical oxygen from 300 MT to 800 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-cabinet-to-take-call-on-lockdown-today-101619377748495.html
26-04-2021||Other||Need a new Manmohan Singh to revive economy: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the state of the economy and the handling of the Covid-19 crisis and said that winning the West Bengal election is not a “life-saving drug” that India’s economy needs. Citing the example of late American President Franklin D Roosevelt – who had steered the US to economic recovery after the Great Depression – Raut said that Modi now needs to come out of poet Rabindranath Tagore’s role and get into Roosevelt’s role. He also slammed finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman over the economy and said India needs a “new Manmohan Singh” to revive the economy. The Sena leader, in his weekly column Rokhthok, in party mouthpiece Saamana, equated the current recession to the slowdowns experienced after wars or the two World Wars. He added that the pandemic brought a dreadful recession across the globe and the economy of the country has collapsed. In an attack on PM Modi, Raut wrote: “When leaders are self-contented and self-esteemed, this is bound to happen. For the economy to speed up, we need a Manmohan Singh. PM Modi first needs to come out of the role of Rabindranath Tagore and enter the role of F Roosevelt.” Raut added that the production rate in the country has gone down. He said that people had lost jobs during the demonetisation in November 2016 and the remaining ones lost their jobs in the pandemic. The spending power has gone and the savings are kept to put food on the table in the future, he said. “In such dire situation, we have to create a new Manmohan Singh to give the reins of the country’s economy. Today, 60% of the labourers are without jobs. The national income has gone down by two-thirds, but our leaders are listless and self-contented. PM Modi is a political person and in the past few years, many economists have left him. Modi has repeatedly said that “I am a businessman” but the businessman himself is sitting with his shop shut,” Raut wrote, adding that in October 1929, when the market collapsed in the US, it led to Great Depression but the then President Herbert Hoover told the Congress that everything was “prosperous”. “A similar atmosphere is there in our country. Barring hospitals and politics, nothing is running in our country. There is shortage of logs in the crematoriums and space in burial grounds. These are not any signs of prosperity,” he said. The Sena parliamentarian said that PM Modi and Sitharaman are not talking about reviving the economy or the steps taken for it. “PM and finance minister are not uttering a work on what are they doing to bring the country out of recession. PM says that [Bengal chief minister] Mamata Banerjee will lose the Bengal election. But is this the Remdesivir required to restart the collapsed economy? Home minister Amit Shah says that Maharashtra government will collapse due to its own weight. But this too is no answer for the slowdown and unemployment. The finance minister of the country is not seen anywhere,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “Even Uddhav Thackeray does not pay heed to Raut’s advice. Raut’s only job is to criticise Centre and Modiji day in and day out. He must have forgotten that during Manmohan Singh’s tenure India had double digit inflation. His tenure was marred with corruption charges, which now continues in the Maha vasooli sarkar. Indian economy was bouncing back, but due to the second wave that started in Maharashtra, the economy has been hit again. So instead of criticising Modi ji, Raut should advice his chief minister on how to tackle the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-a-new-manmohan-singh-to-revive-economy-sanjay-raut-101619377747267.html
26-04-2021||Other||Preparedness not enough for second wave of Covid: Sudhakar||Bengaluru : The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has seen a sharp surge in infections and a higher number of people requiring hospitalization across the country. In Karnataka and particularly in its capital, Bengaluru, the lack of preparedness has added to the pressure on the already overstressed healthcare infrastructure, shortage in medicines and oxygen, leading to a higher number of fatalities. The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions across the state to contain the virus. However, Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, in an interview with Hindustan Times, said the government has got the pandemic under control. Edited excerpts What is the Covid-19 situation in the state and what measures are being taken by the government to control it? We need to make sure that positivity rate decreases by curbing a lot of activities, following Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB), especially in Bengaluru and other places where there is a higher population. The pandemic chain can be broken in 14 days of isolation and minimising activities. Pandemic has brought in a new way of life, and we should adapt to it. As a government, we should briskly vaccinate our people, which is the only way to save people from successive waves. We also augment our health infrastructure, human and medical capital like intensivist, anesthetist, nursing, para-medical and create a huge pool of human resources with students of medical and nursing colleges. We should ensure oxygen concentrators and portable machines are also bought in large numbers, which can be kept at homes or Covid care centres (CCC). All these three strategies should work parallelly to control the pandemic. The expenditure on health from governments should be not less than 8% of the GDP to build a robust health infrastructure, public awareness, better hygiene, nutritional value. It should be a holistic approach. Have the learnings from the first wave been translated into the second wave? Definitely there is preparedness this time, but not enough. The second wave spread was so fast, almost three to four times the first one. We had prepared for twice the number, but the spread is four times. No country can build the kind of infrastructure that is required for today’s pandemic. Controlling the pandemic by action is more important than treatment after getting infected. Very quickly preparedness is happening around the country. The Centre and state government will fight this out and we will handle the situation before it goes out of control. The pandemic is definitely under control in Bengaluru and Karnataka, otherwise you would have seen the queue (outside hospitals) like in other cities. That situation has never arisen even though we have the highest number of active cases. A report by the Technical Advisory Committee in November predicted the second wave in February or March. How did the government prepare from submission of reports till the onset of the second wave? We have been continuously ramping up the health infrastructure ever since the pandemic broke out last year. For example, we had two testing labs in February 2021, which has now been increased to 192. There were about 5,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals and medical colleges, which have now been ramped up to more than 30,000, an increase of about 6 times. But the scale of this pandemic is so unprecedented that no amount of preparation is sufficient. We have witnessed this even in advanced economies like the US and the UK. The UK has had three national lockdowns so far. Did by-lections and campaigns also contribute to the spread in other districts? Last year was a tough year for the economy due to the slowdown induced by the lockdown. Just when things were returning to normalcy, we are grappling with the second wave. We can’t single out any one factor for the spread when all other activities were opened up. The mutated nature of the virus has also contributed to the increased spread of infection. The virus seems to be more contagious if not more virulent in the second wave. However, personally I am of the opinion that an autonomous institution like the Central Election Commission should take a serious call on whether it is safe and necessary to conduct elections amidst the pandemic. There are under 20 ICU/ICU-V beds remaining in Bengaluru, how do we get more as denial of treatment of critical persons is leading to higher fatalities? We have enough general beds. The problem is with the oxygenated and ICU beds, especially in Bengaluru. According to ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the requirement of oxygen is higher in the second wave at 54.5% compared to 41.1% in the first. Government is preparing to set up 2,000-3,000 modular ICUs and ventilator beds at Victoria hospital campus. We have made it mandatory for all private medical college hospitals in the state to reserve 75% of the beds for Covid-19 treatment. There are about 14 medical colleges in Bengaluru alone. In total, we have about 8,382 oxygenated beds, 1,321 ICUs and 721 ventilators in Bengaluru. Thanks to quick response from the Centre, Karnataka’s daily allocation of medical oxygen has been increased from 300 MT to 800 MT. Karnataka has also been allocated 122,000 vials of remdesivir. Private hospitals have been instructed to establish step down units in collaboration with nearby hotels to ensure that hospital beds are available to those who need it. We will also be strengthening tele-consultation through Aptamitra, so that asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic people under home isolation feel confident and they do not get paranoid about finding bed. Why did the government not go in for a lockdown earlier when Karnataka and Bengaluru started posting record numbers? Government has a tough task to keep the economy running even while we keep the pandemic under check. That’s why a calibrated approach has been taken instead of complete lockdown. By your predictions, till when is this wave going to last and what is the estimated number of infections till then? Experts have opined that the infections in the state will peak by the first week of May and the second wave will slow down by the end of May. Does the state have the monetary muscle to deal with the rising cost of the pandemic? As we know all governments across the world are facing a revenue crunch due to the pandemic. But both Centre and state governments under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yediyurappa are committed to ensure that the pandemic is defeated at all costs. The fact that the CM has already earmarked ₹400 crore to procure 10 million doses of vaccine shows the intent and commitment of our government. Could the state government have done better in handling the second wave? As I said, the scale of the second wave is unprecedented. Even countries like the US, which has a robust healthcare system and spend several times more than what we spend on healthcare, couldn’t sustain this pandemic. More than 5.7 lakh people have died in the US so far, which is 3 three times more than the casualties in India. We need to get our act together and fight this pandemic. We need to be optimistic and instill confidence among people. Spreading panic and negativity will not help. How are we preparing for subsequent waves of infections in the imminent future? Vaccination is our biggest weapon to prevent the third wave. India is the fastest country to have administered more than 140 million doses of vaccine in just 99 days. In Karnataka, we have administered about 8.5 million doses of vaccine. Since vaccine is made open to all above 18 years of age from May 1, our government will accelerate the vaccination drive to inoculate as many people as possible at the earliest. I have already spoken to industry bodies like FKCCI and CII and requested them to ensure 100% vaccination of all employees and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/preparedness-not-enough-for-second-wave-of-covid-sudhakar-101619377687286.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Aurangabad bench initiates suo motu PIL on Covid-19 issues||After the principal seat of the Bombay high court (HC) at Mumbai and Nagpur took cognisance of various issues like the supply of oxygen, Remdesivir and mismanagement of the second Covid wave, the Aurangabad bench took note of several news reports related to issues of cremation of Covid-19 patients, shortage of medical oxygen and black marketeering of Remdesivir drug. The court has initiated a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) and will hear responses from the state on April 26.A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar on April 22, while referring to 14 newspaper reports, observed that relatives and kin of deceased Covid-19 patients had to run from pillar to post to collect various certificates for performing the final rites of their loved ones. Hence, a single-window system for such victims should be deliberated upon.While announcing that it was initiating a suo motu PIL, the court appointed advocate Satyajeet Bora as amicus curiae and directed the central and state government, municipal commissioner and district collectors from Marathwada and north Maharashtra to be made respondents in the PIL.The court then went on to enumerate the reasons for the PIL and referred to a news report which stated that the oxygen plant in the government medical college and hospital premises in Aurangabad was likely to face an accident similar to the one at Nashik on April 21. The bench also pointed to the news report which stated that apprehensions were cast on the proposal of the divisional commissioner of the Marathwada region to allow private hospitals to erect oxygen generation plants. Another report showed that some districts in the Marathwada region were receiving only a 50% supply of medical oxygen compared to their requirements.In light of the above, the court said that it would also deal with the black marketeering of Remdesivir injections that are being sold at ₹22,000, whereas the costs range between ₹850 to ₹2,500. The HC will hear the suo motu PIL on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aurangabad-bench-initiates-suo-motu-pil-on-covid-19-issues-101619377627185.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Second Oxygen Express likely to reach Kalamboli on Monday||The second Oxygen Express, a train carrying liquid oxygen, is likely to reach Maharashtra on Monday. The train coming from Gujarat is expected to reach Kalamboli railway yard of Central Railway on Monday morning. The Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) service carrying three tankers with nearly 44 tonnes of liquid oxygen and departed from Hapa railway goods shed of Western Railway’s Rajkot division on Sunday evening. The liquid oxygen tankers for Maharashtra are coming from Reliance Industries in Jamnagar plant, Gujarat as part of Centre’s allocation. “The RORO service departed from the goods shed on Sunday evening and will reach Kalamboli railway yard on Monday morning, covering a distance of 860 kms. The tankers will then be moved to respective districts via road,” said a senior railway official. “Liquid oxygen, being a cryogenic cargo, has many limitations like maximum speed at which it can be carried, maximum acceleration and deceleration and loading restrictions like availability of liquid oxygen tankers and loading ramps. Route mapping also takes care of the maximum clearances available along the route,” read a statement from Western Railway.The first Oxygen Express departed from Kalamboli railway yard on April 19 and reached back to Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday morning, carrying liquid oxygen from a steel plant in Visakhapatnam. Four oxygen tankers were offloaded in Nashik and then transported to oxygen plants via road. The express had first reached Nagpur in Maharashtra where it unloaded three liquid medical oxygen tankers on Friday evening. Of them, two headed for Nagpur city and one headed to Amravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrasecond-oxygen-express-likely-to-reach-kalamboli-on-monday-101619377568831.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt sends SOS to Centre for oxygen quota increase||With oxygen supplies in the state depleting fast, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday sent another SOS, the second time in two days, to Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan for urgent increase in allocation of the quota. Amarinder also directed chief secretary Vini Mahajan to pursue with the central government for urgent supplies, given the serious situation, with patient load increasing due to influx from Delhi and other states, and pushing up demand for medical oxygen. The chief secretary was asked to rush urgent supplies to Amritsar, where precious lives were lost on Saturday due to shortage of oxygen. The CM sought four-hourly reports from principal secretary, industries, on the state’s hospital-wise demand-supply situation of oxygen. The CM’s second letter to the Union health minister followed the Centre’s failure to increase the allocation to Punjab as per the new allocation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) issued on Saturday, despite his plea for enhancement to at least 250 MT of LMO per day, according to an official spokesperson. Amarinder had on Saturday requested for an increase Punjab’s liquid oxygen quota to 250 MT daily. “The situation has become very grim over last few days as our supply of LMO has not been able to meet the increased demand,” he wrote on Sunday. He said that despite his request for allocation of 250 MT of LMO per day to Punjab from outside the state, the new allocation of LMO issued on April 24 did not increase the allocation to Punjab, though allocation to other states increased substantially. He said that Punjab does not have any major LMO production capacity and is largely dependent on the supply from outside the state, thus necessitating the minister’s urgent intervention. Currently, the daily allocation of medical oxygen for Punjab from the central pool is 105 MT, excluding the production of the local ASUs which generate around 60 MT of liquid oxygen and meet requirements of various re-fillers, bottling plants and distributors. There are a few PSA plants in government hospitals (Faridkot, Jalandhar and Ludhiana) and private hospitals which cater to part of their demands and add to the pool of oxygen available for the state. The spokesperson said the daily requirement as per the present Covid caseload is around 200 MT and around 50 MT for non-Covid patients. “This is expected to rise to around 250-300 MT in the next two weeks as per the projections of case load,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-sends-sos-to-centre-for-oxygen-quota-increase-101619377568322.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Will transport oxygen and Covid medicines for free: Association||The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), a transporters body, will be providing free transportation, distribution and warehousing facilities for medical oxygen cylinders along with medicines used to treat Covid-19 patients.The free transportation facilities began in Mumbai and Nashik on Sunday and will be provided pan-India.The AIMTC has also released two contact numbers — 9711498337 and 9820022547 — wherein people can contact them for free movement of oxygen cylinders and medicines.“Our members are extending assistance to the people of the country to deal with the pandemic by providing a network of warehousing facilities for medicines and essential commodities as well as providing trucks for the supply of oxygen cylinders and Covid-19 relief materials. We will offer all possible assistance in terms of logistics support —transportation, distribution and warehousing facilities pan-India, free of cost,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-transport-oxygen-and-covid-medicines-for-free-association-101619377567211.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC receives 150,000 doses of Covidshield; all centres to be operational from Monday||After a shortage of vaccine doses for a week, all vaccination centres in the city are expected to remain operational starting Monday as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received a fresh stock of 150,000 vaccine doses on Sunday. In the coming days, the city is also expected to get vaccine vans that will be parked in several areas for carrying out vaccination drive aggressively in the city.There are 132 vaccination centres in the city, however, only around 30 vaccination centres, majorly private centres, were shut owing to running out of stock. On Sunday, a mere 38 of the total 132 vaccination centres were operational in the city, owing to a shortage of vaccine doses.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “We have received 1.5 lakh stock of Covishield today. All vaccination centres in Mumbai shall be functional tomorrow. However, Covaxin will be available only at select centres for the second dose due to extremely limited existing stock.”According to BMC officials, there is a possibility that few private hospitals may not begin vaccination or start it late on Monday. This, as few private hospitals are yet to purchase the doses from BMC. The purchase process will start at 8am on tomorrow (Monday).Further, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday said that as phase three of the drive, for vaccinating those between the age of 18 to 45, starts from May 1, the BMC plans to have vaccine vans visit in several areas of the city.Pednekar said, “We are not able to conduct door-to-door vaccination for now, but we are exploring to have vaccine vans in the city. These vans will go to different areas and cover the population by vaccinating them. The ground-level workers of political parties can help the administration in getting citizens to come out and get vaccinated.”Pednekar said, “In the coming days, crowd management will be a challenge, considering vaccination for the age group between 18 to 45 will begin. Hence, in the next two days, the state government will declare its strategy, based on which, the citizens may get vaccinated after registration or appointment.”Meanwhile, on Sunday 23,419 citizens were vaccinated, of which 1,175 were healthcare workers, 1,523 were frontline workers, 9,802 were above the age of 60 years and 10,919 were between the age of 45 to 59. Overall, 2,237,283 citizens have been vaccinated so far, since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-receives-150-000-doses-of-covidshield-all-centres-to-be-operational-from-monday-101619377507780.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Oxygen supplied on time, shifting of patients from Bhagwati Hosp deferred||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli went into panic mode on Sunday after its oxygen supplier did not reach on time due to a technical glitch at a facility. Owing to this, as a backup plan, the hospital authorities planned to shift few patients, out of the total 98 patients, to the Dahisar jumbo centre.According to BMC officials, the technical fault at the supplier’s end was resolved by the afternoon and oxygen was supplied in a nick of time.If the supply would have been hit, it would have affected private and civic-run hospitals in the city.According to an official from the hospital, it got four dura cylinders and had three in back up, but when the supply van did not arrive as per schedule, we had to plan a backup. However, the supply van was in before we could shift patients.Dr Shantaram Kawade, superintendent of the hospital, said, “We received four dura cylinders on Sunday evening, and more are expected to be in by tonight. Hence, we have good stock for tomorrow also. We would like to reiterate that no patients were shifted out of Bhagwati Hospital on Sunday.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Sunday said, “All issues relating to oxygen supply under BMC stands resolved, and the supply situation is normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-oxygen-supplied-on-time-shifting-of-patients-from-bhagwati-hosp-deferred-101619377388800.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: How to choose between SIPs and lump sum for better returns from mutual funds?||The stock market is on an upswing right now. This has prompted many investors to look at the market with a lot of anticipation. However, experts maintain that markets will soon enter a correction phase wherein prices of stocks will decline from their current peak to a level that would trend over a long period.Many investors are unsure of when or how to park money in mutual fund investments as these are market-linked and hence do not promise guaranteed returns. Mutual funds contain investments in both debt and equity. The proportion of these asset allocations decides the risk profile of the fund, thus, allowing people to decide between more risky and less risky investment options.While the choice of a mutual fund depends mostly on its past performance and the risk appetite of the investor, many are still unsure of whether they should opt for a systematic investment plan (SIP) or make a one-time investment of a lump sum. Both the investment methods have their benefits.How SIPs workThis method involves a great deal of financial commitment as the predetermined investment amount gets deducted from your savings account every month. Investing through the SIP method is simple. You just have to decide how much you wish to invest every month; it could be as low as ₹1,000 or ₹2,000. The second step is choosing the fund that you wish to invest in. Regular and forced investments will keep you invested in the fund, irrespective of the highs and lows of the market. Depending on the net asset value (NAV) of the fund on the predetermined date, a specified number of units are allotted to your name. During market downturns, when NAV is low, you benefit from more units.Sahil Arora, director of Paisabazaar.com, a virtual debt syndication services, said, “Market timing of mutual fund investments needs a sound understanding of macro-economic situations, geopolitical trends, policy impact, fundamental analysis, technical analysis, etc. Tracking these may not be an easy task for most retail investors. As SIPs ensure regular and automatic investment, opting for SIP mode will average out the investment cost during market corrections and thereby, save investors from the dilemma of timing their equity fund investments.”Investing a lump sumThis is like shopping for mutual funds when you have enough money in your hand. If you are inclined to allocate a large portion of your earnings to mutual funds or have benefited from a windfall gain that you would like to divert towards mutual funds, a lump sum investment may be the best option. All you have to do is to choose your fund(s) and decide how much you would like to invest in it. Archit Gupta, founder and CEO, ClearTax, an online e-Filing website, said, “You may invest a lump sum amount in debt mutual funds rather than equity funds. It is suitable for people looking to attain short-term financial goals. For instance, if you invest for a short time of around two to three years, the safety of the capital is vital, and debt funds are a relatively safe fixed-income investment.”Most people choose to make lump sum investments in mutual funds when the market and stock valuations are low, ie, reeling under the effect of a bearish market. This is because low NAVs of mutual funds allow them to garner more units that they can later sell when the market is high.Which one’s better?Investments in both SIPs and lump sum have their benefits. Contrary to lump sum investors who have to eye the market movement regularly, SIP investors can rest as their investments ride through the market cycle. Harshad Chetanwala, co-founder of MyWealthGrowth.com, a financial and wealth planning company, said, “Stock markets are not meant to move in a straight line, it is this volatility that creates opportunities to invest as well as create wealth over a period.”To grow wealth with time, investments must be methodical and regular. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar, an online marketplace for financial products, said, “Compounding interest yields better results when money is saved over longer durations. If you start a SIP of ₹5,000 every month at the age of 25, at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.5%, you will have with you funds worth about ₹1 crore by the time you reach the age of 50. If you stay invested for another 5 years at the same CAGR, your corpus will double to ₹2 crore. However, if you start with the same amount and return rate of interest at the age of 35, your retirement fund will amount to only around ₹26 lakh when you hit 50.”CAGR helps evaluate returns from investments whose value rise and fall with time. Though this method cannot be used to gauge risk, it can assess how one kind of investment performs against another or against the market index.If you have the necessary market experience, lump sum investments can help you earn a sizeable corpus over time. You must wait for the market to adopt a bearish attitude during which you can invest a large amount in a lump sum and stay invested for a prolonged period. Tarun Birani Founder and CEO of TBNG Capital Advisors, a SEBI registered investment advisor, said, “If mutual fund investors make a lump sum payment, their job is to then simply periodically review the funds and hold them for a longer time horizon. For example, consider an investor who invested a sum of ₹10 lakh in a certain set of mutual funds expected to grow at a CAGR of 12%. If he remained invested for 10 years, at the end of 10 years he would have built a sizeable corpus of approximately ₹31 lakh. Now compare that with another investor who invested ₹15 lakh with the same growth assumption of 12% compound annual growth rate. However, if he remained invested only for five years, then at the end of that period, he would have built a corpus of only ₹26 lakh even though 50% more amount is being invested. Thus, the power of compounding lies in remaining invested for longer periods and thus leading to sizeable wealth creation.”The key to earning from the market is to invest when the market is low and sell when the market is high. Investors new to equity schemes can opt for SIP investments as it relieves them of the worry of having to time the market. Lump sum investments suit best those who know how to time the market accurately.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-how-to-choose-between-sips-and-lump-sum-for-better-returns-from-mutual-funds-101619377388325.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||At 832, Maharashtra sees highest deaths in a day||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its highest single-day deaths – 832 – due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 64,760. The state continued to report over 60,000 new cases for the sixth day in a row, with 66,191 fresh infections, taking the tally to 4,295,027. Nagpur’s rural areas reported the highest toll on Sunday, with 69 deaths, followed by Pune district, which comprises Pune city, its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad, with 69 deaths. Solapur district reported 62 deaths. Nanded district reported 59 deaths, while Nashik district saw 57 fatalities. Yavatmal and Aurangabad districts saw 45 deaths. Ahmednagar district saw 44 deaths. Of the 832 deaths reported on Sunday, 360 occurred in the past 48 hours and 244 in the past week. The remaining 228 deaths are from the period before last week, state health department said. Health experts attribute the rise in deaths to late arrivals at the hospital. However, they maintain that the case fatality rate of the state is in control and the virus is less virulent than the first wave. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of health services in the state and advisor to the state on the Covid-19, said with sheer number of infections a large chunk of them, will land up in hospitals. “Roughly 10% of the cases usually are clinical cases. In that, there are late arrivals which make it difficult for doctors to save the person. There could be some stray cases of deaths due to oxygen shortage, but it is not the main factor.” Dr Shashank Joshi, state Covid task force member, said the sheer load on the healthcare infrastructure could hinder providing treatment to all, which could result in deaths. “The deaths, in absolute numbers have gone up, but compared to last year, our case fatality rate is lower. When you see the healthcare infrastructure clobbered, due to lack of ability to provide health-care deaths, tend to go up. It is less virulent compared to last year,” he said. Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to see a dip in daily cases, with 5,498 fresh cases on Sunday. Over the past three days, the city saw a decline in cases 7,367 (April 22), 7,199 (April 23), and 5,867 (April 24). It also reported 64 deaths, pushing death toll to 12,790. While Mumbai has shown a decline in its numbers, the rest of the state is still hovering around the 65000-mark in daily figures. The numbers in the state, excluding Mumbai, have not reduced even after the state government imposed a curfew, restricting movement of people, from April 14. Twelve days since, the state has added a whopping 775,819 cases, at a daily average of 64,651. In the first 13 days—before the curfew was imposed—the state had added 706,228 Covid-19 across the state. Dr Joshi said that while Mumbai is declining, but Maharashtra [figures] is “static”. He also pointed out that the testing capacity in Mumbai and the state has “saturated”. “Mumbai is definitely seeing a decline. Mumbai is flattening, but Maharashtra is static, but it is not growing. The testing both for Maharashtra and Mumbai has saturated. We cannot expand the testing beyond this point. Mumbai is testing between 40,000 and 50,000 daily, while Maharashtra tests about 250,000. The cases in the state have been hovering around 65,000,” Dr Joshi said. Experts believe that poor health infrastructure, inadequate following of Covid protocols, and lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in parts of Maharashtra could be the reasons behind the spike. “Our testing isn’t going up, while its turnaround time has gone to two days, which is an issue. Only when we test up to 300,000 for a few days, we will know the extent of the spread; if the positivity rate continues in proportion to the higher tests, we will take more time. Another factor is that the curfew was not followed as we desired. We will wait another week to assess the situation,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity. Dr Joshi added that protocols are largely being followed by the people and district administration. “The geometric progression of this wave has brought in sheer numbers. People need to self-test, self-isolate, get connected with a health-care provided at the earliest and not delay their treatment. Breaking of the chain will happen.” He added that Mumbai could come out of the second wave by next month-end, while Maharashtra could take a couple of more weeks. “Mumbai probably will come out of this in about 10 days. Overall, we will see Mumbai come out [of the wave] with a thick tail by May-end. The cases in Maharashtra are expected to linger around longer. It will depend upon how it handles the testing and infrastructure ability. Maharashtra will take two to three more weeks than Mumbai,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-832-maharashtra-sees-highest-deaths-in-a-day-101619377278339.html
26-04-2021||Other||11 Kerala MPs seek CJI’s help to shift jailed journo Kappan to Delhi AIIMS||Thiruvananthapuram Eleven members of parliament (MPs) from Kerala wrote to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday, seeking his intervention to shift Kerala-based journalist Siddique Kappan, who is jailed in Uttar Pradesh, to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi as his condition deteriorated after testing positive for Covid-19. In the letter, MPs said Kappan was admitted to the Mathura Medical College Hospital in Uttar Pradesh, where his condition was serious, and he has to be shifted to another hospital for better medical care. Earlier, Kappan’s wife Raihanath Siddique also wrote to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and others on Friday, pleading for their help. In the letter, she alleged that even in serious condition, the journalist was chained to the bed in the hospital, and he was denied proper medical help. She said he was suffering from many ailments including acute diabetes. “He managed to call us a couple of days ago. He told us he was chained to the hospital bed like an animal and medicines were not given to him properly. My husband is innocent, and his life is in danger,” she told HT over phone from Malappuram. Kappan, who is the secretary of the Delhi unit of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), along with three other alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists, was booked on sedition and other serious charges in Mathura on October 5 last year while they were heading to Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and murdered. KUWJ had approached the Supreme Court seeking Kappan’s release from jail while terming his arrest illegal and an attempt to silence the media. Kappan was working with an online portal when he was arrested. However, Uttar Pradesh Police maintained that Kappan and the three alleged Popular Front of India activists were planning trouble in the state citing the Hathras incident. They were charged under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition for alleged criminal conspiracy to create social unrest. KUWJ had moved another plea in the Supreme Court on April 20, saying he was tested positive for Covid-9 after he collapsed in the bathroom, and he needs urgent medical care. His wife had also written to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and others seeking their help. A habeus corpus petition was filed on October 20 last year, but it is pending for more than six months, she said. In the letter, MPs also pointed out the inordinate delay in hearing the habeus corpus petition. Congress MP K Sudhakaran and Muslim League MP P K Kunhalikutty are among signatories of the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-kerala-mps-seek-cji-s-help-to-shift-jailed-journo-kappan-to-delhi-aiims-101619377277763.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University begins manpower audit of non-teaching staff||For the manpower audit of non-teaching staffers underway at Panjab University, department heads have been appointed nodal officers of their respective departments.The audit is being conducted by the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration (MGSIPA). The departments have been asked to coordinate with the MGSIPA.The local audit department in its report for 2019-20, has called for an assessment of the number of persons to be appointed on contractual basis at PU in view of the workload of different departments..The audit department had in 2011 also requested PU that the requirement of number of posts (category-wise) be assessed and approved from the competent authority keeping in view the actual workload vis-à-vis the total number of sanctioned/filled posts.ObjectivesAccording to the recent communication issued to heads of departments (HoDs) of the university by the registrar, the objectives of the manpower audit include understanding the manpower requirement and corresponding staffing in the university and rationalisation of manpower by assessing the workload of each department, centre, institute and offices.The objectives also include merging of surplus staff with other deficit departments of university and recommendations and suggestions related to effective utilisation of the varsity’s manpower.PU revises wages PU has revised the minimum wages of various categories of daily wage workers who are engaged on DC rates at the university campus, its regional centres, constituent colleges and guest houses from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022.The vice-chancellor has also ordered that all the daily wage staff, who are getting salary at DC rates, be paid arrear (if any) as per revised rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-begins-manpower-audit-of-non-teaching-staff-101619377277220.html
26-04-2021||Other||TN govt urges Centre to stop diversion of oxygen||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking immediate cancellation of 80 KL (kilolitre) of liquid oxygen being diverted from the Sriperumbudur manufacturing plant in Tamil Nadu to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Tamil Nadu government said that since a high number of patients are dependent on oxygen, the state would soon require 450 MT of oxygen surpassing its daily production capacity of 400 MT. As per data from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), the consumption of oxygen in Tamil Nadu has reached 310 MT, the letter stated. Palaniswami also said the latest central medical oxygen allocation for Tamil Nadu is incorrectly fixed at 220 MT. ‘...based on this wrong allotment, 80 MT of liquid oxygen has been diverted. This is based on the wrong position that the existing oxygen consumption in Tamil Nadu is lower than the manufacturing capacity.”Palaniswami pointed out that Tamil Nadu’s active cases were higher than those of the two Telugu-speaking states and that there is “no justification” for diversion since this plant supplies oxygen to Chennai, which is the worst affected in the state. As compared to the maximum number of active cases -- 58,000 during the previous surge in 2020 -- the active caseload has already increased to over 100,000 this time, he said. As of April 24, Tamil Nadu reported 14,842 new cases taking the total to 1,066,329, of which 100,668 are active cases. Chennai accounts for the highest caseload in the state with 4,086 fresh cases.“The states to which the allotment has been made have (a) lower number of active cases than us and also have major steel industries located within their states (or) close to their states,” he said. “This needs to be immediately corrected. While Tamil Nadu has never imposed any restrictions so far and is always ready to support other states, such mandatory diversion of liquid oxygen from the needs of our state can lead to (a) major crisis in Chennai and other districts.”On Saturday, the state set up a round-the-clock helpline, 104, specifically to address oxygen shortage in hospitals and nursing homes. A green corridor along with police security would be provided for tankers carrying oxygen. “Currently we are taking supplies from four vendors in Tamil Nadu and also from Puducherry with a combined capacity of 370 MT,” said P Umanath, director, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). He had earlier said that the state would raise this issue of mandatory diversion with the Centre so that it doesn’t create problems in the future. Last Thursday, the state government had informed the Madras high court that there was no shortage of oxygen, adding that the 65 tonnes of oxygen being diverted wouldn’t affect the state. Tamil Nadu has a storage capacity of 1167 tonnes. As of Thursday, the government said only 250 tonnes was being used for Covid-19 treatment. Additionally, Puducherry has a production capacity of 150 tonnes. The submissions were made after the HC had taken suo motu cognizance that the Centre had diverted oxygen to other states without the consent of Tamil Nadu and on the issue of shortage of Remdesivir drug. The matter has been adjourned to Monday; the state is expected to submit more data on availability of hospital beds, oxygen, and vaccines. On Monday, the state will also file its affidavit in the Supreme Court in response to Vedanta’s petition to reopen the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi for medical oxygen production. After months of protests led by locals and activists, the state had in 2018 shut down the plant for environmental violations. A public consultation was conducted by Thoothukudi district collector Senthil Raj on Friday where people opposed re-opening of the plant. “The consultation was held only regarding the re-opening of the oxygen plant and the smelter and thermal plants would remain shut, but a majority were still against it,” said Raj. Besides environmental concerns, local residents opposed the move because on the 100th day of the protest, police had opened fire in which 13 civilians were killed in May 2018. The case is being probed by the CBI and by a one-woman retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. The top court had earlier rejected Vedanta’s plea to re-open its facility for administrative purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-govt-urges-centre-to-stop-diversion-of-oxygen-101619377213402.html
26-04-2021||Other||Kerala govt plans more curbs as state reports over 28k cases||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala reported 28,469 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday with a high test positivity rate of 22.46% and 30 deaths, according to the health department, and a worried state government is planning to impose more restrictions to curb the infections.After the all-party meeting on Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will announce more restrictions, a government spokesman said. The state has been enforcing lockdown-like curbs in the last two days, suspending all activities other than essential services. Vijayan had said on Saturday that the situation was critical and the state was sitting atop a live volcano. According to the state health ministry data, after 1,26,773 samples were tested in last 24 hours, 28,469 were tested positive. Three districts reported more than 3000 cases -- Ernakulam topped with 4468 cases, Kozhikode recorded 3988 cases and Malappuram 3123. For the first time, the active caseload crossed 200,000 mark, overstretching health system at many places; the active cases stood at 2,18,893. With 30 fatalities, death toll went up to 5110. A close look at the statistics shows cases are mounting rapidly and transmission is taking place quickly. The number of intensive care unit patients is also on the rise --- on Sunday the state has 1400 critically ill patients with 420 requiring ventilator support. Experts said the state may touch a daily caseload of 50,000 overwhelming hospitals. “We have to channelise all our resources to contain infections and accelerate vaccination. We need drastic measures. Going by the present rate, cases may surge by next week,” said medical expert Dr Sreejtith N Kumar. Many hospitals now admit only serious patients and many have turned exclusive Covid hospitals. The government has asked all private hospitals to reserve 25% beds for Covid patients. As of now the state is oxygen surplus and catering to neighbouring states, officials said. “Now the state is using 79 tonne oxygen daily and supplying 74 tonne to Tamil Nadu and 30 tonne to Karnataka. There is demand from many other states, including Delhi, and we have raised the capacity,” said R Venugopal, nodal officer for medical oxygen supply. He said the state’s present production is 204 tonne and all hospitals have been strictly told to maintain their oxygen storage system properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-govt-plans-more-curbs-as-state-reports-over-28k-cases-101619377212794.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ace flautist Ravinder Singh succumbs to Covid||Tributes are pouring in from aggrieved city musicians for accomplished flautist Ravinder Singh, 76, who succumbed to Covid at a hospital in Mohali on Saturday night. As the news of his death spread, many well-known musicians took to social media, to express their grief over the loss of a great talent.Born in Lahore, he moved to India with his parents as a child . His father, the late Anant Singh Kabli, a well-known Punjabi poet, was settled in a government job in Chandigarh where Ravinder grew up. Talking about Ravinder’s rare ease with the flute, Atul Sharma, well-known music director and chairman of Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi, told HT: “His was a rare talent on the flute and he learned from the best. An A- grade artist of All-India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan, he accompanied greats like Sitara Devi, Reshma and Jagjit Singh. In spite of all this, he had rare humility.”Well-known musician-actor Kamal Tewari, said: “We were childhood friends in the fledgling city of Chandigarh and our association dates back to youth festivals. His contribution to music and his dedication was unmatched.” Veval, a well-known flautist, said: “He was my Guru and I owe the techniques on the flute I learnt to him.”Ravinder is survived by wife Tejinder Kaur and sons Kamaldeep and Sandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ace-flautist-ravinder-singh-succumbs-to-covid-101619377212259.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||24X7 water supply project in Chandigarh to cost ₹151 cr more||The 24x7 water supply project in the city will now cost an additional ₹151 crore. The ambitious project, which in 2019 was pegged to cost ₹440 crore, will now cost ₹591 crore. A major chunk of the additional cost, ₹98 crore, will be financed through a European Union grant which was approved in December last year. But, the rest will have to be borne by the municipal corporation, in the form of additional loan repayments and direct costs, which ultimately, are likely to be passed on to residents as water tariff. As per the estimates approved by the MC general House in 2019, the French firm Agence Française de Development (AFD) was to give a loan of ₹380 crore for the project. This has been increased to ₹413 crore now. The original commitment of ₹60 crore by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) stands. But, the MC will now have to bear an additional ₹22 crore in direct costs. “We have additional components to the project, because of which the cost estimates have been revised. It includes upgrading the Kajauli water works, replacement of a total of 2-km length pipelines in different areas (in chunks) and upgrading the Sector-39 water works. In total, around ₹54 crore has been added to the total project costs,” said CSCL chief general manager NP Sharma. Notably, the AFD loan is to be repaid in 15 years with six years moratorium period. For loan repayment, as per the MC House resolution, the water tariff will have to be increased. With the loan amount increasing now, and MC to pay additional costs, there is a concern that city residents will have to shell out much higher water tariff than earlier envisaged. Residents anticipate hiked water tariff Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Resident Welfare Organisations, said, “This will only increase the financial burden on residents. They should have first implemented the pilot project in Manimajra before starting the pan-city project. The loan will have to be ultimately be repaid by the city’s residents.” Allaying such tariff hike apprehensions, Sharma, said, “There will be no water tariff hike because of the additional costs. The hike will be as per the resolution passed by the MC House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24x7-water-supply-project-in-chandigarh-to-cost-151-cr-more-101619377210997.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||All Covid beds occupied in Haryana’s Panchkula district||The district health authorities were scrambling to make alternative arrangements after all beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients got occupied at private and government facilities in Panchkula by Sunday evening.There are 451 Covid-19 beds in Panchkula, of which 58 are with ventilators, 323 with oxygen support and 70 for patients just requiring isolation.“All beds are occupied. We had vacant beds till morning, but all got filled by the evening,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Also read: No bed for critical Covid patients in MohaliKaur said around 50 beds are being added at the community health centre in Raipur Rani, while arrangements are being made for 15 beds at a private facility in Kalka and 25 in Panchkula. Meanwhile, district magistrate Mukul Kumar on Sunday directed all government and private hospitals to ensure that at least 50% of their total bed capacity in general category and 70% in ICU/ventilator category are dedicated for Covid-19 cases, with adequate availability of human resource and medical logistics.According to the order, in case of an urgent need to divert the beds, any change in the above reservation can only be made with the prior approval of the district magistrate and civil surgeon.Panchkula has seen a steep surge in the pandemic this month, with 6,076 cases and 29 deaths, which account for 30% and 15% of the total tally, respectively, since the outbreak. The civil surgeon said that at least 50% Covid-19 patients admitted to the district hospitals are from outside. “We might even request the Mohali administration to adjust our patients,” she said.Chandigarh is better placed amid crisis
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport footfall drops by 50%||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the region, the footfall at Chandigarh International Airport has dropped by 50%. Even as the summer schedule that came into force on March 28 had listed 47 flights instead of 38 operating during the winter, most airlines have curtailed their operations and only 29 flights are taking off at present. Consequently, the number of daily fliers has gone down from around 7,000 in March to 3,500 in April. Before the pandemic, the airport was recording a footfall of 12,000, both at arrivals and departures, daily.Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of the airport, said: “Most of the airlines have reduced their flights, and in April only 29 are operating. The footfall has dropped to 50%. Last year, we incurred a loss of nearly ₹40 crore on various accounts due to the pandemic and lockdown.”Vaneet Sharma, director, Sheetal Travels, Sector 17, said: “People are only travelling for work, while families that had planned vacations have either cancelled or deferred their trips due to the second Covid-19 wave.” Amid a drop in demand, even the last-minute fares of popular domestic sectors have gone down by 10-15%, he said.The airport incurred heavy losses during the lockdown in 2020. Its main source of earnings is the aeronautical revenue, wherein it charges ₹800 per passenger from the airlines. For instance, a Delhi-bound flight with 80% occupancy fetches about ₹65,000 to the airport. The other sources of revenue are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking, and advertisements. Only Sharjah flight passengers being testedAt present, the Mohali health authorities are only testing international passengers for Covid-19 at the airport. While the Dubai flight has not resumed, only Sharjah flight is being operated, that too just twice a week.Harmandeep Kaur, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, said: “We are testing only international passengers, twice a week. Domestic passengers are randomly tested at times, but not on a regular basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-footfall-drops-by-50-101619377027719.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may import 25,000 tonnes of oxygen||Amid the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir in Maharashtra, the state health department has put up a proposal to import 25,000 tonnes of oxygen and 10 lakh vials of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug. The health department officials said that as the number of Covid cases are increasing, they want to keep oxygen and the drug stock ready. Besides that, the state also wants to import oxygen tankers and concentrators.While Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has alleged a lack of or delayed assistance from the Centre to Maharashtra in its fight against Covid-19, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday claimed that the state government has not set up oxygen generation plants from the sum allocated to Maharashtra from PM Cares funds.BJP legislator Prasad Lad said that had the state added these plants, the shortage of oxygen would not have been acute and some lives would have been saved.“We have sent a proposal to the chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte) to import 25,000 tonnes of oxygen, 10 lakh Remdesivir, oxygen tankers, and oxygen concentrators. A decision on this will be taken by the high-power committee by Monday,” confirmed N Ramaswami, commissioner, health services (Maharashtra).With 1,750 metric tonnes of supply there is no shortage of oxygen in the state as of now, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said. “The state produces 1,250 metric tonnes and is getting 500 metric tonnes of oxygen from the allocation made by the central government. Though we are utilising the entire stock, there is no shortage of oxygen in the state as of now.”Meanwhile, former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the Centre has increased its supply of oxygen to the state to 1,784 metric tonnes. Till last week, the supply was 1,661 metric tonnes. “Thank you Hon PM @narendramodi ji for such strong support to citizens of Maharashtra. Maharashtra got allotment of 1784 MT oxygen supply which is more than double as compared to any of the major states including Gujarat, UP, Karnataka, MP,” Fadnavis said in a tweet.He shared the information in response to MVA allegations that the Centre has been allocating less oxygen supply than what is required by the state. As the BJP and the MVA spar over oxygen supply, the Centre allocated funds to set up 551 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country. Earlier, the Centre had released ₹201.58 crore to set up 162 dedicated oxygen plants in government hospitals.While speaking to the media on Sunday, Lad slammed the Thackeray government on various issues including handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Modi government had in January 2021 released ₹201 crore to set up 10 oxygen plants in Maharashtra. Five months on, the state government could not even utilise it properly when the oxygen is much needed to treat the Covid-19 patients. The question arises here, Has the fund released for the oxygen plants been siphoned off by this extortionist government?” he questioned.Countering Lad’s claim, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that no funds were given by the Centre to MVA. Instead, the installation was to be done by the engineers of the appointed agency by the Centre. “BJP is the biggest liar party. Let us expose this blatant lie. No funds were given by GOI to MVA government; agency [was] finalized by GOI. Machines supplied after 5th April 2021 on different dates. Installation is done by the engineer of the agency appointed by GOI. State govt has no role but still, BJP has audacity to level false allegations. Modi govt has clarified that out of 162 plants only 33 commissioned. Now they have declared additional 551plants. Only Modi ji knows their fate (sic.),” Sawant said in a series of tweets.Meanwhile, state urban development minister Eknath Shinde has taken the initiative to set up 14 oxygen generating plants in local bodies falling under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. These plants will be operational in the next few days in Thane, Kalyan Dombivali, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Mira Bhayander, Vasai Virar, Navi Mumbai and Panvel Municipal Corporations, said Shinde. The oxygen plants are expected to add 2 metric tonnes of production daily, which can support 200 beds daily.The administration will replicate the Pressure Swing Absorption Technology (PSA) technology which has been successfully adopted by the district authorities of Gadhinglaj town in Kolhapur district and other parts of the state and country to generate oxygen directly from atmospheric air.Considering the oxygen requirement in MMR, three plants have been started in the Thane civic region, two each in Kalyan Dombivali and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas and one each in Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Mira Bhayander, Vasai Virar and Panvel.Once operational, the plant will not only eliminate the hospitals’ complete dependence on oxygen refilling companies for cylinders and tankers, it will become a personal asset of the civic body to treat Covid-19 patients and also for other cases of respiratory illness in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-import-25-000-tonnes-of-oxygen-101619377028271.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Researchers document 150 Warli shrines dedicated to big cats||Wildlife researchers documented the presence of a total of 150 shrines dedicated to Waghoba — the Warli deity representing big cats — across Mumbai (suburban), Thane and Palghar districts. The term Waghoba comes from the Marathi word “wagh” (tiger and/or leopard), and “ba” (a suffix denoting respect, usually for the elderly).These findings build on existing research published in 2018 which had recorded the presence of 20 Waghoba shrines in and around Mumbai, largely in Aarey Colony. Some shrines have also been documented in Goa, Gujarat, Pune and south Maharashtra. So far, a total of 176 such Waghoba shrines have been documented across this larger region, though several others are sure to exist, researchers believe.The new research paper, which is yet to be published, titled Sharing Spaces and Entanglements with Big Cats: The Warli and their Waghoba in Maharashtra was helmed by first authors Ramya Nair and Dhee of Wildlife Conservation Society, India. Over six months between November 2018 and April 2019, Nair and team travelled approximately 2,125kms to villages in Dahanu, Palghar, Talasari, Boisar, Vasai, Wada and Jawhar in pursuit of these artefacts.Crucially, Nair said, this led her to personally discover the vast extent of the Waghoba myth (geographically and culturally) in northwest Maharashtra. Nair and her colleagues also found that reverence for Waghoba was more prevalent in multi-use landscapes, where indigenous and even urbanising populations share space with leopards, than in protected areas (like Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS).“We were honestly a bit surprised. Nearly every Warli village we visited had at least one Waghoba shrine where prayers were being offered regularly,” said Nair, whose work also identifies at least four other Indigenous groups — namely Mahadeo Kolis, Malhar Kolis, Thakkers and Dublas — in the study area who also worship Waghoba.Though documented as a powerful cultural and social institution in the community, the concept of Waghoba (and the broader Warli cosmology) does not figure prominently in conservation literature. But through an ethnographic rather than ecological approach, this study affirms mounds of anecdotal evidence, scientific inquiry and media reports about leopards (and even tigers) in the study area. The last tiger sighting in the selected region, the authors pointed out, dates back to 2003.But modern taxonomy — with its focus on separation of species — may not account for how the Warlis who live in the closest proximity to these big cats perceive them. For example, Nair explains, “These areas were historically home range to both tigers and leopards, though today in a large part of these areas, only leopards remain. For people in such communities, biodiversity may be perceived as a whole rather than through the eyes of modern taxonomy, resulting in both the tiger and leopard being referred to as wagh.”Mainstream conservation literature, for its part, also abides by the theory that predators (like lions and tigers) originally ate wild animals in their natural habitat, and then transitioned to hunting livestock. This also perpetuates the view that “livestock depredation is a new phenomenon that we have just had to start making sense of”. But the Warli belief system, particularly that of Waghoba which is rooted as much in the human-livestock equation as the human-wildlife one, pre-dates mainstream conflict discourse “by at least a few hundred years”.In as much, the paper suggests, a purely biological approach to leopard conservation within the study area would have inherent limitations. Conservation need not follow only a “techno-managerial” approach, it argues, but can also rely on “socio-cultural drivers” of coexistence.“When conservationists focus on only the ecological aspects of conservation without engaging with its social dimensions, it leaves local communities (who face direct impacts) feeling neglected and often pitted against the species being conserved… This can perhaps result in uncooperative responses... Acknowledging these beliefs and integrating them into bureaucratic practices lends these communities the respect and justice they deserve,” the authors note.Information was gathered for this study using three methods. The first included tracking down individual shrines, geo-tagging and photographing them, and analysing their iconography. The visuals that the authors discovered were predominantly that of “a feline under the sun and moon, carved on either stone or wood (specifically teakwood) slabs covered with a bright vermillion paste”.“Some participants explained that the sun and moon symbolised energy. Many villages had Waghoba shrines built at the entrance of the village indicating that Waghoba might be considered as a gatekeeper, protecting the entire village,” the authors noted.The second approach involved semi-structured interviews with 34 individuals and gathering information through “snowball sampling”, an interview method commonly used in sociology and cultural studies. Both Warli and non-Warli subjects were interviewed, largely elderly or middle-aged men.“Even though we also aimed to interview women, many factors restricted this,” the study clarifies.Researchers also gathered information using “participation observation”, using “direct observations, group discussions, and off-the-record conversations”. For example, first-hand observations recorded (mainly by Nair) at annual Waghbaras or Wagh festival celebrations at three locations have also been interpreted to arrive at the study’s conclusions.Held annually as an appeasement for Waghoba, Waghbaras festivities typically take place on the day of Vasu Baras, which marks the first day of Diwali on the Hindu lunar calendar. The occasion, as observed by researchers, can last up to two days, and are marked by ritual animal sacrifice, shamanic rituals, feasting, singing and dance.“Participant observations revealed that members of the community who have converted or expanded their religious beliefs continue to worship Waghoba as one of their chief deities and take part in Waghbaras festival. This indicates that Waghoba is not just a deity who is worshipped within the confines of one belief system but is an integral part of the cultural fabric, entwined with the traditions and social life of this landscape,” the study notes.The larger dominant narrative of Waghoba is one of a protector who is prayed to for protection from human-animal conflict, as well as disease and other natural disasters. “Participants spoke of the wagh as the junglacha raja (king of the jungle). One participant also called Waghoba the main boss,” the authors noted, highlighting that these perceptions stem from a mix of fear and awe.Another oral tradition which lends credence to the notion of Waghoba as a protector is the anecdote of leopards following people back home in the dark. “This narrative is present not only in our study site but also in other parts of India and South Asia,” states the study.“The thing to remember is that the idea of Waghoba is in fact born out of conflict,” Nair emphasises. But, as her research reveals, Waghoba also embodies the trust that indigenous populations wilfully place in the animal (and in nature) — a necessary prerequisite to establishing co-existence.One of the study’s interviewees, quoted in the paper, said, “About 35 years ago, my father was going to my mother’s village before they got married by road, on foot. He saw a wagh right in front of him. Now what do you do in these situations? The person cannot attack it, right? So my father said, “If you are going to eat me then go ahead. You are our god.” Then he closed his eyes. The wagh just walked away, did not do anything.”BOX:Waghoba origin story:The Waghoba does not have one single origin story but a common thread uncovered through interviews. It involves a woman who gives birth to a baby out of wedlock. The child shape-shifts into a tiger and eats livestock of the village. When the villagers decided to kill the animal, the mother asked that her child be sent to the forest. In exchange, people would install shrines for the wagh and give an offering once a year. While some participants, especially shamans, shared elaborate origin stories, most of the other participants narrated fragments of these stories, containing similar underlying beliefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraresearchers-document-150-warli-shrines-dedicated-to-big-cats-101619376848278.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area’s daily Covid count again goes past 2,000||The number of Covid-19 cases being recorded daily in the tricity went past the 2,000 mark once again on Sunday, with 2,010 people testing positive for the virus. As many as 893 cases surfaced in Mohali, followed by 749 in Chandigarh and 368 in Panchkula.The tricity had recorded 2,000+ cases for the first time on Thursday (2,024), which went up to a record 2,201 on Friday. However, Saturday saw a dip with 1,765 cases.In terms of deaths, there was a dip on Sunday, as 10 patients succumbed to the virus in the tricity, down from a record 14 on Saturday. Mohali continued to report bulk of the fatalities, with five on Sunday, followed by three in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh.Chandigarh had reported record 828 cases on Friday, while Mohali and Panchkula had logged their all-time high on Thursday, with 931 and 459 cases, respectively. During the second wave, Chandigarh and Panchkula have reported a maximum of four deaths in a day, while Mohali hit an all-time high of 11 on Saturday.Amid a surge in both cases and deaths, which took their total to 41,862 and 545, respectively, Mohali district also had some positive news with 932 people being cured and discharged on Sunday. It brought the number of active cases down to 7,998 while taking the total number of recoveries to 33,319 (79.6%).In Chandigarh, the death two men, aged 31 and 51, from Sector 32 and Daria, respectively, took the toll to 435.Of 38,692 cases reported so far, 33,021 (85.3%) have been cured while 5,236 remain active. At 19.7%, the positivity rate on Sunday continued to be on the higher side.In Panchkula, though 666 people have tested positive in the past 24 hours, only 368 were confirmed to be locals by the night. Addresses of others will be verified on Monday, said the health authorities. Those found positive included 34 personnel of paramilitary forces.Meanwhile, three women, aged 60, 66 and 80, succumbed to the virus. All belonged to rural belts of the district. As many as 19,105 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 16,297 (85.3%) have been cured, 183 have died and 2,625 are still battling the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-s-daily-covid-count-again-goes-past-2000-101619376847725.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Change in ‘course’ of action: Rise in students applying to foreign varsities||On Thursday, 17-year-old Bengaluru resident Praajna GB received a conditional offer from the University of British Columbia, Canada, for admission to its Bachelors of Applied Sciences course. Almost a month ago, he received a similar offer from University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Both offers will stand only if he secures a certain score in his class 12 board exams. However, on April 14, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced that Class 12 board examinations for CBSE students would be deferred till June in light of the exponential rise of cases.On June 1, the ministry will review the situation and announce fresh dates for the exams that were earlier scheduled to be held from May 4 to June 14. Praajna is now unsure if he can make it to either of the universities for the fall session that starts in August. “I am watching the news constantly,” said Praajna. iSchoolConnect, an artificial-intelligence-powered digital platform that facilitates university admissions around the globe, has registered a spike in the number of inquiries for study abroad, its head of Alliances and Marketing Vaibhav Gupta said. “While earlier, we courted around 5,000 inquiries about admissions a month on an average, they’ve climbed to 10,000 inquiries now,” he said.OnCourse Vantage Pvt Ltd, an education consulting and test-prep company that guides students with applications, also reported a similar trend, chief executive officer and co-founder Alisha Mashruwala Daswani said. “This spike can be attributed to two factors. Last year as Covid-19 cases surged and travel restrictions were imposed by countries, many prospective students decided to defer their admission by a year. Another reason could be that with uncertainties over admission and entrance exam schedules in India, students want to keep their options open and are applying abroad,” she said. Last year, most universities around the world struggled to fill their foreign student quotas as travel restrictions and uncertainty over classes made prospective students defer their plans. To attract more international students, universities are now waiving off application fees, lowering their criteria for standardised entrance tests or even doing away with tests altogether and offering scholarships, making it relatively easier to apply. Admissions to universities in most countries are based on marks secured in standardised tests such as the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) for business administration courses and Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) for science and technology courses. Additionally, prospective students may be required to take language proficiency tests such as Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). “Many universities in the United States of America, including the one I secured admission in, have relaxed their entry criteria. Some have waived off GRE scores or reduced the minimum score to attract more students,” said 30-year-old Yash Nayak from Bhilai, who graduated as a civil engineer in 2013. Having secured admission in the State University of New York at Buffalo for a Master of Science in Management Information Systems, Nayak aims to join the fall session. While study abroad is a preferred choice among those wishing to pursue higher education such as Masters and postdoctoral work, this year, many prospective students are applying for undergraduate courses, too, owing to ambiguity over admission schedules in India. Last year, common entrance exams such as the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) were delayed by several months; this year, too, they have been deferred. NEET-UG, usually conducted in May, is scheduled to take place in August this year. The third session of JEE Mains was scheduled to take place in the last week of April but has now been postponed indefinitely. Maharashtra common entrance test (CET) cell has not yet announced registrations for entrance exams to professional courses, which would usually be held in the month of May. “As cases are rising every day, many parents have expressed concern about delays in entrance exams for admissions to undergraduate courses. They are worried their ward will lose precious time waiting for admissions to begin in India. Meanwhile, most universities abroad have been able to stick to their timelines and parents find it a more pragmatic option,” said Gupta. While the pandemic has made it slightly easy for Indians to apply for and secure a seat in a foreign university, physically making it to the campus continues to remain a challenge as the Covid-19 pandemic has so far affected more than 145 million people across the globe, as on Sunday.Growing anxiety over travel plans Nayak has been trying to schedule a visa appointment with the US embassy for weeks now with no luck. “The embassies in New Delhi and Mumbai are shut because of the lockdown. There are very few slots available for visa appointments and they get booked very fast. Most of my time is spent online keeping track of the slots,” he said. Nayak, like many such students, doesn’t want to take the course online. “I am applying to a foreign university to get world-class, hands-on training. I am investing a considerable amount for this through my fees, for which I am taking a loan. I don’t think online classes can match up the experience one has on campus,” he said. Sakhi Dua, 26, had applied to six universities in the US last year for pursuing MBA in finance. After delaying her plan by a year due to the lockdown situation, Dua is now worried she may end up losing another year. “The universities are still contemplating hybrid course-plan (mix of online and offline) for the first-year batch, but that defeats the purpose of applying for the course altogether,” said Dua, a Mumbai resident, who is currently working with a multi-national company. She has already decided to opt for the February-intake session instead of the September session in the hopes that the situation would have improved by then. “My friends, who got admission last year, are currently attending online lectures, and are facing a lot of trouble due to the time difference. If the situation doesn’t change, I might opt for a one-year certificate course in a foreign language in India and opt for my Masters course only next year, when hopefully the situation will be back to normal,” said Anuj Patel, 23, who wants to pursue a degree in Data Science in London. Most universities in the US have made it mandatory for students to take both vaccinations before coming to campus, making Indian students worry about their turn to get the jab. Although the Centre recently opened up vaccination to all adults, those between the ages of 18 to 45 can only get the jab once states procure them from vaccine makers, in India and abroad. “Many universities in the US are now asking students to come to campus and get the vaccine there,” Gupta said. As countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Singapore put India on a ‘red list’ that restricts travel from here to these countries, students have another reason to worry. Ayush, a 28-year-old from Mumbai, was admitted to the Parsons School of Design for a Masters course in Strategic Design Management in New York last year. Having completed his first year online, he intends to fly to New York ahead of the classes in the fall semester. “My visa appointment keeps getting cancelled and there is no certainty of flights,” said Ayush. Aviraj Singh, 27, had secured admission for the February session this year for a master course in Data Science at RMIT University in Melbourne. Unable to go to campus, Singh is now taking online classes. “Since the pandemic seems to be severe in many parts of the world still, it looks like my entire year will be spent online. The point of attending an MBA programme in Australia was to be able to pursue internships between semesters and gain work experience there but now, I’m stuck at my home attending lectures, which defeats the purpose of joining this course in the first place,” said Singh. Student-run portal to help aspirants with applications A group of Indian students studying in various foreign universities in different parts of the world have come together to help students who wish to get help with the application process to these institutes. Founded by Devika Ghosal, a student of the University of Warwick, and Yash Gulati, a student of Queen Mary University of London, Inforens is an online platform that connects aspirants to existing students and helps them with their applications free of cost. Both Ghosal and Gulati are the first generation of students in their family to study abroad and wanted to help many like them reach good universities without having to shell out a lot of money. “A lot of money is being charged by private educational consultants, so only rich people reach up to them. Talented students, who have skills but are not rich, don’t even dream to go abroad for education so we want to change this and help them get scholarships in good universities across the world,” said Gulati.With the pandemic and the resultant restrictions around the globe, Gulati said the entire university experience has changed, as institutes have adopted a blended approach that is likely to continue to some extent even in the future. “While in-person teaching is likely to start as soon as the pandemic settles, universities will continue to use online examinations, programmes, etc to allow flexibility to the teaching faculty as well as students. Thus, international students can use this as an advantage as they have more time and flexibility to focus on career development, job applications, or future planning,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/change-in-course-of-action-rise-in-students-applying-to-foreign-varsities-101619376667232.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Activists offer ₹15,000 reward for info on animal attackers||On Saturday evening, Bandra police registered a case against an unidentified serial killer of animals for allegedly mutilating six cats since March 24. Animal activists have also announced a reward of ₹15,000 for information about the accused. The case was filed based on a complaint by an employee of Dr Jyotsna Changrani, a resident of Perry Cross Road in Bandra (West), who said she has been feeding street animals since the past 10 years and it is for the first time that she noticed six cats injured on the mouth and jaws, which appear to be done deliberately. According to Changrani, three of the six cats have succumbed to injuries.Changrani’s employee Shaam Kevat, 40, who feeds around 130 cats and dogs in the vicinity, said the first incident took place on March 24. When he went to feed the cats, he saw that a cat, named Lockdown, was brutally beaten up and had injuries on his mouth. Kevat took the cat to the local veterinary, but the cat died shortly. The second incident took place on the same day with another cat sustaining injuries.The third incident and fourth incidents were reported on April 18. One of the two cats succumbed to the injuries on April 22. After two more such incidents on April 22 and on Saturday (April 24), Dr Changrani approached Bandra police to file a complaint under section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.“We want to create awareness among Bandra residents to keep a lookout for the animals around them and people who take out their frustration and anger on mute and helpless animals,” said Vijay Mohnani, an animal activist. Mohnani said they are trying to help the police in nabbing the accused as fast as they can, to protect other animals. “We know police personnel are overworked in enforcing the lockdown, so we want to help them in catching this serial killer,” added Mohnani.According to animal activists, brutality on animals has increased during and post lockdown last year, as at least eight animal abuse cases were registered in Mumbai every day, as compared to three to four cases daily in 2019. Last year, despite the lockdown, 886 cases were registered, with maximum cases registered after September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-activists-offer-15-000-reward-for-info-on-animal-attackers-101619376547190.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||No bed for critical Covid patients in Mohali||At a time when Mohali is reporting a record number of Covid-19 fatalities and the number of active cases is around 8,000, hospitals in the district — both government and private — have run out of beds for critical patients needing ventilator support.Also, when it comes to beds with oxygen support, not a single is available at private hospitals, and just 15 remain vacant at government facilities.The second wave is witnessing more complications among patients, with a large proportion needing critical care or oxygen support. As many as 109 people have succumbed to the virus in April alone, which accounts for 20% deaths since the outbreak last March.Also read: All Covid beds occupied in Haryana’s Panchkula districtAccording to data provided by the district authorities on Sunday evening, Mohali has 781 beds for critical patients, of which 220 are with ventilators (Level-3) and 546 with oxygen support (Level-2). While all L3 beds are occupied, only 15 L2 beds are available at the civil hospital in Phase 6.There are around 30 big private hospitals in Mohali, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, but all have been refusing admission to critical patients after running out of beds.While none of the nine government facilities has ventilators, patients needing oxygen support are kept at only two civil hospitals, in Mohali’s Phase 6 and Dhakoli, and those needing critical care are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, said civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur. Meanwhile, patients who are not in the need of any urgent medical attention are mostly in home isolation or admitted to Level-1 facilities.Pvt hospitals turning back patients“I took my 75-year-old mother who is suffering from Covid-19 to Fortis Hospital in Mohali, but they kept us in the emergency for a night, as they had no bed. I had to late shifted her to a private hospital in Chandigarh,” said, Simerjeet Singh Sohata, a resident of Phase 10. Abhijit Singh, zonal director of Fortis Hospital, said: “As of now, all our beds are full. We are trying to expand the capacity by Monday.” Dr Ankush Mehta, general manager, Max Hospital, said: “Our Covid-19 occupancy in 100%. We have increased our overall bed capacity from 82 to 126, but still, we don’t have any bed. We have no option, but to refuse admission to patients.”Rush from Delhi responsible: DCReassuring the public that there was no reason to panic, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “The beds at private hospitals have been occupied due to rush from Delhi. We are asking all private hospitals to increase their bed capacity and reserve beds for critical patients.” Seven hospitals, which have been assessed by experts to have provided quality Covid care in the past, have been directed for compliance, he said. These are Max, Fortis, Ivy, Indus, Sohana, Grecian and Mayo. Dayalan said the 200-bed L1 facility at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, is also being upgraded to 1,000 beds, as per requirement. “As the number of patients being cured and discharged is also increasing, beds are becoming vacant. So, we have ample facilities to cater to the increasing number of cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-bed-for-critical-covid-patients-in-mohali-101619376488596.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mercury rises slightly, light shower possible this week||There was a slight uptick in temperature in the city on Sunday, rising to a maximum daytime reading of 34.8 degrees Celsius, up from 33.2 degrees Celsius a day prior, as per India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz. According to IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, the mercury will continue to rise steadily in the last week of April, touching a daily maximum of around 36 degrees Celsius on May 1.Sunday’s maximum daytime temperature was 1 degree Celsius above normal. Mumbai’s minimum temperature on Sunday stood at 25.8 degrees Celsius, also one degree above normal.Temperature readings throughout this past month have been near normal or just above normal without any occurrence of heat waves (as typically happens in April), shows IMD data. IMD officials said there is a slight chance of rain in Mumbai and Thane districts this week, under the influence of a weather system passing over parts of central India. “Isolated rainfall, thundershowers may be felt in the eastern part of the state. Mumbai may get some drizzle this week, which may cause a day or two of high humidity after,” said an IMD spokesperson.“A north-south trough runs from Marathwada to south coastal Tamil Nadu across north interior Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema (Andhra Pradesh) in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence... isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over Maharashtra and remaining parts of south Peninsular India during next four-five days,” IMD noted in its operational all-India weather forecast on Sunday.A yellow-alert has also been sounded over the Konkan region, specifically for April 27 and 28. “Severe weather warnings issued by IMD today for coming five days for all India. Most of the central India and southern peninsula looks to remain active with possibilities of thunderstorms and lightning with rains, including Maharashtra place,” tweeted KS Hosalikar, a scientist with IMD in Pune.IMD’s weather station in Colaba, meanwhile, recorded a daytime maximum temperature of 33.8 degrees Celsius, down from 34.8 degrees Celsius the previous day. As per the seven-day forecast, the temperature in south Mumbai, too, will hover around 36 degrees Celsius by May 1. The highest temperature this month was 35.3 degrees Celsius on April 22. Last year, the highest reading for April was 37.1 degrees Celsius on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mercury-rises-slightly-light-shower-possible-this-week-101619376307166.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha likely to provide free vaccine shots to all||Maharashtra may give free vaccine shots to all those in the 18 to 45 age group. State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said a consensus was reached by the ministers in the last cabinet meeting that the state should give free vaccines to all in this category. He said a global tender will be called and the bidder that will provide the best vaccine at a lower price will be chosen by the state.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in a series of tweets, too, said the state has decided to vaccinate its citizens for free, but later deleted the tweets and apologised, adding that the official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee.Taking the nationwide vaccination drive into the next phase, the Central government allowed all those in the 18-45 age group to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1. Declaring a change in its policy, it has asked the states to vaccinate this age group by procuring doses from the open market.“The issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting and there was consensus among all the ministers that the state should give free vaccines to all those between 18-45 years of age … The state will require around 140 million vials to get this done and are planning it accordingly… deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday has said that they will call a global tender and will select the bidder that will provide the best vaccine at a lower price,” Malik said.Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad said that they have taken a major decision of vaccinating all for free. He also deleted the tweet after a few hours. “We all had urged that the vaccine should be free for all. However, the decision has to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday.“The Govt of Maharashtra has decided to vaccinate its citizens free of cost. This is not something that we think of as a choice, but a duty that we consider of utmost importance: protecting the citizens from Covid,” tweeted the environment minister.“We are also ensuring that the procurement happens at the earliest so that we have ample vaccines to keep the momentum of efficient, smooth and fast vaccination of all citizens of Maharashtra. A safer Maharashtra is our way to ensure a safer India! Likewise for other States,” he added in a series of tweets.He also deleted the tweets in the next few hours and issued a clarification. “I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion regarding the official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind. The official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee and we must await its recommendation for a fair policy for all sections of society. My apologies for the confusion if it all it may have caused,” Thackeray said.The state has formed a five-member committee which has been tasked to draft a tender to purchase vaccines from global vaccine makers. Headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the committee will facilitate the process of purchasing vaccines as well as drugs like remdesivir, an antiviral drug that is part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday.The state is expected to float the global bid by early next week by taking the cabinet’s nod or the expenditure.“The decision over giving free vaccines has to be taken by the state cabinet,” said a senior official, privy to the development.Last week, Kunte had said a plan is being worked out as foreign import is now allowed and there is Bharat Biotech, we will get in touch with them. The vaccination drive for [age] 18 to 44 will start on May 1, but the stock is expected to be limited. In that age group, there are roughly 55 or 57.5 million people. So, we will require about 120 million doses, including the wastage, over a span of four to five months, depending on how soon we get the stock.Additional chief secretary of finance department Manoj Saunik, principal secretary of public health Dr Pradeep Vyas, secretary of medical education department Saurabh Vijay and principal secretary of industries department Baldev Singh will be part of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-likely-to-provide-free-vaccine-shots-to-all-101619376247187.html
26-04-2021||Other||Section 144 in Panchkula: Assembly of more than four banned||Imposing Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the district, the deputy commissioner of police has banned the assembly of more than four people with immediate effect.The order exempts officials from the health, police and emergency services, and those with prior permission. “There is a likelihood of danger to human life, health and safety, disturbance of public peace and tranquillity in Panchkula due to the imminent spread of Covid-19 epidemic to social transmission stage,” DCP Mohit Handa said in the order.Violators will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which entails six months in jail.Indoor gatherings capped at 30Deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar issued additional restrictions, limiting the number of people in indoor gatherings to 30 and that in outdoors space to 50. For funerals and cremations, not more than 20 people are allowed.Besides, in line with the state government’s orders, all IT/ITES units and corporate offices in the district will operate through work from home till 9am on May 3. Shops will continue to close at 6pm.“Any person found guilty of violation of this order should be prosecuted and punished under Sections 51 to 60 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of IPC and other legal provisions as applicable shall be taken,” the DC’s order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/section-144-in-panchkula-assembly-of-more-than-four-banned-101619376067813.html
26-04-2021||Pune||God’s “incognito son” who made “every jam a masterclass” bids farewell to earthly stage||PUNE The music fraternity across India set social media abuzz on Sunday as they paid rich tributes to India’s finest guitar player, Derek Julien, who died of post-Covid pneumonia at Jehangir Hospital in Pune on Sunday morning. Derek was 70 and is survived by his wife Maria and daughter Danielle.Julien was diagnosed with Covid-19 in early April and had been in the ICCU at Jehangir Hospital. The music fraternity across India rallied to support Julien and after a stoic battle, he overcame Covid and was moved to the regular ICU on April 17. His condition took a turn for the worse on April 19 and subsequent tests showed significant lung damage. Julien battled till the end, conveying his gratitude to everyone for the overwhelming support. He passed away at 1 am on April 25.Born in Mumbai on August 19, 1950, Derek Julien was instrumental in elevating jazz and blues-rock guitar playing an ethereal form of the art, holding audiences mesmerised every time he took stage. In a career spanning more than 50 years, Julien was associated with bands such as Mystiks, the legendary Waterfront, Azure Hades, Airwave, and the Dragonette Project, among others.Julien’s long-time friend, collaborator and brother-in-law, bass maestro Roger Dragonette is devastated. “The grief is so much I can’t think straight. Derek was one of God’s incognito sons. It’s been like 50 years of playing together as musicians, friends, brothers, right from Waterfront days - it’s heartbreaking. Something in me has died. I am totally lost now,” Dragonette said.Music composer, producer and guitar player Koco of Agnee, expressed dismay over Derek’s passing. “It’s truly, truly sad that we had to lose him to Covid. I have worked with him, jammed with him at events. Derek was a musician and guitar player that everyone across generations respected. We were always in awe of his playing, his skillset, personality - everything. If you look at the social media tributes, he’s earned bigger riches than anyone else,” said Koco.Pune guitar genius and composer, Sanjay Joseph, currently based in Goa, was distraught at the news. “It’s a sad day bro. You think guys like Derek will live forever. Giants like Derek have done the work for all who came after. I have never heard Derek repeat himself as a musician. Every guitar player has a bag of licks they fall back on when uninspired. I have heard Derek play many, many times, and he never repeated himself. Muscle memory didn’t come into play with him - he was always in the moment. That is huge,” said Joseph.Pune-based guitarist singer and composer, Christopher Fonseca, who was in close touch with the family through Julien’s illness, told us, “I’m heartbroken and dumbfounded and still cannot accept that our dear Derek has gone. I recall his gentleness, humility and constant encouragement to us younger musicians. He never failed to compliment, advise, and even ask about your musical wellbeing… just by his presence he would make you stand up to the occasion for the fact that he enjoyed playing with you ...just makes him a bigger legend to me - every jam, rehearsal or gig with him was a masterclass.”Mukherjee is a writer, blogger and former journalist, covered the music scene in Pune, and India, extensively from 1996 till 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gods-incognito-son-who-made-every-jam-a-masterclass-101619375527140.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Chandigarh MC increases contact tracing staff to 100||Ramping up contact tracing in the city, the municipal corporation has deployed more teams, increasing their members from 54 to 100.From the earlier 18, now there are 25 teams, each comprising four members, that aim to trace 20 people per positive case assigned to them. While this number is still lower than the 30 people per patient advocated by the Union government, MC has increased it from an average of six to 20 in a month amid the surging cases.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “Due to the high rate of new Covid cases, we have decided to add more people and teams for contact tracing.” This is the third time in a span of one month that the MC has increased the number of teams and personnel deputed for contact tracing.In mid-March, there were only three teams with 12 members. These were increased to nine with 27 members. But, with the second wave hitting the city hard, the teams were doubled to 18 and personnel increased to 54, and now to 25 and 100, respectively.Meanwhile, the teams have been struggling to keep up with the multiplying cases. “Every day, we trace contacts of around 800 patients as the pending cases have been piling up,” said a member of one of the teams. 43 city areas get micro-containment tagAs many as 43 areas were notified as micro-containment zones in the city on Sunday. Over the last one month, the administration has declared around 250 such zones to check the spread of Covid-19 cases in the city. Among the 43 areas, four are in Sector 35; three each in Sectors 46 and 50; and two each in Sectors 10, 21, 23, 32, 36, 48 and 49. Besides, one micro-containment zone each is in Sectors 8, 11, 15, 18, 31, 38, 41, 43, 51, 52, 63, Ram Darbar, Phase 1, and Darashano Bagh, Old Indira Colony, Pipliwala Town, Morigate and Modern Housing Complex – all in Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-chandigarh-mc-increases-contact-tracing-staff-to-100-101619374987932.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Committee in each district of Haryana to monitor supply of oxygen to all hospitals||Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Sunday directed deputy commissioners (DCs) to constitute a committee of senior officers that will deal with allocation and medical oxygen supply to all government and private hospitals in their districts.Presiding over a state-level crisis coordination committee meeting in which all DCs and SPs also participated via video conferencing, the chief secretary instructed the DCs to ensure that RT-PCR reports are made available on time.Asking the officers to take every possible step to curb the spread of Covid-19, Vardhan said the district-level committee to be headed by high-level officer should ensure supply of oxygen to all government and non-government hospitals in the district as per requirement.“The oxygen supply allocated by government should be lifted on time and one officer should be posted for monitoring government and non-government hospitals,” he said, asking to create containment zones with immediate effect in the areas where Covid cases are rapidly increasing.He added that MPs, MLAs, chairmen and members of market committees should take a decision to form containment zones and take other necessary steps for Covid precaution in their concerned areas.He said that maximum number of employees should adopt work from home practice where it can be implemented.Additional chief secretary (medical education and research) Alok Nigam said that work is under progress to add 1,000 oxygen beds in PGIMS Rohtak and 1,250 oxygen-rich beds in other medical college hospitals.ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said about 46,000 patients in state are in home isolation, who are being regularly monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/committee-in-each-district-to-monitor-supply-of-oxygen-to-all-hospitals-101619373852767.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Four critically ill Covid-19 patients die as hospital runs out of oxygen||Four critically ill Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support at Kathuria Hospital died on Sunday afternoon due to a shortage of oxygen, according to the hospital management. Staff at the hospital alleged that they had raised the alarm with the authorities concerned around 11am, but did not get the supply despite assurances.The four patients, aged between 45 and 67, died around 3pm after the oxygen cylinders ran empty. The incident also caused a furore among relatives of other patients, who rushed to industrial units to fetch oxygen from private suppliers, the hospital authorities said.Kathuria Hospital on Khandsa Road has a capacity of 30 beds, all of which are occupied by Covid-19 patients.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, said that they had informed the health department and the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) concerned regarding the critical situation around 11am. “I called the health department and they asked me to contact the nodal officer and SDM concerned responsible for oxygen supply. We were assured by authorities that the oxygen supply would reach the hospital within time, but nothing happened. Around 3pm, the oxygen cylinders went empty and four critical patients lost their lives,” he said.However, officials of the district administration said that they were not informed about the shortage and there was no demand raised for supply.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “I was neither informed about the matter nor was any request made regarding the shortage. Duty magistrates were deployed and I am making further enquiries.”He said that there was ample oxygen available in the city and the same could have been supplied without any problem. Later in the evening, Garg ordered a magisterial inquiry into the matter by subdivisional magistrate Jitender Kumar.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram said that the supply of oxygen is not the prerogative of the health department but they will probe the reasons for the death of four patients. “We will probe if the deaths were caused by lack of oxygen or any other reason. I had told the hospital management to contact the official concerned responsible for oxygen supply,” he said.Amit Shandilya, executive engineer and nodal officer for the hospital said that he was not informed about the matter by the hospital authorities. “I am on record that no message or call was made to me in this matter. If they had informed, we would have managed supply,” he said.Pradeep Kumar, subdivisional magistrate, Pataudi, said that the charge of oxygen supply management was given to another official on Saturday. “I received a call from the hospital authorities but since I was busy, I messaged them that they should raise the matter with the new in-charge of supply in the district,” he said.Kathuria alleged that the system of oxygen supply in the district was faulty. “We informed them within time and despite that, this tragedy happened. Relatives of other patients were forced to rush to get cylinder filled themselves,” he added.A relative of a patient who is admitted to the hospital said that relatives of all patients rushed to industrial areas in Manesar and Gurugram to get cylinders filled. “We ran on car and bikes as cylinders finished and lives of many were in danger,” the relative said, requesting anonymity.Kathuria said that they managed to arrange oxygen cylinders from private sources around 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-critically-ill-covid-19-patients-die-as-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-101619373006989.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Second dose beneficiaries struggle to get appointment for vaccine in Pune||PUNE Residents across Pune city have complained that they are unable to book a slot of their second shot of Covishield on the Co-WIN app. Senior citizens and those aged 45+, who are waiting for their second dose of Covishield are having appointments cancelled the day before.The PMC has failed to regularly provide real-time information on the availability of the second dose at the respective centres. The Co-WIN app does not show any centres in Pune city.While earlier the second dose was recommended to be given after four weeks, it has now been extended to six-eight weeks in the case of Covishield. For maximum efficacy against the virus, experts have recommended that citizens must receive both shots of the vaccine. Siddharth Shirole, MLA from Shivajinagar, earlier asked the PMC to publish a daily report of the vaccination centres with the type of vaccine available. However, the civic body does not publish a daily list. Shirole said, “I am aware that sr.citizens (&45+) who are awaiting their 2nd dose of COVISHIELD are having their appointments get cancelled the day before. Also that there is no real-time information on availability of second dose of either vaccine. I have once again urged PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar to regularly and accurately publish info of vaccination centres at-least a day in advance, so that citizens can plan, avoid the risk of visiting multiple centres and prevent creating hot-spots at walk-in centres itself.”However the inconvenience to citizens continues, One Bharati Parashar said, “Vaccination centres in Pune municipal limits are not appearing on CoWin application. The PMC should regularly update the list. I am not able to take an appointment for the second dose due to non-availability of the vaccination centre’s on the list.” Another Suyash Kulkarni said, “No Covishield slots available for next three weeks on any of the pincodes in Pune. I checked this for the second dose for my senior citizen parents. Whom do we contact?” Manish Chauhan said, “Vaccines are not properly available in Pune since yesterday. The situation seems to be slightly better in PCMC. People due for a second dose are facing problems in Pune city.”Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer said, “The irregular supply of the vaccine is also an issue. Although we do create session sites in advance for people to book due to shortage of vaccines, they are booked out. Also there are technical issues with the app. Sometimes there are appointments which show that the person has been vaccinated, but in fact they have not. In such a case we ask them to manually register themselves it at our centres.” A senior PMC officer, requesting anonymity, also said, “On Sunday morning we had only 5,000 doses in the pipeline, as in those already with the hospitals ready to be administered. We got a fresh stock of 35,000 vaccines on Sunday afternoon which we again started distributing. This new stock will last for another two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seniors-struggle-to-get-second-dose-of-vaccine-as-appointments-cancelled-101619361666418.html
26-04-2021||Pune||PMC, PCMC cremation count continues to belie administration’s death toll||The number of Covid-19 fatalities being cremated in Pune and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad for the past two weeks, has far outnumbered the official death toll being reported by the state health department. Officials from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) involved in monitoring the crematoria claimed that 170 bodies have been cremated each day in the past one week. Of these 170 bodies, 120, on average, are Covid victims, the official said. This is in sharp contrast to the 11 deaths that the state health department reported on Saturday in Pune city, or the 23 deaths in Pune district. The PMC on the other hand reported 55 Covid deaths in the city. On Sunday, the state health department reported 47 fatalities in Pune, while PMC reported 55 deaths.The Indian Council for Medical Research, Central Health Ministry and WHO consider the state health department’s data, which differs from numbers provided by the PMC or the district health office. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar denied there is mismatch in the PMC death count and cremation figures. “In the PMC report, we always show the PMC-plus-outside figures also. Cremations are happening of people who died in Pune city. “In the report we are showing the deaths of PMC residents. In our report we clarify that every day. We will check both the numbers,” said Kumar. On April 20, HT had reported that over a few days a total 150 cremations have happened in the city, of which, 100 were Covid cases. “There is an immense load on the crematoria due to Covid deaths. Daily cremations of Covid bodies have gone up to 110-120 per day. This number includes all deaths from all faiths. Bodies received from Sassoon hospital alone account for an average of 45-50 cremations per day,” said Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMCs electric department and man incharge of crematoria.Kandul is also tasked with coordination for last rites of Covid-19 bodies. In pre-Covid period, there used to be 80-90 cremations in a day, said KandulIn the past week there has been a waiting period of at least five-six hours for cremation in Pune. To ease the burden, civic body has already roped in all the 21 crematoria in city.To facilitate the process further, PMC has started an online process to issue a cremation pass to relatives of the deceased. “We are hoping this will ease the process. Earlier, all the people used to call two numbers and PMC had to note down all the details in order to issue the pass. “Now it can be filled online and a pass code is sent to a relative’s phone. They can take the body to the nearest crematorium and last rites can be performed. This has reduced the waiting period,” said Shrinivas Kandul.Numbers do not add up in PCMC The situation is no different in Pimpri-Chinchwad where out of 40 crematoria five have been allotted for cremations of Covid bodies. According to data available from PCMC administration, between April 1-24, a total of 622 patients have died due to the Covid-19 infection. Numbers coming in from crematoria paint a different picture. From April 1-24, as many as 1,820 bodies have been cremated at PCMC crematoria designated for Covid. According to registered numbers at the four dedicated Covid crematoria in PCMC – 743 bodies have been cremated at Nehru Nagar, 601 in Bhosari, 358 in Nigdi, and 118 in Sangvi; all in April.“A person who has died due to Covid is denoted by the letter ‘K’. The death is registered in the PCMC record next day, so the number of deaths registered in the crematorium register and the PCMC record varies,” said a doctor from PCMC health department, on condition of anonymity. Firms managing crematoria in PCMC limits have been feeling the load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-pcmc-cremation-count-continues-to-belie-administration-s-death-toll-101619360826394.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||I am a true Punjabi through and through: chef Dipna Anand||Cooking is all about experimenting with flavours and pairing together ingredients, chef Dipna Anand believes. She says, “It is about making everything work together. It’s also about enjoying the experience of creating new innovative dishes and I have always found that to be quite addictive.” She grew up in London among a family of chefs and has been cooking passionately since the age of 18. The chef visited India recently and shares her secret of cooking. “I am one of these chefs who does like a little bit of fusion, however if you ‘fusionise’ something so much, it confuses the dish and over-complicates the flavours, thus when I am cooking a dish and want to give it an Indian twist, I believe in doing so by adding the maximum amount of flavour yet without muddling up tastes too much. This theory for me has always worked. A classic example is my mandarin cheesecake which is lightly spiced with spices such as green cardamom and fennel and the flavours work wonders together,” says Anand. The chef won National award from The British Nutrition foundation for The Best Food Technology project in the country. She says, “The project focussed on low fat Indian cooking aimed at people who had heart disease or were trying to control their diet. I wanted to prove that Indian food could be tasty without causing strain on the waistline and problems to your health and by doing this project I did just that. My award winning dish in the project was soya and aalu stuffed giant flat masala mushrooms. A baked dish stuffed with a masala flavoured soya and potato mix, packed full of flavoursome spices giving the dish taste and added health benefits that our Indian spices give. In the project I experiment curry dishes also, for example managed to make a low calorie chicken tikka masala, a few Indian vegetarian dishes and also a few dessert dishes. I chose to carry out this project as my dad had suffered a heart attack during that time and this was due to his diet.” The chef’s father was born in Kenya and her grandparents were from Gujranwala, now in Pakistan. “My grandfather, Bishen Dass Anand was known as the king of all chefs. A true Punjabi and a master at his game. My grandfather passed his Punjabi roots and recipe on to my father and in turn my father has passed those down to me. It’s fair to say cooking is therefore in my blood and that I am a true Punjabi through and through. My specialist area as a chef is Punjabi food and our restaurant in Southall in UK which was established in 1975 is known to serve some of the best Punjabi food in the country. We were recently awarded the ITV Food and Drink Award for Best Family run restaurant in the UK.” Celebs love to visit Anand’s restaurant. “We have been fortunate to have many celebrity guests and public figures dine at our restaurant including Bollywood and Hollywood celebs, Royalty, Political Figures and Sporting heroes. His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales has visited us three times. Gordon Ramsay has visited twice for two of his famous television shows and another frequent visitor is Sir Cliff Richard. Kevin Kostner has also dined at the restaurant, Ted Heath, Princess Anne and Chris Tarrant to name but a few. The late Jagjit Singh would not leave London without dining at The Brilliant and Lata Ji has also dined with us on several occasions.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/i-am-a-true-punjabi-through-and-through-chef-dipna-anand-101618911580234.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Ramzan: A period of bonding over food||The month of Ramzan beautifully blends the spirit of fast, feast and faith. With prayers, celebrations and delicious food at its core, the holy period of joy and compassion will be more of an intimate affair this year, owing to the Covid-19 safety protocols. Staying indoors and collectively praying for the world to heal and win over this pandemic, it is also the perfect time to bond with your friends and family over food. “One is supposed to spend the month in devotion, worship and charity. I also run a daily Dastarkhan E Ramzan, where I post food recipes related to the festival along with a post on some monument related to it. Since we can’t talk about devotion as it is supposed to be personal, food becomes a topic of discussion. That is why there has always been an emphasis on food, and that’s the connection between food and Ramzan,” says historian and author, Rana Safvi.And what makes the Ramzan feasts more special is the fasting period that’s the focus of the month. Fasting during Ramzan involves not eating food or drinking water between sunrise and sunset for the entire month. “Food is an integral part of Ramzan’s traditions. Family and friends gather to share and enjoy the two meals that are served – Iftar is held at sunset when people break their fast, and Suhoor/Sehri is consumed early in the morning before the day starts,” says Indian masterchef, Sadab Qureshi, from The Westin Gurgaon. During Sehri, people usually have things that would not make them feel thirsty. Food like milk, dates, sooth pheni, eggs, fruit and vegetable salads are preferred for Sehri, while pakodas, sharbat, kabab, fritters, chole are a staple on every iftar table. The dinner consumed after is usually pretty heavy.While the core rituals and significance of Ramzan have remained unchanged, the spread of Islam over the globe gave texture and diversity to the global Ramzan experience. “Iftar, until a few years back, was more about serving the poor and consisted of three-four items to break the fast, which included dates, fruits and a simple meal. Today, it has become a grand affair,” says Qureshi. Moreover, every country and region has a particular delicacy that’s especially enjoyed during this month. Food flavours that erupt In India are stews, paaya, kormas, biryani, nihari, sheermal, keema, kaliya, zarda, haleem, shawarma, sheer kurma, seviyan, malpuas and more. “Dates are common as they contain nutritional value. Few years ago when I was in Ladakh during the month of Ramzan, I asked owner of a shop about how he opens his fast and he replied it’s usually by eating momos. For us, in UP the usual is samosa and pakodi. In South, I’m sure people would be eating idli and dosa. It is about comfort food,” says Safvi.Several food walks were conducted earlier to introduce people to Ramzan special delicacies . “Everything has changed due to the pandemic. People who love going for food walks are waiting for better days to come. I used to lead some Ramzan food walks in Old Delhi but this year, I am strictly at home and doing some restricted Iftaar dawats through our home cooked meals by our delivery kitchen,” says chef Osama Jalali, founder of The Mughal Plate by Jalalis. This year, they have Ramzan special haleeem in menu. Over the years, food patterns have also changed. “Nowadays people are more health conscious. Food items such as milk, cheese, yoghurt, eggs are being consumed, as they raise the blood sugar level slowly and also keeps an individual’s stomach full to sail through the day. As drinking water is not permitted during the day, one adds fruits with high water content in the respective meal. Fruits such as watermelon, pineapple, mangoes, plums along with dry fruits and rich salads are widely consumed,” says chef Brajesh Ghansiyal from Pracheen, India before 1947. The restaurant has curated a special menu in Ramzan that includes nihari mutton, gosht biryani, chicken korma and mutton seekh, informs Vidit Rawat of the restaurant. Seekh Kabab recipe Mutton leg 500gmginger paste 70gmgarlic peeled 70gmcoriander green chopped 15gm green chilly chopped 50gm mutton fat (minced to consistency of Keema) 100gm amul cheese grated 100gm garam masala 10gmFried onion paste 30gmdeggi mirch 40gmsalt 50gmbutter for basting 10gmBesan 3gmMethodIn a bowl mix together the mutton mince by your hands and add ginger-garlic paste to it along with onion paste, red chilli powder, coriander powder, cumin powder, powdered pepper, Butter, Mutton fat, Cheese grated and mashed salt, green chilly, fresh green coriander, Mix nicely. Add a little bit of besan to control the extra moisture. Mix well and keep it in the fridge for a minimum of 1 hour. Wrap the mince on a skewer and cook on a coal sigdi. Baste the kebab with melted butter. Once cooked, take out and add chaat masala, chopped dhaniya and serve with laccha onion and lemon wedgeBy chef Brajesh Ghansiyal Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramzan-a-period-of-bonding-over-food-101618910980662.html
