27-04-2021||Mumbai||Understanding Mumbai’s downward Covid-19 trend||Amidst an explosive second wave of the pandemic, the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has started showing a gradual, downward trend. From touching a single day high at 11206 cases in the first week of April, the daily case count dropped to 3999 on Tuesday. But this comes with an all-important caveat: The number of tests has declined from 51263 on April 7 to 30428 on April 27. What’s more, the number of deaths has gone up and so has the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) --- the daily CFR on April 7 was 0.23%; on Tuesday, it was 1.47% --- and, significantly, hospitals across the city are yet to record a reduction in demand for beds. “The lockdown-like measures have definitely worked in the city, but this is also a typical trend in the pandemic waves. You record a sudden surge and then a slump,” said Dr Avinash Supe, member of the task force of Covid-19 deaths. He said that Mumbai’s situation is expected to stabilise by May 15. RISE IN DEATHS In the first week of April, Mumbai’s daily case average stood at 9737. In the following week, the daily average dropped slightly to 8879 and to 8074 in the third week. In the ongoing fourth week of the month, the daily case average has further declined to 5628. On the other hand, the number of deaths has shown a rise. In the first week of April, the average daily deaths were 23. In the fourth week, the daily average is 68. To be sure, the overall CFR has declined marginally between April 7 and April 27, from 2.45% to 2.03%. “The deaths that we are recording now are of people who have been hospitalised when the number of cases was high,” said Supe. “In this wave, we have seen few deaths within a day or two after hospitalisation. Almost 80% of people who have succumbed have battled the virus for a week or two a week in the hospital.” The declining trend in cases is yet to reflect as the demand for beds in city hospitals has not gone down as yet. The civic-run 1,850-bedded SevenHills Hospital, which is an exclusive Covid-19 facility, continues to have full occupancy. “We are still admitting anywhere between 150 to 200 patients every day,” said Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, an officer on special duty at the Seven Hills Hospital. “The reduction in daily demand for beds would be a fair parameter to analyse the situation. But we haven’t experienced any reduction as yet,” he said. “The occupancy in our centres remains full,” said Dr Prince Surana, who runs a 75-bed Covid-19 hospital in Chembur and a 50-bed one at Malad. Both the hospitals have 100% occupancy. “The number of calls asking for beds may have slightly reduced, but the demand for Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilator beds remains the same,” he said. At the NESCO facility in Goregaon, all the 200 ICU beds were full. Of the 2015 ward beds, 1426 were occupied. “We have been admitting 220 to 250 patients daily and the number of admissions has not come down as yet,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the facility. Another 1,500 beds including 700 beds will be added to this centre on Wednesday. According to Andrade, the demand continues to be high for oxygen and ICU beds. On Tuesday, 1,096 oxygen beds and 51 ICU beds were available in the city, according to the BMC’s dashboard.SLUMP IN TESTS, NOT JUST ON WEEKENDS This indicates that reports about Mumbai turning a corner are premature. But the biggest indicator for this is that the city is now testing fewer people. A state-wide curfew is underway since April 14, and on April 21, the state announced stricter curbs on movement of ordinary citizens. One of the reasons for this downward trend, experts say, is that laboratories are flooded with samples; many only provide home sample collection appointments with a five-to-six-day lag. Doctors say that a large number of patients in the city were prescribed chest CT scans (to detect infection in the lungs), as they could not get appointments for RT-PCR swab tests. “The number of tests may fluctuate, and the numbers drop on weekends. But Mumbai has not reduced the tests drastically,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care physician at Fortis Hospital and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. However, the numbers don’t bear this out. The average daily tests in Mumbai in the first week of April were 46,315. The average improved slightly to 49,582 in the second week and again dropped to 45,829 in the third week. There has been a steady downward trend in testing in the city: starting April 22, the number of tests has ranged from 41,826 to 30,428 (April 27). Typically, daily tests fall during the weekend. For instance, on April 18 (a Sunday), 36,556 tests were conducted, and on the following day, 45,350 tests were conducted. By comparison, the number of tests conducted in Mumbai on Sunday (April 25) was 28,328. According to Pandit, the daily cases in Mumbai are likely to plateau and stabilise in another two weeks. “But we can’t let our guards down. Covid appropriate behaviour is essential and the number of tests should not decrease at any cost,” he said. Experts have also pointed that aggressive vaccination will help in controlling the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/understanding-mumbai-s-downward-covid-19-trend-101619547330961.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||50 large outbreak areas notified in Gurugram district||As the Covid-19 infections in the district continue to surge, with 3,684 new cases reported on Tuesday, the district administration notified 50 large outbreak areas, officials familiar with the matter said. Non-essential movement will be completely barred in these clusters and rigorous contact tracing will be undertaken, said officials.The maximum number of outbreak areas, under 11 public health centres across the district, were notified under the Nathupur and Chanderloke public health centres, with most of the containment zones under these areas located in condominiums along the Golf Course Road and around MG Road. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Earlier, we were declaring micro-containment zones, but as we saw that cases are continuing to increase, we will now be declaring macro containment zones, blocking non-essential movement in a whole area from where cluster cases are being reported. Thereafter, focus will be on rigorous contact tracing and testing in the given area.” As per the district administration, large outbreak areas were decided on the basis of geographical areas where localised increase in cases are being reported. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked, but for operational purposes, a large outbreak area is one where there are 15 or more cases, while a containment zone is an area where at least five Covid-19 cases are reported, officials said.According to guidelines issued by the district administration, reasonable restrictions on movement of people will be imposed in these areas, along with intensive public health campaigns, sanitisation of entire large outbreak area by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram or other agencies responsible, and operation of only essential shops and commercial establishment in such areas. In case transit through a large outbreak area is unavoidable, then usage of Aarogya Setu application will be a must, along with thermal scanning and symptomatic scanning at entry/exit points. Rapid testing facilities will be made available at exit points for symptomatic persons, said officials. The district administration also directed the Ayush department to distribute immunity boosters to people in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/50-large-outbreak-areas-notified-in-gurugram-district-101619546432869.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||3,684 new cases, 10 deaths reported in Gurugram||The district on Tuesday reported 3,684 new Covid-19 cases, taking the active case tally to 29,682 and 10 deaths of patients, taking the toll to 446, according to the district health department data.While officials of the health department said that they are working on the vaccine roll out plan for residents aged above 18 years of age from May 1, officials of the district administration will focus on enforcing containment measures in areas of large outbreak.“In order to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, the authorities have identified large outbreak areas in the city to ensure strict enforcement. This will help in curbing the spread of infection. We are also working on a plan to roll out vaccinations after May 1 and training will be held on Wednesday at state level,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. According to the district health department data, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 110,523. Meanwhile, 1,310 Covid-19 patients recovered in the district on Tuesday, taking the tally of total recoveries to 80,395. The rate of recovery in the district stands at 72.74%, as per the data. On the testing front, the health department collected samples from 11,535 persons, with results of 6,681 patients awaited. On Tuesday, 705 beneficiaries took their first jab of the vaccines while 680 beneficiaries took their second dose, taking the total number of people vaccinated in the district to 467,844.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3684-new-cases-10-deaths-reported-in-gurugram-101619546431380.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||DTCP registers case against ex-MLA, 5 others over development of illegal colony in Sec 77||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Gurugram has registered a case against six persons, including a former city MLA, for developing an illegal colony on five to six acres of land in Sector 77.The case was registered under sections 10, 7(I), and 7(ii) of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, at the Kherki Daula police station. The case was registered against Praveen Yadav, Deepak Chugh, Manorama, Mahender Sharma, Sombir Jakhar, and former Gurugram MLA Umesh Agarwal, said the police on Tuesday, adding that an investigation is underway.RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said that they had received a tip-off that a colony was being carved out on five to six acres of land — an institutional area — in Sector 77. “It was revealed during a probe that a notice was already issued against the previous landowner for trying to carve out a colony there. However, the previous owner had ceased the activities, and later sold the land to the present owners,” Bhath said.The present owners, who were engaged in developing an illegal colony on the land, got a local court notice issued to the DTCP, asking it not to take action against them. “We were alerted by this notice and conducted an inspection. We found that a colony was being developed here, and roads were being laid,” Bhath added.Following this, the DTCP took legal advice from Anil Yadav, additional advocate general, Haryana, who asked the department to report the matter to the local police. “We again conducted a joint inspection with the revenue department and found that two property dealers, and former MLA Umesh Agarwal were promoting the illegal colony. A complaint was lodged with the police, and a case was registered on Monday,” Bhath said.According to the DTCP complaint, “Bare perusal of the said report clearly reveals that the above detailed land was sub-divided into plots by laying roads. Six electricity poles were erected. A house was constructed at Khasra No. 758/2, and a park was developed at Khasra No. 760/1. An office and a tower were constructed at Khasra nos. 756/1/1/2, 757, 758, and 761/1/1/2. At the time of spot inspection, construction of roads was on with the help of JCBs and tractors. Labourers were working there,” as per to the FIR.The DTCP officials said that a road network, electric poles, and an office were constructed on the land. “This is an institutional area and development of an illegal colony can’t be allowed in this area. No permission was taken for developing it. We request the people not to buy plots in such colonies as they could lose money and face penal action,” Bhath said.A representative of the former MLA, when contacted, did not comment on the matter..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-registers-case-against-ex-mla-5-others-over-development-of-illegal-colony-in-sec-77-101619546432103.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Sell properties on carpet area, not super area: H-Rera to developers||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) in Gurugram announced on Tuesday that apartments and flats in the city would be sold only on the basis of carpet area, and not super area — which has been the norm so far. The authority said that the final decision will be notified within two to three days, following which sale of flats in new projects, ongoing projects, and projects without occupation certificate would be carried out as per the new rules.Dr KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, said that the Supreme Court and high court have given several decisions, saying that sale of properties on the basis of super area was just cheating the customers, and the authority has decided to take measures to stop this. “Sale of apartments will be allowed only on the basis of carpet area as it is defined, and physically verified. The concept of super area is not defined, and used differently by developers as per their convenience,” said Khandelwal, adding that in case of ongoing projects — where the promoters had allotted real estate units on super area basis, before the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, came into effect — the developer will now have to define all the components of the super area, and mention it in the builder-buyer agreement.“The inclusion of common area, club facilities, health centre, veranda, and other such areas will not be allowed to be clubbed in saleable areas, as had been done in the past,” Khandelwal added.Carpet area means the net usable floor area excluding the area covered by external walls, service shafts, balconies, verandahs, open terraces, according to the H-Rera Act, which came into effect on May 1, 2017.“In cases where the real estate unit was allotted to the allottee before the Act came into force, the developer will have to disclose all the components constituting the super area,” said Khandelwal, adding that the conveyance deed shall still be registered only on carpet area basis — according to the H-Rera rules.Sameer Kumar, member, H-Rera, said that any sale agreement will have to be based on carpet area after the notification of the order, and any violation would be considered as unfair and fraudulent practice. “Any property dealer, who will be indulged in any sale on the basis of super area or violate the directions issued by the authority, would face action under the Act,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sell-properties-on-carpet-area-not-super-area-h-rera-to-developers-101619546430780.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||MP appeals to Khattar govt to impose lockdown amid surge in Covid cases||Taking cognisance of the unabated surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, Gurugram Lok Sabha member and Union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh on Tuesday asked the state government to impose a curfew in Gurugram to contain the spread of the virus. Singh also said that he has been in talks with the state government regarding imposition of a lockdown for the past four days.“I spoke to the chief minister today and apprised him of the critical situation in the city. If we have to break the chain of infection, then it is important to impose a complete lockdown or curfew. I also suggested that only shops selling essential items be allowed to remain open. The cases are going to increase unless strict measures are taken,” said Singh, adding that he had received information about the long queues at cremation grounds in the city for Covid-19 victims, and this was an alarming situation which could be tackled only through a curfew.“I have been asking for a lockdown for the past four days,” Singh said.For the first time, a senior Uttar Pradesh BJP leader has called for a lockdown in Gurugram. Last week, Haryana chief secretary Vijay Vardhan had proposed a week-long lockdown in Gurugram and Faridabad. State health minister Anil Vij, however, said that no decision has been taken to impose a lockdown there.Meanwhile, Amit Arya, media advisor to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said that Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 was imposed across the state on Tuesday, which was enforced on the weekend, and it will be ensured that the enforcement is very strict there. “Around 50 large outbreak regions were notified in Gurugram on Monday, and these regions would be treated almost like closed areas. The situation is being continuously monitored, and further decisions will be taken based on local feedback,” said Arya.A few days ago, Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla had also said that a lockdown is necessary to bring the situation under control. “The total number of critical patients is rising on a daily basis, and a lockdown is necessary to stop it,” Singla had said.Traders in Gurugram have also demanded that a limited lockdown be imposed to save the people. “...There is a lack of oxygen, medicines, and hospital beds, and people are dying,” said Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association. Meanwhile, Rakesh Malik, president, Sector 22 Market Association, said, “What is the point of opening shops when our lives are in danger. The evening curfew is not enough.”The residents are also supporting a limited lockdown or curfew for 10 to 15 days in the city. A Twitter user ‘NCR Citizen’ wrote, “Please sir, everyone must stay home for a week . Lives must be saved.” City-based health officials on Covid-19 duties have also been pushing for a lockdown. “A lockdown must be imposed as the hospitals are full, and the healthcare system is under immense pressure. We need to curtail the infections like Delhi. Movement of people has further allowed the infection to spread,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.Health officials, privy to the matter, said that a proposal for a lockdown was sent to the state authorities last week, and the state chief secretary had recommended a 10-day lockdown on that basis, but the proposal was shot down at the ministerial level.The industry owners in Gurugram, however, are a bit wary of the lockdown and said that if it was at all required, then it should be limited and allow factories to operate. “The lockdown will impact the production and economy, but personally speaking, it is needed as the cases are rising. It can be imposed for some days to contain the spread,” he said.Senior Congress leader Ajay Singh Yadav said that a lockdown should be imposed in highly contaminated areas. “Industrial areas like Manesar, and markets should be allowed to operate with safeguard. The poor will suffer badly if a complete lockdown is imposed,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mp-appeals-to-khattar-govt-to-impose-lockdown-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101619546372756.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals stop admissions due to oxygen shortage||The ongoing shortage of oxygen supply to hospitals has left Covid-19 patients staring at a medical crisis, with several hospitals stopping new admissions on Tuesday and some even asking families of admitted patients to shift them to other facilities or arrange for oxygen cylinders.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, the director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said that there was no regular supply of oxygen leading to panic among family members of patients. “We have stopped taking new admission until there is regular oxygen supply. We have been visiting at least four places to refill the oxygen cylinders but are still getting a limited supply, which is not enough for the patients admitted to our hospital,” he said.At present, hospitals in the city are having to send their staffers to one of the three refill stations, two of which are in Manesar and one in Sector 16, in the district to get cylinders refilled with oxygen. However, hospitals said that the supply lasts only for a limited time due to the increased demand. Several hospitals on Tuesday morning called on the district administration to help them, after they ran out of oxygen supply.Dr S Raghunandan, vice-president, Center of Diabetes and Allied Sciences (CDAS), said that they have stopped admitting new patients due to a shortage of oxygen cylinders. “We have 38 Covid patients and most of them are surviving on oxygen support. Our hospital is going through an acute emergency as the oxygen supply left is hardly enough for a few hours. We are arranging oxygen from different places, but the supply lasts briefly. We are in a dire situation and the staff has not slept for the last 48 hours due to the condition of patients,” he said.The managements of Aarvy hospital in Civil Lines and Sector 90, Sethi Hospital in Model Town and Kathuria Hospital on Khandsa Road also said the oxygen supply at their respective hospitals would last only for a few hours.“We are not accepting new admissions until we get regular oxygen supply. We have an urgent oxygen requirement for our patients. We have around 80 patients in a serious condition, with 40 of them in ICU and on ventilator support. Their lives are at risk if oxygen is not made available to them. There has been an acute shortage of oxygen since last week. We got a few cylinders on Monday night with the help of the administration but the situation is again very bad. We are left with no choice but to explain to the patients and their relatives to either shift them elsewhere or to arrange oxygen. We have stock left only for two hours now,” said Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy hospital, said on Tuesday morning.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, where four patients died on Sunday due to lack of oxygen, said that the situation has not improved and the same problems persist. “We have stopped admission of Covid-19 patients as we are unable to save their lives without oxygen. A team of staff is running to arrange oxygen throughout the day and hardly 10% of our demands are met,” he said.Officials of the district administration on Tuesday constituted teams, comprising 50 personnel, to coordinate with private hospitals and check the status of oxygen supply. Officials said they are calling each hospital and preparing an inventory of demand and supply to ensure smooth operations.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “There are small hospitals that are admitting Covid-19 patients without our knowledge, leading to a shortage of oxygen supply. The supply has been increased and the distribution is done in such a way that all hospitals are getting oxygen supply as per their patient count.”Garg said the district received 35 metric tonnes of oxygen on Tuesday and the situation is improving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-stop-admissions-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619546372006.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG takes charge of oxygen supply, to ensure buffer for emergencies||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) took over the charge of oxygen supply management in the district on Tuesday, following which senior officials said that one of their main priorities is to arrange a buffer of at least 10 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen to ensure that hospitals and clinics don’t run out of oxygen and there is no loss of life.“The Haryana government has allocated 35 metric tonnes of daily oxygen supply to the city, of which 20 metric tonnes is procured from the INOX oxygen plant in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan and 15 metric tonnes from the Air Liquid Company in Panipat. Teams have been formed for (monitoring supply from) each of the plants and the three oxygen refilling stations in the city,” said MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Tuesday.Singh was designated as the leader of a high-level five-member committee constituted by the district administration on Tuesday and would be responsible for the procurement and regulation of oxygen supply to facilities in the district.Officials familiar with the developments said that the MCG is in the process of setting up a dedicated call centre for addressing oxygen-related matters round-the-clock.Singh said that all hospitals and clinics will have to alert the MCG at least four hours in advance, before their oxygen supply runs low, so that the civic body can deliver it to the facilities, within the stipulated time frame.MCG officials said that while the oxygen company in Bhiwadi has tankers to transport oxygen to Gurugram, the same is not the case with the company in Panipat. The MCG team designated for the Panipat plant will arrange tankers through the Regional Transport Office (RTO) for transporting oxygen to the city. The team designated for the Bhiwadi plant may also avail of tankers from the RTO if the need requires.MCG officials said that the vehicles from the Bhiwadi plant will supply liquid medical oxygen directly to 10-12 hospitals that have their own oxygen tanks, such as Medanta, Fortis, Artemis, Max hospital, Park and Metro hospitals, among others while the oxygen from the Panipat plant will be transported to the three oxygen refill stations, two of which are in Manesar and one in Sector 16. From the three refilling stations, oxygen will be supplied through cylinders to the remaining hospitals in the city. There are 43 Covid-19 hospitals in Gurugram.Singh said that all teams deputed in oxygen supply management will work round-the-clock and they have been directed to deal with all oxygen-related matters on priority to avoid a crisis. According to private hospitals, at least six people have died in the city since Sunday due to a shortage of oxygen.To address the shortage of oxygen in Gurugram, deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Sunday had formed an eight-member committee to devise a district oxygen plan for the city. The committee comprised seven officials from the MCG and one from the Gurugram police.In the first meeting of the MCG’s committee on Tuesday, members met Singh at his residence in Civil Lines along with other senior MCG officials to take stock of the oxygen situation in the city.Singh said that the MCG has constituted another team for determining the average oxygen requirement of the district, the individual requirement of hospitals, current availability and projected requirement for at least the next four days. “Depending on these factors, the team will be responsible for making a schedule for distribution and determining the delivery time, as per the requirement. All teams have been directed to ensure the city soon has enough oxygen stock, so that there is always a buffer of 10 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen. This will ensure that hospitals and clinics never run out of oxygen and there is always a surplus,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-takes-charge-of-oxygen-supply-to-ensure-buffer-for-emergencies-101619546371454.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||G’gram admin urges all medical professionals to help in Covid care||The Gurugram administration has appealed to private doctors, retired medical professionals, and MBBS students to come forward and help in managing Covid-19 cases as the work for increasing bed facilities continues amid the rise in the coronavirus cases, the officials said on Tuesday.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Right now, what we need are medical professionals, hospitals, and oxygen. We will be operating makeshift hospitals in the coming days and are planning to increase the bed capacity drastically. It is an appeal to all the healthcare workers to come forward and help us... We will need more doctors. This is an extraordinary time, which demands such extraordinary measures.”The district administration, through social media, put out an appeal on Tuesday, saying, “The Gurugram administration requests for volunteer doctors, nurses, and MBBS students who are fit and willing to be available to provide services in the public health facilities. We appeal to all such doctors to come forward at this hour of need. You could be a retired government, armed forces medical services, or a private doctor. We will be immensely grateful for your support to help us treat our residents.”The appeal further mentioned that people who wish to contribute and be a part of this mission to serve Covid-positive patients can register themselves on the link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gj1lSw5l7kChkmYSXhop2d886IKjonc0ikuQ_Q-nK8I/viewform?edit_requested=true. Oxygen supply is also being increased along with beds in the district, Garg said. He also appealed to the public to not panic and start finding hospitals if they test positive.“We are following three basic steps: Establishing macro containment zones and ensuring strict enforcement to contain the spread of the virus. Secondly, we are working to increase the oxygen allocation for Gurugram, and adding more beds to our health infrastructure... But while these activities are being carried out, I want to appeal to the people to not panic, while seeking beds in hospitals or monitoring their health conditions at home. I also appeal to them to not stock up basic medicines, oxygen meters, and other medical equipment as the patients who really need these may not get it on time,” Garg added.The officials also said that the district administration and the health department are setting up new hospital beds, but access to the public might get delayed till oxygen allocation of the district is increased. At present, Gurugram has an allocation of 35 metric tonnes of medical oxygen.“We are setting up excess beds amid the rise in the cases, but till our oxygen allocation is not increased, the opening of these new centres is also getting delayed, because if something unfortunate happens to the patients, then it will be difficult to manage the situation,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Gurugram crossed the active caseload of 29,000 mark with 3,684 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and reported 10 deaths. The recovery rate in the district is at 72.74%, while the fatality rate stands at 0.40%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ggram-admin-urges-all-medical-professionals-to-help-in-covid-care-101619546370790.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police issues more than 1,500 challans for not wearing face masks||Over 1,500 people were booked on Tuesday in Delhi for allegedly not wearing face masks, police said.According to data shared by police, a total of 1,524 challans were issued on Tuesday for mask violation in the national capital, while 117 people were fined for not adhering to the social distancing norms.Four challans were issued for spitting, police said, adding that a total of 1,645 challans were issued on Tuesday.A total of 6,34,299 challans have been issued in the national capital since June 15 last year for violations of anti-Covid guidelines by people, they said.The Delhi Police also distributed 856 face masks to needy people on Tuesday. Police have distributed a total of 4,39,291 masks since June 15, they added.On Monday, the national capital recorded over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases. The city government has imposed a lockdown across Delhi in view of the increasing number of cases.The Delhi Police showing its humanitarian face has helped hospitals and individuals who are isolated inside their houses to get the supply of medical oxygen.The force has also performed the funeral of some people who have died due to coronavirus with no one ready to help their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-issues-more-than-1-500-challans-for-not-wearing-face-masks-101619543460445.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 24,149 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, over 300 deaths for 6th day in a row||Delhi recorded 24,149 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Tuesday in the last 24 hours, registering a spike of 3,948 cases compared to the 20,201 cases reported on Monday. The death toll also rose to 15,009, with 381 deaths, highest since the onset of the pandemic, according to Covid-19 bulletin released by the Delhi government. This is also the 6th day in a row that the Capital has reported over 300 deaths due to Covid-19.The Delhi government tested 73,811 samples in the last 24 hours - 16,121 more than the tests conducted between April 25 and April 26 - which means the spike in cases can be attributed to more tests being conducted in the last 24 hours.The Capital’s positivity rate fell slightly to 32.72%. Delhi had reported 36.24% positivity rate last Thursday, highest since the pandemic began. Delhi's positivity rate stood at 35.02% on Monday. The tally of active cases in the city stood at 98,264.Delhi continues to face severe crisis of medical oxygen, essential medicines like Remdesivir and other medical equipment required to fight Covid-19. The Delhi high court on Tuesday criticised the Delhi government for failing to check black marketing and hoarding of medical oxygen. It ordered the Delhi government to deploy an officer at an oxygen refilling plant and also issued contempt notices to five refillers. The Delhi high court told the Delhi government that its system had 'failed' as it failed to check hoarding of oxygen and warned that if it fails to address this issue it will ask central government officers to take over the situation.The Delhi government will import 21 oxygen plants from France to tide over the crisis faced by hospitals in the Capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. Several Delhi hospitals like the Jaipur Golden Hospital, Batra Hospital and the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital which had faced severe oxygen shortage said they were in a better situation on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-24-149-cases-381-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101619542553727.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||43-year-old under-trial prisoner of Tihar Jail dies of Covid-19||A 43-year-old under-trial prisoner of Tihar Jail died on Tuesday, a day after he tested positive for Covid-19, officials said.Mohammad Anish, lodged in prison since December 2019 in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to a jail hospital with mild symptoms, they said."On Tuesday morning, his condition deteriorated and he was referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in emergency. Later, he died in the hospital in the afternoon," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.This is the third death of coronavirus-infected prison inmates in Delhi since the pandemic began last year. Two Covid-19-positive inmates of Mandoli Jail died on June 15 and July 4 last year.According to data shared by the prisons department, 267 inmates have tested positive for the coronavirus since March 2021. Of them, 22 have recovered and there are 245 active cases.Ninety-two staff members have tested positive for the virus since March 2021.One has recovered and 91 active cases are still there, according to the data.The first coronavirus infection among inmates was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/43yearold-under-trial-prisoner-of-tihar-jail-dies-of-covid19-101619542926875.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to aid of woman unable to find bed; says cannot turn her away||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday came to the aid of a woman, showing symptoms of Covid-19 and finding it difficult to get an ICU bed in government hospitals here by directing the AAP government to arrange a bed for her.Justice Prathiba M Singh said since the woman has approached the high court for a bed, "I cannot turn her away" and directed the Delhi government, Centre and All India Institute for Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to find out where they can provide a bed for her.Delhi government additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, thereafter, told the court that a bed with oxygen facilities was available at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.However, no ICU beds were available in any Delhi government hospital, he said.The court directed that the woman be admitted at LNJP hospital and listed the matter on Wednesday, April 28, for reporting compliance of its order.Initially Delhi government said that all the beds in its hospitals were full and that beds were available in some central government-run hospitals like AIIMS.In view of the submission, Justice Singh asked someone to be present on behalf of AIIMS and the Centre.When the counsels for AIIMS and the Centre appeared, the court asked them to also find out if a bed can be provided to the woman.The woman had sought a bed in a government hospital or in a private hospital at the government's expense.She moved the high court as she could not get a bed after approaching several government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-aid-of-woman-unable-to-find-bed-says-cannot-turn-her-away-101619542831692.html
27-04-2021||Other||9,078 new Covid-19 cases, 80 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE Pune district has reported 9,078 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 0.811 million cases.With 80 deaths on Tuesday, the death toll went up to 9,169, as per the state health department. Of the total cases, 0.698 million have recovered and 1,04,561 are currently active, under isolation or in hospitals undergoing treatment. Pune rural reported 3,129 new cases which took the progressive count to1,95,668. With 12 more deaths the toll went up to 2,419. PMC reported 4,021 new cases, which takes the final count to 4,17,370. With 62 more deaths the toll went up to 5,222. PCMC reported 1,928 new cases which takes the final count to 1,98,847. With six more deaths, the toll stands at 1,473 as of Tuesday. Pune also saw 29,926 vaccinations on Tuesday, in 397 sessions across the district. Pune rural saw 11,747 vaccinations, the city saw 13,399 and PCMC saw 4,780 vaccinations. Of the total vaccinations, 24,663 were of Covishield and 5,263 of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9078-new-covid-19-cases-80-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101619542950313.html
27-04-2021||Other||Jharkhand pumping O2 into nation’s lungs, 500 MT sent so far||Amid the Oxygen crisis that has hit the country in wake of the deadly second wave of coronavirus infection, Jharkhand on Tuesday sent 58 metric tonne (MT) of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in two tankers to the national capital from Linde India Oxygen Plant here in Jamshedpur, taking the total oxygen sent to various states so far to 534 MT.“We flagged off two tankers with 58 MT LMO to Delhi Tuesday afternoon following CM Arvind Kejriwal’s request. I request Linde India to prepare and send Oxygen to Rajasthan since I received a similar request from CM Ashok Gehlot Monday. Hope this will help save lives of people in Delhi as well as citizens of Jharkhand living in Delhi,” Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren said, after virtually flagging off the tankers. Health minister Banna Gupta said the state has sent 90 MT LMO to Uttar Pradesh (UP) during the past thee days, 80 MT to Haryana, 12 MT to Bihar and 20 MT daily to Jharkhand itself from Linde India’s two plants in Jamshedpur.“The two Linde plants in Jamshedpur produce 2,550 MT and 1,290 MT Oxygen daily, respectively, of which 303 MT is LMO. We have suppled LMO to various states by 35 tankers,” Abhijit, Linde India senior manager, said.Besides, SAIL’s Bokaro Steel Plant on Tuesday sent 64 MT LMO in six tankers on board the fourth Oxygen Express to Bhopal and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh from Bokaro. This took the total amount of LMO transported by South Eastern Railway (SER) to 234 MT since April 23. Earlier, LMO was sent thrice to Lucknow (UP) from Bokaro.East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar said two more tankers left for UP Tuesday evening from Linde India Plant, apart from the two to New Delhi. “We have three Oxygen plants and six refilling plants. We have procured 800 B type and 120 D type (jumbo) oxygen cylinders from local industries,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, Tata Steel doubled its LMO production to 600 MT from 300 MT daily to supply it to seven states and five hospitals in Jamshedpur. A company spokesperson said they were now sending 600 MT Oxygen to UP, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and MP from its three plants in Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jharkhand-pumping-o2-into-nation-s-lungs-500-mt-sent-so-far-101619542470295.html
27-04-2021||Ranchi||State logs over 1,000 deaths in last 26 days||Jharkhand has witnessed an unprecedented surge in deaths due to Covid-19 during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic with over 1,000 fatalities in less than a month as opposed to the first wave last year, when a similar number of deaths was reported over a period of nine months between the months of April and December.The state’s mortality rate, for the first time since the pandemic’s outbreak last year, jumped over the 1% mark on Monday.With a record 124 casualties reported on Monday, the state’s Covid-19 toll climbed to 2,115, including 1,002 fatalities registered between April 1 and 26 this year. The state was reporting over 100 deaths daily for the last three days.The spike in the death toll, however, pushed the state’s mortality rate to its highest ever at 1.02% on April 26 from 0.89% on March 31.Health experts opine that the high number of deaths can be averted by taking preventive measures and timely medical intervention. However, they say that there deaths will spike with the rise in cases.“The number of deaths will largely depend on the number of cases in a given period of time, the infrastructure to match and accommodate the surge without diluting the quality of care,” said Dr RK Jha, former professor and head, department of medicine, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi.He added, “It is also possible that this new Covid-19 strain, Indian and UK variants, both are far more infectious and they create difficulties in detection through the conventional RT-PCR / RAT test. No wonder that many deaths have taken place because of late diagnosis or death outside hospital due to denial of admission to such cases.”“Also there is a need to change the treatment strategies, that is the place and timing of steroid and monoclonal antibodies vis-à-vis newer variants. In last two to three weeks of the second wave, it took a toll without warning as people, in general, believed that the pandemic was over and they fully gave up the cumbersome Covid appropriate behaviour.”Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine RIMS, said, “There is wide spread infection. So, with the rise in cases, deaths will also rise. This is a pan-India scenario. The high number of deaths could have been averted had there been adequate preparations. It is suggestive to start taking medicines with the first advent of symptom in order to ward off fatality. Fever, diarrhoea and other symptoms should be taken as a sign of infection. Those who are fit should also follow all dietary and other Covid-19 protocol to keep infection at bay.”State capital Ranchi, which is the hardest hit by the pandemic, reported the maximum 382 out of the 1,002 deaths in last 26 days. Besides, many Covid-19 patients also died in Ranchi hospitals during treatment, but their deaths were counted in their respective districts’ tally.The huge number of deaths, including those from other districts occurring in Ranchi, has resulted in chaos at cremation grounds, as an electric crematorium at Harmu developed snag and the administration was forced to identify another place to dispose of bodies manually in the traditional way.According to the health department’s bulletin of April 27 morning, Jharkhand has so far reported 207,288 cases, including 155,669 recoveries, 49,504 active cases and 2,115 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-logs-over-1-000-deaths-in-last-26-days-101619542410212.html
27-04-2021||Other||State reports 12604 cases; govt to take call on further curbs today||Vijay Swaroopvswaroop@hindustantimes.comPATNA: As the state witnessed another surge of over 12,000 positive cases in last 24 hours, the Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the state government will meet on Wednesday to take a call on lockdown / further restrictions in the state. An announcement to this effect is likely to be made by Wednesday evening. The state reported 12604 positive cases reported on Monday. This is the fifth time in a week when the state has reported more than 12,000 cases since April 20.The state has also reported 594 deaths in last 35 days as against 537 deaths reported in 146 days last year. Seven districts of the state, Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, West Champaran, Aurangabad, Begusarai and Saran reported more than 500 positive cases on Monday with maximum cases being reported from Patna (1837). The total number of active cases stood at 94275 and the state reported 85 of deaths in last 24 hours. The recovery rate in the state fell further down to 77.43%. Chief minister Nitish Kumar again held a high-level meeting on Tuesday evening to review the Covid scenario with senior officials of the state, district magistrates and police officials as reports of shortage of oxygen and beds continue to pour in from different parts of the state. Kumar took feedback from all the DMs and SPs on the prevailing Covid situation. Sources said that the officials were against lockdown but supported more harsh measures to prevent crowding. Some officials even suggested weekend lockdown to stop the chain of virus. Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM informed the meeting that as of now there were 1,094 active cases in district. The ratio of positive cases in urban area was 61 percent and in rural areas it stood at 39 percent. According to official sources, Darbhanga district with positivity rate of 1.1% was at the lowest position in state in terms of spread of pandemic.The dedicated covid hospital at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) is having 120 beds with oxygen facility and 8 beds with ventilator.As many as 16 major private hospitals have been attached with DMCH, in which 162 beds along with 35 beds with ventilator facilities are available. The DM said that there is an oxygen plant in the district and a cryogenic tanker has been made available from COMFED to bring liquid oxygen. So far, 2.61 lakh people have been vaccinated in the district. Non-essential shops were closed three days in week after district administration held talks with chamber of commerce and representatives of business establishment in city.On Tuesday, Nawada administration also decided four-day complete lockdown from Friday till Monday to contain spread of virus. 18 PLUS VACCINATIONThe state government, meanwhile, has decided to start registration for vaccinating 18 plus population who are to be vaccinated from May 1. Nearly 5.47 crore 18 plus population will be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals.According to a senior health department official, who wish not be quoted, the state government has placed order of 1 crore vials from Serum Institute of India although there is still some confusion over the vaccine to be a used. “A final guideline and decision on vaccine to be used will be taken in a day or two,” said the official. The Serum Institute of India, health department sources said, has asked the state government to make assessment of their monthly requirement for vaccination.(With inputs from Bishnu K Jha, Darbhanga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-reports-12604-cases-govt-to-take-call-on-further-curbs-today-101619542350198.html
27-04-2021||Other||ECR suspends 23 trains in state Cites poor occupancy and an explosion in Covid cases||PATNAThe Eastern Central Railway (ECR) has announced suspension of 23 pair of passenger trains, including those bound for Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, citing poor occupancy and need to check the spread of coronavirus amid a massive surge in cases.“Movement of 23 pair of special passenger trains for short distances would stand cancelled from April 29 till further notice owing to poor occupancy and with a view to curbing the spread of Covid,” said Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer, ECR. He said no decision had been taken so far with regard to movement of long-distance express trains.ECR officials said the railway board was monitoring bookings/reservations made for long-distance trains and operation of some of the express trains might also be regulated for want of required number of passengers on them. “Trains passing through Bihar are facing crisis of passengers. Still, they are being run for convenience of the people,” said an official.The trains, whose operation would be suspended, include Patna-Gaya, Patna-Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Muzaffarpur-Patliputra, Muzaffapur-Narkatia, Muzaffarpur-Raxaul, Patna-Barauni, Samastipur-Muzaffarpur, Patna-Danapur-Rajgir intercity, Patna-Bhabua intercity, etc.Oxygen Express skips Bihar The much-talked about initiative of the Indian Railways to transport liquid medical oxygen through Oxygen Express trains would not help Bihar even as hospitals in Patna and in rest of the state are reeling under severe shortage of oxygen. The CPRO said the Oxygen Express trains were not meant to carry liquefied oxygen to Bihar.In the absence of adequate supply of liquefied medical oxygen, authorities in the state have been striving hard to restore operation of defunct oxygen refilling plants or enhance supplying capacity of existing oxygen generation plants and refilling centres across the state.State health minister Mangal Pandey, who had on April 20 claimed that crisis of medical oxygen would be sorted out soon, refused to respond. Talking to media persons, the minister had claimed the state would have sufficient supply of oxygen once the Oxygen Express trains became operational.Covid fund for rly staffThe ECR has set up a Covid fund to help its staff battle with the pandemic, which left at least 50 railway employees dead in the last one year. Kumar said as many as 3,884 employees and officials of ECR had contracted Covid and of them, 1,891 are still under treatment. Efforts are on to set up Covid control helpline centres at all divisions of the ECR. Unprecedented rise in Covid infections Bihar has been witnessing a massive surge in Covid cases over the past one week. “About 10,000-12,000 people are being detected positive for coronavirus everyday across the state. Around 70-90 of them are dying daily. This is official figure. The actual may be many times more,” said Gujan Patel, the Youth Congress chief of Bihar.Curbs announced on market and movement of people by the state government and individuals’ preference to stay indoors to avoid contracting the disease have also resulted in check of people’s movement. With night curfew clamped all over the state, a majority of people are not venturing out for long hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ecrsuspends-23-trains-in-state-cites-poor-occupancy-and-an-explosion-in-covid-cases-101619542291277.html
27-04-2021||Other||Vaccination drive slows down as Covid cases surge||PATNAAmid the unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, the vaccination drive in Bihar has slowed down in past one 10 days compared to early April when it was moving at a fast pace. Officials blame the slowdown on multiple factors — shortage of medicos at the vaccination centres and infections among health workers, fear among people about lining for hours at vaccination centres to get a jab and erratic supply of vaccines at district hospitals and primary health centres in last one fortnight though it has now stabilised in last few days. In the last 26 days, the daily vaccinations to beneficiaries (aged 45 and above for both doses) have rapidly fluctuated, rising as high as 2.87 lakh on a single day on April 5 to the lowest count of 39,237 on April 16 and 53,311 persons on April 25, as per official data of daily vaccinations released by state health society. From April 1 till 11 April, the total number of jabs administered were above 1.50 lakh per day on an average. On April 5, the total number of jabs administered stood at 2,87,576. On April 10, it was 2,52,835. On April 11, it was 2,06,354. However, after April 15, when corona cases started shooting up, the figures make for a dismal reading, hovering below the one lakh mark, except on April 20 when 1,04731 beneficiaries were given jabs. On April 18, a day after Bihar saw a major spike in Covid cases with 8,690 detected on April 17, the number of vaccination was 84,475 while on 20 April, it was 93,164,. The number started declining once the Covid cases started spiralling. “It is true the vaccination drive has slowed down. A probable reason seems to be the general fear among people against venturing out due to the surge in cases. This a proving as deterrent ,” said a senior health official,engaged in the vaccination drive. “I get calls from people requesting me to give names of vaccination centres where there is less crowd. People these days do not want to spend more time outside for the fear of contracting the virus. We are also getting reports from some districts about general disinterest among people to get vaccinated. This another factor for less footfall at vaccination centres,” he said. “There were certain issues regarding supplies of vaccines in mid-April which impacted rural areas. Besides, when footfall at a centre is very less, one cannot just open vials for one or two persons as it causes wastage of doses. For last one week, we have enough stocks and supplies are going unhindered,” shared another health official, seeking anonymity. The number of peole getting second doses has recorded less fluctuations in the last 10 days, hovering between 15000 and 28000, as compared to figures in early April when the daily vaccinations for second doses varied in the same range. In all, 67,46,734 people have been vaccinated in the state as on April 26, of which 57,23,496 got the first dose and 10,23,238 the second dose too. Manoj Kumar, executive director of Bihar State Health Society, was not available for comment. A text message to principal secretary (health) Prataya Amrit did not receive any response. Headline: The fightback Intro: Inoculation drive in the state hit as Covid cases rise exponentially Number of shots administered Highest April 5: 2,87,576 Lowest April 16: 39,237 Reasons for slow paceFear due to rising Covid casesInfections among health workersErratic supply of vaccines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-drive-slows-down-as-covid-cases-surge-101619542290750.html
27-04-2021||Other||IMA flags oxygen supply to select hospitals, asks CM to step in||PATNAIn the wake of sharp spike in the number of Covid cases and reported shortage of oxygen and important drugs, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar about selective supply of oxygen to some big private hospitals. The IMA letter, signed by its senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar, honorary state secretary Dr Sunil Kumar and others, has sought CM’s immediate intervention as lack of oxygen supply could force closure of around 90 private hospitals in the city, causing risk to the lives of admitted Covid and non-Covid patients. The IMA has said doctors should be involved in the decision-making process on requirement of oxygen, and not the administration, which should solely focus on ensuring availability and preventing black marketing.. “I also work in a private hospital and there are Covid patients there. We have 18 cylinders, but we are getting 10 only. If some hospitals are resorting to any wrong practices, the administration should crack down on them, but other hospitals should not be made to suffer,” said Dr Sunil Kumar. Referring to the April 21 meeting, the IMA has said that 86 hospitals had been notified for Covid treatment in Patna and it was decided to approve them for treatment of serious patients and ensure oxygen supply. “Later, four more hospitals were added in the list on the basis of their applications. Many more hospitals are also applying or have already applied. However, the civil surgeon has told the IMA that no other hospital will be approved for Covid treatment or oxygen supply, which can pose danger to the lives of Covid and non-Covid patients admitted there,” said the IMA letter. It has also expressed concern over the information it has received about appointment of doctors only for three months, which would again cause serious shortages. “We had advised you to start the recruitment on vacant posts without delay and we welcome you order to do it without delay. In view of the pandemic, the available doctors should be appointed through walk-in-interviews on regular posts or contract with special incentives,” the letter says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ima-flags-oxygen-supply-to-select-hospitals-asks-cm-to-step-in-101619542290223.html
27-04-2021||Other||Nagaland Civil Secretariat shuts door for visitors amid Covid-19 cases surge||In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Nagaland, the state government on Tuesday announced that the entry of visitors to the Nagaland Civil Secretariat Complex will be restricted with immediate effect in the interest of public safety.On Tuesday, chief secretary J Alam issued an order restricting the entry of visitors to the state civil secretariat while the entry of employees will be strictly regulated and other government officials or visitors in exceptional cases will require the permission of the home department.“This restriction of entry of public to the Secretariat, unless for official purpose, is a normal Covid restriction, given the surge in cases we are witnessing,” said MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon, a government spokesperson for Covid-19.Some, however, voiced mixed opinions regarding the order. “Total restriction of visitors or public to the Secretariat will be a setback for the public because almost all the government policies and programmes require final approval from the Secretariat level,” said Vibeilietuo, a contractor. He expressed that this would be a demerit for beneficiaries of different programmes of the government, especially for time-bound programmes. According to a social worker, “My opinion on this latest order is 50:50. All state affairs happen at the Secretariat, so the place is like a hornet’s nest in a way. Therefore, restricting visitors is justified. On the other hand, it will be at the disadvantage of the public whose paperworks need government approval.” He opined that instead of completely shutting the Secretariat gates on the public, the government could enforce strict adherence of Covid SOP and allow visitors with genuine cases.The state has recorded 13,238 total Covid-19 cases since the outbreak last year, of which 12,135 are reported to have recovered, according to health officials. However, with the second wave, the total active cases have shot up to 727 as of April 26 in a span of weeks.Covid-19 cases continue to see a spike in India but a marginal drop in infections was reported in the past 24 hours. As per the official figures from the Union ministry of health and family affairs, the country witnessed 323,144 new cases in the last 24 hours. With this, India’s Covid-19 tally stands at a whopping 17,636,307.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-civil-secretariat-shuts-door-for-visitors-amid-covid-19-cases-surge-101619539590874.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Jewellery shop employee flees with gold worth ₹36 lakh||A man working at a local jewellery shop was booked on Monday for fleeing with gold worth around ₹36 lakh from the shop. The accused man worked at a jewellery shop in Budhwar peth area of Pune. Four customers of the shop had left their jewellery for polishing and the valuables were handed over to the worker, according to the complaint lodged by the owner of the shop. However, the owner found that the man had left the shop with the jewellery and had failed to return. The total worth of the jewellery was estimated to be ₹35,80,000, according to the police. A case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered against one person at Faraskhana police station. Assistant police inspector Abhijeet Patil of Faraskhana police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jewellery-shop-employee-flees-with-gold-worth-rs-36-lakh-101619539409725.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Drunk driver involved in collision: three killed, two injured||Three people were killed and two, including the accused, were injured in a collision caused by a drunk driver who sped past a red signal on Monday evening. The incident happened around 3:15pm at Talegaon chowk area of Chakan. The accused, who escaped with minor injuries, was identified as Suresh Maruti Kadam (46), a farmer living in Punawale area of Mulshi. “He was driving a Scorpio whose airbags were immediately deployed and he survived. He has minor injuries but otherwise, he escaped almost unscathed. We have arrested him. He is in police custody until April 29,” said assistant police inspector Prakash Rathod of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. The injured man, who was in the Scorpio with Kadam was identified as Tukaram Govind Partape (58) also a resident of a Punawale. The three deceased were identified as Akshay Maruti Sonawane (24), a resident of Waki Khurd in Khed; Avinash Rohidas Argade (27), a resident of Kadus in Khed; and Praful Sampat Sonawane (26), also a resident of Waki in Khed. While Akshay owned a restaurant in Chakan, his paternal cousin Praful owned a shop in Chakan, and their friend Argade worked in a Hyundai showroom in Chakan, according to the police. “The three were driving in a Maruti Suzuki Celerio and were crossing the signal at Talegaon chowk and were on the left side of a container when the Scorpio driver broke the signal and sped towards them from their right. The people in the Celerio could not see the Scorpio due to the container. They had already driven along the length of the container truck and were heading ahead (as their signal was green) when the Scorpio rammed into the middle of their car and it turned turtle and was pushed almost 35-40 meter before it stopped,” said API Rathod. A case under Sections 304(2), 279, 337, 338, 427 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 184, 185, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act, and Section 65(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drunk-driver-involved-in-collision-three-killed-two-injured-101619539349676.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Illegal alcohol worth ₹3 lakh seized||Four people were booked by Pune police and illegal domestic made alcohol worth ₹3, 00,000 was seized from their possession on Monday, according to the officials of social security cell. The four booked in the case were identified as Sushila Dilip Kumbhar (60), Aruna Rajkumar Kachravat (50), Anil Sham Binavat, and Rahul Anil Binavat, all residents of Shraddha Nagar in Atkare Chawl area of Kondhwa Budrukh. While the women stayed back, the two men fled the spot when they realised that the police were raiding the place. The police have seized 2,920 bags of hooch, 46 cans, 313 bottles of 180ml of various brands of whiskey, 312 bottles of various brands of beer from their possession. The police also found cash worth ₹1, 16,330. The total seizure was estimated to be worth ₹4, 31,780, according to the police. A case under Section 66(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/illegal-alcohol-worth-rs-3-lakh-seized-101619539229702.html
27-04-2021||Pune||IMD forecast: Temperature to rise marginally in May||As April ends on a cooler note, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the temperature in May will rise marginally for Pune city. However, there will be more frequent weather phenomenon of thunderstorms and lightning in the city as temperature sees a rise. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that the day temperature may see a marginal rise. “The temperature in May is set to rise a little. In the first 15 days, there are chances of day temperature hovering between 40 to 41 but as soon as it rises, there will be local instability in weather systems,” said Kashyapi. He added that this local instability over the weather system may incur moisture from Arabian Sea and result in rainfall spells lowering the temperature. “There are chances of light rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning after a temperature rise in the month of May but the rise in mercury will be marginal,” said Kashyapi. He further added that this type of weather pattern is normal. “As Pune city does not have a harsh weather pattern, there are always fewer chances of heat waves here. Due to its proximity to the Arabian Sea, there are chances that when temperature rises, the local instability will incur moisture from the sea and cause rainfall. This will keep the temperature low, and the weather will be pleasant,” said Kashyapi. For the month of April, the season’s highest day temperature for the city of Pune has been around 43.3 degrees Celsius in 1897 as per IMD. In the last one decade, the mercury has touched 41.5 degrees Celsius in April 2010. Similarly for the month of May, the warmest day temperature so far has been reported to be in 1889 at 43.3 degrees Celsius. In the last decade as well, the warmest day temperature has been reported at 41.9 degrees Celsius in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imd-forecast-temperature-to-rise-marginally-in-may-101619539169794.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Hail, thunderstorm, rain reported in parts of city||On Tuesday, the Baner, Aundh, Akurdi, Pashan, Sus Road, New Sangvi areas of Pune city reported hail, thunderstorm, lightning, strong winds and intense rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Shivajinagar reported 2.3 millimetre rainfall, Pashan reported 5 millimetre rainfall and Lohegaon reported traces of rainfall. On Tuesday, Shivajinagar reported 38.4 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon reported 39.4 degrees Celsius during the day. The night temperature was 23.1 degrees Celsius in Shivajinagar and 23.8 degrees Celsius in Lohegaon. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that the early forecast for Pune city was updated to gusty winds with speed of 30-40 kilometres per hour. “The forecast for Pune city was updated on Tuesday as there were towering clouds over Lohegaon which resulted in gusty winds. In some isolated areas of the city, small hail was also reported,” said Kashyapi. He added that similar forecast has been extended for April 28. “Similar weather conditions may prevail in the city on Wednesday. However, the chances of hail are less on Wednesday. An accurate forecast will be given during the daytime on April 28,” said Kashyapi. Explaining the reason for the thunderstorm and lightning followed by intense rainfall spell on Tuesday, Kashyapi said that it is the result of local instability. “Due to rise in temperature, local weather instability drew moisture from the Arabian sea resulting in rainfall. Partly cloudy skies with day temperature around 38 degrees Celsius may prevail in the coming days,” said Kashyapi. The night temperature as per the weather department will be around 22 degrees Celsius. As the day temperature is likely to remain below normal, April shall end at a cooler note. “Thunderstorm and lightning are also forecasted for four divisions of Maharashtra. Isolated rainfall at some places in the state is also predicted in the next few days,” said Kashyapi. On Tuesday, Satara reported 6mm rainfall and Mahabaleshwar reported 4mm rainfall. The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at 43.7 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri and the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 19.9 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hail-thunderstorm-rain-reported-in-parts-of-city-101619539109743.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||‘Thank you wholeheartedly,' tweets Kejriwal as Delhi gets oxygen from Jharkhand||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Tuesday and thanked his Jharkhand counterpart chief minister Hemant Soren for helping the national capital tide over the Covid-19 crisis by sending medical oxygen."Thank you wholeheartedly for this help, Hemant ji, we will definitely defeat the disaster like Corona by helping one another," Kejriwal tweeted.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said on Tuesday the state government supplied 58 tonnes of medical oxygen to Delhi, which is in dire need of the life-saving gas amid shortages reported by several hospitals for more than a week. Earlier, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to chief ministers of several other states for the supply of liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) into the national capital for treating critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).CM Soren, who is also the president of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), tweeted, “On the request of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, 58 tonnes of medical oxygen was sent to Delhi from the Linde India plant in Jharkhand today. This is a critical time period where one should help each other and with this participation, we will be able to overcome Covid-19”.As Delhi continues to face difficulties in obtaining oxygen supplies, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief announced that his government will now import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France.इस मदद के लिए आपका तहे दिल से शुक्रिया हेमंत जी, इसी तरह एक दूसरे का साथ देते हुए हम कोरोना जैसी आपदा को ज़रूर मात देंगे। https://t.co/aoKrlLQPDkAddressing a press briefing, Kejriwal said the government will set up 44 oxygen plants at many hospitals including the 21 imported from France and the Centre will install eight plants by the end of this month.The national capital on Tuesday also received its first Oxygen Express from Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh which was carrying over 70 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen.Also Read| HC asks Delhi govt to take over oxygen refilling unit with immediate effect, serves contempt notice against 5 refillersHowever, Kejriwal’s government is currently facing criticism over its handling of the oxygen crisis. The Delhi High Court told the government that the system has failed as black marketing of oxygen is taking place along with hoarding and ordered it to take action against such practices, according to a report by Hindustan Times on April 27. The court also said the government should take strict measures to ensure that medical oxygen should not cost thousands and lakhs of rupees due to hoarding or black marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thank-you-wholeheartedly-tweets-kejriwal-as-delhi-gets-oxygen-from-jharkhand-101619535421431.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Woman charged with MCOCA found dead at Sassoon hospital||A woman who was booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) was found dead at Sassoon General Hospital on Tuesday evening while being under the arrest of Pune police. The woman was under arrest in the case of abetment to suicide of Milind alias Balwant Marathe (60), a resident of Bhandarkar road area of Pune. The case was registered at Vishrambaug police station under Sections 306, 452, 386, 504, 506, 507, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 39 and 45 of Maharashtra Money Lending Act. On Tuesday, the Pune police invoked Sections 3(1)(i) and 3(4) off Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) against the woman and her co-accused Nilesh Umesh Shelar. “She was arrested under MCOCA yesterday (Monday) but also tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday (Monday). So, she was placed under judicial custody and admitted to Sassoon General Hospital. She said she was going for a bath and to wash clothes and once inside, she refused to open the door for a long time. When our people forcefully entered the bathroom, they found the glass tiles on the ventilation window to have been removed,” said Rahul Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2, Pune. The police rushed to the spot that is located between the morgue and the 11-storey building dedicated to Covid-19 treatment. “There is a metal frame and glass to that window, and it is big enough for a person to pass through. The glasses had been removed and she was found lying under the window. The logical conclusion is that she jumped from there,” said Chandrakant Sangale, assistant commissioner of police, Lashkar Division of Pune police. “We have no idea what happened. We are looking at her body lying near the new building of Sassoon hospital. We were just told that it happened around an hour ago,” said one of her colleagues who was standing near the main gate of the 11-floor Covid wing. The stringent MCOCA was invoked against the woman after an application was made to additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde stating that the duo, led by Kale, had committed various crimes including attempted murder, abetment to suicide, extortion, uploading and spreading false videos among other things. “We request with folded hands to all to report that she was murdered, she cannot commit suicide. Her husband has already made a complaint regarding the same when she was arrested. She herself had complained to honourable JMFC about atrocities committed upon her by the police,” said advocate Tosif Sayyed who worked with Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-charged-with-mcoca-found-dead-at-sassoon-hospital-101619538929735.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Three traders fined for selling mango claiming false origin||Three traders in Market Yard, Pune were fined ₹5,000 each for selling Karnataka Hapus mango in the name of Devgad and Ratnagiri. In the last three weeks, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Market yard collected a fine of ₹17, 700 from traders in similar cases of mango fraud. “We are continuing our raids every day and after seizing, the mangoes are confiscated by APMC and auctioned at gate No 1. The traders were selling 10-kilogram boxes for ₹11,800 when the actual price of Karnataka Hapus is ₹8,100,” said Madhukant Garad, administrator and secretary APMC Gultekdi Market Yard Pune. The APMC have warned traders of facing legal punishment if the same type of trading continues. “The mangoes are packed in a box which has a label in Marathi which reads as ‘Ratnagiri Hapus Mango’ which confuses the buyers who believe the mangoes are from Ratnagiri. Traders claim that the farmers in Karnataka are at fault who are packing their mangoes with a label of Ratnagiri. We will continue our inquiry in the coming days as well,” said Garad. The APMC is also investigating whether traders are arranging boxes from Ratnagiri to pack the mangoes. “Every year some traders which are not regular in the Market Yard try to fool buyers and it is a wrong practice. Old traditional sellers do not fall into this type of business,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president, Market Yard Commission Agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-traders-fined-for-selling-mango-claiming-false-origin-101619538809709.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 895 Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours, highest since onset of pandemic; Mumbai adds 3,999 new cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday witnessed the highest ever single-day spike in deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 895, taking the death toll to 66,179, according to the state health department's bulletin. As many as 66,358 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and the caseload has now climbed to 4,410,085, the bulletin showed. The total recoveries in Maharashtra are at 3,669,548 while the active cases are nearing 673,000. The state capital Mumbai, however, continued to report a downfall in its daily tally with 3,999 cases and 59 more deaths on Tuesday. The city's caseload has reached 635,483 of which 12,920 people have succumbed to the disease.Maharashtra- which is the worst hit state since the beginning of the pandemic last year has been contributing the maximum towards India's daily cases and deaths. According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra along with nine other states reported 69.1 per cent of the new cases recorded in the country on Tuesday. The state has been placed under Section 144 of the CrPC till May 1 in order to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease and stringent restrictions have also been placed on office attendance, marriages and inter-city and inter-district travel from April 22 till May 1.With just few days left for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive from May 1 where doses will be administered to all citizens above the age of 18, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will soon take a decision on providing free vaccinations to all residents above 18, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday. Health minister Rajesh Tope, meanwhile, said the availability of vaccine doses is still a challenge in Maharashtra adding the state may receive its supply of 'Covishield' doses only after May 20. He pointed out that Maharashtra alone needs 12 crore vaccine vials to inoculate the population of 5.71 crore in the age group the between ages of 18-44, according to news agency PTI. The health minister also said on Tuesday the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led government has floated the global tenders for oxygen concentrators, Remdesivir vials, and oxygen PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plants in order to tackle their shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-record-single-day-jump-in-deaths-at-895-mumbai-adds-3-999-new-cases-101619538538034.html
27-04-2021||Other||MMBS results declared a day after exams over, to have docs ready to bear Covid load||PUNE The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Tuesday declared the results of final-year MBBS results for 2020-21, winter exams. With a 94.06 passing percentage, the results were declared within a day of the completion of the exams, which on April 25. Of a total of 5,234 students, who appeared for the exam, 4,923 students passed. The expediency in declaring the result was mainly due to the shortage of manpower in hospital tackling Covid-19.The BSc nursing course results were also declared with a 76.59 passing percentage. A total of 709 students appeared for the nursing final-year exams, of which 543 students passed. The results of the nursing exams were declared within eight days of the examinations. “We have declared the results of final-year winter 2020 course, both MBBS and nursing, on the official website of the MUHS. These exams were held in the month of March-April 2021, as per the guidelines of central board and state government. We are happy with the results and soon all these students will work for Covid patients for the next one year,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, MUHS examination controller. “We organised a four-day online training programme for these students with best experts from the field of health sciences. The subject was obviously Covid-19 and how students have to work in future as doctors and nurses,” added Dr Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mmbs-results-declared-a-day-after-exams-over-to-have-docs-ready-to-bear-covid-load-101619538449725.html
27-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees record single-day jump in Covid-19 deaths; 16,089 new cases added||Rajasthan recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 121 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Tuesday as well as 16,089 fresh cases.With the fresh cases, the state's cumulative tally has climbed to 5,46,964 and the death toll stands at 3,806, according to an official report.The number of active cases also increased to 1,55,182, it said.Among the fresh cases include Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra. "After showing the initial symptoms, my Covid test report is positive today. On the advice of doctors, I have isolated myself at the Sikar residence. I request all the people who have come in contact with me for the last few days to get the test done," Dotasra tweeted. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has wished him speed recovery. Dotasra has tested positive for the second time. Among the districts which reported deaths were Jodhpur (22), Jaipur (21), Udaipur (14), Bikaner (8), Kota and Sikar (6 each), Pali and Alwar (5 each), Ajmer, Barmer and Sirohi (4 each). A total of 3,87,976 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-sees-record-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-deaths-16-089-new-cases-added-101619535302875.html
27-04-2021||Other||PCMC police will issue tokens to control crowding at market places||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have decided to implement a token system, allowing a limited number of people to enter markets in PCMC for only 30 minutes per head, from Wednesday.A huge number of people have been gathering at the vegetable and fruit market in Pimpri and Bhosari.“Under section 43 of the BP act we are regulating the marketplace and thoroughfare. We have received many complaints about people crowding at one place,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Police, Pimpri-Chinchwad.Fruit and vegetable markets are allowed to function from 7am to 11 am. Police staff will be at all marketplaces to ensure the footfall of consumers. “The whole initiative is to avoid crowding of people. Some major stores also give a-15 minute window for shopping, which has been effective to keep social distance. Thirty minutes is enough to purchase vegetables. People should support this initiative,” said a police official, on the request of anonymity.Vinod Sakpal, a fruit seller in Pimpri said, “Such a rule should have been implemented earlier by the administration. Public don’t listen to us and they keep crowding.”Theragaon resident Manasi Laad said, “I avoid going to markets like Pimpri and prefer to take vegetables from road-side vendors. It is costly, but there is not such a huge crowd like in the big markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-police-will-issue-tokens-to-control-crowding-at-market-places-101619535989342.html
27-04-2021||Other||Remdesivir supply catching up with demand backlog as demand marginally drops||PUNE While the demand for Remdesivir has marginally reduced in Pune district, as per the district administration, supply of the drug is still not adequate.As per officials of the district administration, in the second week of April, 80 per cent of hospitalised patients needed the injection. This has come down to 58 per cent, as of Tuesday. “Now, per day demand is for 16,000-18,000 injections. Whatever supply we are getting is being distributed to hospitals in accordance with bed capacity. As supply is not meeting demand, there is a backlog,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune’s additional collector. From April 11, the Pune collector’s office prohibited the retail sale of the anti-viral drug and began a centralised distribution from a control room in the collector’s office. On April 15, district officials cited the requirement of Remdesivir injections as being 45,000. According to a press statement issued by the district collectorate, 53,900 Remdesivir injections have been distributed till April 26. Remdesivir side effects? Not in Pune, say docsAs demand for Remdesivir is still high, the administration the asked doctors to prescribe the drug judicially. Speaking to reporters, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Doctors should prescribe the anti-viral drug only to those who require it instead of giving it to everyone. It has come to our notice that Remdesivir has some side effects. Which is why, we are saying it should be prescribed judiciously.” Doctors, however, said no major side effects have been reported in Pune so far. “As of today, there are no post-recovery effects seen from Remdesivir. It is not given to patients below 12 years of age, or to those who have the liver or kidneys in a compromised condition,” said Dr Avinash Bondwe, immediate past president (Maharashtra), Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-supply-catching-up-with-demand-backlog-as-demand-marginally-drops-101619535569284.html
27-04-2021||Other||PMC issues SOPs for segregation, disposal of waste generated by Covid patients||PUNE With an increasing amount of bio-medical waste being generated by Covid-19 patients, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has released a standard operating procedure (SoP), of how to segregate and dispose of this waste.Ketki Ghatge, assistant medical officer, solid waste management department, said, “At present, we are collecting 150kg of waste generated by patients. Besides that, we are collecting bio-waste from Covid centres and hospitals. Patients generate 100gms of garbage, per head, at home, every day.” At present, PMC collects Covid-generated waste, such as disposable plates and water bottles, from Covid care centres and hospitals. As per the SOP, private and PMC hospitals should spray 1% sodium hypochlorite on the garbage and hand it over in a yellow bag to the PMC.PMC has contracted Pasco Environmental Solution to dispose of its bio-medical waste.Patients in home isolation will have to separate wet and dry garbage generated and also spray sodium hypochlorite, before handing it over to the garbage collector. “Most home isolation patients prefer a tiffin system for food, so that reduces the waste generated,” Ghatge said.PMC’s solid waste management department has appealed to all private hospitals, Covid centres and patients in home isolation to follow the SoPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-issues-sops-for-segregation-disposal-of-waste-generated-by-covid-patients-101619533468944.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Apollo hospital’s emergency vandalised after Covid patient dies for want of bed||The family members of a deceased coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient vandalised the emergency department and injured several staff members at the Indraprastha Apollo hospital in Delhi on Tuesday morning, officials said.“She was given oxygen and first aid in the emergency department. The doctors had requested the family to take her to another hospital as there were no ICU beds available at Apollo and the patient was crashing,” hospital personnel said.The 60-year-old woman was brought to the hospital emergency last night and was in the need of an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. However, there were no ICU beds available.The patient died at around 8 am after which the family and some local goons started vandalising the emergency department. By 9 am, more people had joined in; some carried blades that they used to injure some staff members, others were pushed around in the scuffle and hurt their head.“No one was seriously injured; many needed first aid,” the personnel said.The hospital had to suspend emergency services for around two hours after the incident.“Unfortunately, the patient died at around 8 am after which the patient’s family members resorted to vandalism, destruction of hospital property and assault on our doctors and staff. The situation was brought under control through hospital security staff and the police deployment. While the hospital deeply condoles the death of the patient, it is deeply shocked at the behaviour of the patient’s family against doctors and healthcare workers who are providing untiring services amidst the pandemic,” a statement from the hospital read.Similar incidents of violence and rage are reported from government hospitals across the national capital that are grappling with a shortage of ICU beds, infrastructure, and consumables to treat the Covid-19 patients. With the cases of Covid-19 shooting up in Delhi/NCR, hospitals have been packed to the brim. On Monday, HT reported that the city was left with no ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/apollo-hospital-s-emergency-vandalised-after-covid-19-patient-dies-for-want-of-bed-101619531549220.html
27-04-2021||Patna||Bihar: Darbhanga group conducts last rites of Covid patients as kin stay away||A group of volunteers named Kabir Sewa Sansthan (KSS) is setting an example in Bihar’s Darbhanga district by performing last rites of Covid-19 patients whose bodies are either left unclaimed or not handled by the relatives for the fear of contracting the highly contagious disease. The second wave of Covid infection has not only overwhelmed the healthcare infrastructure in several states but also led to the overflowing of crematoriums and burial grounds and the pressure is also telling on KSS.“We had to face a trying situation a couple of days ago, while arranging the funeral of a 45- year old suspected corona victim as only one distant relative [of the deceased] was ready to handle the body. People in the neighbourhood shut their doors. Finally we managed to carry out his last rites 20 hours later,” said KSS founder Navin Sinha.He found himself in a similar situation on Sunday night, when last rites for four Covid patients were carried out, including two unclaimed bodies and two nearly abandoned by their relatives, who watched from a distance, refusing to come close as the pyres were lit.Sinha says KSS has disposed at least two dozen bodies, including three from the Muslim community in the last 10 days. In around 50% of the cases, relatives refuse to participate in the last rites due to the fear factor. The group has handled at least 50 funerals since June last year when the town’s first corona casualty, a Muslim from Panchobh village in Hanuman Nagar block, was cremated.“I have almost lost count... because with every passing day, the number simply keeps growing,” Sinha said, while putting this reporter’s call on hold to attend to some other desperate caller requesting for an oxygen cylinder for a Covid patient. “I divert such calls to competent authorities,” he said. Shortage of oxygen supply for Covid patients is another challenge that hospitals across the country including those in Bihar are grappling with.Bihar registered 11,801 fresh Covid cases on Monday with capital Patna being the worst-hit. According to the daily health bulletin released by the government, the state saw 67 fresh casualties, taking the death toll to 2,222. Among the fresh fatalities, Patna saw the death of 16 patients followed by seven each in Darbhanga, Gaya and Muzaffarpur. Bhagalpur accounted for five deaths besides Nalanda and West Champaran that accounted for four deaths each.KSS has now urged the civic administration and the relatives of dead patients to extend a helping hand.“KSS is a group of nearly a dozen volunteers who started with the aim of helping the administration. [But] It is now becoming difficult to lead in the present situation,” Sinha said, adding, “We are always ready to support the noble cause with help from the district and civic administration.”The response to his appeal has been encouraging. The municipal commissioner personally visited the cremation ground and instructed the civic body staff to increase their participation in the handling of mortal remains and also assist KSS in any way possible. Similarly, the district magistrate (DM) Thiyagrajan SM too asked civic authorities to arrange manpower to help KSS organise the funerals.“On Monday, we cremated five bodies and even their relatives too took part in the rituals while dressed in safety gears,” Sinha said, pointing out the impact of his appeal to relatives to not abandon their dead.Since the very outset of the pandemic, the district administration roped in KSS for disposal of unclaimed bodies, an official in the municipal body said. Founded in 2014, the group initially pooled funds from their own pockets, however, many people later chipped in with monetary support. Civic body too arranged for cow dung cakes for lighting pyres.“It is great humanitarian work in these difficult times when close relatives or even a son doesn’t want to handle a Covid-infected father’s body,” said Vishal Kumar Singh, district programme manager (health). He said administration was providing all assistance to KSS in this endeavour.No one in the group has been infected by Covid since last year when they started handling bodies of infected patients. “Though we have been at risk, our confidence [of handling the bodies without catching infection] has gone up gradually,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-group-conducts-last-rites-of-covid-patients-as-kin-stay-away-101619530889097.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana police seize over 11,000 liquor bottles being smuggled to Bihar, UP||The Haryana police on Tuesday seized over 11,000 liquor bottles that were allegedly being smuggled to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in two separate incidents, officials said.Acting on a tip-off, they impounded a truck from Rohtak district and seized 4,644 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) packed in 387 cartons. The consignment was found concealed under packets of potato chips, police said.The driver of the vehicle, Rajbir alias Raju, a resident of district Sonipat, was arrested, they said, adding that the seized liquor was to be smuggled from Rohtak to Bihar.In another incident, the police seized 6,372 IMFL bottles in the Nuh district. The consignment was being smuggled in a truck from Sonipat to Uttar Pradesh.When the police team signalled a truck bearing the UP registration number to stop on Nuh-Taoru road near village Bawla, the driver tried to escape.Police chased the vehicle and intercepted it. The driver, Shokeen Khan, and his accomplice Haider Ali, both residents of Nuh, were arrested in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-seize-over-11-000-liquor-bottles-being-smuggled-to-bihar-up-101619528699006.html
27-04-2021||Bangalore||IMA scam case: CBI files supplementary charge sheet against Roshan Baig||The CBI filed a supplementary charge sheet against former Karnataka minister Roshan Baig on Tuesday in connection with the ₹4000-crore I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) ponzi scam case, officials said.In its charge sheet filed before a special CBI court in Bengaluru, the central agency has also named the then MD of IMA Group Mansoor Khan, the company, Baig's company Daanish Publications and others."It was alleged that the accused former minister received several crores of rupees from IMA funds for election expenditure. It was further alleged that the accused was also utilising the said funds for day-to-day expenditure, including salaries of employees of his firm. It was also alleged that the accused has spent the funds for various social and cultural activities in his constituency to increase his popularity," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said in a statement.The IMA scam pertains to over ₹4,000 crore collected by IMA Group from over a lakh gullible investors in the name of providing attractive returns on investment following Islamic ways.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has alleged that the money was diverted to Baig, a minister in the erstwhile Congress government led by Siddaramaiah, so that the IMA Group could continue its illegal activities, officials said.The CBI had registered four cases in connection with the scam and earlier filed three charge sheets and three supplementary charge sheets against 33 accused, including Khan, company directors, several revenue and police officials. "It was alleged that the said Group had raised unauthorised deposits & cheated the public by failing to repay the principal and as well as the promised returns. These funds were allegedly diverted for acquiring properties, paying bribe amounts, etc. Several properties, including moveable & immovable, were identified and attached under KPIDFE (Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments) Act, 2004 by the competent authority," Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ima-scam-case-cbi-files-supplementary-charge-sheet-against-roshan-baig-101619528341239.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Social group in Pune ensures dignified farewell to Covid-19 victims||A social welfare group is working round-the-clock with the Pune civic body to give a dignified farewell to COVID-19 victims, irrespective of their religion, and claimed to have performed the last rites of over 1,200 victims since the pandemic began last year.The organisation comprises about 40 members, including some auto-rickshaw drivers and mobile technicians, in the age group of 22 to 64 years.A senior group member said their workload has increased during the current second wave of COVID-19."We have been helping conduct the last rites of COVID-19 victims, irrespective of their religion, for the last 14 to 15 months. So far, we have buried or cremated over 1,200 victims in Pune city and adjoining villages in the Maharashtra district," Ummat Foundation member Javed Khan told PTI."Many a times, family members or relatives are unable to come, but we ensure that the last rites are conducted with all respect and as per their tradition," Khan said.He said the number of deaths due to COVID-19 has increased in the second wave of the viral infection, and their group members are now working 24X7.Two days ago, they got a call about the death of an elderly member of a Brahmin family, which was in isolation after contracting the viral infection, he said."Our volunteers in PPE kits reached there with a body bag, brought the mortal remains to a crematorium and conducted the last rites as per their rituals," he said.Sharfuddin Shaikh (64), the oldest member of the group, said their work was all about "humanity" and the objective was to give the dead person a decent farewell in the absence of relatives and loved ones."On many occasions, when family members of the deceased cannot make it to the crematorium or burial ground as they are in quarantine, we arrange video calls for them while performing the last rites," he said.Shaikh said that late Sunday evening, they received a call from Talegaon town, located about 35 km from here, about a COVID-19 victim's death."Since the family members were unable to perform the burial, they requested us to help them. We rushed to the hospital, collected the body, performed the burial in Talegaon and returned to Pune city around 3 am on Monday," he said.Asked how they are managing while fasting during the holy month of Ramadan, Shaikh said the Almighty was providing them strength to continue the humanitarian work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-group-in-pune-ensures-dignified-farewell-to-covid-19-victims-101619528083300.html
27-04-2021||Dehradun||Last Shahi Snan of Mahakumbh, most Akhada seers participate in symbolic manner||With the symbolic participation of Akhada seers, Chaitra Poornima Shahi Snan (royal dip) of Haridwar Mahakumbh concluded on Tuesday. With this Shahi Snan, the major festive baths of the one-month-long Mahakumbh have come to an end. However, many were seen flouting Covid-19 norms such as wearing a mask or following social distancing, while officials said the protocols were followed.“Due care and steps were taken to ensure compliance with Covid-19 guidelines during Shahi Snan. Mela administrative and Kumbh Mela Force personnel were themselves in protective gear and also distributed free face masks and sanitisers at Ganga ghats and Akhadas procession route,” said Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat.Some of the seers from all thirteen Akhadas were seen participating in the Shahi Snan with a major focus on three Bairagi Akhadas who duly performed the last Shahi Snan with full rituals. As it was also Lord Hanuman’s birth anniversary on Tuesday, which is the deity of the Bairagi Akhadas, there was quite a buzz in Baiaragi Camp and Lord Hanuman temples in Haridwar.Niranjani and Anand Akhada seers were the first to head towards the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri followed by Juna, Agni and Aahwan Akhadas in the pre-scheduled order set by Kumbh Mela administration in consultation with the Akhada Parishad.Maha Nirvani Akhada and Atal Akhada seers were followed by three Bairagi Akhadas-Nirvani, Digambar and Nirmohi.After this, Shri Panchayati Bada and Naya Udasin Akahada seers completed their sacred Ganga dip followed by seers from Shri Nirmal Akhada who concluded the Shahi Snan at the Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri.Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Maharaj also arrived for the holy dip who was ferried on a wheelchair to the Ganga ghat by Mela Force personnel and followers.Pilgrims and local people were allowed to take Ganga dip at Har-Ki-Pauri prior to Akhadas arrival at 9 am.Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat, Kumbh Mela Force inspector general Sanjay Gunjiyal, SSP Mahakumbh Janmejaya Khanduri and ADM Mela Harbeer Singh welcomed the Akhada seers at Har-Ki-Pauri and also urged seers to ensure proper compliance of covid safety guidelines like wearing masks and social distancing.By afternoon less than fifty thousand pilgrims and seers had taken the sacred Ganga bath and performed rituals at Ganga ghats on the concluding Shahi Snan of Mahakumbh 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/last-shahi-snan-of-mahakumbh-most-akhada-seers-participate-in-symbolic-manner-101619526988769.html
27-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan highlights shortage of essential Covid drugs, urges Centre to deliver pending doses||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Tuesday said there is a shortage of essential drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, both of which are used to treat patients suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Sharma added that the central government has allocated 67,000 doses till April 30, but the state has only received 30,000 so far. “We request that the remaining 37,000 doses be given to us immediately,” he told news agency ANI after meeting Union minister of chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandavia in Delhi.Sharma, along with state energy minister BD Kalla and state urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal, had arrived in the national capital earlier today to meet Union ministers and appraise them of the shortage of medical oxygen and essential medicines in Rajasthan.रेमडेसिविर और टोसीलीजुमैब की कमी है। केंद्र ने हमें 30 अप्रैल तक के लिए 67,000 आवंटित किया है। हमें अभी तक 30,000 मिला है। हम कह रहे हैं कि ये 37,000 हमें तत्काल दिया जाए: केंद्रीय रसायन और उर्वरक मंत्री मनसुख मंडाविया से मुलाकात के बाद राजस्थान के स्वास्थ्य मंत्री रघु शर्मा pic.twitter.com/ncshcvnDy4The Rajasthan health minister’s request comes two days after he claimed that the Congress government in the state had placed an order for 175,000 Remdesivir injections from several drug manufacturers this month, but managed to only receive 28,350 of them. Last week, the Jaipur Police arrested three people and detained three others for alleged black marketing of the antiviral drug. The police said the accused were selling the drug at 15 times more than the original price.Also Read| Rajasthan police bust Remdesivir black marketing racketRajasthan has so far registered nearly 531,000 Covid-19 cases and 3,685 coronavirus-related deaths. On Monday, 16,438 people were found to be infected, while 84 others succumbed to the disease. The active cases have climbed to 146,640 while over 380,000 recoveries have been recorded. In the last 24 hours, Rajasthan, along with nine other states, accounted for 71.68% of India’s daily Covid-19 spike.In addition to a shortage of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, Rajasthan has also reported non-availability of Covid-19 vaccine doses ahead of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive on May 1. Health minister Sharma said on Sunday that the government had spoken to the Serum Institute of India (SII) for procuring more vaccine doses. “When we spoke to the Serum Institute, we were told it may take till May 15 to fulfill orders placed by the Government of India (GoI) and that they won’t be able to deliver vaccines to Rajasthan before it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-urges-centre-to-supply-pending-doses-of-remdesivir-tocilizumab-101619526359459.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||At Delhi crematoriums, corpses wait in 20-hour queues to burn||Under the high tin roof, 50 funeral pyres burned fiercely on Tuesday, the hot air filled with smoke, fine ash, and muted sobs of shell-shocked families. Nearby, lying unattended on the floor, and in scores of parked vehicles, more corpses awaited their turn, which relatives were told would come 16 to 20 hours later. Shaking Delhi's spirit and soul, an unimaginable tragedy is unfolding at New Delhi's crematoriums struggling to cope with the deluge of the dead arriving at a frightening pace."I have not seen such a bad situation ever before in my life. People are moving with the dead bodies of their loved ones from pillar to post ... almost all Delhi crematoriums are flooded with dead bodies," Vineeta Massey, the owner of Massey Funerals, told PTI.  By official count, 3,601 people have died this month, of them 2,267 in the last seven days alone in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which is terrorising and tormenting the city. In all of February, the death toll was 57, and in March 117. As if the trauma of losing a loved one to the virus so suddenly is not enough, there is more grief in store for relatives who are not even able to give them a proper send-off.They arrive at crematoriums with bodies, only to be turned away. They drive to another facility, and yet another, traversing the city with the mortal remains in personal cars or ambulances, desperately seeking a graceful exit for their father, mother, son, or daughter from the material world.The trauma is no less for the relatives of those who died of non-Covid causes but are being swept up in the collective national tragedy driven by the pandemic. Aman Arora, a young entrepreneur from West Delhi's Ashok Nagar, lost his father ML Arora to a heart attack on Monday afternoon. "We rushed him to many private hospitals when he started feeling discomfort in his chest but he was not even checked by the medical staff there. They demanded that we produce a Covid-negative report. He eventually passed away," said Aman. On Monday afternoon, Aman was told by the staff in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar crematorium to wait until Tuesday morning to perform the last rites.  When Aman realised there was no point in pleading, he arranged for a refrigerator to prevent his father's dead body from decaying. "What could I have done when there was no space? We kept the body in a rented fridge and have come early today (Tuesday)," said Aman, waiting for his turn as many other people milled around silently with dead bodies lying on the floor. Outside, ambulances and cars honked and competed for parking space but inside, all one could hear was the crackling of dry wood from the burning pyres -- all 50 of them roaring simultaneously. A few sobs arose over the sound of the fires, and one could hear the unemotional intonations of instructions being given by the crematorium staff. "Apna dead body uthao aur udhar line mein ja ke khade ho jao (Pick up your dead body and go stand in line)," said a young staffer. A woman in her 40s was so stunned she couldn't make out what was 'nabhi' (navel) or 'chhati' (chest) when a staff member asked her to place sandalwood sticks on the body of her father who had died of Covid.The body was still packed in a white sack, which was placed on the pyre without opening.Holding the sandalwood sticks in trembling hands, she moved around the body before being helped by someone."I didn't even see the face of my father," wailed the woman, who was alone.    Manmeet Singh, a 40-year-old assistant professor, also carried his father Gurpal Singh's dead body in his car to the Subhash Nagar crematorium on Monday afternoon.But the staff politely told him his father couldn't be cremated because the pyre chambers were already full and the CNG crematorium at the center could only accommodate two bodies at one time.It takes about 90 minutes to dispose of one body in a CNG chamber and a PTI correspondent counted 24 bodies waiting in queue for a slot. With no option left, Manmeet left for the MCD crematorium in Pashchim Vihar about six kilometers away and luckily got space with the help of an MCD inspector."If you can't provide oxygen to the patients in hospitals, then at least provide some space in the cremation ground so that people leave the world comfortably," said Manmeet. The ground at the crematorium was full of filth and covered with leftovers of the previous cremation. It was muddy and rotten fruits were scattered all over. Plastic bags, sacks, buckets, mugs littered the ground. But none of that mattered to the relatives. What mattered was enough space to light a pyre.According to rules, said a senior official at the Delhi Health Department, if somebody dies of Covid-19 in hospital, the district administration has to arrange a hearse van, and the hospital is supposed to deploy staff for the disposal of the dead body at the crematorium and graveyard. But the crush of the dead has made it impossible for hospitals to provide hearses. So relatives are simply taking the bodies in their vehicles. "If family members move with the body of their loved ones in their personal vehicles, there are chances of being infected," another government official said.  Ajeet, a staff member at the MCD crematorium, told PTI they have created more than 100 extra makeshift chambers in an adjacent space to accommodate the increasing number of dead people -- both Covid-19 and natural deaths. "I can't move my arms, I am dead tired. The whole day we arrange for cremation and then in the night we have to take care of the pyres so that the fire consumes the bodies properly," said Ajeet.The chaos at the crematoriums has raised questions about the Delhi government's preparedness for the second wave, which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, had left the healthcare system on the brink of collapse. Many deaths have also been attributed to a severe oxygen shortage for the last 10 days. The fixing of responsibility will happen later.But for now, "this is the time for us to build solidarity and enough compassion for the poor people fighting the pandemic," said Harsh Mander, a former IAS bureaucrat who is now a civil rights activist. "The wealthy and the influential thought that they have an escape route to all this but this pandemic told us that we are all in this together," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-delhi-crematoriums-corpses-wait-in-20-hour-queues-to-burn-101619522536735.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC says it made no request to Ashoka Hotel to turn it into Covid facility||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said that it did not request the Delhi government to ask The Ashoka to turn its premises into a Covid-19 facility for Delhi high court judges and other judicial officers and their families on a priority basis. The Delhi high court told the Delhi government that it gives a false impression that the request was made by the court. The court ordered the Delhi government to take corrective measures with regard to the order asking for requisitioning beds in The Ashoka. "You think that when people are not able to get a bed, we will ask for 100 beds in a five-star hotel," the court said. The court also said that it gives out a wrong projection about the judiciary. The Delhi government on Monday issued an order asking The Ashoka to convert 100 rooms of the hotel into Covid-19 care centres. The Delhi government also said that it was acting on a request from the Delhi high court. The order was issued by the sub-divisional magistrate of Chanakyapuri on Sunday and said that the facility at Ashoka Hotel will be in association with Primus Hospital. The Delhi HC also pulled up the Delhi government over the oxygen crisis which hospitals are facing on Tuesday. It ordered the Delhi government to immediately place an officer at a said plant and also issued notices to five refillers. It asked the Delhi government to stop black marketing of oxygen cylinders and essential medical devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-says-it-made-no-request-to-ashoka-hotel-to-turn-it-into-covid-facility-101619524622200.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Man kills ‘drug dealer’ pregnant wife in Delhi; video of killing surfaces||A woman pregnant with twins and released from jail just three days ago in a drugs case was gunned down by her husband outside her home in south-east Nizamuddin on Tuesday morning, police said. The murdered woman’s domestic help was also shot while trying to save the woman, but he is likely to survive, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). The crime, which was captured by a CCTV camera, showed the alleged killer taking his own time to fire about a dozen rounds at his wife. According to the DCP, the woman, Saina, was earlier married to Sharafat Sheikh, an alleged gangster and drug dealer who is in jail after being booked under MCOCA and NDPS Act.Saina was arrested a few months ago for her alleged involvement in drug deals, only to be released on bail on Saturday on the ground that she was eight months pregnant with twins. “About a year ago, Saina married a man named Waseem. We are still ascertaining whether she was legally separated from Sheikh or not,” the DCP said. But when Saina was in jail, the DCP said, Waseem entered into an extramarital relationship with her sister. “When Saina was released from jail on bail, Waseem did not meet her. That led to frequent quarrels between them,” the DCP said. Also Read | ‘Your system has failed’: HC asks Delhi govt to take action on oxygen hoardingThe quarrels culminated in a final showdown outside Saina’s house on Tuesday morning. CCTV footage showed Waseem purportedly pulling out a gun and trying to shoot Saina. It was at that moment that Saina’s domestic help, Shahdat, tried to step in but got shot. Thereafter, Waseem can purportedly be seen taking several aims at his wife’s head and other body parts, reloading his gun and then shooting at the collapsed woman repeatedly. In between, he brandished his gun, threatening local residents to stay away during most of the drama. The DCP said that since the suspect was known, his parents were contacted and he was nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-kills-drug-dealer-pregnant-wife-in-delhi-video-of-killing-surfaces-101619522308090.html
27-04-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19 surge: 'Oxygen Express' leaves for Madhya Pradesh from Bokaro||A train carrying six tankers of medical oxygen for supply in Madhya Pradesh left from Bokaro in Jharkhand on Tuesday morning, a railway official said.In the wake of the Covid-19 spike, hospitals in parts of the country are facing oxygen shortage. Industrial oxygen is being diverted for medical use."The 'Oxygen Express' loaded with six tankers having a combined capacity of 64 MT of the life-saving gas left from Bokaro at 5.30 am. It is expected to reach Jabalpur tonight and Bhopal on Wednesday," the official said.Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also informed that the train will reach the state on Tuesday night.Out of the six tankers, two will be unloaded at Jabalpur and four at Mandideep station near Bhopal, Chouhan said in a message.The train will reach Bhopal after its journey via Kotshila, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur, New Katni and Jabalpur, the railway official said.Special arrangements have been made at Jabalpur and Mandideep to unload the tankers, he said.Bhopal's Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Uday Borwankar is monitoring the train's movement for its smooth journey so as to provide relief to people in need of oxygen in hospitals as soon as possible, the official said.Madhya Pradesh reported 12,686 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally above the five lakh-mark.The state's caseload stands at 5,11,990, including 5,221 deaths, as per official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-surge-oxygen-express-leaves-for-madhya-pradesh-from-bokaro-101619520535360.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||BBMB to restart oxygen generation plant in Ropar||The district administration on Tuesday asked the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to restart production at the oxygen generation plant, which had stopped operations in 2010. Deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said that in view of the rising Covid-19 cases and demand for oxygen in Punjab, it is prudent to map the resources and use them judiciously. “The BBMB has been instructed to resume operations at the plant and start production soon. The plant has a capacity of producing 100 oxygen cylinders a day,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bbmb-to-restart-oxygen-generation-plant-in-ropar-101619520567477.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||HC asks Delhi govt to take over oxygen refilling unit with immediate effect, serves contempt notice against 5 refillers||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to take over an oxygen refilling plant with immediate effect and also served contempt notices to five other refillers. The court also said that if the Delhi government is unable to address the situation then it will ask officers of the central government to take over."Set your house in order. Enough is enough. If you are not able to manage then tell us we will ask the Centre to send its officers. We will ask them to take over," the court said.The Delhi high court told the Delhi government that its system has collapsed and strict measures should be taken to ensure that medical oxygen which comes at a minimal cost should not cost several thousand or lakhs of rupees due to black marketing or hoarding.The court expressed its displeasure over oxygen refillers as well who were not present at the proceedings, while also expressing its displeasure towards the Delhi government for not issuing proper instructions to oxygen refillers."We will ask you to take action against the refillers and issue a contempt notice because they did not appear even after they were called... This cylinder business is a mess. You have to look into it and put your house in order. If they are belligerent, then they will see our belligerence. Keep them in custody if they are playing with people's life like this," it said.The court also ordered the Delhi government to send its officers to the oxygen plants and take over the running of those plants if required. "Post your officer (over there) and let them run it. You have all the power in law to take them in custody," it said.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli while hearing a plea made by hospitals regarding the shortage of oxygen and drugs like Remdesivir said that the Delhi government is not able to deal with the rising cases. "Your system has failed. Black-marketing of oxygen still continues. How are people procuring oxygen? Large-scale hoarding is going and you are not taking action. Take action against them," the court told the Delhi government.Amid the proceedings, Venkateshwara Hospital and Maharaja Agrasen Hospital said that their oxygen reserves will not last for long and will put the lives of patients in peril due to the shortage."This is a huge surge in cases. You are not able to deal with the numbers," the court observed.The Delhi high court's sharp criticism comes after several hospitals reported that they were facing an oxygen shortage. The Capital has seen a large number of deaths due to lack of oxygen due to which several hospitals moved the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/your-system-has-failed-hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-take-action-on-oxygen-hoarding-101619519665084.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi setting up 1,200 ICU beds, importing oxygen plants, containers: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said they are setting up 1,200 additional intensive care unit (ICU) beds and importing oxygen plants and cryogenic tankers from France and Thailand even as the oxygen situation has improved over the last two days. A surge in Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight triggered a shortage of essential resources such as medical oxygen and resulted in a steep increase in deaths.“We do not have as many SOS calls from hospitals now as we got on those three days [last week]. I want to thank the Central government for helping us through this time by providing their top officials, who worked in close coordination with the senior officers of the Delhi government. I thank our Delhi government officials too who have worked day and night to address the crisis,” he said at a digital press conference.The oxygen crisis in Delhi worsened on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. “Hospitals were jam-packed, and I was scared that any major untoward incident may lead to deaths due to lack of oxygen.”Kejriwal said they were arranging 500 ICU beds at the Ramlila Ground in front of Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. “Another 500 ICU beds are being readied at the main Ramlila Ground in front of Lok Nayak Hospital. At the Radha Saomi Satsang facility, we are arranging 200 ICU beds.” Kejriwal said by May 10, they will add 1,200 ICU beds to the Covid-19 infrastructure, which is now totally overstretched.He said the current Covid-19 wave is dangerous because it is more infectious and is making patients severely ill. “That is why the demand for ICU beds has increased manifold.” He said every hospital is treating patients more than its capacity. “All ICU beds are full. The Central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] facility in Delhi Cantt, but all beds got filled in just three hours.” He added it means Delhi has so many serious patients struggling to get ICU treatment. Delhi on Tuesday reported Covid-19 XXXX cases and XXX deaths, taking it tally of infections to XXX and toll from the pandemic to XXXX. Also Read | After testing Covid positive on Monday, Chhota Rajan admitted to AIIMS todayKejriwal said they have been unable to receive their share of oxygen allotted by the Centre due to a shortage of tankers. “The Delhi government has decided to import 18 cryogenic tankers from Bangkok [Thailand], which will start arriving from tomorrow [Wednesday],” he said. Kejriwal said they have sought the Centre’s help to have the Indian Air Force airlift these tankers. “Once these 18 tankers reach the city, the problem of transporting liquid oxygen will be solved, and Delhi will start getting its full quota of oxygen from the Centre…”Kejriwal, who thanked the Centre for giving them five imported tankers, said they would set up 44 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants at Delhi hospitals in over a month. “We are importing 21 PSA oxygen plants from France. These are ready-to-use plants and will be installed in different hospitals. In the next month, we will be installing 44 PSA oxygen plants in Delhi. Of these, eight are being installed by the Centre. For some reason, the project was delayed, but now by April 30, these eight plants will be ready. The remaining 36 oxygen plants will be set up by the Delhi government of which 21 are being imported from France and 15 are indigenous.”The Centre provides up to 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi daily, but it has faced a deficit of about 100MT due to transportation issues.Kejriwal said many chief ministers and industrialists came forward to help the Delhi government after he wrote to them seeking support. “Talks have advanced with some of them, but they have requested not to be named. So, I thank all the chief ministers, industrialists, NGOs, and religious organisations who have come out to help us in this crisis. Whatever decisions I announced is because of their help in some way or the other.”ANY REACTIONSINDEPENDENT COMMENTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-setting-up-1-200-icu-beds-importing-oxygen-plants-containers-kejriwal-101619520027379.html
27-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot apprises Sonia Gandhi of Covid-19 situation in state||Amid the spiralling number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday apprised Congress president Sonia Gandhi of the coronavirus crisis in the state, sources in the chief minister's office (CMO) said.Speaking to Gandhi on phone, Gehlot informed her about the shortage of oxygen tankers and medicines for Covid-19 patients in the state, they said.Meanwhile, a Group of Ministers (GoM) comprising Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Urban Development Minister Shanti Dhariwal and Energy Minister B D Kalla reached Delhi on Tuesday to meet Union ministers and officials to apprise them of the shortage of oxygen and medicines in the state, an official spokesperson said.They will meet Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Road, Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari, among others, for the resolution of these issues, the spokesperson said.On Monday, Rajasthan registered 16,438 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed the state's total tally to 5,30,875. With a record daily rise of 84 fatalities, the death toll climbed to 3,685, according to an official report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-apprises-sonia-gandhi-of-covid-19-situation-in-state-101619517513987.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Mango magic... the treasure troves that sustain us all||While the brilliant Amaltas flowers are a visual delight, it is the Mango that is perhaps the most loved and delicious component of the golden Indian summer.Street carts and bazaar shelves across Pune are filled with thousands of petis of mangoes. How many varieties of mango can you name? Alphonso, Banganapalli, Chausa, Dussheri, Kesari, Payari …Some years ago, my colleague Satish Awate involved students from school-ecoclubs in the Sahyadris, or the northern Western Ghats, to look for as many mango varieties as they could find. Students explored farms, village commons, and nearby areas, mapped the trees and interviewed elders. Awate delights in narrating the unusual varieties and stories the children found. One mango variety tastes like curd, another like shepu (dill leaves). One smells like lemon, another like kerosene and yet another like bed bugs! Some varieties resemble other fruits and confusingly are named for the other fruit – so a mango that tastes like an apple is called safarchand. There are even mango varieties that taste like bananas and pumpkins. Some trees and varieties have historical significance. Babasaheb Ambedkar is believed to have camped below a particular mango tree named Madhgoti in Uravade village not far from Pune and enjoyed its fruits. There is often a distinct mango variety for each preparation – chutney, sabjis and curries, mango rice, pickle, fruit, aam ras, amrakhand, aam papad, and murabba. Some varieties, like the Alphonso, are carefully cultivated and are a major source of income from local sales and exports. Other varieties are highly local and grow in wild or semi-wild conditions. Students of the participating schools recorded over 200 varieties of mangoes from about 60 locations in the Western Ghats. A study of these varieties has been done by CEE with IISER, Pune, to understand how distinct these popular varieties are at the genetic level. Having large varietal diversity in a crop makes it possible to choose or develop varieties that can withstand climate change impacts. Different varieties are able to tolerate drought, high rainfall or extreme heat conditions, or pest attacks. The Western Ghats harbour not only varieties of our favourite mango, but many other types of fruits, vegetables, fodder, medicinal plants, trees yielding timber, grasses or shrubs yielding fibre. These mountainous ecosystems are also the origins of the rivers that drain the Deccan and southern Indian region. This mosaic of wilderness, forests and grassy patches, rivers and streams, village common lands, and farmlands in the Western Ghats is invaluable as a sustaining inter-dependent life force. When we remove a few components, hack some forests here and there, we start to unravel a complex web of life that has taken millennia to evolve. The Western Ghats are one of 36 “hotspots” of biodiversity in the world. A hotspot is both a positive and a negative qualification. As a biodiversity hotspot, the Western Ghats are unique with at least 1,500 species of plants that are not found elsewhere in the world. Unfortunately, the “hotspot” label also indicates that this natural vegetation is highly threatened. This means that the Western Ghats harbour irreplaceable life forms, and they are being lost. For example, scientists and civic groups have questioned the need for projects such as the doubling of the railway line in Mollem National Park on the Western Ghats in Goa to increase commercial cargo handling. With this project and the existing highway and power line projects, a large tract of forest with 60,000 trees would be erased in the Mollem National Park.Covid and lockdowns have hit us hard, but projects with short term gains to a few, and increased risks to both humans and other species seem like Sheikh Chilli cutting off the branch on which he sat! Instead, we need innovative approaches that help to restore the economy and livelihoods while strengthening the natural resource base including biodiversity. It is a call to those who develop and support innovations, help incubate solutions and especially micro enterprises. In the meantime, do try out different varieties of mangoes. Try to plant some mango saplings of different varieties in your neighbourhood. In a lovely connection of Satish’s Western Ghats school eco-clubs project to Pune, students from Baburaoji Gholap School in Sangvi, Pune, raised saplings of 75 mango varieties in their school nursery. These saplings were then planted in institutional campuses in Pune, and at the Botanical Garden at Shivaji University. Kolhapur. Grafts and more saplings could one day be prepared at the Botanical Garden, continuing to conserve these riches from nature. We Punekars are lucky to live close to the treasures of the Sahyadris. Those interested in joining and evolving restoration efforts are welcome to get in touch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-mango-magic-the-treasure-troves-that-sustain-us-all-101619519307162.html
27-04-2021||Kolkata||BJP says it will conduct virtual victory procession on May 2 after EC ban||In view of the Election Commission's decision to ban victory processions on or after counting on May 2, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will celebrate the day virtually.Speaking to ANI, BJP General Secretary Tarun Chugh said, "We are sure of winning the West Bengal elections. As a responsible party, we will celebrate the occasion but it will be according to the guideline of the Election Commission. We have always followed COVID-19 protocol during the election campaign in the five states and we will also follow this order and we will celebrate our win virtually with our karyakartas."Earlier today, BJP national President JP Nadda on Tuesday welcomed the Election Commission's decision to ban any kind of victory processions or celebrations after the counting of votes on May 2, owing to the worsening COVID-19 crisis in the country.Taking to Twitter, Nadda said that all BJP workers are using their energies to help the ones in need in this hour of crisis. "I welcome the decision of the ECI banning celebrations and processions of electoral victories. I have directed all state units of BJP to strictly adhere to this decision. All karykartas of BJP are using their energies to help the ones in need in this hour of crisis," he tweeted.Due to the surge of Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission has banned all victory procession on May 2 or later."In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases throughout the country, the Commission has decided to make more stringent provision to be followed during the process of counting, in addition to exiting Broad Guidelines dated August 21, 2020, and has directed that no victory procession after the counting on May 2, 2021, shall be permissible," the order issued by Election Commission reads.It further stated that not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative to receive the certificate of election from the Returning Officer.The counting of votes for five states that includes West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-says-it-will-conduct-virtual-victory-procession-on-may-2-after-ec-ban-101619518600596.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sets up Covid-19 control room to ensure steady supply of oxygen||In view of a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government has set up a control room here to ensure equitable distribution and an adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen in the state.     The government also said that all efforts are being made to increase the production of medical oxygen.Amid a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and while realising the need to meet the current surge in demand for medical oxygen across the state, the Haryana government has set up the control room at the Civil Secretariat here, an official statement said.“Further, to ensure equitable distribution of oxygen allocated by the government of India for Haryana and ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen within the state, a state-level oxygen control room has been set up,” it said. The control room is also mandated to perform other vital functions, including ensuring safe movement of oxygen tankers from manufacturing plants to districts and ensuring each district is informed of daily allocation is issued by the health department, the statement said.It will also ensure each district issues its own distribution plan and operates an early warning system, it said.Haryana on Monday recorded the biggest single-day jump in Covid-related fatalities with 75 deaths while the state also registered yet another big jump in infections with 11,504 cases.The state has recorded a big spike in cases in April and as of April 27, the state has over 80,000 active cases.The demand for medical oxygen has also risen manifold in the state in recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sets-up-covid-19-control-room-to-ensure-steady-supply-of-oxygen-101619518273529.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to soon make a decision on free Covid vaccines: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will soon make a decision over whether the state government will allow the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to be administered free of cost to all residents above the age of 18 under the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday.“I have signed a proposal for free vaccines. The chief minister will decide based on the interest of the people. Tomorrow, in the cabinet meeting, we will discuss the issue of global tenders for vaccine procurement,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. On Sunday, the Maharashtra deputy chief minister said that only those beneficiaries who can afford the vaccine dose should pay for it, while the state government will pay on behalf of the poorer sections.The announcement of vaccinating all beneficiaries above the age of 18 was first made by Maharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday, when he said that the idea was discussed in the state cabinet. He added that global tenders will also be invited for the vaccination process.CM will take a decision on the free vaccination for all, soon. I have signed a proposal for free vaccines. CM will decide on it in the interest of the people...Tomorrow in the cabinet meet, we will discuss the issue of the global tender for vaccine procurement: Maharashtra Dy CM pic.twitter.com/aPJupEEpuDMaharashtra environment minister and Shiv Sena leader Aditya Thackeray had also confirmed the development on Twitter, but he later said in a new post that it was not his intention to create any confusion over the state’s official vaccination policy. He said Maharashtra would be ensuring fast, efficient vaccination, and would leave no resident behind.Also Read: Aaditya Thackeray tweets vaccines to be free for all in Maha, then deletes itA dispute had broken out within the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over Nawab Malik’s announcement of free vaccines. Congress expressed discontent over the announcement and labelled it an attempt to take credit, while leaders of the Shiv Sena are also not content with the minority minister’s actions.Maharashtra has so far vaccinated 14,906,543 beneficiaries against Covid-19, of which 12,768,755 have received the first dose and the remaining 2,137,788 have been given both the doses, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 7am. The state, worst hit in India by the ongoing pandemic, saw a dip in its daily infection tally on Monday after 48,700 fresh cases and 524 deaths were recorded. However, the low figures can be attributed to a lesser number of tests on Sunday (222,475). The caseload has, however, climbed to 4,343,727. The death toll has mounted to 65,284, with the state clocking 3.6 million recoveries.Section 144 of the CrPC remains applicable in Maharashtra till May 1, in view of the Covid-19 situation, while strict restrictions have also been placed on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings from April 22 till May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-to-soon-make-a-decision-on-free-covid-vaccines-deputy-cmpawar-101619518070205.html
27-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Latehar headquarters hot spot; 6 deaths in two days||Six persons died of Covid-19 in the past two days in Latehar district even as the district headquarter town turned into a hot spot with more than 400 active cases as on Monday.Alerting residents of the infection, the district administration asked people to isolate themselves in their homes till normalcy is restored. DC Abu Imran said, “The situation is really alarming. We have already identified certain hotspots in the district headquarter town. Residents of these areas have been asked to lock themselves inside their homes to break the infection chain.”According to CS Dr. Santosh Kumar Srivastava, four patients at a Covid care center died during treatment by Sunday evening. The district logged 21 Covid-19 deaths so far. The number of active cases also increased to 1,287 Monday from less than 100 cases on April 7.Forty hotspots identified in and around Latehar town contained more than 350 cases out of the total active cases. The case tally stood at 3,381 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-latehar-headquarters-hot-spot-6-deaths-in-two-days-101619514655514.html
27-04-2021||Indore||Drive-in Covid testing and vaccination centres set up in MP||Two drive-in Covid 19 testing centres have been set-up at Indore to speed up testing at a time when rising infections in the second wave of the disease have overwhelmed healthcare facilities. An officer of the Indore municipal corporation said the drive-in centres were aimed to resolve the pendency in sample collection for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR tests. Indore is the worst affected city in MP with 12,591 active cases.The two drive-in centers have a combined capacity for 4,000 tests a day and the results will be made available within 24 hours, said Pratibha Pal, commissioner, Indore Municipal Corporation. The corporation has also made special arrangements for testing the specially-abled at these two centres.At these centres, pathology staff will collect samples as suspected patients drive through the testing counters in their two and four-wheelers. However, Indore residents will have to register in advance for giving RT PCR samples, the officer added.She said drive-through centers will help save time as sample collection at home was a time taking process. The initiative was also in line with MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s call for improving the rate of testing in the state. On Monday, official data showed that 54,982 samples were tested in the state, taking the total past 75.11 lakh mark.Meanwhile, the MP tourism department has allocated space for a drive-in vaccination facility in Bhopal. From May 1, people will be able to get a jab of the Covid vaccine while sitting inside their four-wheelers, said Sheo Shekhar Shukla, principal secretary, tourism and culture department. Approximately 300 doses will be administered through this mode every day.Madhya Pradesh is currently witnessing a surge in cases. As per the Union health ministry, there are currently 91,548 active cases in the state. The state, on Monday, reported 12,686 new cases, taking its tally to over five lakh, while the death toll rose by 88 and the recovery count by 11,612 in the preceding 24 hours, an official said. The state’s caseload stands at 511,990, including 5,221 deaths, while 414,235 people have been discharged so far, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/drivein-covid-testing-and-vaccination-centres-set-up-in-mp-101619514146402.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||After testing Covid positive on Monday, Chhota Rajan admitted to AIIMS today||Jailed gangster Chhota Rajan was rushed to New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Science for treatment after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening, Tihar prison official aware of the matter said on Tuesday.Rajan has been lodged in solitary confinement in one of the biggest cells at Tihar, where he was not even allowed to interact with other prisoners due to security concerns. Officials suspect he may have contracted the infection from some asymptomatic jail officer.At least 170 out of 20,500 prisoners and 60 jail officers have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last four weeks at Tihar amid the second wave of the pandemic in the country, which has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of critical supplies needed to save lives.Activist Umar Khalid is among other prisoners, who have tested positive for Covid-19 at Tihar. He has been kept under isolation within the prison complex.Prison officials said the spread of the infection in the most crowded jail complex in the country is such that prisoners like Rajan and Bihar gangster-turned-politician Mohammed Shahabuddin, who was also in solitary confinement, have tested positive. Other prisoners lodged in Tihar share space with other inmates in cells or barracks. But Rajan, Shahabuddin, and Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana have been under solitary confinement in adjacent cells inside jail number 2.Sandeep Goel, the prison’s director-general, confirmed Rajan’s hospitalisation, but did not wish to offer more details.Rajan, one of India’s most wanted gangsters, was arrested in Indonesia’s Bali in 2015 after being on the run for two decades. He faced at least 68 cases including 28 related to extortion in Maharashtra alone and narrowly escaped an attempt on his life in Bangkok in September 2000. Prison officers said the 62-year-old has co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-testing-covid-positive-on-monday-chhota-rajan-admitted-to-aiims-today-101619513245749.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Not so ‘aam’: Mango means feast-worthy!||“Mangoes need to have two qualities, they need to be sweet and there needs to be plenty,” said the legendary Urdu and Persian poet Mirza Ghalib. Every state of India has its own eclectic names variety of mangoes to offer that have equally interesting names. Alphonso is from Maharashtra, Totapuri from Karnataka, Banganpalli from Andra Pradesh, Himsagar from West Bengal, Kesar from Gujarat, Langda from Uttar Pradesh, Ambika from Uttar Pradesh, Malgova from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, Vanraj from Gujarat, Chausa from Himachal and Bihar, Suvarnarekha from Andra and Odisha.It’s the mango season officially, the best time to treat yourself with the juicy, nutritious fruit. Right from starters to meals to desserts and beverages, it can be used in imaginative ways. “Mango is a super versatile fruit! Mango can be used in various forms in the recipes. Apart from enhancing the taste of the preoperation, it’s also an excellent source of nutrients for the vegetarians and sustains its texture even after being cooked. Raw mango can be used as kanji, or a variety of delightful salads and once cooked with coconut milk, it’s loved by vegans. Once can experiment with both forms of mango, raw and ripe,” says chef Nishant Choubey who recently put together a menu featuring mango bruschetta, dehydrated mango powder, mango feuille and even the refreshing mango kombucha.For chefs, mango is an all time favourite ingredient to work with, owing to its delightful colour, juicy, pulpy texture and delicious taste. “Be it shake, a cake, a sauce, a dip, a smoothie, a curry – mangoes adds a dash of surprise into everything. With mangoes, the possibilities are endless. It can be used to make a healthy shake or a delicious cocktail like mango margarita or martini. In dessert one can make cakes, tarts, ice- creams, and puddings. While in savoury, one can make mango and coconut sticky rice, mango pachadi (raita), mango curry, tangy mango salad, mango marinated kebabs or grills,” says chef Pawan Bisht.Mango can be used in different forms such as dried, liquid, semi liquid, foams, froths, grills and more. Flavourful kebabs can also be made with mango and can be paired with everything from vegetables to poultry to red meat and seafood. Food bloggers also have interesting mango preparations to share. Paresh Gupta, Delhi-based food blogger, says, “You can indulge in a chilled bowl of mango firni, while sangria lovers can go for mango sangria. ”Some popular regional mango preparations include raw mango and coconut curry with drumstick from Goa, raw mango launj from Jharkhand/Bihar, kairi Methi ki subzi from Rajasthan, mango rice from Karnataka, mango karhi from Gujrat and mamidikaya pappu (mango dal) from Andhra.Taste a mango first, test it for its texture, flavour and scent, and then let you creative juices flow as you innovate with the fruit in your kitchen “I love making salads with raw mango and even sweet ones. Adding herbs and spices, nuts and legume, one can turn a mango into a delicious and memorable preoperation. In my kitchen, sour mango becomes the sauce for grilled shrimp or lobster and chutney for scallops and crab. And my pyramid bhel is taken to grand heights by the addition of finely minced raw mango. At my restaurant Devi in New York City, we used to serve mango cheesecake that was legendary in NYC food circles,” says chef Suvir Saran.Recipe Indianized mexican Burrito with mango1 cup refried beans• 1 cup cooked brown rice• Lettuce leaves• Sautéed baby corn• Grilled red cabbage• Grilled red yellow pepper• avacado slices with lime• Mango slices• Grilled parsley• Sautéed garlic slices• Jalepenos and olives• Sour cream• Tomato salsa• Salt and pepper to taste• 4 to 5 Chickpea tortillas• Olive oilMethod:1.) Place your tortilla on a plate2.) Place the lettuce leaf on the tortilla3.) Spread a spoon of refried beans followed by 1 spoon of brown rice4.) Place the babycorn, bell peppers, red cabbage and the parsley grilled separately with salt and pepper in a drop of olive oil5.) Add the limed avacado and mango slices6.) Top them with sauteed garlic slices, jalepenos and olives7.) Add sour cream, squeeze of lime, salt and pepper8.) Fold the tortilla, serve them with salad, tomato salsa and sour creamBy culinary expert Vindhya KarwaAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-so-aam-mango-means-feastworthy-101619510127880.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to import 18 oxygen tankers from Bangkok, 21 from France: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that the government has decided to import 18 oxygen tankers and 21 oxygen plants from France for Covid-19 patients amid shortage.While addressing a press conference, CM Kejriwal said, "Delhi government has decided to import 18 oxygen tankers from Bangkok, they'll start arriving from tomorrow. We've requested Centre to allow use of Air Force planes for this. Talks are on, I'm very hopeful that talks will be successful. This will resolve the issue of transport."Watch: '44 oxygen plants, 1,200 ICU beds to be added in Delhi’, says CM KejriwalTalking about the oxygen plants from France, CM Kejirwal said, "We are importing 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. They can be brought to use immediately. These will be installed at different hospitals and this will help us in resolving oxygen crisis in those hospitals."Read more: Chhatarpur Covid-19 facility reopens to desperate appealsKejriwal said that the decision has been taking as the Delhi government is facing a crisis in receiving the oxygen that has been allotted to the national capital by the Centre."In the next month, we will have 44 oxygen plants in Delhi, out of which 8 plants will be set up by the Centre by April 30. 36 out of the 44 plants will be installed by the Delhi government," Kejriwal added."In the past few days, I wrote to various industrialists and state governments seeking help in this respect. We have received tremendous support from all quarters and are hopeful. We are thankful to everyone who is helping the Delhi government during this time of crisis," CM Kejriwal further said.Read more: Delhi govt may not wait for fresh stock of shots to open up vaccine driveKejriwal also acknowledged that the past three days have been extremely tough in Delhi's fight against the current wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."We will all have to come together to fight the pandemic. It is only through coming together that we will be able to win over this wave," Kejriwal said.The ongoing Covid-19 surge in the national capital has left hospitals overburdened as people frantically search for beds with oxygen support. On Monday, Delhi witnessed 20,201 new Covid-19 cases which took the caseload to 1,047,916, according to the health department's bulletin. 380 people died in the last 24 hours, marking the highest ever single- day spike in deaths since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The death toll in Delhi stood at 14,628, while the total number of recoveries reached 940,930. Currently, Delhi has 92,358 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-import-18-oxygen-tankers-from-bangkok-21-from-france-cm-kejriwal-101619509195613.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Nothing bigger than saving a life : Ankush Bahuguna||“Humanity ka sabse bada aspect is compassion. I feel that there is nothing bigger than saving a life. Not everyone gets the power to help save another’s life. Eligible plasma donors have the power of saving people’s life and they must use it.” These are the words of Delhi based actor and content creator Ankush Bahuguna who has been using his social media amid the second wave of Coronavirus, as a means to amplify plasma requests and connect plasma donors with recipients. Bahuguna, has made videos and reels on social media, requesting eligible plasma donors to step up and help. “If you can save lives, please do it. Kindness is an endless loop. Aap ko kisi ne life main kitni baar help kari hogi bina apna faida dekhe, ab aapki turn hai yeh kindness return karne ki by donating plasma,” he says.Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients.Bahuguna takes care that the leads he posts are verified. Encouraging others to amplify requests regardless of how big or small their followers count is, he says, “I feel at this point every given human being can help. Agar aap plasma nahi donate kar sakte toh help in any other way you can. Volunteer with foundations who are finding plasma donors. Main bhi ghar baith ke phone ghuma kar logo ki help kar raha hun. You can tell people in your group that if they aren’t well and need help with oxygen cylinders, then they can tell you and you’ll call up and verify leads of cylinders or plasma and help them. Because the family of patients in hospital don’t have so much time to call and verify every lead.”Bahuguna’s solution to tackling the dearth of plasma donors is to take a proactive approach. He advises, “We all know someone or the other who has battled corona recently so why is it that we don’t have enough donors? Why don’t we call and encourage them to donate plasma? Open your contact lists, get in touch with your inner circle who has battled covid recently and convince them to step forward and donate. I’ve also called up people who I knew had covid and managed to convince a few to donate plasma.”Requesting eligible plasma donors to donate plasma, Bahuguna concludes, “Jab aapki family ko kuch chahiye hota hai toh you will also hope and wish that strangers show compassion. And that they come forward and help you out. So today, if you have the power to help someone else, please donate the plasma and help them.”You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nothing-bigger-than-saving-a-life-ankush-bahuguna-101619508746124.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC declines to entertain fresh PIL seeking supervision of sale of Covid-19 drugs||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a PIL seeking directions to the AAP government to oversee the sale of oxygen concentrators and medicines required for Covid-19 patients, saying another bench was already dealing with some of the issues raised in the petition.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh asked the petitioner, a lawyer, to move an application for intervention before the other bench and disposed of his plea which had sought that helplines should be functional round the clock and guidelines for managing dead bodies of Covid-19 patients be followed at crematoriums.Kush Sharma, in his petition, had also sought setting up of CCTV cameras in hospitals for supervision of the care and medical attention being provided to coronavirus patients.In his petition, filed through advocate Asiya Khan, Sharma had sought directions to the Delhi government "to oversee and ensure maintenance of records of sale and distribution of Covid-19 management drugs and equipment".It had also sought a direction to the government to ensure medicines and equipment "are not sold at prices higher than the maximum retail price and that there is no diversion into the hands of persons other than licensed dealers and distributors".Sharma claimed there was hoarding and black marketing of life saving drugs required by Covid-19 patients happening in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-declines-to-entertain-fresh-pil-seeking-supervision-of-sale-of-covid-19-drugs-101619505308987.html
27-04-2021||Patna||Patna residents helping Covid-19 patients and senior citizens||Many Patna residents are helping Covid patients and others affected by the pandemic by meeting their essential needs.Playback singer Panna Shrimali (40) has been providing free food to upto 500 Covid-19 patients and senior citizens daily in the state capital since mid-April, when the second wave of the disease led to a sharp rise in the number of infections, overwhelming the state’s health infrastructure.“I accept food requests on WhatsApp number 8677095968. I just ask for Covid-19 test report to verify the authenticity of seekers. After that, we provide them food for 14 days without any cost,” Jagdeo Path resident Shrimali said, and added that senior citizens living alone were not asked to show Covid-19 report.“We came across many instances where senior citizens were living alone as their children were settled in metro cities or aboard. They were solely dependent on domestic helpers, who have discontinued work due to Covid-19 resurgence. We provide medicines and dry ration to these elderly people,” he added.Inspired by his father LP Ray, Shrimali ran a free food service last year as well during the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown. He has a cook and two delivery boys in his team. “I deliver food packets to nearby localities. We use safety gears like masks, gloves and hair caps for health safety.”His initiative has helped city residents such as 60-year old Om Prakash Verma, a resident of Kadam Kuan, who was struggling after his domestic help left due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. “I survived on light and solid meals for five days. Meanwhile, I came to know about Shrimali ji through social media. By his courtesy, I am now getting two meals daily.”Similarly, two sisters Anupama Kumari and Neelima too were feeding 50 patients on a daily basis. Anupama, mother of a 4-month-old infant, started the service last week for Covid-19 patients in need.“My sister and I cook food at my home. As I have to take care of my baby, Neelima delivers food on her scooty. At times we get volunteers for distribution, but that is not often due to fear of infection, distant location and scorching heat,” said the 32-year-old Anupama.The real value of what Anupama and her sister are doing is understood by residents like Lata, who lives near the Boring Canal Road. “I tested Covid-19 positive last week. I got to know about two sisters providing free food service through a friend. ...I got to eat solid food after five days as I was unable to cook due to weakness. I am grateful to both sisters for helping me in tough time.”Anupama has decided not to spend money on birthdays or festival celebrations this year. I won’t even celebrate the first birthday of my new-born. I will use the money to serve needy people this year.”Another resident Vidyabhushan Sharma has started a steam parlour-- designed using stove and pressure cooker-- for the underprivileged near Bhattacharya Road. Sharma recovered from Covid-19 last year.“During my treatment, I realised the importance of steam inhalation for curbing the infection. The price of an electric steamer has increased to ₹1000, which is not affordable for daily wagers. Thus, I have set up a steam parlour to provide free service to them.”Sushma Devi, 66, a city resident said she was helped by strangers instead of relatives after she tested positive along with her husband. “My son lives in Bangalore. I have several relatives in the city but none of them responded after our positive report. Instead, strangers have come up as life savers for us.”However, no effort has yet been made by the district administration to bring together these individual efforts to pool in resources for greater efficiency and impact.The administration on its part has started telemedicine services for Covid-19 patients.“Those Covid-19 patients who are under home isolation can take medical advice on helpline number 0612-2508050 or 6287590552,” said Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh.Singh said a separate team was set up to monitor private hospitals following complaints of irregularities in treatment of Covid-19 patients were received.“We have also circulated Covid management handouts to reduce panic among residents. The booklet has details regarding drug uses, diet suggestion, correct method of measuring oxygen level and promoting exercises to increase oxygen level,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-residents-helping-covid-19-patients-and-senior-citizens-101619505684324.html
27-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan ministers to head to Delhi, highlight oxygen shortage||In view of the depleting stock of medical oxygen, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday night formed a committee of ministers that will go to Delhi on Tuesday to meet Union ministers and officials to get the necessary supply to the state.During a Covid-19 review meeting in Jaipur, it was informed that the crisis of oxygen availability has started in government and private hospitals of the state following which the decision to send ministers to Delhi was taken."Health minister Raghu Sharma, urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal and energy minister BD Kalla will go to Delhi to meet the Union health minister and officers and appraise them of the crisis of oxygen and medicines in the state and also demand adequate supply," official sources said.An official statement later said the committee fly to Delhi along with additional secretary Sudhansh Pant and meet Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, railway minister Piyush Goyal, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and MoS for chemicals and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya.In the meeting, CM Gehlot said the group of ministers are not going to Delhi for making any complaints but to explain the situation of the state and to highlight the plight of the state's people. The ministers will logically take up the matter and explain to them that Rajasthan is not getting the supply of medical oxygen and medicines as per the quota.Gehlot further said that there is a crisis of oxygen tankers for the transportation of medical oxygen and the Centre should arrange such vehicles as a national plan to distribute the oxygen, the release said.He said the Centre had allocated medical oxygen from Gujarat's Jamnagar recently but the supply has not been received so far.The chief minister said the deaths of patients due to lack of oxygen in some states were very unfortunate and directed officials to make all possible efforts to make sure that this situation does not happen in the state.Gehlot expressed concern over the rapid increase of Covid-19 infections and said it was very alarming that young patients are being hospitalised in large numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-ministers-to-head-to-delhi-highlight-oxygen-shortage-101619504457064.html
27-04-2021||Patna||Covid-19 cases keep rising in Bihar. With 2,720 new infections, Patna worst-hit||A total of 11,801 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Monday escalating the virus caseload to 4,15,397, with capital Patna being worst-hit in the state, health department bulletin said.The state saw 67 fresh casualties, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 2222, it said. Among the new cases, Patna's share was maximum 2720, while Saran had 568 infections, West Champaran (460), Saharsa (433), and Purnea (384). Sheikhpura Superintendent of Police Kartikeya K Sharma tested positive and has self-isolated himself.Concerned over coronavirus surge and experts prediction that cases may further rise in the coming days, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar held a high-level review meeting on the Covid-19 situation during the day and issued an order to further ramp up the testing of samples and ensure timely delivery of reports so that treatment of the infected can start at the earliest. Kumar also instructed officials to take all steps to meet the requirement of medical oxygen for critically ill patients in the government as well as private Covid-19 designated hospitals.Out of total 4,15,397 positive cases since outbreak of the pandemic last year, Patna has the maximum caseload of 92,939. Among fresh fatalities, Patna saw death of 16 patients followed by 7 each in Darbhanga, Gaya and Muzaffarpur, Bhagalpur (5) besides Nalanda and West Champaran (4 each).A total of 9,228 patients recovered from the infection since Sunday while 3,23,514 have been cured so far. Bihar has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 77.88%. A total of 80,461 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, while over 2.60 crore clinical examinations for the virus have been conducted in the state so far. On the vaccination front, 1,00,850 were administered jabs Monday while 67,46,734 have been inoculated so far in the state.The Covid-19 scenario in the wake of the second wave is painful in Bihar. In Patna, search for a bed in government as well as the Covid-designated private hospital is a big problem. Inordinate delay in delivery of RT-PCR some times by a week is also adding to the citizens woes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-cases-keep-rising-in-bihar-with-2-720-new-infections-patna-worsthit-101619502714972.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra phone-tapping row: IPS officer Rashmi Shukla summoned by cyber cops||Mumbai cyber police have summoned Rashmi Shukla, a senior Indian Police Service officer of Maharashtra cadre, in connection with the illegal phone tapping and confidential report leak matter.Shukla, who is presently on a central deputation and posted in Hyderabad, has been asked to appear before assistant commissioner of police (Cyber) Nitin Jadhav at 11am on Wednesday, April 28, to record her statement.On March 26, the cyber police station had registered a case on the complaint of the State Intelligence Department (SID) against unknown persons for leaking a report submitted by Shukla in August 2020, then commissioner of intelligence, over purported payments for transfers within the police department.The complaint stated that some unknown person had obtained the classified report and information from the department, following which the police registered a First Information Report under Section 30 (fraudulently retaining a message delivered by mistake) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Sections 44(b) (failure to furnish information in time) and 66 (computer related offence) of the Information Technology Act, 2008 and Section 5 (wrongful communication of information) of the Official Secrets Act, 1923.Home department officials said that the copy that was reportedly leaked was the SID’s office copy and did not bear Shukla’s signature on it.Earlier, state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte had submitted a report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, detailing the circumstances in which Shukla created the report. His report said that Shukla intercepted calls of six persons in the name of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”. It said that no transfers of police officials took place between June 27 and September 1, 2020, the period in which the calls were intercepted.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has claimed that Shukla “sought proper permissions from then additional chief secretary (home) and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politicians.”Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayHe also said that he had a pen drive with 6.3GB of data from the intercepted calls, which contained the voices of police officers and politicians closely related to the home minister and home department.Kunte’s report, however, pointed out that no pen drive was attached to Shukla’s report. It further raised doubts on whether the IPS officer had leaked the report and if that was so, she would be liable for “strict action”.“The leak of the report had led to breach of privacy of the officers whose names have been mentioned in the report. It has also led to their defamation. The so-called deals for the transfers mentioned in the report and actual transfers done by the government differ. This proves that there was no question of any scam in the transfers,” Kunte’s report stated.Meanwhile, Shukla’s report named senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. While the report did not state that any direct transfer of money to these politicians took place, it did refer to “monetary exchange” between police officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.Shukla did not respond to HT’s phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-phone-tapping-row-ips-officer-rashmi-shukla-summoned-by-cyber-cops-101619500583373.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi temperature soars above 40°C; may dip from May 1||The maximum temperature in the National Capital is likely to remain above 40 degrees Celsius (°C) on Tuesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.On Monday, the maximum temperature was 40.2°C, two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was 16.7°C, 7°C below normal.IMD said the temperatures are likely to remain around 40°C for the next 2-3 days. From May 1, the mercury will drop slightly and remain around 38-39°C.Also Read | Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayan region from today: IMD“On Tuesday, there is a possibility that the maximum temperature will touch around 41°C,” said an official.Meanwhile, the air quality on Tuesday remained in the poor zone, with the average air quality index (AQI) at 7am being 273.The Central Pollution Control Board data showed that on Monday the overall AQI of Delhi was 256, also in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-temperature-soars-above-40-c-may-dip-from-may-1-101619493682878.html
27-04-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 unsung heroes: Ambulance staff keep the fight going despite threats||The second Covid-19 wave sweeping the country is testing the resilience of essential services providers like never before with the number of infections rising at an alarming rate and several patients requiring urgent hospitalisation. The enormous risks taken by drivers and technicians deployed on ambulances with advanced life support systems are often overlooked as the spotlight is often on doctors and nurses. They are among several unsung heroes making an enormous personal sacrifice to ensure India doesn’t give up in the fight against the pandemic.Meet Santosh Pandey, he drives an advanced life support system ambulance in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district. Pandey says he has not met his wife and three children for the last one-and-a-half months since the resurgence of infections in the second Covid wave.“I don’t know whether I will be able to see my kids and parents again because if I get infected, no one will take my admission [in a hospital]. Even VVIP patients from Bahraich have to wait for admission for hours in the hospitals of Lucknow. I don’t know why patients are kept waiting inside the ambulance for hours,” says Pandey.His wife Archana Pandey (39) said Santosh was a hero for the entire family. “I have seen my husband only on WhatsApp video calls for the last one and a half months and my kids miss him. Santosh may be an ambulance driver for everyone but for my daughter Astha (12), he is a hero who is not even afraid of corona and helping others at a time when people are hiding themselves.”His 14-years old son Anshuman said he misses Santosh, especially during the dinner time. “He used to bring something special for us everyday. I feel like crying whenever I see him on video call.” Santosh’s 12-year-old daughter Astha “wants to become like papa”.Santosh claims to have transported more than 3,000 Covid patients from Bahraich to various hospitals in Barabanki and Lucknow, approximately over three and four hours drive, respectively.“Sometimes, my technician Krishna Kumar and I face hostile behaviour from the attendants of patients and the hospital authorities. A number of times, we have been kept waiting for hours outside hospitals. During this time, attendants lose their temper. But since we know they are under stress, we overlook their misbehaviour,” Pandey adds.Anand Rathore, a technician with a life support ambulance in Lucknow, says, “I have transported over 4,500 Covid-19 patients during the last one-and-a half months. We strive to keep patients motivated so that they can recover.”Anand says at least 12 of his fellow ambulance technicians have died due to Covid in the last one year and over 150 have been infected while transporting patients.“My family comprises my parents, brother and sister-in-law. But I stay back in my office with other colleagues. My brother occasionally visits me, but we meet from a distance as I touch Covid-19 patients daily. So, I don’t want to put my family at risk of Covid-19,” Anand adds, giving a glimpse of the challenges and stress in the daily lives of frontline workers.He is however, very realistic about it. “These are the professional hazards we have to face. We want the attendants to understand that if their patient is at risk, then we are also at risk. Misbehaving with us due to poor management by hospitals is not justified. We face abusive language and even physical threat a number of times for no fault of ours,” Rathore says.Indrajeet Singh, in charge Covid Command Centre ( Ambulances) Lucknow, said sacrifices made by men like Santosh and Anand often go unnoticed. “At a time when the son is not touching his father [due to fear of infection] our drivers and technicians first carry an infected patient in their lap or on a stretcher before they are put into an ambulance. They come into direct contact with Covid patients daily and are unsung heroes of our society; their sacrifices are not praised by anyone. They keep on working wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kit for hours, despite that they are mistreated both by family members of patients and doctors or staff of hospitals,” Singh said summing up the situation.“Recently one of our ambulances was stopped by some people in old city, where some young men forced our staff to carry a different patient instead of the person who called for them. As a result, the patient who didn’t get the service died. The staff was manhandled, leaving a scar in their minds,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-unsung-heroes-ambulance-staff-keep-the-fight-going-despite-threats-101619492122702.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen, ambulance, medicines: Delhiites rally for Covid emergencies||As the Capital grapples with the new wave of Covid, various groups in the city are endeavouring to help Covid patients and their families with medical needs such as prescribed and over the counter medicines, oxygen and more while tackling a sea of SOS calls and messages! Free ambulance service for Covid patients“I once went to a cremation ground last year and was sad to see that there was no one to perform the last rites of those who died due to Covid. I then decided to start this service,” says Delhi-based businessman Charanjeev Malhotra, who started an NGO Sant Shiv Seva, and has been running a free ambulance service in the Capital, which has ferried hundreds of people. “We take Covid-19 patients to hospitals and have also informed cremation ground authorities that if no one claims the bodies then we will perform the last rites. We are not charging anything for our services. I’ve performed the last rites of more than 550 Covid positive individuals till now,” says Malhotra, who had also travelled to Haridwar for asthi visarjan of 317 people this March. Oxygen cylinders for free to those in needPeople in Delhi have been resorting to social media and making desperate calls around the city to find oxygen for Covid-19 patients. It was the struggle of ordinary citizens last year that inspired Mohammed Nauman, a businessman, to start providing oxygen cylinders for free to those in need. Nauman, a member of Delhi-based Asma Esa Foundation, says, “During the second wave, we have ramped up our services across Delhi-NCR, and have over a 100 oxygen cylinders in circulation. In the last month, on an average, we have been getting about 50 calls every hour, and it’s heartbreaking when we are unable to respond to everyone.” The foundation has a core team of eight members and around 60 volunteers around the city. “We have been speaking to various oxygen cylinder vendors to try and source oxygen and deliver it to the patients’ homes. This is a tough time and we are just trying to do our bit for the society,” adds Nauman.Youngsters to rescueAnkush Periwal barely gets any sleep these days because his phone keeps ringing with SOS calls from families of Covid patients, seeking information or help. Part of a team of youngsters who started #TaskForceCorona, he and his team have been providing medicines to those in need. “We provide assistance on the ground with food and medicines. We have a team of 60 dedicated volunteers who search for authentic information on hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen vendors and plasma donors for coronavirus patients,” he says, adding, “We are trying to provide relief to people so that they don’t have to call multiple people during their time of need. We have divided ourselves into various groups, each of which performs one task including arranging plasma, food, hospital beds, RT-PCR tests and ambulance services.”The group recently distributed essential medicines and face masks in the Capital with the help of Assistant Commissioner of Police (UT) Lakshya Pandey. “We are ordinary citizens trying to do our bare minimum. Only when we help each other, will we be able to fight this pandemic,” says Periwal.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-ambulance-medicines-delhiites-rally-for-covid-emergencies-101619491531753.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Free vaccines in Delhi for all adults, says govt||Delhi on Monday announced that it will vaccinate its entire adult population for free once the immunisation drive is widened from May 1, pledging to speed up the process of administering jabs as the Capital’s health care infrastructure remains overrun by a caseload that has been mounting amid an unprecedented fourth wave of infections.In a digital news briefing, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a purchase of 13.4 million doses has been approved and that his government will make efforts to speed up the process. “We are working on a plan to start large-scale vaccination as soon as possible,” he said. He also urged vaccine manufacturers in the country to reduce their prices and asked the Centre to consider a “one nation, one rate” policy for Covid-19 vaccines.“As we are seeing, Covid-19 has wreaked havoc in the country. There is only one solution to this pandemic and that is vaccination. Delhi government has decided to give free Covid-19 vaccines to those who are 18 and above,” Kejriwal said. The free vaccines will be meant only for the residents of Delhi, even as the detailed plan of the drive was yet to be finalised by the government, according to people aware of the matter.About 20other states have already announced free vaccines for their adult population.The central government has announced that it will expand the Covid-19 vaccination drive to everyone over the age of 18 from May 1, a move many said was prompted by the worsening second wave of infections in the country. Registrations for vaccination in the next phase will open on the CoWIN app from Wednesday. While opening up the drive, the government allowed state governments to directly purchase shots, and let manufacturers earmark 50% jabs for states and private hospitals. It said it will continue to provide vaccines for the immunisation of people over the age of 45 for free.Data shows that countries such as the US and the UK, which were overwhelmed by Covid-19 cases at the beginning of 2021, are now defying alarming trends as vaccination efforts are ramped up. Israel, which has administered the most vaccine doses per 100 people, recently recorded no new daily Covid-19 deaths for the first time in 10 months.On Monday, Delhi reported 20,201 new infections, the lowest in 10 days, but only because daily testing dropped to a 27-day low of 57,690. The city’s positivity rate remained high with over 35% of samples returning positive for Covid-19. Only one state, Rajasthan (37%), had a higher positivity rate on Monday.Delhi on Sunday extended by a week its lockdown, a “last resort” measure put in place to arrest the alarming spread of Covid-19 in the Capital, as the health care infrastructure remained overwhelmed by a massive surge in infections, with complaints of shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds pouring in from across the city.The chief minister’s office said the free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.“Today (Monday) morning, we have given approval to buy 13.4 million vaccines for Delhi. We are trying to procure these doses as soon as possible so people are vaccinated quickly. It has been found that those who have taken the jabs either do not get Covid-19 or have very mild symptoms upon contracting the infection. Mostly, those who get Covid-19 even after vaccination do not require hospitalisation, and even if some of them do get admitted, their condition does not become serious. If everyone gets vaccinated, Corona will be like an ordinary disease,” Kejriwal said. He gave the example of how the UK controlled its surge in Covid-19 cases by conducting mass vaccinations.The Delhi chief minister again flagged his demand for uniform rates for the central and state governments in vaccine procurement. “One of the vaccine manufacturers is offering a rate of ₹400 a dose to state governments, while the other is quoting ₹600. But both the companies are offering their vaccines at ₹150 to the central government. My demand is that the rates should be the same for state and central governments,” he said.He said the manufacturers are earning a lot of profit by selling their vaccines at ₹400 and ₹600 to the states. “This is the time to show humanity. This is not the time to earn profits. Across the country, the Centre and states have capped the prices of various medicines and treatments. I appeal to the vaccine manufacturers to reduce their prices to ₹150. You (manufacturers) have a lifetime to earn profits. This is not the time to earn profits from people when the pandemic has hit the country so hard. I also appeal to the central government to cap the prices of vaccines in the coming days,” he said.He also urged the Centre to consider a vaccination plan for children.“We have seen that a lot of children and adolescents are also getting infected by Covid-19, and some of them have died. So, the time has come to think of them as well. If the available vaccines are safe for them, the Centre should allow it for them. If they are not safe, then other vaccines should also be developed,” Kejriwal said.Reports suggest that while the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine may be approved for children aged between 12 and 15 by next month, younger children appear to remain months away from being eligible for any of the shots against Covid-19.The chief minister also said beds were being increased further in Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients. “I inspected the Covid care centre at Radha Saomi Satsang Baes campus in Chhattarpur which has been opened for patients today from 10 am. Today, it has started with 150 beds, which will be increased to 500 in about two days, then 2,000 and finally it will be ramped up to 5,000 beds. There itself, we are also arranging 200 ICU beds as well. We are increasing Covid-19 beds across Delhi in this way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-vaccines-in-delhi-for-all-adults-says-govt-101619488330737.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Police step in to hold funerals of people who lived alone||When an army Lieutenant Colonel, posted in Leh, called up Delhi Police seeking help with the cremation of his father-in-law, who lived in Dwarka and died on Saturday due to Covid-related complications, a team of policemen came forward to perform the last rites of the elderly man. The police team, in PPE kits, collected the body and took it to the cremation ground, where last rites were performed as per Hindu rituals.Police have made the arrangements of several others who lived alone, or whose families stayed away for fear of the virus. In some cases, families that have contracted Covid-19 are unable to make funeral arrangements for the deceased in their homes; leaving the police to shoulder the responsibility of arranging funerals.In two cases reported on Saturday, police cremated a woman on her brother’s request in Dwarka; and in Karol Bagh, made arrangements for the cremation of an elderly couple who had died of Covid-19.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said they had received a call on Saturday, at around 3pm, from Lieutenant Colonel Soumen Mondal that his father-in-law, who lived in Dwarka, died of Covid-19.“Mondal expressed his inability to come to Delhi at such short notice. On his request, the personnel from the Dwarka North police station made arrangements for the cremation of Mondal’s father-in-law Biswanath Pramanik,” Meena said.The DCP said the same evening, a team from Dwarka South police station cremated a woman on her brother’s request. “We received another call that day about a woman, Jai Matnani, dying of Covid. The caller was her brother. He said there was nobody to take the responsibility of her cremation. On humanitarian grounds, we took over that responsibility and her body was immediately shifted to a cremation ground in Dwarka’s Sector 24, where she was cremated as per the Hindu rituals,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-step-in-to-hold-funerals-of-people-who-lived-alone-101619485567310.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi all out of ICU beds, just 11 left for pregnant women||With Delhi continuing to report over 20,000 fresh cases of coronavirus disease every day since the past 10 days (from April 17), the city has run out of dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients.The Capital has a total of 20,461 beds earmarked for treating Covid-19 patients, and of these, 4,705 are ICU beds.The government’s Delhi Corona app showed on Monday night that 12 ICU beds were still available in the city. However, 11 of them are in Madhukar Rainbow hospital in Malviya Nagar that caters to only pregnant women with Covid-19.The one other ICU bed was at the Trauma Centre at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which was converted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital last year. According to the doctors at the hospital, however, the bed was unavailable since several patients were in the queue for admission. A resident doctor from the hospital said on condition of anonymity: “Many Covid-19 patients on ventilator support are already waiting in the emergency to get admitted.”The phone number provided on the Delhi government app remained busy, and could not be reached, despite several attempts by HT.The two cellphone numbers provided by Madhukar Rainbow hospital were switched off on Monday night. However, according to calls made previously made by HT, the hospital only admits women in advanced pregnancy who have been diagnosed with Covid-19.The number to the two hospitals that showed the availability of ICU beds in the entire city remained unreachable despite chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asking hospitals earlier this month to ensure that no call went unanswered.“The situation is terrible. We receive so many patients who are brought dead to the emergency department of the hospital. This is because they go from hospital to hospital in search of beds. Every hospital is full,” said a doctor at a private hospital in the city, asking not to be named.The situation has worsened as two of the three big Delhi government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients reduced the number of beds in view of the persisting oxygen shortage.Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, which is the biggest hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, reduced the number of Covid-19 beds from over 900 to 700 on Saturday. According to senior officials, the hospital’s oxygen plant was running beyond capacity due to the high load of Covid-19 patients.“When a hospital is planned, it is thought that 20% to 30% beds will need oxygen supply. But, since we take in only the very sick Covid-19 patients, 100% of our beds require oxygen now. And, 50% to 60% of the beds need high-flow oxygen. This is putting too much pressure on our plant. So, we decided to reduce beds,” the official said.Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur on Friday reduced the number of beds from 500 to 350. The hospital was allocated a quota of 6,000 cubic metres of oxygen. With almost all its beds occupied by critical patients in need of ICU or oxygen therapy, the hospital was using up between 8,000 and 9,000 cubic metres, hospital officials said.While Delhi government spokespeople were not available for comment on the ICU bed situation, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, last week acknowledged that the city was running out of ICU beds.“Yes, there is a shortage of ICU beds. We have requested the Centre to increase the number of beds in their hospitals to 7,000. Currently, there are 2,000 beds in Central government hospitals. The Centre will increase 700 to 800 ICU beds soon,” Jain said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-all-out-of-icu-beds-just-11-left-for-pregnant-women-101619485137439.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Chhatarpur Covid-19 facility reopens to desperate appeals||Several Covid-19 patients and their relatives were seen outside the Covid care facility in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur — which was reopened on Monday with 150 oxygen beds — seeking on-site admissions and complaining that government helplines were not responding to their distress calls.The ongoing Covid-19 surge in the city has left hospitals overburdened, and people have been frantically searching for beds with oxygen support. The Chhatarpur centre, which, according to a government order, will admit Covid-19 patients on being referred by a district surveillance officer (DSO), witnessed some heated arguments on Monday when police deployed there denied access to the patients seeking on-site admissions.The facility was launched on Monday morning. In a video press briefing, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “I reviewed arrangements in the Radha Soami Satsang Beas Covid facility today. The centre is functional since 10 am. Now it has 150 oxygen beds. In the next two days, it will be increased to 500 oxygen beds. In another four days after that, it will have 2,000 beds and, eventually, 5,000 beds. The centre will soon have 200 ICU beds as well.”The oxygen beds, doctors, medical staff and paramedics are arranged by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), and the Delhi government is entrusted with bearing the cost of boarding and lodging of health care staff, and managing admissions.Within hours of the centre reopening , more than 70 people gathered outside it and stood near the police barricades through which only ambulances were allowed in. Some people had come with their test reports and other medical documents.A senior revenue department official said that for admission to the centre, people who test positive for Covid-19 can call on helpline numbers, and each request will be forwarded to the DSOs for reference.Some patients and their relatives who were denied entry were seen having heated arguments with police.“The oxygen level has dropped to 87. The patient needs a bed. We are here since morning and dialling helplines for more than two hours now. The attempts have been futile. We need help,” said Anoop Kumar Yadav, who along with is brother-in-law Pradeep Yadav, a Covid-19 patient, was present outside the centre.Dipankar Tarafdar, a Covid-19 patient who was at the centre with his 84-year-old father, also a Covid-19 patient with severe symptoms, said: “We waited there for two hours and then realised there was no point. My father’s oxygen level dropped to 60. We had to start looking out for an ICU bed now. We kept calling all the helpline numbers, pleading before the staff at the centre, nothing worked.”A senior Delhi Police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said: “Initially there was some confusion and chaos as patients needed approval from the concerned agency for getting access to the facility. The issue was later resolved. There is adequate police deployment at the centre and things are under control.”Spokespersons of the Delhi government and the Union home ministry did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chhatarpur-covid-19-facility-reopens-to-desperate-appeals-101619484205115.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Some hospitals say O2 supply improved, others say not quite||After five days of constant alarm and severe oxygen shortages, some hospitals across the city treating Covid-19 patients said channels for the distribution of medical oxygen seemed to have been streamlined, with medical facilities on Monday reporting that supplies reached them on time.“The regularity of supply has improved over the last two days. Earlier we were raising at least two distress calls a day. Now, we had to make only one in the last 48 hours,” said a doctor from Indraprastha Apollo hospital.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which raised four SOS calls for oxygen on Saturday, said the situation improved on Monday.Hospital chairman Dr DS Rana said, “It appears the supply chains have been streamlined. It was better today and we hope that from tomorrow [Tuesday], systems will improve further.”However, some hospitals said the situation continued to be bad, even though the calls for help were not made publicly.Jaipur Golden hospital, where 20 people died due to oxygen shortage on Friday, tweeted again at noon on Monday: “We are trying to get in touch with INOX since morning to ensure our daily oxygen supply reaches on time. Have not got any response or dispatch note yet. Alerting everyone now in the hope of preventing another sos situation today.”“The hospitals are still in distress. I have seen calls for help from many hospitals on group messages. Yesterday night, a small nursing home nearby rushed to borrow cylinders from us because their supply did not arrive on time. Another bigger hospital had to trade oxygen with us. We gave them some oxygen, and they later gave us some of theirs when their tanker came,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj hospital and secretary of the Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s Forum – a group of major private hospitals in the Capital.He, however, added, “The situation is likely to improve from tomorrow [Tuesday]; the Delhi government now has control over the oxygen supply after the court hearings and the deputy chief minister himself is handling the supply of the allocated quota to the hospitals.”Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Monday evening held a meeting with senior government officials, representatives of private hospitals and oxygen suppliers.The 490MT quota of oxygen allocated to the Capital by the Centre has been divided proportionately among all 150 hospitals in the city treating Covid-19 patients. At their current capacity, the Covid-19 hospitals alone need at least 454MT of oxygen, according to a Delhi government order issued on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/some-hospitals-say-o2-supply-improved-others-say-not-quite-101619483727940.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Covid positivity rate rockets past 35% as tests fall to 28-day low in Delhi||With 20,201 fresh cases of Covid-19, Delhi saw a slight dip in the incidence of the viral infection on Monday. This, however, was largely owing to fewer tests being conducted on Sunday, as reported a day later in Monday’s health bulletin, as labs and health facilities continued to contend with the sheer volume of cases in the city.There were 57,690 tests conducted on Monday as compared to an average of 79,123 tests conducted daily for the last seven days. Monday’s testing numbers were the lowest in the national capital since March 30, when the city tested 36,757 samples.With fewer tests, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – also increased to 35.02% on Monday, meaning more than one in three persons who got tested were positive for the infection.The city also reported its highest toll ever on Monday, with 380 deaths.Delhi has reported over 300 Covid-19 fatalities a day for five days in a row. With a high number of cases, however, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – remains low at 1.4%.“All the statistical models indicate that with the current trajectory, the number of cases will likely peak in mid-May. And, the deaths two weeks after that. The descending limb will be long and it will be some time before we reach the January-February levels,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.He said, “Last year, the curve of the infection was bell-shaped. This year, however, it is almost vertical. And, when there is a steep rise in cases the decline is slower.” With entire families testing positive for the infection in one go, he suggested that cluster sampling be carried out to see whether it is one strain in circulation.The proportion of the U.K. variant (B.1.1.7) in genome samples sequenced from Covid-19 cases in Delhi has risen from 28% in the second week of March to the 50% in the last week, Dr. Sujeet Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said in a webinar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-positivity-rate-rockets-past-35-as-tests-fall-to-28-day-low-in-delhi-101619483421119.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||‘Centre, state responsible for O2 supply’: Delhi High Court||Taking note of black-marketing of medical oxygen in view of the surge in demand in the city, the Delhi high court on Monday summoned firms engaged in refilling of oxygen cylinders in the Capital and warned of strict action against those selling it at inflated prices.The court directed the Delhi government to hold a meeting with suppliers and hospitals to chalk out a distribution plan and observed that ensuring regular supply of oxygen to Delhi hospitals was the responsibility of both the Delhi government and the Centre.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also warned states that were allegedly obstructing the supplies to other states.Terming black-marketing of medical oxygen a “major issue in Delhi”, the bench said it will take strict action against the black marketers. The court also mentioned an incident in which a senior advocate informed them that people were demanding ₹1 lakh per cylinder.The court directed the Delhi government to take immediate action. “Oxygen cylinder distribution is your (Delhi government) baby. You have powers, exercise them. If someone is engaging in black marketing, take action. They need to be taken to task. Bring them before us and we will take action,” the court said.“We direct all the refillers of oxygen cylinders in Delhi to be present in the hearing on Tuesday following complaints of non-availability of gas cylinders and black marketing,” it added.The court directed that those engaged in refilling oxygen cylinders must provide details to the government of deliveries made to hospitals and others, failing which strict action will be taken.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said before taking any action it will need the information from the refillers with regard to the deliveries made by them, but if it sends a show-cause notice seeking such details, it is viewed as harsh.The court then asked Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, who was present at the hearing, hold a meeting with suppliers and various hospitals in the city to work out a distribution plan.The court’s direction came after Siddharth Jain, director of INOX, which is a major supplier of medical oxygen to Delhi, informed the court about the difficulties faced by suppliers. He said his factories were working round the clock even when a lot of staff members were down with Covid-19.During the proceedings, the court said it was the responsibility of both the Centre and Delhi governments to ensure that the oxygen is supplied to hospitals in Delhi. “Twenty-one people have died. Human lives have been lost…..You have to work out your allocation. You cannot ask one producer to become a transporter,” the judge said.To this, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said, “It’s not because of me (the Centre) for God’s sake. Please have your (Delhi government) system in place. Please have competent officers.”But the court said it was the responsibility of both the governments.“Same can be said about you (Centre). Same can be said about your (Centre) allocations,” the high court bench said. The court said more than the lack of supply, it was the distribution issues that were causing fatalities.“It’s the job of both the governments. You are giving those places which do not have the tankers. The place which has a tanker, you are diverting it elsewhere. .. What prima facie appears to us is that you are making these allegations… Once you make allocations they should be workable...” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-state-responsible-for-o2-supply-delhi-high-court-101619482951824.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt may not wait for fresh stock of shots to open up vaccine drive||The Delhi government may not wait for stocks to arrive from vaccine manufacturers to kick-start the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive from May 1 in the Capital, and will start inoculating those aged 18 and above with the existing stock, senior officials said on Monday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that the Delhi government will inoculate all adult residents of the Capital against Covid-19 for free, even as he said that the government on Monday also approved the procurement of 13.4 million vaccine doses from manufacturers.He did not specify which manufacturers will supply these doses to the Capital.Two Covid-19 vaccines are currently in use across the country — Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, while a third — Russia’s Sputnik V jab — has been authorised for use. While SII has said it will sell its jab to state governments at ₹400 a dose, while Bharat Biotech announced it will supply the shot to states for ₹600 a dose.A senior state health official said formal orders are being placed with the manufacturers and that the vaccines may take at least two weeks to arrive.“At present, we have enough stocks for at least 10 days. Vaccinations have also taken a hit over the past two weeks because of the spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and the lockdown. Around 50,000 people are now getting vaccinated every day as against 100,000 vaccinations on April 11,” said the official.After Kejriwal’s announcement, HT was able to contact eight of the 11 district administrations, who said that there were no specific instructions till Monday evening from the health department on the plan for the expanded vaccination drive.“We have been told that the state health department is going to issue a standard operating procedure for all districts to follow in a day or two. Accordingly, our teams will be activated. There are a few days to go [for the programme to open up] and we are confident of ramping up centres and adding staff. Today, immunisation officers trained some of our additional staff,” said a health official in Central district.Another official in Southwest district said centres will also be opened at government and private offices. It is not clear if they will be allowed at schools and community centres.“On Sunday, the Union health ministry issued fresh guidelines allowing diversification of Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) if they have certain prerequisites mentioned in the guidelines. Increasing the number of centres will not be a problem. We have already identified places and we will have enough medical teams as well,” said the official.At present, Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres spread across 192 hospitals and dispensaries.According to the health ministry’s latest guidelines, even if new centres are opened, it will continue to be mandatory for all government and private vaccination centres to register on the CoWIN portal, regardless of the source of the vaccine doses.“It shall also be mandatory for all CVCs to record all vaccination, issue digital vaccination certificates and report all AEFIs on the CoWIN system,” it said.The eligibility conditions for any health facility for registration as a vaccination centre is unchanged. This means the facility must have sufficient cold chain capacity, enough room for waiting areas and post-vaccination observation rooms, vaccinators, and the ability to manage adverse effects.A government spokesperson said that not all the fresh vaccine doses that arrive will be used to inoculate first-time beneficiaries.“It’s going to be almost a month since vaccination was opened for those aged 45 and above. Before that, senior citizens were vaccinated. So, naturally we are vaccinating even those who are coming for their second dose. Across Delhi, there’s no segregation of vials on the basis of first and second dose. If a person has taken a first dose and the next registered person who walks up to the centre has their second dose scheduled, they will be given the shot from the same vial. So, there is going to be no shortage of vaccines in Delhi, since proper records are maintained, which will help us raise fresh orders from time to time,” said the spokesperson.Till Monday, Delhi has administered 2,992,824 doses of the vaccines, of which 2,414,924 have got the first dose and 577,900 have got both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-may-not-wait-for-fresh-stock-of-shots-to-open-up-vaccine-drive-101619480798025.html
27-04-2021||Lucknow||2 held for circulating objectionable photos of PM Modi in Prayagraj||On the instructions of senior officials, the cyber cell police have tightened monitoring of social media to curb rumours and posts on the platforms that may cause tension and disturbance.On Sunday night, the Colonelganj police arrested two youths for posting a doctored photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with objectionable comments on WhatsApp groups.SHO Colonelganj Inspector Vinit Singh said police received information that Sachin Gupta and Anshu Gupta of Katra have forwarded objectionable photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP’s logo along with some derogatory comments. Katra police outpost in charge Dhirendra Singh lodged an FIR against the duo under IT Act 65, 66, IPC section 505-1 and other relevant sections of the IPC at Colonelganj police station.The police have arrested Anshu and Sachin in a raid carried out on Sunday night. They informed police that they edited the photograph of the Prime Minister and forwarded it to many WhatApp groups just for fun. However, their act caused tension among locals, SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-held-for-circulating-objectionable-photos-of-pm-modi-in-prayagraj-101619474726404.html
27-04-2021||Bangalore||Blood banks across Bengaluru struggle to find donors for plasma||Swamy Vivekananda voluntary blood bank near the corporation circle in Bengaluru was crowded on Friday, with desperate family members of Covid-19 patients pleading with strangers to donate plasma after the donors they brought with them could not clear the requisite tests. Two days later, on Monday, the blood bank wore a deserted look after it stopped taking more plasma request.“We have run out of the apheresis kits. Until we get a fresh lot, we won’t be able to restart. We have spoken to companies, but they don’t have any stocks. We can’t say for sure when the supplies will reach us,” said a staff member of the blood bank.Plasma therapy, broadly known as ‘convalescent plasma therapy’, is a procedure to treat Covid-19 patients with the plasma of a person who has recovered from the infection.Several blood banks across the city said they were getting at least 10-15 calls per day for plasma. However, they were facing difficulties in finding donors, which has escalated problems for both blood banks and relatives of Covid patients.At Jeevaraksha blood bank, four plasma apheresis procedures were done on Monday. “There is a high demand for A+ group and most of the people are struggling to find donors. In our system, if anyone takes plasma, they also have to make plasma donation. We see people making frantic calls to get donors every day,” said Abdul Rahaman Shariff, a staff of the blood bank.Shariff said in seven cases, they were able to provide plasma without a donor because some volunteers had made plasma donation at the blood bank, which has now run out of stock.Stating that the blood bank performed at least 26 plasma apheresis last month, Shariff pointed out that the demand for plasma has gone up in the recent times as compared to the first wave of the pandemic. “We have enough kits to last for at least a month. But we also hear that there isn’t enough stock of the kits in the market, as such high demand was not expected,” Shariff said.At Sankalp India Foundation, a Bengaluru-based non-government organisation working for blood donation, volunteers said they were not able to find many donors, adding that they would call any number from which they receive a missed call, in hope that it was a donor. “We are not getting donors and there is a huge demand,” said Akansha, a volunteer at the foundation.At Bengaluru’s Victoria Hospital, its blood bank could only provide plasma to three patients this month since there were no donors, a staff member from the hospital said.With the Karnataka government imposing a 14-day lockdown, hopes of getting more people to donate plasma were also fading away. “There have been advertisements from the government and other campaigns asking those who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward to donate plasma, but the response has been poor. With the lockdown in place, no one will come out now. The government should allow people to donate and make arrangements for the same during the lockdown,” said a staff member at the Victoria Hospital blood bank.Even though a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across 39 hospitals in September last year had found that Convalescent plasma therapy failed to benefit Covid-19 patients, many doctors in the city swear by the treatment protocol.Recently, cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar, who recovered from Covid-19 after being hospitalised last month, has offered to donate plasma and urged others who have recovered from the infection to follow suit.The latest guidelines, released by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi, ICMR-Covid-19 national task force, and the joint monitoring group under the Union health ministry, said that plasma can be administered in early moderate disease within seven days of the onset of Covid-19 symptoms.As the city finds it difficult to manage the demand for plasma, healthcare professionals are requesting people to come forward to donate. “There is no need to be concerned about safety. We understand the value of every donor and ensure that the procedure is done keeping safety as a priority. But we want more people to come forward and donate,” said Shariff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/blood-banks-across-bengaluru-struggle-to-find-donors-for-plasma-101619474712250.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls free vaccine shots only for poor||With four days to go for the vaccination of all adults to kick off, Maharashtra is unlikely to roll the drive out for those in the 18-44 age category in a big way from May 1, owing to challenges related to supply and lack of clarity on whether it would provide free vaccines to all. A day after Maharashtra ministers announced that the government will provide free vaccines to beneficiaries over age 18, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that it may not be possible, adding that the department will move a proposal to provide free vaccine jabs to the poor only.Maharashtra has around 53-55 million people in the 18-44 category and the cost to inoculate them is expected to be around ₹7,000 crore, according to Tope. With vaccines available in short supply, Maharashtra could kick off the drive in a staggered manner, senior government officials said. A panel of senior officials, headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, is working on negotiations with manufacturers, ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply and also deciding the beneficiaries for free vaccines.Meanwhile, Tope said his department is moving a proposal for the state cabinet meeting, that is expected to be held on Tuesday or Wednesday, seeking free vaccines for the poor in the 18-44 category.Tope admitted that there are two views within ministers seeking free vaccination for all. “We have proposed that the economically backward class or the weaker sections of the society should be given free vaccinations at government hospitals. There are two views on this; some are of the opinion that 100% [of vaccines] should be given free of cost, but I do not think it is possible. The vaccination programme for 18-44 ages will require about ₹7,000 crore to ₹7,500 crore. It is not a small amount,” Tope said.Senior ministers are also saying that there is no agitation from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over providing free vaccine shots for all. However, a final decision will be made by Wednesday and announcement is likely before the drive kicks off. On Sunday, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik announced that state will provide free vaccines. Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad also tweeted the same. Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, announced free vaccines, but later deleted the tweet. Since then, the party has tread cautiously on the topic. Sena leader and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut refused to comment on free vaccines, stating that it is the government’s decision.A senior bureaucrat said that the committee under Kunte is also looking at how to manage the funds by diverting it through other schemes. He also added that the start to the vaccination for all adults later this week is expected to remain “symbolic”. “We are still to negotiate with any of the foreign manufacturers only then we will know the cost of the inoculation. The chief minister and finance minister have both said that cost is not a hindrance as vaccination is a priority. Besides the cost, they should be able to provide adequate stock without any delay… The vaccination of 18-44 will start from May 1, but it will remain symbolic due to short supply,” the bureaucrat said requesting anonymity. They state is also preparing to handle the crowds at the centres, for it to not result in chaos or a super-spreader event, considering cases are still high across the state.Speaking about the state’s preparations for May 1, Tope said no manufacturer has committed to delivering stock so far. He said the state will procure stock of Indian companies as well as negotiate cost with foreign brands to bring it around the rates of Indian vaccines, he said. “There could be a law-and-order issue and huge queues at every centre. People want to get vaccinated now looking at the deaths, but the availability of vaccine is a real challenge. None of them [manufacturers] have vaccines now. They are offering stock after a month; that too 10 million every month, but it is very slow,” Tope said.He further added, “We will procure the vaccines available in India, similarly, we will negotiate with the foreign manufacturers, will try and bring it down Indian vaccine prices. We will need foreign vaccines as well to inoculate people faster.”The health department is also planning to procure vaccines to inoculated people the remaining citizens over age 45. Tope said the Centre is not “supporting” the pace of the inoculation state intends to. As of April 25, the state has administered first dose to over 10 million people under the category, while 923,971 people from the category have taken their second jab.Tope said, “A high number of people still remain to be vaccinated in above 45-category. The Government of India is not really supporting to the extent it should have. Our demand [for vaccine] is 800,000 daily, but they are providing 100,000 or 200,000. Many centres are kept closed or we have to function on alternative days. These are vulnerable groups; we have to ensure that they get vaccinated first and faster.“Though, this is a national programme and that Mr [prime minister Narendra] Modi has assured adequate supply for this category, but the rate is very slow. We are proposing to spend to procure vaccines for this category as well. It will expedite the programme so that they are safe. The Cabinet will consider this proposal.”Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already announced free vaccination for all, but there is one-upmanship going on among MVA ministers. “PM has made it clear that Centre will vaccinate all eligible people free of cost. However, the states that want to carry out vaccination in an accelerated manner, they can procure vaccines from the market. There is one-upmanship going on in three ruling parties and therefore, there are such demands [of free vaccines], there are tweets on it and later being deleted. The government should prepare a proper policy as the drive will start from May 1. There is no coordination between the ministers,” Fadnavis said.Maharashtra achieved a landmark by inoculating over 500,000 beneficiaries in a day on Monday. The state is expected to go past 15-million mark soon, the state health department said. the state has vaccinated 14,342,716 beneficiaries. Maharashtra’s previous high was recorded on April 3 when it vaccinated 462,735 people in a day.An epidemiologist who is attached to PD Hinduja Hospital, Dr Lancelot Pinto, said that the Centre and State governments have to work on collaboration to achieve the feat of flattening the curve and achieve herd immunity.“India’s median age is 27, so we cannot achieve herd immunity by only focusing on the 45+ age group. We need to aggressively immunise the young population. Therefore, the governments definitely need to work closely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-free-vaccine-shots-only-for-poor-101619474319182.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||MCDs not providing safety gear to sanitation workers, alleges AAP; not true says BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) have not provided masks, gloves, face shields or other Covid-19 safety equipment to sanitation workers.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back saying the AAP government is trying to divert attention from the “collapse” of the health-care system in Delhi.“BJP-ruled MCDs have not given masks, gloves, face shields or other safety equipment to sanitation workers and the workers associated with the fogging exercise to combat dengue and malaria. They are front-line workers and the BJP is insulting them and putting their lives at risk. The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled MCDs immediately provide safety gear to sanitation workers,” said the AAP’s in-charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “ His (Pathak’s) statement on non-availability of safety gear for sanitation workers is baseless. This is a tactic for diverting attention from the collapse of the health-care system in Delhi and failure of the AAP government in Covid-19 management. Sanitation Inspector offices in all 278 wards of the three MCDs are well stocked with masks, gloves and soaps, among others. They are routinely distributed among sanitation workers and mosquito-breeding checkers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-not-providing-safety-gear-to-sanitation-workers-alleges-aap-not-true-says-bjp-101619470372616.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmiri political prisoners at risk amid Covid surge: Hurriyat||The Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday expressed concern over the well being of Kashmiri political detainees in jails across the country amid a second wave of infections. The separatist conglomerate, in a statement, said prisoners’ families had alleged lack of basic amenities within jails, which had led to serious health problems among prisoners. The statement, which quoted the family of Shahid-ul-Islam, who is currently who lodged in Tihar jail, said he was very ill and exhibiting all symptoms of Covid, including high fever. “But the authorities are neither getting him tested nor taking him to the hospital,” it said.The Hurriyat said that it was extremely worrisome that political prisoners are being treated like this. “Silence of one and all, including human rights organisations, on this issue has led the authorities to show this indifference and inhumanity towards prisoners,” the separatist conglomerate said.“Such is the apathy that Mohd Ayaz Akbar who is in Tihar jail, was not released even for a day on parole despite repeated appeals to see his wife suffering from cancer for the past three years till she breathed her last recently,” it said.The Hurriyat said that the separatist leaders lodged in Tihar jail, Kot Bhalwal jail, Jodhpur jail, Agra jail, Amphala jail, Haryana jail, and other prisons across India were facing grave risk to their lives. The Hurriyat appealed to human rights organisations and civil society members to begin to focus upon the plight of these prisoners in jails and ensure their release before it is too late.They also expressed resentment over the ‘continued arbitrary house detention’ of its chairperson Mirwaiz Umar Farooq even in the holy month of Ramadan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmiri-political-prisoners-at-risk-amid-covid-surgehurriyat-101619471420308.html
27-04-2021||Other||HP asks all oxygen plants in state to ramp up production||In view of the rapidly spreading Covid-19 infections, Himachal Pradesh government has asked all oxygen plants in the state to ramp up production. The state has also banned the use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes.The state has eight oxygen plants, spread across Mandi, Shimla, Sirmaur and Una, with a total production capacity of 3, 800 cylinders that include both D-type jumbo-sized cylinders and B-type medium-sized cylinders. The state government officials are set to hold a meeting with the manufactures in Baddi soon. There are currently three oxygen plants in Baddi, which include Inox, Himalaya and Indo gases. “We have asked all oxygen plants to ramp up production. Right now, there is no shortage of oxygen,” said state drug controller Navneet Marwah.Health minister Rajiv Saizal also reiterated that currently, the state has enough supply of oxygen but added, “Efforts are on to arrange more. The state’s oxygen production is 42.7 metric tonne while the present consumption is 22.13 metric tonne.”The government has also set up an oxygen plant at Deen Dayal Upadhadya Hospital, Shimla, but the plant is currently not operational. The plant has a capacity to produce 432 cubic meters of oxygen. “The plant is on trial run. Oxygen manufactured in the hospital has been sent for testing and we will soon get certification,” said DDU medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta. The hospital, which has a bed capacity of 90, is also stretched beyond limit as it is currently accommodating more than 120 patients. Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College (RPMC) in Tanda is also full to capacity but its oxygen plant is also not yet operational. Chief medical officer Gurdarshan Gupta said the formalities for making the plant functional have been completed. The government had proposed to set up the biggest oxygen plant in Tanda but it is not yet operational. Another plant, with a daily production capacity of 576 cumm, was also proposed to be installed at Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba, but this too is not functional yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-asks-all-oxygen-plants-in-state-to-ramp-up-production-101619471240101.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt teachers, principals in Moga tasked with 24-hours surveillance of Covid patients||Besides door-to-door visits to boost enrolment of students in schools, government principals and schoolteachers have now been tasked with surveilling Covid patients during their prescribed home isolation period. Moga deputy commissioner Harish Nayer on Monday assigned the duty of surveillance of patients isolated at homes in villages and wards. As per the order, the administration has formed a cluster of 10 villages under the supervision of a principal and deployed a teacher per village for surveillance of home isolated patients. As of now, there are 900 patients in home isolation in the district.The teachers and officials of education departments have, meanwhile, objected to the move, saying that they already are performing multiple duties that include enrolment drive, distribution of books and office work.Rakesh Makkar, deputy DEO, secondary education, said, “The education secretary, Karishan Kumar, had also issued orders to all deputy commissioners to refrain from assigning non-educational tasks to teachers. The enrolment drive is also going on and now, they have to supervise all home-isolated patients. The teachers are complaining to us.”A science teacher, said, “We have to remain present at schools from 8am to 2pm. How will we keep eyes on patients at their homes during this time? Apart from this, we are distributing books to students or their parents at schools and also visiting every house to enhance students’ admissions.”Vikrem Dev Singh, state president of Democratic Teachers’ Front, said, “The administration should avoid assigning non-educational tasks to teachers. It affects the quality of education at government schools. Besides, it will hamper ongoing drive of student enrolment.”However, DC Nayer said, “The administration is receiving information about violations by patients at home. We have taken serious note of this and formed teams of teachers. They will regularly keep vigil on these patients and inform the police whenever they find any violation.”He added, “The situation is getting worse. Therefore, it is the duty of all of us to contribute to win this war against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-teachers-principals-in-moga-tasked-with-24-hours-surveillance-of-covid-patients-101619471180203.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sparks fly at Punjab cabinet meet as Jakhar, Randhawa ‘offer to quit’ over handling of sacrilege, police firing cases||Before the council of ministers took the decision on the new SIT, sparks flew at the cabinet meeting over the sloppy manner in which the sacrilege and the subsequent police firing cases have been handled. The fireworks that began with a blame game over the selection of then inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh for the special investigation team team (SIT) saw cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar vent their ire. When chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ticked them for talking out of turn and making public statements, Randhawa who had questioned the pace of progress on the Badals’ alleged involvement offered his resignation, according to sources. Jakhar, who told this newspaper on Friday that overconfidence and not having political supervision put the government in a tight spot, also offered to quit his post. After the news broke, both Randhawa and Jakhar switched off their phones and remained unreachable. While most other ministers ducked the queries regarding the heated exchange, one senior minister denied that resignations were offered. After the meeting, Jakhar briefed the reporters about the decisions, which was odd as he is not a member of the cabinet. The PPCC chief was accompanied by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal who usually does the briefing. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sparks-fly-at-punjab-cabinet-meet-as-jakhar-randhawa-offer-to-quit-over-handling-of-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-101619471120078.html
27-04-2021||Other||Experts make a case for extended lockdown in J&K||As J&K opened up after a weekend curfew, experts urged the authorities to extend the lockdown so as to bring down the infection rate, which is putting pressure on health infrastructure in the Union Territory. Dr Salim Khan, professor and head, community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said, “The infections are rising exponentially and many patients are falling seriously ill and requiring oxygen and ventilator support. If the scenario continues, we may not be able to admit more patients in view of the limited health infrastructure. A lockdown can help slow down the transmission and in turn reduce the influx of patients to the hospital.”He added that J&K should go for a limited lockdown so that the economy is not affected either. Dr Shafqat Khan, former municipal commissioner, Srinagar, said the only way to fight this battle is to follow the guidelines of masking, social distancing and maintaining hand hygiene.“Intermittent lockdown will slow down human activity. However, it is imperative to disallow large-scale social and religious activities. The Lieutenant Governor (LG) administration has already taken a number of steps in this direction and thrust has been laid on strengthening the infrastructure and allied facilities,” he said. A senior doctor, heading one of the Covid centres in Srinagar, said that a 15-day lockdown is necessary if the cases go up further. “Only then can we crush the curve. The government should rope in all stakeholders to get the lockdown implemented in letter and spirit at the grass-root level. We have still breathing time to strategise; policy makers should take full advantage of the present situation,” said the doctor.Former Srinagar mayor Salman Sagar said that after a timely and beneficial decision to make vaccination free for the 18 to 45 age group, the LG should take into consideration a 21-day lockdown so that the spread is contained and the purpose of attaining herd immunity is served. “All inter-state and intra-state travel should be suspended for a period of 21 days so that any chances of transmission from outside the UT are nullified and we are able to lower the burden on our health infrastructure,” said the former mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-make-a-case-for-extended-lockdown-in-jk-101619471063132.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives nod to new SIT in Kotkapura police firing||Amid growing criticism of the state government’s handling of the sacrilege cases from within the Congress, the Punjab council of ministers on Monday decided to set up a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Kotkapura firing case in compliance of the order of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The council of ministers, which met here under the chairmanship of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, took the decision to set up the fresh SIT to avoid any further delay in the matter, pending an appeal in the Supreme Court. “The appeal may be filed in due course in consultation with legal experts, particularly with regard to the observations and conclusion of the court which were beyond its remit and even, at times, beyond the law,” it said. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, who was part of the discussions on the matter and later briefed the reporters, said the cabinet reiterated its commitment to bring the culprits of the sacrilege incidents and subsequent police firing incidents to justice expeditiously. “There was no discussion on the composition of the SIT,” Jakhar said after the meeting when asked if any names of police officers for the new probe team were discussed. The high court had on April 9 quashed the chargesheets filed by the Punjab Police SIT in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, pointing out serious gaps in the investigation. It has also directed the Punjab government to constitute a new SIT, minus the then inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has opted for voluntary retirement from service since. The court, in its 89-page judgment, had said fairness of investigations stands vitiated. The legal setback in the politically sensitive case triggered immediate demands from within the Congress, particularly by dissenters such as former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who also blamed the chief minister and his legal team for the fiasco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-to-new-sit-in-kotkapura-police-firing-101619470520318.html
27-04-2021||Other||Himachal to supply oxygen to Delhi||Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday agreed to send supplies of oxygen to New Delhi which is currently grappling with a shortage of the life-saving gas.In a letter to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Thakur said that he is highly concerned about the situation in the national Capital and would be happy to extend all possible help to the state. He added that the officials in New Delhi may contact additional director of industries to arrange supplies of oxygen. Kejriwal expressed his gratitude to the Himachal government for their generosity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-to-supply-oxygen-to-delhi-101619470460169.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||One dead, two injured after speeding cluster bus rams three vehicles||A 55-year-old man was killed and two others injured after an allegedly speeding cluster bus hit a scooter and two e-rickshaws in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar on Monday morning. The bus rammed a pavement after hitting the three vehicles, the police said.The errant driver, identified by his first name as Azad,29, was caught from the spot. He was arrested and booked for rash and negligent driving causing death and injury. The bus as well as the three other vehicles involved in the mishap were impounded, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said the police control room received a call around 8am, alerting them about a road accident near Subhash Nagar traffic signal. A police team reached the spot and found three men lying injured on the road while a cluster bus, one scooter and two e-rickshaws stood damaged.One of the men was found to be dead while the other two -- identified as Rajan,32, and Hansa,40 -- were rushed to a nearby hospital, from where they were later discharged after treatment for minor injuries, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-two-injured-after-speeding-cluster-bus-rams-three-vehicles-101619469596336.html
27-04-2021||Other||27 deaths, 1,692 fresh cases in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 1, 692 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s caseload to 89, 193. The death toll mounted to 1,350 after 27 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 409 were recorded in Kangra, 257 in Mandi, 256 in Solan, 180 in Shimla, 125 in Sirmaur, 107 in Hamirpur, 85 in Bilaspur, 80 in Kullu, 73 in Chamba, 66 in Una, 33 in Lahaul-Spiti and 21 in Kinnaur. Six deaths were reported in Kangra, five each in Mandi and Shimla, three each in Solan and Una, two in Sirmaur and one each in Kullu and Hamirpur. Meanwhile, active cases in the state have reached 14, 326 and recoveries reached 73,478 after 916 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a caseload of 15,257, followed by Shimla where 13,759 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 13,080 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 11,610 while Una has 6,229 cases, Sirmaur 6,165, Hamirpur 5,621, Kullu 5,513, Bilaspur 4,727, Chamba, 3,872, Lahaul-Spiti 1,735 and Kinnaur 1,625.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/27-deaths-1-692-fresh-cases-in-himachal-101619470280220.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Mosques, gurdwaras step up to open isolation centres, hold langars||As coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to overburden city hospitals, committee members and imams of mosques in Jamia Nagar are looking at starting isolation facilities for Covid positive individuals in the neighbourhood. One such facility will become operational in Jamia Nagar on Wednesday.The move comes days after Delhi Waqf Board chairman and Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan convened a meeting of imams and appealed to mosques to render services for battling Covid-19 with the support of residents.Mohd Arif Jamal, the imam of Islah Masjid, said that the mosque along with Jama Masjid, Zakir Nagar, will be starting an isolation facility from the premises of a school in the neighbourhood. The 30-bed quarantine facility will be ready by Wednesday, Jamal said, and the facility is meant for those who do not have adequate space at home to isolate themselves or are in urgent need of medical attention.“Along with members of the mosque committee and locals, we have started work on developing the quarantine facility. The facility will operate out of a school and will open on Wednesday. We are arranging nebulisers, oxymeters, and medicines that will be administered under the watch of doctors from the area,” said Jamal.Patrons of the mosques have volunteered to render medical assistance besides taking care of the day-to-day management of the facility. “A number of doctors from the area have also pledged to dedicate two to three hours daily for the facility. Besides these doctors, we have also reached out to other doctors in the neighbourhood who will step in as and when required,” said Jamal.He said the mosques have already procured beds and the other facilities will be in place by Wednesday. He said that the committee was in touch with MLA Khan, who has promised help with oxygen cylinders going forward. “As of now, we have not been able to make arrangements for oxygen cylinders. Till that happens, we will continue to provide other facilities and medical assistance,” said Jamal.An official from the MLA’s office, familiar with the matter, said efforts are on to create more facilities in other parts of Okhla. “We had appealed to mosques to start a facility that could provide care to Covid-19 patients. Work for the same is underway and these facilities will start shortly,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.Besides mosques, gurdwaras are also taking steps to help those in distress. Last week, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) started serving langar to Covid-affected families and others in distress. The meals are prepared at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib and from there, they are delivered to different parts of the city via other gurdwaras. In the NCR, the Gurdwara Samiti in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, is carrying out a unique initiative—oxygen langar— under which Covid-affected patients in need of oxygen are supplied free oxygen. Patients suffering from respiratory problems can avail of the facility at the site till their oxygen levels return to normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mosques-gurdwaras-step-up-to-open-isolation-centres-hold-langars-101619469605169.html
27-04-2021||Other||Kullu: Grandparents of girl with mental disabilities booked for assault||In a rare case, Kullu police booked the grandparents of a girl with mental disabilities for physically assaulting her.The accused have been identified as Jamna Dass and Hem Dasi.The police action came after the girl’s aunt, who lives in the same house, recorded a video of the incident and sent it to the cops.When a police team visited the house, family members said the grandparents used to regularly beat up the girl as she was unable to help with household chores due to her disability. They claimed that whenever they used to object to the assault, the grandparents of girl used to threaten to throw them out of the house. When cops reached the house for their arrest, the couple initially fled to a nearby forest but were eventually nabbed. The parents of the girl are also being questioned by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kullu-grandparents-of-girl-with-mental-disabilities-booked-for-assault-101619470100152.html
27-04-2021||Other||J&K sees its deadliest day of pandemic as 25 succumb||With 25 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day toll since the outbreak, health officials said on Monday. The latest fatalities have taken the UT’s overall toll to 2, 172. While 14 of the deaths were reported from Jammu division, 11 people lost their lives in Kashmir. This month, 178 people lost their battle to the virus so far. The UT also recorded 2,135 new infections, taking the case tally to 1, 62, 890. Of the new cases, 1, 344 cases are from Kashmir while 791 are from Jammu, besides 299 travellers. Since April 20, the UT has been recording 1, 900 to 2, 000 cases every day. On Sunday J&K recorded a high of 2, 381 cases, the highest single-day count since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020.Officials said with 632 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 472 in Jammu district, 139 in Kulgam, 136 in Baramulla, 135 in Reasi, 133 in Budgam, and 93 in Anantnag.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, crossed 20,000 to settle at 20,601, officials said. As many as 1,067 patients also recovered, including 589 from Kashmir and 478 from Jammu. The recovery rate, as on Monday, was 86.01%. Over 7.08 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-its-deadliest-day-of-pandemic-as-23-succumb-101619469321540.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Eight Haryana districts in critical category, three closing in||Three more Haryana districts —Sonepat, Karnal and Ambala — entered the critical category with a positivity rate of more than 6%, taking the number of districts having critical positivity to eight. The other five are Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Panipat and Rewari. As per a health department analysis, the seven-day moving average of daily new positivity rate was 21.67% till April 25. The virus’ trajectory is on an unprecedented climb having started the ascent 12 weeks ago.The number of infected patients in the state touched a new high last week (April 19-25) with 67,348 fresh infections as compared to 40,090 reported the week before. The state also reported 352 deaths last week, the highest in a week since March 2020. Before this, 213 deaths were the highest weekly count reported in November. The highest number of cases during the last surge was 17,426 infections reported between November 16 and 22. The sample positivity rate increased to 5.95% last week as compared to 5.23%, the week before and the recovery rate dropped to 81.61% as compared to 87.22% the week before. The number of active cases on Monday were over 79,000 with the national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram (with about 2,700 active cases), Faridabad (with about 10,000) active infections, Sonepat (with over 5,400 active cases) being the leading contributors. The other significant contributors to the infection tally were Hisar with 5,700 active cases, Karnal with over 4,500 active infections, Panipat with over 3,800 cases and Ambala with over 2,900 active infections. Hisar, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad closing in The sample positivity rate of eight districts classified as critical was on an ascendancy. Faridabad has a positivity rate of 10.11%, Gurugram (8.83%), Panchkula (7.27%), Rewari (6.50%), Karnal (6.44%), Sonepat (6.19%) and Ambala 6.17%. Hisar with a sample positivity rate of 5.94%, Kurukshetra (5.44%) and Fatehabad (5.22%) were also closing in to enter the critical category, officials said. Only two districts Nuh (0.92%) and Charkhi Dadri (1.37%) have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Even as the vaccination slowed down in the state, health minister Anil Vij on Monday said the state government has placed an order for procuring 66 lakh doses of vaccine for inoculating everyone above 18. The minister in a tweet said the state government has placed an order for 40 lakh Covishield vaccine and 26 lakh Covaxin. The vaccine will be provided free of cost to everyone above 18, he said. 24X7 control room for oxygen supply management Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said that they have set up a 24-hour control room at the civil secretariat in Chandigarh to streamline the supply of medical oxygen in the state. Principal secretary, industries and commerce, Vijayendra Kumar and a team of eight officers will man the control room. “Besides, HSIIDC managing director and MSME director have been directed to fast-track approvals for manufacturing of medical oxygen by industrial oxygen making units,’’ Arora said. Another official, Vikas Yadav has been deputed at the Air Liquide Plant at Panipat for monitoring medical oxygen dispatches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eight-haryana-districts-in-critical-category-three-closing-in-101619469320412.html
27-04-2021||Other||Omar Abdullah uses his twitter to amplify distress messages||After recovery from Covid-19, National Conference president Omar Abdullah has started using his Twitter account to amplify messages of people who are in need of oxygen, plasma, ICU beds or medicines across the country.Over the last 48 hours, the former J&K chief minister has retweeted dozens of such messages on the microblogging website. Most of these messages were either posted by people in need of help across the country, especially in the national capital New Delhi, where patients are in need of help. Abdullah has more than 3 million followers on Twitter and is the only politician from the J&K who has millions of people following him.“I want to be able to help people through this crisis as best I can because I know what’s it’s like to have a loved one in the hospital fighting against Covid. To that end, I’ve opened up my DMs for now and will amplify every message requesting/offering help,” wrote Omar Abdullah on Twitter shortly after he started retweeting the messages on Sunday.On April 9, Omar Abdullah had tested positive for Covid-19, days after his father NC president and MP Srinagar tested positive.“Omar has a powerful following on the social media. By amplifying distress messages through his account, he is actually getting help for many. This is a good gesture. Other politicians should also try to help people in a similar way,” said Fayaz Ahmad, a social activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/omar-abdullah-uses-his-twitter-to-amplify-distress-messages-101619468839866.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||No ambulance, two Ludhiana families forced to ferry the dead in auto-rickshaw, cart||Two families in Ludhiana were forced to take bodies of corona victims for cremation in auto-rickshaw and cart in the absence of ambulance services. As the videos of bodies being transported without following due protocols were circulated on social media platforms, the district administration intervened and announced to form a committee for making necessary arrangements to cremate bodies of Covid victims. Bhagwan Shah, 67, had succumbed to virus on Sunday evening at the civil hospital. On Monday, when his family reached the mortuary to take the body for cremation, no ambulance was available. His wife claimed that private ambulance operators were demanding ₹3,500 for ferrying the body to cremation ground in Dholewal. She said as she couldn’t afford a private ambulance, they hired an auto-rickshaw for the purpose in ₹150. She claimed that she was not aware of the protocols for cremating the Covid victims. Kin of another patient, 60-year-old Kanta Rani of Focal Point, took her body on a cart. Her son also claimed that no government ambulance was available and a private operator was demanding a hefty amount. According to Covid protocols, employees or volunteers wearing PPE kits are supposed to ferry the bodies to cremation grounds in ambulance. Taking note of the incident, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said he will personally investigate the matter and would take action. Dr Amarjit Kaur, senior medical officer, civil hospital, said the families were mounting pressure on hospital employees to hand over the bodies to them. “However, the bodies of Covid victims cannot be released to families in such a way,” she said, adding that she will inquire into the matter and take action. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has set up a committee for ensuring necessary arrangements in the crematoriums and graveyards for cremating, burying bodies of those succumbing to Covid-19 in the district. He added that the committee can also engage NGOs for ensuring proper arrangements as per rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-ambulance-two-ludhiana-families-forced-to-ferry-the-dead-in-auto-rickshaw-cart-101619468663222.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||One-fourth of level-II, III Covid beds in Punjab hospitals not occupied yet||Even as there was a hue and cry over the lack of availability of oxygen beds and ICU due to record rise in Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the state health department’s figures reveal that at least 25% of the beds in level- II and level-III categories in private and government hospitals are still not occupied. Also, only 77 of a total of 1,000 ventilators available in government and private hospitals in the state are in use at present, it was found. While level-II beds have provision of oxygen (not in all cases), level-III facilities provide intensive care to critical patients with a severe infection. “Though the patient influx has gone up in the past couple of days, we still have enough beds. Of a total of 1,500 level-3 beds in private hospitals with facilities of oxygen and ICU (catering to critical) patients, 900 are occupied. In government hospitals, 377 out of total of 545 such beds are in use,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Whereas of a total of 4,000 level-II beds, 900 are available in government facilities and nearly 2,000 in private hospitals, the figures reveal. Punjab Covid-19 task force head and former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar said the state has adequate availability of beds for its residents but the sudden influx of patients coming from the national capital has increased load on health care facilities. “Beds are hard to find only in certain hospitals. People were in a panic after what they saw in Delhi hospitals. We have also decided to increase our capacity keeping in mind the explosion of cases in the national capital,” said Talwar. State may see 9,000 daily cases by May first week A senior health department official said a new study by Christian Medical College (CMC) Ludhiana, has predicted that the state may witness the daily case count of 9,000 by the first week of May. On the basis predictions by some agencies, the department had earlier claimed that the state was likely to see its peak in the third week of April. Besides, the department has attached its specialists with medical colleges for the next 15 days keeping in view the increasing caseload. These specialists include from anesthesia, medicines, pediatrics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/onefourth-of-level-ii-iii-covid-beds-in-punjab-hospitals-not-occupied-yet-101619468661990.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Obit: Prem Gorkhi breathed life into characters pushed to the margins||Prem Gorkhi, 74, who passed away on Sunday evening, was a leading fiction writer in the tradition of subaltern literature that took root in Punjab in the mid 60s propelled by the ultra-left literary movement. Born to a poor Dalit family in Ladhowal, he came up the hard way. However, he achieved literary success penning several acclaimed books in a life of immense struggle and told his own story in an autobiography titled ‘Ghair Hazir Aadmi’ (The Absent Man).One of the first laments in the memory of Gorkhi came from a younger contemporary Dalit writer of Moga, Gurmeet Karyalvi: ‘Tur Gaya Ghair Hazir Aadmi (The Absent Man has Left). Karyalvi says, “He was the writer of the untouched and as young readers, we would buy Amrita Pritam’s journal ‘Nagmani’ to read his autobiography that was being serialised as well as the column ‘Sarhaknama’ (Story of the Road) by Baldev Singh Sarhaknama. “However, his growing readership was irksome to several writers who came from privileged castes,” says Punjabi poet Amarjit Chandan whom Gorkhi looked up to as a mentor for encouraging him to write about his own people. Bemoaning his loss, editor-writer Swarajbir says, “He had recently started writing a column which readers waited for. His demise is a loss.”Famous storywriter Waryam Sandhu, a co-traveller of Gorkhi and partner in all-night story-telling sessions of 70s and 80s titled ‘Deeva Bale Saari Raat’ (The Lamp Flickers All Night), while paying a fond tribute to him, says, “Another gem is lost!” While many say that regular Nagmani writers like Karpal Kazak and Sarhaknama made it to the Sahitya Akademi awards, Gorkhi was ignored. This perhaps because he lacked management skills, but he leaves behind a strong body of work. His collections of short stories include ‘Mitti de Rang’(1974), ‘Jeen Maran’ (1981), ‘Arjan Safedi Wala’ (1994) and Dharti Puttar (2002). One of the leading Dalit fiction writers, Bhagwant Rasulpuri, says, “Gorkhi came to the fore with new dimensions of caste and class economy, unfolding the social realities layer by layer.”How a letter from Amrita Pritam bailed him outTwo heartwarming anecdotes from his life are that he took his second name from the first crush he had on a Nepali girl when he worked as a young labourer at a petrol pump. He had an unspoken liking for the girl who was addressed as ‘gorkhi’. The writer faced many trials in courts being labelled a Naxalite and was also falsely implicated in a bicycle theft. It was an acceptance letter written by the famous Amrita Pritam for a story he had submitted to her that convinced police that he was a writer and not a bicycle thief!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/obit-prem-gorkhi-breathed-life-into-characters-pushed-to-the-margins-101619468602195.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Locals stop Amitsar-bound oxygen tanker in Haryana, supply delayed||A liquid oxygen tanker bound for Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar was stopped by locals in Haryana’s Panipat on Monday evening. Officials said the protesters were concerned over the oxygen shortage in their own state.The tanker was, however, allowed to move after intervention of Punjab chief secretary chief secretary Vini Mahajan, said state medical education and research minister OP Soni later in the evening. The district administration had urged the Haryana Police to ensure hassle-free supply of oxygen to Amritsar amid the acute shortage. As per information, the police tried to pacify the protesters, but to no avail.“On Monday, people in Panipat stopped the movement of a tanker carrying oxygen, which was being supplied to Amritsar. Due to this hindrance, GMCH will face a huge oxygen crisis as we are left with only a few hours of supply. Though we received a tanker from Mohali on Monday, we may still face shortage due to this roadblock,” GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh had said. Also, oxygen vendors in the district are complaining of erratic supply from the government as they are unable to meet the demand of oxygen required by state-run and private hospitals. Chief secretary Mahajan’s said, “Due to the delayed departure of the tanker, we may face oxygen shortage at GMCH on Tuesday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/locals-stop-amitsar-bound-oxygen-tanker-in-haryana-supply-delayed-101619468601160.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala administration ropes in army to tackle Covid exigencies||Amid the rising Covid caseload, the Patiala administration has roped in services of 30 army personnel, who will assist the paramedics in taking care of patients at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said on Monday. He said the hospital is working as a tertiary care centre for the treatment of Covid patients and caters to arrivals from not only Punjab, but NCR too. The deaths being attributed to Patiala district included patients from other districts and NCR too, he added. He said that being the L-3 facility, this hospital receives the patients in severe condition and despite the best medical treatment given to them, severity of the disease hampers their efforts.Dr Vishal Chopra and Dr Amandeep Singh Bakhshi, while handing over PPE kits to the armymen, briefed them about the essential points for serving the patients. Nodal officer for tertiary care at Rajindra Hospital, Surabhi Malik, said that they have enhanced the number of beds to 180 from the existing 120. Malik said although there was shortage of oxygen all over the country, the hospital had required supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-administration-ropes-in-army-to-tackle-covid-exigencies-101619468600066.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers, anganwadi workers holding large gatherings in Sangrur amid Covid surge||Amid the second pandemic wave in Punjab and elsewhere in the country, farmers and anganwadi workers have been holding large demonstrations in Sangrur, in what they term is a bid “to save their land and jobs” while the district administration is silent on violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Hundreds of members of the Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union observed “black day” on Monday while staging a protest in front of the Sangrur deputy commissioner’s office. They have been holding an indefinite protest near the residence of state school education minister Vijay Inder Singla since March 17. The protesters also tried to jump the gates of the district administrative complex seeking filling of vacant posts in all anganwadi centres and enrolment of children aged 3 to 6. All India Federation of Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union chief Usha Rani said the policies of the central and state government have forced them to hold protests amid the pandemic outbreak. Also, farmers in a large number continued their protest against the three agriculture laws outside the residence of BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia and raised slogans against the central government. Several devotees of Lord Hanuman on Monday held a bike yatra (procession) in the town dedicated to mark Hanuman Jayanti. Karanbir Sharma, an organiser of the rally, said the tradition of yatra was decades-old but it was organised this time on bikes to maintain social distancing. “The yarta witnesses massive gatherings every year,” added Sharma. On violation of Covid-19 norms, Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said, “I appeal to all to adhere to guidelines. We are passing through a difficult situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-anganwadi-workers-holding-large-gatherings-in-sangrur-amid-covid-surge-101619468549251.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Virus surge brings import from Afghanistan via Attari border to a halt||The import from Afghanistan via the Attari-Wagah border has dipped to near zero in the past one week amid a rapid surge in coronavirus cases in India. Officials posted at the Attari integrated check post (ICP), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, said only a couple of trucks brought dry fruits and licorice for the last 10 days. However, no truck came from Afghanistan on Saturday and Sunday. Land Port Authority of India (LPAI)’s ICP manager Sukhdev Singh attributed the Covid-19 surge in India is a reason behind the drastic dip. Before mid-April, nearly 15 trucks carrying goods came from Afghanistan on a daily basis. The daily count of trucks was recorded more than 50 till mid-March when apple was also being imported from the country. A senior customs official said, “There is less import from Afghanistan due to off-season of dry fruits. We are following all Covid-19 protocols at the time of the unloading of trucks. A health department team gives clearance to ruck drivers at the zero line before they cross over to India.”Anil Mehra, president of the Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association said, “Most of the dry fruit traders are based in New Delhi where a strict lockdown has been imposed. Many of the importers in the national capital have shelved their orders from Afghanistan. Besides, transportation here was also impacted due to a sudden surge in pandemic and Indian traders are not placing many orders.” “Also, we have to keep the wholesale Majith Mandi market in Amritsar closed on weekend due to rising cases. The market opens for just a few hours on weekdays. Many traders are also not placing their orders from Afghanistan due to logistical issues arising in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave,” he added. Majith Mandi is one of the biggest import-export markets in the country.The dip in trade has once again added to the woes of hundreds of truckers and porters working at the ICP. “We were virtually rendered out of work when India-Pakistan trade was suspended in 2019. We were earning our livelihood solely due imports from Afghanistan,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a porter.Pakistan stopped all trade relations with India after the latter abrogated Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-surge-brings-import-from-afghanistan-via-attari-border-to-a-halt-101619468543917.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew in Punjab from 6pm to 5 am now||The Punjab government on Monday announced fresh restrictions on movement, extended the night curfew by two hours and ordered a strict weekend lockdown in a bid to tackle the surge in coronavirus cases. “Due to continuous and rapid rise of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the cabinet has decided to impose daily night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am and weekend lockdown from Friday 6 pm to Monday 5 am. Urge you all to stay at home and step out only if absolutely necessary. Seek your full cooperation,” Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted after the meeting. At present, night curfew is from 8 pm to 5 am. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, who was present in the cabinet meeting, said shops will remain open till 5 pm on weekdays. The cabinet also had a detailed discussion on the oxygen shortage in the state. Earlier, Amarinder urged the Centre to enhance the daily quota of medical oxygen as the state is facing a critical supply situation due to surge in cases. “The situation of oxygen supply in Punjab is extremely critical. I request Union home minister Amit Shah and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to urgently enhance daily quota and to ensure allotted liquid manufacturing oxygen supplies are released to Punjab,” he tweeted. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state has left with only 1.9 lakh doses of the vaccine due to the lesser supply of the vaccine from the union government. Out of this available stock, more than 1 lakh doses expected to be used by Monday. He said the Punjab government has already appealed to the Union government to regularise the supply of vaccines in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-in-punjab-from-6pm-to-5-am-now-101619468542920.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu at it again, questions Capt govt’s intent on sacrilege cases||Continuing his attack on the Capt Amarinder Singh government, Amritsar East Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday questioned its “intent and deliberate delay” in cases related to the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the subsequent police firing in 2015. In a series of tweets, Sidhu said the choice was either to accept the high court’s judgment or appear against it in the Supreme Court, but the problem all along has been the same – intent and deliberate delay. “It is not about forming another SIT (special investigation team) but what have the SITs achieved in the past six years,” the former minister posted on Twitter, pressing for a fair and time-bound investigation with a fast-track court for a day-to-day trial. The Congress, which had promised action against the culprits in sacrilege-related cases, has been in power in the state for the past more than four years. On April 9, the Punjab and Haryana high court had quashed the SIT report in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, pointing out serious gaps in the investigation. It has also directed the Punjab government to constitute a fresh SIT, sans then inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has opted for voluntary retirement from service since. Sidhu, who has directly targeted Amarinder by questioning his role in the legal setback in the sacrilege cases, said that history has shown that re-investigation by the same agency compromises the case, makes the guilty wiser by allowing them a second chance to defend. “Yet if the government decides, it should ensure fair and time-bound investigation, and set up a fast-track court for a day-to-day trial,” he tweeted. He also stressed the need to make the government accountable and transparent in public eye on the emotive issue, which should have been top priority from day one or else this could lead to irreparable damage. Though other Congress leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, have also questioned the government on the legal setback in politically significant case, the former minister’s tirade against the CM in the past one week intensifies the tussle between the two with barely nine months to go for the state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-at-it-again-questions-capt-govt-s-intent-on-sacrilege-cases-101619468361099.html
27-04-2021||Other||J&K chief justice orders work via virtual mode till May 15||Amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir, Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal on Monday ordered that filing, as well as hearing of cases in the high court of Jammu and Kashmir, district and subordinate courts, besides tribunals shall be conducted through virtual mode till May 15. As per the order, the chief justice has directed that the entry of litigants, public, and clerks of the advocates into the court premises from the very outer gate shall be strictly prohibited in both wings of the high court. “For filing of cases, registrars judicial of both wings of the high court shall create a dedicated email address of their respective filing counters and notify the same to the advocates/litigants by making it available on the website of the high court.” “Ordinarily before notice’ matters shall be taken up by each Bench unless urgency in respect of any ‘After Notice’ matter is shown to the satisfaction of the Bench concerned,” the order reads. “Physical hearing in respect of any listed matter will be at the discretion of the Bench concerned subject to the satisfaction of the Bench regarding extreme urgency involved in such matter and thereafter such case shall be taken up for physical hearing on the date fixed by the Bench” further read the order. On district and subordinate courts besides tribunals in J&K and Ladakh, the Chief Justice ordered that entry of litigants, public and clerks of the advocates into the court premises from the very outer gate shall be strictly prohibited. “For filing of cases, the Presiding Officers shall create a dedicated email address of their respective courts and make it available to the advocates/litigants by posting the same on the website of their District Courts concerned or through any appropriate electronic mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-chief-justice-orders-work-via-virtual-mode-till-may-15-101619468359871.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid shortage, western command offers help to old revive oxygen plants in Punjab||Responding to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s plea for help in the war-like Covid situation, the Western Command of the army on Monday extended all possible help, including medical staff and medically trained combatants, to Punjab to meet the exigent shortage in hospitals, along with support in reviving the state’s old oxygen plants that are currently lying defunct. “Oxygen allocation from the Centre was currently only 105 metric tonnes as against the demand of 300 MTs daily. Of this, the state is actually getting only 85 MT as the rest is being diverted to PGIMER, Chandigarh,” according to an official statement.Lt Gen RP Singh, GOC-in-C, Western Command, at a virtual meeting of the CM with senior command officials, also offered to provide staff to run the 100-bed Covid facility proposed to be set up in the building loaned to the state government by the CSIR for the purpose. At another review meeting with top officials of the state government and medical experts, Amarinder said the government was also approaching the Union home ministry to provide manpower and ICU beds through the Border Security Force (BSF). Technical and specialist cover will be provided by the Command Centre, Lt Gen Singh told the chief minister,r during their VC, adding that 15 trained nurses had already been sent to Patiala to support the civic staff. Further, experts will be sent to visit the defunct oxygen plants at existing industrial units to assess their status and extend whatever support needed for their restoration. Though their resources were stressed on account of requirements also from other states, including Delhi, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir, the army officials said they will extend all possible help to Punjab to tackle the situation. Not proposing lockdown: Capt The CM said later at the internal review meeting that the state government was making all efforts to secure medical oxygen to supplement its depleting stocks. While he was not proposing lockdown, which leads to exodus and economic woes, the CM made it clear that the other stringent steps were being taken to manage the escalating crisis. He directed the health department to follow up with the Centre for vaccine supplies as the state presently had only 1.76 lakh Covishield and 22,000 Covaxin doses in stock. Reacting to reports of threats of strike by certain organisations of health and medical workers, Amarinder made it clear that this will be met with dismissal. “We cannot tolerate this kind of nonsense in a war-like situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-shortage-western-command-offers-help-to-old-revive-oxygen-plants-in-punjab-101619468239829.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Cabinet approves recruitment of 473 staff nurses||To effectively combat the Covid-19 emergency situation across the state, the Punjab cabinet granted approval for recruitment of 473 staff nurses in Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, through a written test. These posts will be taken out of the purview of the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the basic pay of these newly recruited staff nurses would be ₹29,200 per month. These posts were created under the state government’s plan of restructuring to bring far more efficiency in the functioning of the medical education and research department. 2.15 lakh students to get smartphonesThe cabinet also approved the modalities for the distribution of mobile phones to nearly 2.15 lakh students of Class 12 for the academic session 2021-22 under the “Punjab Smart Connect Scheme”. The state government has allotted a budget of ₹100 crore to the school education department for the scheme for the current financial year. As many as 1,75,443 regular students (boys and girls) studying in Class 12 in government schools were given mobile phones last year. The spokesperson said that realising the benefit of imparting online education remotely to the students through the distributed smartphones, particularly in the adverse pandemic situation last year, the government decided to extend the scheme to the students to be admitted in Class 12 of the academic year 2021-22. Nod to amend service commission regulation To further speed up the process to fill nearly 1 lakh vacancies in various departments, boards, corporations and agencies of the state government, the cabinet also gave post-facto approval to amend Part-II B of the Punjab Public Service Commission (Limitation of Functions) Regulation, 1955, by putting these posts into commission’s purview. The Punjab Public Service Commission had brought to the notice of the state government that departments have sent their requisitions to it for direct recruitment of those vacancies that were earlier covered under Class III rules and which have been notified.Nod to develop, operate circuit housesTo improve efficacy of available resources and optimise the utilisation of assets, the cabinet gave approval for redevelopment, operation and maintenance (O&M) of circuit houses at Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar in public private partnership (PPP) mode. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said that Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) being the nodal agency of the state has been authorised for taking necessary action in this regard. The general administration department (GAD) intends to develop and operate circuit houses at Ludhiana and Jalandhar in PPP mode to be operated as circuit houses-cum-hotels. The department operates 10 circuit houses in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Chandigarh and Shimla. In addition, there are two Punjab Bhawans in New Delhi and Chandigarh. These circuit houses were developed for stay of government officers/officials visiting different district headquarters for official work. “However, over a period of time on account of recurrent expenditure on maintenance and updating of the facilities of circuit houses led to financial burden on the state government. The quality of services has also gone down significantly,” an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-cabinet-approves-recruitment-of-473-staff-nurses-101619468059814.html
27-04-2021||Other||Ladakh announces free Covid-19 vaccine to all from May 1||The Union Territory of Ladakh has announced free vaccination to all its residents who are eligible for Phase III of the Covid vaccination drive. “The decision was taken by Lieutenant Governor RK Mathur at a high-level meeting with officials of the health department,” said an official spokesman. “Ladakh administration is in the process of procuring Covid-19 vaccines for inoculating its residents in the 18 to 45 age group. The vaccination will be provided free of cost to all who are eligible to receive it,” he added. LG Mathur directed the department officials that other than increasing the number of tests on a daily basis, 100% testing at all entry points – Meenamarg, Upshi and KBR airport - must be achieved without fail. LG Mathur also stated that close coordination must be maintained with Border Roads Organisation. Covid tests for tourists “As Ladakh also gears up to receive tourists from other parts of the country, LG Mathur stated that all incoming tourists must produce a negative RT-PCR report at the airport and that the hotels and travel agencies must take responsibility in ensuring the same. Discussing the infrastructural preparedness of the health department in wake of the expected surge in the coming months, LG Mathur directed that the department must ramp up its facilities in terms of beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines etc on urgent basis,” an official statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ladakh-announces-free-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-from-may-1-101619467999787.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Cops ask court to release remdesivir vials seized from black-marketeers, give them to hospitals||A local court is reviewing a plea by the Delhi Police’s crime branch to allow the release of 93 vials of seized remdesivir so that they can be given to health care facilities or patients, amid a critical shortage and rampant black-marketing of the antiviral drug, which some doctors have prescribed for Covid-19 treatment.Police officers aware of the matter said the Rohini court is likely to decide on the matter after a drug inspector verifies the authenticity of the drugs. The matter is likely to be heard on Tuesday.“We have requested the court to release the seized remdesivir injections to any hospital or NGO so they may reach the patients in need,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Apart from the crime branch, which seized 93 vials of the drug in three raids between April 21 and 25 from seven alleged hoarders, the south and west district police teams seized nine more vials and arrested five people in connection with the matter on Sunday.Police units of the two districts are also likely to move court for the release of the nine seized vials.“We will soon move an application, seeking the court’s permission to give the seized injections to the drug controller, hospitals or any NGO,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (south).Amid the unending spate of Covid-19 hospitalisations, the Capital has been hit by a severe shortage of several drugs used to treat Covid-19 patients such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black-marketeers, with the drugs being at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported on Monday, a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir, which retails at between ₹900 and ₹3,500, at ₹25,000.“Social media is flooded with SOS messages and contact details of people selling the injections. The problem lies there itself. Patients or their family members bargain with these sellers. The bidding starts at around ₹25,000 for a vial and often stretches to ₹70,000 or ₹80,000, depending on a customer’s desperation,” said a senior police officer.The district police, crime branch and other Delhi Police units have now been directed to keep a vigil on such racketeers.For instance, the seven people arrested by the crime branch were selling each injection for between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000.“Interrogations revealed that they were getting the remdesivir from contacts in Punjab and Haryana. The crime branch teams have been conducting raids in the two states to arrest other racketeers,” Bhardwaj said.The police have also cracked down on hoarders of medical oxygen, which has been critically short in the city as well, forcing hospitals and patients to plead authorities for urgent supplies.On Saturday, a local court sanctioned the release for medical use of 48 cylinders containing 2,300 litres of medical oxygen that the southwest district police seized on Friday from a person in Dashrath Puri near Sagarpur.“Any hospital or NGO that needs the oxygen may approach us with a request letter, along with an affidavit attesting that they will return the cylinders after use. The cylinders will remain with us as case property,” said Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (southwest).Considering the severity of the pandemic, case property seized in these cases, which may save lives, can be released in favour of the rightful owner or, alternatively, it may be handed over to someone who may need it, said senior advocate Vikas Pahwa.“These injections can also be sold to government hospitals and nursing homes. A magistrate has the power to decide this application at the preliminary stage of the case itself,” he said.Meanwhile, the police on Monday evening arrested two people, one of whom is a nurse who works at a private hospital in Rohini, for allegedly illicitly selling remdesivir injections.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said they arrested Sudhir (who goes by a single name) and seized two vials of the injection. He was to deliver the two for ₹60,000 each to the complainant.“The role of the nurse emerged upon further investigations. She has been apprehended because Sudhir bought the injections for ₹38,000 each from her,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-ask-court-to-release-remdesivir-vials-seized-from-black-marketeers-give-them-to-hospitals-101619465828726.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: Final year MBBS, PG students to be deputed in Haryana, says Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday said MBBS and final-year postgraduate (PG) students will also be deputed to overcome the challenges of the fast spreading virus. Admitting that the state government needed more doctors to deal with the massive surge in the Covid-19 infection, Vij has also requested the Haryana Indian Medical Association (IMA) to come forward and help the state in this “Corona crisis.” “Haryana IMA is humbly requested to come forward...We want to create extra Covid hospitals at places of need and for that we are in need of more doctors. Please come forward,” Vij had tweeted on Monday morning. After reviewing the state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting, the health minister said the state government employees suffering from Covid infection would be provided the cashless treatment facility in private hospitals. The government has decided to deploy 20 vehicles each of Dial 112 in all districts so that these vehicles can be used as ambulances and facilitate critical patients to reach the hospitals on time. The big industries, vij said, have been directed to convert industrial oxygen into medical oxygen to meet the needs of the state. In order to overcome the shortage of oxygen cylinders in the state, industries would have to deposit their cylinders with the concerned deputy commissioners, otherwise their cylinder stocks will be acquired. The home minister further said that all the private and government hospitals of the state have been directed to set up their own oxygen plants so that oxygen shortage can be avoided in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-final-year-mbbs-pg-students-to-be-deputed-in-haryana-says-vij-101619467700162.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||IIT KGP: Video emerges of prof allegedly abusing SC, ST students, institute promises action||An associate professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT KGP) who verbally abused students purportedly belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities and those with physical disabilities during a preparatory class is likely to face institutional action after videos of her online classes went viral on social media, following which student bodies sought her termination for alleged casteist slurs. The recordings, which are under review of the institute, were posted on Sunday afternoon anonymously on the confessions page of IIT KGP, an informal group of students on social media. The clips are of online preparatory classes taught by Seema Singh, a professor of English from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences, which were attended by several students and parents. In it she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at them. The Mumbai chapter of the Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle (APPSC)—a student organisation with chapters in various IITs -- demanded that the professor be terminated and booked under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. “She is in complete cognisance of her actions and proclaims immunity from any disciplinary actions and consequences,” said APPSC in a statement. IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath said that the institute was reviewing the veracity of the videos and the claim that she made casteist slurs, brought forward by student bodies. “The incident has come to our notice. We are reviewing the veracity of the claims. The institute does not tolerate such behaviour. Action will be taken,” he said. Singh remained unreachable for comments.The institute’s director Virendra Kumar Tewari also did not respond to calls, messages and emails. “[Tewari] has expressed his support to the students and their parents during an online meeting on Monday evening. Meanwhile the professor concerned has been referred to a review committee,” an official from the institute said on the condition of anonymity. The official confirmed that the video was of the preparatory classes taken for students belonging to SC/ST communities and persons with disability (PWDs). However, the students that HT reached out to refused to comment on the video as they were afraid of possible repercussions. HT has not been able to independently verify the video.IITs offer preparatory courses for two semesters to aspirants of SC and ST communities as well as PWDs. The preparatory courses are offered against vacant seats reserved for the students who missed out on admissions through the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE). At the end of the two semesters, the students can either take the JEE again or seek admission based on their performance during the preparatory course. In the video clips, Singh can be heard verbally abusing both students and their parents for not attending classes, and keeping their cameras switched off during the class. Singh also castigated a student for sending an email stating that they would not be able to attend the class for a few days due to the death of their grandparent. “The professor at IIT KGP is all-powerful… What I have to do, I will do. You can go to ministry of women and child. Go to ministry of SC, ST and minorities (sic). Nothing can prevent me from doing what I have to do to you,” Singh can be heard telling the students in one of the clips. It was not immediately clear whether the recordings were of the same class, or of different classes. “The words used by her such as “dumb” and “bastard” have casteist connotations, especially since she uses them in plural. There is an inherent assumption that students belonging to the reserved categories are somehow lacking merit,” said a member of the APPSC, IIT Bombay chapter. The APPSC has also demanded that a permanent SC, ST, Other Backward Classes cell be set up at IIT KGP and other IITs, which will act as anti-discrimination cell to take action against “structural forms of caste discrimination”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-kgp-video-emerges-of-prof-allegedly-abusing-sc-st-students-institute-promises-action-101619467699115.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Permission process for holding gatherings simplified in Haryana||The Haryana government has simplified and sped up the process of seeking permission for holding public events. Now, organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions, and other congregations will simply have to submit their application to the office of the deputy commissioner (DC) as a hard copy or through e-mail. The financial commissioner (revenue) and additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal said the office of the DC will forward the soft copy of application to the commissioner of police, superintendent of police, deputy superintendent of police, sub-divisional magistrate, and municipal corporation, council or committee concerned on the same day for obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC). If the office concerned does not have an objection, they would provide their NOC by 11am the next day by e-mail. In case any office fails to provide the objection on the application by 11am, the application would be deemed to have been cleared and permission will be issued to the applicant without any delay, said Kaushal. As per the current Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Haryana government, organisers of public gatherings would have to take prior permission of district magistrates. No entry In view of the increasing risk of Covid spread, the Haryana government has banned the entry of all visitors to the New Haryana Civil Secretariat, Sector 17, Chandigarh, for a week. An order to this effect was issued by financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal. Those seeking an appointment have been advised to fix discussion with the officers concerned through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/permission-process-for-holding-gatherings-simplified-inharyana-101619467461021.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||TISS to give extra time to complete academic work to students affected by Covid||Taking into consideration the current situation, the management of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) has reached out to all their first-year students and given them a concession on completion of fieldwork, examination and project submission. This concession, said authorities, is only for students affected by Covid-19.“We are fully cognisant of some serious challenges that some of you are currently facing, and would like to accommodate such situations, as much as possible, keeping in mind your overall academic interests,” said a statement signed by dean of academic affairs PK Shajahan. Through its statement, the institute has urged students to try and complete their academic work within the scheduled time, especially those who are capable to do so. It further states that students who cannot complete their semester requirements before May 25 are requested to inform their course heads, while those with serious limitations in completing the required academic work by May can do so by June 15 and after careful assessment of the cases may be granted concession in regular submission of work.“Any submission or completion of academic work after June 15 will be accepted on a strictly case to case basis with due documentation...on successful completion of and assessments, the student will be allowed to move to the next semester. It is to be noted that in such cases, students will have to meet the academic requirements of the new semester in addition to the pending completions,” said the statement.In case of courses with compulsory field work and internships, necessary steps will be taken by the dean or program coordinators in the future, said Shajahan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tiss-to-give-extra-time-to-complete-academic-work-to-students-affected-by-covid-101619467459641.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Aujla writes to PM, bats for importing oxygen from Pak||Amid acute shortage of medical oxygen due to surge in Covid cases, Amritsar member of Parliament (MP) Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Monday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to import the life-saving gas from Lahore in Pakistan, especially for hospitals in the border belt.“The government of Pakistan and Edhi Foundation have offered help to India in its fight against Covid, and it should be welcomed,” the letter reads.“Amritsar is around 350km from Panipat (nearest oxygen plant) and just 50km from Lahore. The daily requirement of oxygen in government and private hospitals in Amritsar is around 30 MT whereas the allocated quota for Punjab is too less. Amritsar is presently receiving oxygen supplies from Panipat in truck-tankers, which is not a reliable system of uninterrupted supply,” he said. “I urge you (PM) to consider accepting the help offered by Pakistan. Arrangements should be made for the purchase and transportation of oxygen from Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border,” reads the letter.The supply of imported oxygen can cater to Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran and other districts of Punjab, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aujla-writes-to-pm-bats-for-importing-oxygen-from-pak-101619467400511.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Aadhaar card must for walks beyond limit: Aurangabad high court||Mumbai: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court said on Monday that it was averse to directing the supply of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and medical oxygen to specific districts, and asked that the state and Centre ensure timely supply following the laid down distribution plan. The division bench of justices Ravindra Ghuge and Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation on the Covid-19 situation in Northern Maharashtra and Marathwada region. “We are not intending to grab share of Remdesivir injections, medical oxygen from any other district in Maharashtra. In our order, we ask the state and centre to follow their distribution policy and ensure timely supply,” the bench stated. Last week, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC had directed the state government to provide 10,000 vials of Remdesivir within eight hours of passing the order, and also pulled up the Centre for reducing the supply of medical oxygen from 110 metric tonnes (MT) to 60 MT from a Bhilai-based oxygen manufacturer, causing a shortfall of 100 MT of medical oxygen to Nagpur and other Vidarbha districts. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay HC issued further directions on movement of people during the holy month of Ramzan and also made it mandatory for everyone who ventured out beyond the hours permitted during the lockdown (7am to 11am), to carry their Aadhar card, failing which an offence would be registered against the errant persons. “Barring relaxation of four hours, any person using vehicle during restriction period shall carry Aadhar card with him, failing which concerned road traffic police would register offence against such persons. We do not find any difficulty that even doctors and medical staff should carry their Aadhar card with them.” The court made an exception from 5pm to 8 pm for Ramzan and directed the police authorities to not take action suggested by the court against such persons. The court however added that the exception would be applicable only till Ramazan not beyond it. The directions which are an addition to the existing SOPs are applicable to citizens, officials and public representatives of 13 districts from Marathwada and North Maharashtra. The HC also came down heavily on politicians who were providing parallel medical services like the state and also pulled up public representatives who shielded lockdown rule violators. The Court also directed a clamp down on black-marketing and profiteering resorted to by some individuals while facilitating the funeral rites of Covid-19 victims. The division bench observed that while within the court premises everyone wears masks and exercises precaution, beyond its walls there is anarchy as people did not wear masks and three to four people are seen riding on a motorcycle. “We as citizens, if we show some loyalty to our place and decide not to go out, it would help. We see college students in Aurangabad are loitering on road despite colleges are closed. Before blaming government, society should also do its duty,” said the bench. “Prima facie makes us form view that residents under our jurisdiction need to practice restraint and discipline,” noted the bench and said, The PIL was instituted by the bench following numerous reports of the problems being faced by people during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is reported that person in charge of funeral ghats are seeking bribes for performing the last rites. In some places kerosene or petrol is used for setting the funeral pyre. Wood that is being used for performing the final rites is being sold at exorbitant prices which amount to black marketing. All divisional commissioners are to erect electric crematoriums. There shall be a constant check of the concerned authorities to ensure that the relatives of the dead person and monies are not extracted from them for performing funeral.” On the allegation of ‘illegal’ procurement of Remdesivir by an Ahmednagar MP which was being distributed parallel to the state government facilities and a prayer seeking confiscation of such injections, HC said it would deal with the aspect on April 29. “Meantime, respondent authorities are at liberty to take effective steps, as they would have taken in the event of such eventuality and do what a call of duty demands them to do,” said the bench. With regards to media reports of adulteration of the Remdesivir drug and unauthorized seeling of the same the bench said, “Person involved in adulteration of Remdesivir injections shall be booked under the relevant provisions of IPC and criminal offences shall be registered against them.” The court added that if any employee of state or state instrumentalities was involved in such acts criminal offences be registered against such persons. Establishment may initiate disciplinary inquiry against them.” The court also took cognizance of politicians, people’s representative and authorities exerting pressure or influence on any police officer or law enforcing agency from extricating any violator from being booked and said that such person, shall also be booked for offences punishable for causing interference in the discharge of duties by public servants. It shall also apply to public servant who is not on duty, the bench noted. Bombay HC (principal seat) > On April 22, a bench led by the chief justice of the Bombay HC hearing a PIL filed by a city lawyer issued a slew of directions to the Centre, state and civic authorities to ensure that Remdesivir was available > It ordered an increase of RT-PCR testing laboratories to avoid delay in receiving test results >Asked authorities to create awareness about the availability of beds, oxygen and Remdesivir through print and electronic media as well as through government web portals > The next date of hearing is May 4 Bombay HC (Nagpur bench) >On April 21, the bench took cognizance of reports of shortage of Remdesivir drug and oxygen in Vidarbha region and directed the state government to provide 10000 vials of Remdesivir within eight hours of order being passed >In a later hearing, the court ordered requisitioning a oxygen manufacturing plant in a steel factory > It directed authorities of Nagpur and Amravati to requisition empty cylinder with private entities for refilling of medical oxygen > It directed the restoration of 110MT of oxygen supply from a Bhilai-based oxygen supplier which had been reduced following a Central government circular dated April 18 >Next date of hearing on April 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ensure-timely-supply-of-remdesivir-and-medical-oxygen-aurangabad-high-court-101619467399142.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Nod for online assessment for UG medical practicals||Days after the National Medical Commission (NMC) clarified that exams for undergraduate medical courses should continue without any delay, the authorities have allowed virtual invigilation by external coordinators for practical exams. In a statement released late last week, the Postgraduate Medical Education Board (PMEB) of NMC has allowed this concession after many medical universities approached the apex authority with complaints of several teachers declining to be external examiners.“The board has therefore decided to permit examiners from outside the state to participate in the practical examination process through video conferencing. The two internal examiners, who may be from the same institute or from different institutions under the same university, should be physically present,” said a statement released by the PMEB on April 22.Last week, days after the Maharashtra state government postponed second and third year UG medical exams owing to increasing Covid-19 cases, the NMC released an advisory for medical institutions asking them to conduct second-year exams as well as supplementary exams for first and second semesters offline.“The universities are advised to adhere to the existing norms for conducting theory exams. However, considering the risk stratification of the areas where medical colleges are located, all necessary precautions, including staggering of small batches must be adhered to,” stated the circular dated April 19, released by the Undergraduate Medical Education Board of NMC. However, after receiving contradictory views from several states regarding conducting of physical exams for students in the current scenario, NMC also released a disclaimer in its latest circular. “The concerned universities may decide the time and the method of the examination taking into consideration the pandemic situation in the area,” stated the latest circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nod-for-online-assessment-for-ug-medical-practicals-101619467339144.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||City sees lowest daily Covid cases in a month||The city on Monday reported 3,840 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest in one month, with a positivity rate of 13% and 28,328 tests. Despite the drop, the city may not see relaxation of curbs, indicated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, maintaining they are preparing for the third wave. On March 23, the city had reported around 3,500 cases. Starting March 24, the city saw cases between 5,500 and around 11,000. The positivity rate which was around 10% in March went up to 26%. However, for one week, it is between 13% and 17%. Also, the testing has gone down in the past couple of days, from around 45,000 to 50,000 it went down to as low as 28,328 tests on Monday, but the positivity rate has remained stagnant. Mumbai reported 71 deaths on Monday. The city’s case tally is 631,484 and toll is 12,861. The recovery rate is 86%, with 544,958 recoveries. The fatality rate in the city is 2.03% and there are 72,230 active cases in the city. Dharavi, the city’s former hot spot, reported 25 cases on Monday taking the total to 6,350. There are 970 active cases in Dharavi and 5,036 have been discharged. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in an interview with CNBC TV 18 on Monday said, “Restrictions are common for the entire state of Maharashtra. But still in many parts of the state, especially Vidarbha, cases are still increasing. Unless things become better in the state, the government can’t think of easing restrictions. This is because you cannot have an island of fewer restrictions...We have seven jumbo centres in the city that have around 9,000 beds, and now we are working to have four more jumbo centres. We are preparing for a third wave, if it comes in June, July or August.” Chahal said second wave started on February 10, 2021, and the total number of cases reported in this is 3.09 lakh followed by deaths at 1,319. This, Chahal added, means mortality rate for second wave is 0.4%, which is lowest in the world. Chahal shared this message in his broadcast message hinting that BMC is on bed capacity augmentation mode despite cases going down. Industrialist Anand Mahindra tweeted: “More good news from Mumbai that people—around the world—should see. A report from BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. Evidence that crisis management skills are alive & well. Thumbs up for the preparation for any 3rd wave.”HT reported on Monday that Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the flattening of the curve has started in the city. Meanwhile, Reliance Industries in a statement on Monday said that it will manage 650 beds at NSCI Worli Jumbo Covid-19 centre. At Seven Hills Hospital in Marol, it will add 25 additional ICU beds. In a statement it said, “All together Reliance Foundation Hospital will manage 875 beds at NSCI Worli, Seven Hills and Trident Hotel in BKC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-sees-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-a-month-101619467279061.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||BJP says MVA failed to utilise central aide; Congress calls it a lie||A day after leader of Opposition in state Assembly and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis said the Central government provided oxygen supply of 1,784 metric tonnes (MT) to Maharashtra, state Congress called it a “blatant lie”. The Congress said the Centre has been giving only 345MT oxygen a day to the state, while the list of companies released by Fadnavis comprises ones which are in Maharashtra producing oxygen for years.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said besides its own production capacity of 1,250 MT, Maharashtra is getting 345MT oxygen a day from four states after the Central government’s intervention. “We have been getting 110MT from Bhillai (Chhattisgarh), 50MT from Bellary (Karnataka), 125MT from Jamnagar (Gujarat), and 60MT from Vizag (Andhra Pradesh) in addition to our own generation of 1,250 MT every day. This takes the total daily supply to 1,595MT, but Fadnavis has been claiming that the Centre has been providing 1,784MT oxygen daily to Maharashtra. Fadnavis, in his bid to give the credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has lied and misguided the people of Maharashtra,” Sawant said.Fadnavis on Sunday tweeted a list of plants from which Maharashtra has been getting oxygen and added, “Thank you Hon PM@narendramodiji for such strong support to citizens of Maharashtra. Maharashtra got allotment of 1,784MT oxygen supply which is more than double as compared to any of the major states including Gujarat, UP, Karnatka, MP.” On Monday, while interacting with media after inaugurating a jumbo Covid centre at Andheri, he said, “Leaders from Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government keep targeting the Centre, but it’s a fact that Maharashtra has been given more than double the allocation than any other state. Similarly, Maharashtra has been given 435,000 vials of Remdesivir and 1,100 ventilators by the Centre.”The Congress trained guns on the BJP for its claim that MVA government failed to install pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants from ₹201 crore allocated by the Centre in January this year. “Of 153 plants planned by the Centre, 33 are under the process of erection, but none of them are completed yet. The plants are being installed by Central Medical Supply Store controlled by ministry of health and family affairs. It is the failure of the Centre for not being able to erect even a single plant, despite of which BJP is targeting the MVA government,” Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said.He also demanded action against BJP leader Prasad Lad under the Disaster Management Act for spreading false information and alleging corruption in the government.On Sunday Lad had slammed the Uddhav Thackeray government for its failure in utilising the funds allocated by the Centre for PSA plants. “Modi government had in January 2021 released ₹201 crore to set up 10 oxygen plants in Maharashtra. Five months on, the state government could not even utilise it properly when oxygen is much needed to treat Covid-19 patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-says-mva-failed-to-utilise-central-aide-congress-calls-it-a-lie-101619467219034.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police to set up Covid care centres with oxygen facility for its personnel||Amid a fresh spike in Covid cases, the Haryana Police have decided to set up Covid care centres with 10 to 25 beds with oxygen support at police lines. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting presided over by the director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava on Monday. Emphasising on creating back-up facilities for police personnel, the DGP said that these Covid Care Centres will either be established in welfare centres or newly built quarters in police lines. Keeping in view the district strength, commissioners of police (CPs) and district superintendents of police (SPs) will setup the facilities within three days. These facilities will be for immediate relief till the time the infected personnel can get admitted to Covid hospitals. In addition, tele-medicine facilities will also be provided at the centres. As many as 46,965 police personnel have taken their first dose of vaccine, while 27,296 have taken the second dose. During the meeting, the DGP and all other senior police officers mourned the demise of Ashok Dahiya, DSP posted at Badli in Jhajjar district. He was infected with Covid and was under treatment at Badsha AIIMS. Two minutes of silence were also observed to pay homage to the departed soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-with-oxygen-facility-for-its-personnel-101619467168510.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra students urge government to cancel HSC exams||A few days after the Maharashtra government announced the cancellation of Class 10 (SSC) exams in the state, students of Class 12 (HSC) are now requesting the government to give them a similar relief. Over the past few days, several students have taken to social media requesting that HSC exams be cancelled in view of the surge in Covid-19 infections and the resultant lockdown in the state. On Sunday, the Maharashtra Students Welfare Association, a statewide body of students, wrote to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad to consider alternate methods of assessment and cancel offline exams. “HSC exams have already been postponed several times. If the situation worsens, in the coming days, postponement or conduct of offline exams will not be a good option,” states the letter. Students have requested the education department to consider alternate methods of assessments, such as internal assessments, online exams or promoting all students to the next class. “The safety of students is of foremost importance as the government has been saying repeatedly. Then why is it not cancelling exams when it is almost certain that physical exams cannot be held in such circumstances?” asked a student. Over 1.7 million students write SSC exams in the state every year while around 1.5 million appear for HSC exams. “If CBSE decides to cancel Class 12 exams, it will be easier for the state board to do so as then there would be equivalence. Hence everyone is waiting for a decision,” said an official from the state education department.On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June. However, following CBSE’s decision to cancel Class 10 exams and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB, there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-students-urge-government-to-cancel-hsc-exams-101619467169000.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Around 500,000 left Maharashtra in special trains since April 1||More than 500,000 people, mostly migrant workers, have left Maharashtra in special summer trains operated by Central and Western Railways since April 1. The two zonal railways operated over 330 special trains between April 1 and April 20. Majority of the special trains are being operated towards North and North-east India, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and West Bengal. Of the 500,000, about 300,000 were from Mumbai. “I had stayed back while my friends left when the lockdown was announced. However, I left for my hometown in Uttar Pradesh. I will return only when the situation becomes normal. I left by train as train tickets were available, unlike 2020,” said Noor Alam, a sales boy working in a garment shop in Kurla.The railways are presently permitting passengers to travel only if they have confirmed tickets. Railway officials say they would continue to release special trains whenever there is high demand, which is a standard practice during the holiday season. “Apart from running regular specials we are running summer specials for North and East India. So far, we have run more than 330 summer specials in April this year from various stations of Central Railway and carried more than 500,000 passengers. Additional specials are being planned as per requirement,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. There is also a significant number of migrants coming to Mumbai from rural parts of Maharashtra, but currently the services to destinations within the state are suspended due to low occupancy and restriction on travel within Maharashtra. Inter-city trains including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Pune, CSMT-Manmad, Pune-Nagpur and CSMT-Latur railway stations have been suspended.Under its Break The Chain lockdown measures, the Maharashtra government has restricted inter-city and inter-district travel until absolutely urgent.For the city, no travel by public or private transport will be allowed unless for essential services, medical reasons and vaccination. Passengers requiring medical treatments or the specially-abled along with one person to accompany; central, state and local government personnel; and medical staff including doctors, paramedics, lab technicians, hospital and medical clinic staff are allowed to travel by local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/around-500-000-left-maharashtra-in-special-trains-since-april-1-101619467099082.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 98, Punjab sees highest single-day deaths this year||Punjab on Monday reported 98 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the coronavirus this year, pushing the death toll to 8,530, according to a medical bulletin. The earlier high this year was 92 deaths, reported on April 24.According to the bulletin, Punjab reported 6,318 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 3,45,366.The state also registered the highest-ever single-day positivity rate of 13.41%, with 6,318 people testing positive out of 47,091 samples tested on Monday. Punjab had earlier reported the highest single-day rate of 12% on April 15. A maximum of 14 deaths were reported in Patiala, followed by 11 each in Amritsar and Mohali, 10 in Ludhiana, seven each in Gurdaspur and Hoshhiarpur, six in Jalandhar, three each in Muktsar and Pathankot and two each in Fazilka, Moga and Ferozepur, according to the bulletin. Among the fresh cases, a maximum of 753 were detected in Ludhiana, 749 in Mohali, 658 in Jalandhar, 468 in Bathinda, 456 in Patiala, 415 in Patiala, 251 in Hoshiarpur, 222 in Pathankot, 166 in Kapurthala, 161 in Ferozepur, 154 in Sangrur, 149 in Faridkot, 147 in Rupnagar, 112 in Moga, 57 in Fatehgarh Sahib and 49 in Barnala, according to the bulletin. The number of active cases rose from 48,154 on Sunday to 49,894, the bulletin said. A total of 4438 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,86,942, it said.There are 22 critical patients who are on ventilator while 13 are admitted to the ICU, the bulletin said. A total of 69,96,890 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Every second sample tested in Mansa found positive Mansa district, which witnessed 382 fresh cases on Monday, registered the highest positivity rate of 58.86%. Every second person tested for the virus in Mansa was found to be positive, according to the bulletin. Muktsar recorded the second-highest positivity rate of 25.05%, followed by 24.16% in Tarn Taran. These districts witnessed 277 and 253 fresh cases, respectively, and every third persons tested was infected. Mohali also showed a high positivity rate of 23.53%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-98-punjab-sees-highest-single-day-deaths-this-year-101619466980496.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination Day 101: No end to chaos, woes in Mumbai||Nalin Mehta, 58, who went to take his second dose at a private hospital in Parel on Monday was turned away, saying that vaccines are in short supply. Ten kilometres away, Mohit Patil had to stand in a queue for two hours at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre to take his second dose. This was the scene across Mumbai, on the 101st day of the vaccination drive which kicked off on January 16, as many above the age of 45 rushed to get their doses. The reason: the government has announced that in its third phase from May 1, all citizens aged above 18 years would be allowed to get vaccinated. “It will be chaos and mad rush from May 1 once the new set of people is allowed,” said Patil. He was taking his first dose as many of his neighbours were testing positive. The relatives of 73-year-old Bharti Shah were anxious as her second dose appointments have been getting cancelled at private hospitals for the past seven days. “She had stopped her blood thinners for four days, but it extended to eight days. Our family doctor warned that she should take her vaccine fast as she cannot afford to be without the tablets for days together,” said her daughter Pinky Parikh. “We went to multiple centres but they were either closed or there was a waiting period of four hours. As my mother suffers from a lung ailment, it was not possible for her to stand for so long,” added Parikh. On Monday, many centres turned citizens away citing lack of vaccines while many who were open also exhausted their stock by the day. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal talking to the media said, “In the past eight to 10 days, there have been hiccups in the supply and it has been erratic. This has made people restless. In addition, there were many who did not make up their minds for the past few months, but are now rushing to get vaccinated.” Chahal said the situation will be eased as the whole process is decentralised. “We have 227 wards and we will open vaccination centres in each ward. Each ward has a population of approximately 50,000 people and this will speed up the process,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-day-101-no-end-to-chaos-woes-in-mumbai-101619466979110.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Test report not essential for hospitalisation: Govt tells Delhi High Court||A patient with “steady” symptoms of Covid-19 does not need an RT-PCR test report to get admitted to a hospital in Delhi, the government submitted to the high court on MondayAnuj Aggarwal, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh that the government issued an order on April 23, directing the hospitals that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment in an area dedicated for suspected cases, and no patient should be denied treatment.“It has been informed that many patients with clinical presentation of Influenza-like illness with RT-PCR negative are reporting to hospitals with moderate to severe disease. Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are denying them admission for want of a positive RT-PCR test. Hospitals are hereby directed that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment as per protocol in a dedicated area to be kept for suspected cases,” the Delhi government order read, adding that no patient requiring medical aid should be denied treatment”.The submission by the Delhi government came during a hearing on a petition by Jaideep Ahuja seeking directions to the government to order hospitals not to insist on Covid-positive reports to hospitalise patients who show symptoms of the disease.The petitioner told the bench that the Uttar Pradesh government has a direction that hospitals should not insist on RT-PCR positive test reports for admitting patients.The petitioner cited two instances when patients, both lawyers, were not admitted to hospitals because they did not have the Covid-19 positive report despite showing severe symptoms of Covid. The reports of both the patients were held up at the labs and were not available to them.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, who was representing the Delhi government, told the court that an order has been issued and hospitals have been strictly asked to comply with the directions.Following this, the bench asked the government to widely publicise the order and ensure that it is scrupulously followed by the hospitals. The court also requested the Delhi government to increase the number of RT-PCR testing centres and to put in place the necessary infrastructure to streamline the sample collection process.The direction was issued by the court after several lawyers told the bench that they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were saying they will carry out sample collection after 2-3 days. They contended that the number of daily tests have gone down to around 60,000 from the over one lakh tests that were being conducted earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/test-report-not-essential-for-hospitalisation-govt-tells-delhi-high-court-101619465822379.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra clocks 1.5 million Covid cases in 26 days; dip likely in 15 days||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 48,700 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 4,343,727. The comparatively low cases can be attributed to less number of tests as the state conducted 222,475 tests in the past 24 hours, as compared to 289,525 tests on Sunday and 286,412 on Saturday.The tally of active cases reduced to 674,770 as 71,736 recoveries were reported in a day, which comes to 15.53% of the total cases reported till date.Death toll breached the 65,000-mark as 524 casualties were reported on Monday, taking tally to 65,284. Mumbai reported the highest toll with 71 deaths, followed by Aurangabad city with 57 deaths.The surge in Covid-19 cases has continued in Maharashtra for more than two months. And the state has recorded more than one-and-a-half million cases (1,530,663) in the past 26 days and the figure is likely to reach close to two million cases by the end of this month, officials said.To contain the spread, the state imposed partial lockdown from April 14 and complete lockdown from April 22, but its effect is yet to reflect in daily cases as they continue to hover around 60,000 to 67,000 over the past few days, except Monday.While Mumbai, which was contributing the maximum cases in daily figures, has seen a dip in new cases, the numbers of the state is yet to come down. In the city, daily cases have reduced by 4,000-5000 a day. On April 14, the city reported 9,931 cases, whereas on Sunday 5,498 cases were recorded.Officials said the districts contributing a high number of daily cases have yet to register decline. Besides, peak in cases have come late in a few districts. Officials said these are the two major reasons preventing improvement in average daily cases of the state.Pune district and city showed some improvement as cases reduced to 7,929 on April 25, from 9,943 on April 18. However, there is also a slight rise in cases since April 22 when 7,388 cases were recorded, pointed out a senior official from the state health department. On Monday, it recorded 4,877 cases.Nagpur, including the city and district, has also not shown any improvement with daily cases hovering around 8,000 for the past few days. On Sunday, it reported 7,948 cases and 5,879 cases on Monday.Nashik, too, is contributing around 5,000 cases each day. On Sunday and Monday, 4,756 and 4,778 cases were reported, respectively. It saw a slight dip on Monday with 4,437 cases.Aurangabad, Satara, Chandrapur, and Yavatmal districts also have been seeing a rise in cases in the past few days.In Aurangabad, cases have increased to 1,853 on Sunday from 1,191 cases on April 21. In Satara, daily cases rose to 1,879 on Sunday from 1,175 on April 19. Chandrapur is experiencing a spike with 1,823 cases recorded on Sunday, whereas on April 20, the district clocked 1,106 cases. Daily cases in Yavatmal jumped to 1,539 on Sunday from 549 cases as on April 19, according to the data released by the state health department.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical Covid-19 patients, said it will take around 15 days for the daily numbers of the state to come down. “As per the early trend, the cases in Mumbai have started reducing, but there are many districts in the state that are experiencing a peak in cases in the last few days. As a result, the average daily cases of the state is not declining. The peak in those areas is likely to last for another 15 days, till then the state’s daily tally may not come down,” said Dr Pandit, who is also the director of critical care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund.Though the city is showing fall in daily cases, the administration should not put their guards down, he stressed.On Monday, Mumbai recorded 3,840 fresh cases and its tally rose to 631,484. The city’s active case count was 72,230.With 5,879 cases, Nagpur recorded the second highest cases across the state. Nagpur city and district recorded 3,799 and 2,080 cases, respectively.Meanwhile, the state set a record of vaccinating over 500,000 beneficiaries on Monday. With this, the state has covered around 14,901,336 beneficiaries till Monday evening. It is expected to cross the 15,000,000-mark of beneficiaries on Tuesday, said Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. Earlier, the state had vaccinated a highest of 462,735 citizens on April 3.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that 442,466 patients recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged in the past six days. On Monday alone, 71,736 patients were recovered, of them a maximum of 13,674 patients are from Pune alone, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-clocks-1-5-million-covid-cases-in-26-days-dip-likely-in-15-days-101619466679643.html
27-04-2021||Other||Mumbai cops stop 19-year-old from ending her life||Tardeo police on Monday rescued a 19-year-old woman who was about to end her life. The woman, who works at an eye clinic, had climbed the fifth floor of a building at Tardeo, Mumbai Central, to end her life when senior police inspector Sanjay Jagtap, assistant police inspector Arun Thorat and their team reached the spot and counselled her.Jagtap said the woman stays in the same building. “She was married six months ago and had visited the police station many times to file complaint against her in-laws for harassment,” said Jagtap. The police had in the past called her in-laws to the police station and warned them. However, she alleged that her harassment continued.On Monday, the woman left her house after her husband left for work and went to the terrace. Some residents then called the police and Gawde climbed to the terrace and stopped her from taking the step. “We succeeded in convincing her. After about 20 minutes of persuasion, she stepped back,” said Jagtap. The police took the woman to hospital for counselling. “We will probe and register a case accordingly,” said Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cops-stop-19-year-old-from-ending-her-life-101619466679035.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Veteran actor from Palghar dies of Covid-19||Veteran dramatist and Marathi stage actor Tukaram Naik died due to Covid-19 in a Covid care hospital at Boisar on Monday morning. He was 79 years old and is survived by his wife, son, and three married daughters.Naik, who retired as principal of a government school in Satpati, Palghar, 21 years ago, is remembered more for his activities regarding theatre. Naik founded a drama society so that drama lovers of Palghar and Thane get to see Marathi classics on stage. He was known for playing the titular role of Natasamrat, famous Marathi play written by late Jnapeeth award winner VV Shirwadkar. He acted in Morushi Mavshi, Aaho Mala Jagaaycha, Vasuchi Sasu, Saujanyachi Aishi Taishi and a host of classic Marathi plays. The actor also directed a few stage plays. He took particular interest in staging plays in mofussil areas of Palghar and Thane districts so that the common man, who cannot afford to pay for costly theatre tickets, could view the classic Marathi plays for free.Naik was admitted at the hospital a few days ago for Covid-19 treatment and died due to complications on Monday morning. His mortal remains were consigned to flames at his ancestral home in Satpati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-veteran-actor-from-palghar-dies-of-covid19-101619466618997.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Free Covid vaccine: NCP’s move spells trouble in Maharashtra govt||The free vaccination announcement by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik has led to friction within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) ruling parties. The Congress has expressed its discontent over the unilateral announcement, while leaders in the Shiv Sena are not very happy with the act of the NCP leader, insiders said.Malik, while speaking to media on the Sunday, said the state government has taken the decision to provide free vaccination to all above 18 years. He said the decision was taken during the state cabinet meeting last Tuesday with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, who gave his nod for the same. Sena leader and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, on Sunday tweeted about the announcement, but deleted them within minutes saying official announcement will be declared by the empowered committee. He said, “I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion about the vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind,” he said.Congress leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Monday expressed his discontent over the announcement, calling it an attempt of grabbing credit. “The Congress has been demanding free vaccination for all since the beginning. We have put up the demand with the CM, and as part of the cabinet, we are part of the deliberation over it. It is uncalled for to announce it for the sake of credit. The Congress is not happy over the unilateral announcement,” he said.When asked for his reaction, Malik on Monday said, “I would not like to comment on Balasaheb Thoratji’s statement.”The Congress believably conveyed their discontent to CM Thackeray. “There is a coordination committee of senior leaders from all three ruling parties. The policy of free vaccination for all is being framed and the group has already had a couple of meetings over it. The CM wants it to be announced on May 1, Maharashtra Day, after formally discussing it in the cabinet meeting in the next two days. In such a backdrop, the premature announcement was uncalled for,” said a Congress leader.The leader added that Aaditya deleted his tweet to avoid breach of protocol by announcing a policy without its formal approval. Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said CM Thackeray will announce the decision.Meanwhile, leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the state government should chalk out a policy instead of making an announcement out of one upmanship. “People will be flocking for the vaccine in the third phase beginning from May 1 and the state government should chalk out a strategy for it. Instead of that, cabinet ministers are busy making announcements, sending out tweets and then deleting it. There is no coordination within the state cabinet. Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, has already announced to vaccinate all free of cost, no question arises of free vaccination by the states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/free-covid-vaccine-ncp-s-move-spells-trouble-in-maharashtra-govt-101619466559609.html
27-04-2021||Other||28-year-old visually-impaired man attacked with blade near Mumbai||A 28-year-old visually-impaired man suffered injuries on his hand after he was allegedly assaulted with a blade following an argument with a railway canteen employee at Ambernath station. The Government Railway Police, Kalyan, have registered a case and are investigating the matter. The complainant, Dilip More, said the argument started after he was charged ₹13 for a samosa paav at the station canteen. More argued with the canteen boy stating that the actual price was ₹11. “On Sunday, I alighted at platform no 2 of Ambernath station along with a friend. We went to buy samosa at the railway canteen. However, the canteen employee charged ₹2 extra for it, so we questioned him. Following an argument, he attacked me with a blade on my right hand, while another worker slapped me.” He then approached the GRP. Shardul Walmiki, senior police inspector, GRP, Kalyan, said, “We have registered a case under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code against Mangal Singh Khushwa, who works in the canteen.”More, an arts graduate, stays in Vangni along with his wife and daughter. As he was unable to find a job, he had to beg on local trains to earn money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28yearold-visually-impaired-man-attacked-with-blade-near-mumbai-101619466559049.html
27-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra hospital fire: Director and CEO to stay in cop custody till Wednesday||The Vasai court on Monday extended the police custody of Vijay Vallabh Hospital chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, till Wednesday. The duo was produced before the court after their custody ended. Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death after a fire broke out on the second floor of the four-storey private hospital in the early hours of Friday.Shah and Pathak were arrested for culpable homicide and other offences after the authorities found that the hospital’s licence was not renewed.“We told the court that we had to search for more [hospital] documents, and hence, the extension of the police custody was needed. In the meantime, a five-member committee headed by Palghar collector Dr Manik Gursal has been formed to probe the incident,” said senior police inspector Pramod Badakh, from crime branch, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate (zone 3). A few fire brigade and Vasai civic body officials are likely to be questioned on the issuance of fire audit certificate, despite the fire sprinkler system not working, said a police source. No official from the civic body or the fire brigade inspected the fire audit certificate, although the check is mandatory after every six months. The fire licence had to be renewed in September 2020, but was renewed only last month, said the police. Also, the hospital converted to a Covid-19 centre in February 2021 without informing the Vasai civic body, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-hospital-fire-director-and-ceo-to-stay-in-cop-custody-till-wednesday-101619466499019.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab soldiers killed in avalanche in Siachen||Two soldiers from Punjab were killed after being hit by an avalanche in Siachen glacier on Sunday. While sepoy Prabhjit Singh hailed from Hakamwala village in Mansa district, sepoy Amardeep Singh was a native of Karamgarh village in Barnala district. Both were serving in 21 Punjab. Prabhjit is survived by his parents and an elder brother and Amardeep by his father and a younger sister. Their mortal remains will reach their native villages from Leh on Tuesday.Punjab chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced ex gratia compensation of ₹50 lakh, along with a government job each to the family of soldiers. Extending his sympathies with the bereaved families, Amarinder said their utmost dedication to defend country’s unity and integrity, even putting their lives to risk would inspire their fellow soldiers to perform their duties with far more devotion and commitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjab-soldiers-killed-in-avalanche-in-siachen-101619466439917.html
27-04-2021||Other||Tigress dead in Yavatmal; toll at 17 in Maharashtra this year||This year, Maharashtra has seen 17 tiger deaths – a surge from just four recorded between January and April 2020 – the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) data revealed. The latest casualty was reported on the night of April 25 at Mangurla village, which falls under the Mukutban range of the Pandharkawda forest division in Yavatmal district. The victim was a four-year-old tigress, pregnant with four cubs, who had been ensnared in a wire trap. Patrolling forest guards found the animal in a cave adjacent to a nullah, with her paws chopped off, around 10.30pm on Sunday. The carcass was sent for an autopsy on Monday morning, the results of which are awaited.“The animal got caught in a wire trap and made its way back to her cave, where she probably passed away from the injuries,” said district forest officer Subash Puranik, under whose jurisdiction the area falls. This year’s tally of tiger deaths is also more than the 14 deaths recorded in the state during all of 2020. At least 11 of the fatalities recorded in the last four months of last year can be attributed to incidents of poaching and suspected poisoning, officials said.In Pandharkawda forest division itself, this is the third incident of poaching reported in a month. On March 23, the carcass of another four-year-old tigress (T7), had been found ensnared in a wire trap at the Maregaon forest range. “Just last week, we rescued another tigress from Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary who had been caught in a wire trap. The animal is currently in a cage recovering from injuries and will be released soon,” said Puranik.The highest number of tiger fatalities this year has been reported from the vicinity of Umred Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary, which lies in Nagpur and Bhandara districts, where a tigress and her cub were found dead due to suspected poisoning earlier this year. Officials, however, emphasised that there is no indication of an organised poaching syndicate in the state.“Tiger deaths have been mainly due to wire snares used by locals to protect their fields from deer or to catch a wild boar. Sometimes, a tiger may inadvertently get caught as well. This year, we have also lost four tigers due to suspected poisoning, and at least three cubs due to territorial fights. There are also some natural deaths,” said BS Hooda, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (wildlife), Nagpur.Kishor Rite, a member of the state board for wildlife, called the trend worrying. “Such a steep rise in tiger deaths calls into question the preparedness of teams on the ground. There is a standard operating procedure which needs to be followed in these cases. Maharashtra has made some progress in dealing with organised poaching syndicates that use more effective steel traps. But the use of wire snares by local populations is rampant and needs to be urgently addressed,” said Rite||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tigress-dead-in-yavatmal-toll-at-17-in-maharashtra-this-year-101619466378965.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Hospital claims oxygen shortage, TMC says supply sufficient||On Monday, Rajesh Shetty, a Waghbil resident in Thane, received a call from Horizon Prime Hospital to make provisions for oxygen. Shetty’s uncle has been admitted to the hospital since the past fortnight. He was told to shift the patient or make arrangements for oxygen.Meanwhile, the patient checked with Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) war room that claimed there was enough oxygen with the said hospital and there was no need to shift. “All through the day, I was busy going back and forth with the hospital staff and TMC to understand the situation. The hospital also gave me in writing that there was an oxygen shortage. However, the treatment was going on,” said Shetty.Meanwhile, Dr Hrushikesh Vaidya, medical director of Horizon Prime Hospital, said, “There is a perennial shortage of oxygen everywhere. We are facing a similar situation, and hence, alerted the patient’s relatives. Those who wish to shift, we are giving them that option.” Vaijanti Deogekar, TMC health officer, said, “We are in the process of conducting an oxygen audit of all the hospitals and Covid centres. In the next three days we shall complete the audit, after which the oxygen issue will be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hospital-claims-oxygen-shortage-tmc-says-supply-sufficient-101619466318983.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||With travel curbs keeping families away, funeral organisers step in to perform last rites||With the death toll from Covid-19 remaining above 300 for the past five days amid the continuing surge in cases, and in view of the restrictions on travel imposed by several countries, many families are unable to perform the last rites of their loved ones, and are instead relying on funeral organisers in the national capital to ensure that their dear ones get a decent farewell.The funeral service providers are not just assisting families in making the arrangements, but in most cases, are also performing the rituals in the absence of family members.The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic across the county -- and the fourth wave in Delhi -- has turned out to be the deadliest one yet with over 25,000 people testing positive for the virus daily and nearly 300 persons dying every day over the past few days.On Sunday, Delhi recorded 350 deaths, while on Saturday it was 357, and on Friday, 348. The average number of Covid-19-related deaths, according to the state health bulletin, in the past week was 304.Given the grave situation, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a non-binding advisory asking people to not go to India even if they are fully vaccinated. Apart from the US, the UK, Singapore and New Zealand have also imposed fresh restrictions on travellers from India or issued advisories against travelling to India following the massive spike in Covid-19 cases. Gulf countries Oman, Kuwait, the UAE and Iran, as well as Canada, have imposed restrictions on passengers arriving from India and will allow only citizens to enter.Several funeral organisers across the city said there has been a surge in the number of requests they are getting for services from people residing abroad or currently stuck in other cities. Officials at Messy funerals, a service provider in Civil Lines, said their phone has been ringing off the hook the past week.Vineeta Messy, the owner of the company, said they have recently completed the last rituals of two elderly persons, aged 76 and 82, who had succumbed to the virus at their home in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad. “Their children are in the US and could not come to India. We got a call from them and when we reached their home, only the domestic help was there with the bodies. We collected the bodies and performed the funeral rituals. We also live streamed the ceremony to the children. There have been so many such requests recently,” she said.“It is difficult to console the family members of a deceased when they are not being able to see the departed one last time,” Messy said.Funeral organisers are offering packages -- ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹20,000 -- which cover services such as organising a hearse van to pick up the body, and arranging materials for the rituals and priests, and finding a crematorium or burial ground where the finals rites will take place. Some of them also provide free service to families who cannot afford the packages.According to several funeral service providers, the number of requests for their services has increased manifold, particularly from foreign clients, in the past two weeks. The requests are coming from the US, the UK, Canada, and even the UAE, organisers said.“Earlier we used to get hardly 50 calls a week for any sort of assistance. But these days, we are getting around 300 calls a day seeking help. We don’t have the resources to cater to all requests. We wish we had more ambulances and staff to serve everyone,” said Daljit Singh of Antim Yatra.The funeral service providers are also getting frequent calls from Covid-19 positive families who cannot participate in the final journey of their loved ones. Cyril Joseph, the owner of the JCJ Funerals in Kalkaji Extension, said they recently performed the funeral of a Covid patient from CR Park whose entire family was also Covid positive. “It was heartbreaking that they could not accompany their father on his last journey. We collected the body and performed the last rites, while live streaming the ceremony to the family. The next day, we also had to pick up the ashes and hand it over to the family,” he said.Antim Yatra, a funeral company in Jantar Mantar Road, will also immerse the ashes of a Covid-19 victim on behalf of a family on Tuesday. “Father of two elderly persons died of Covid and both children also have Covid. We finished the last rites of their father and on Tuesday, we will immerse the ashes by ourselves. This is not a lone case --- there are several such families who are helpless to do anything,” said Singh.For such helpless families, there is no closure. Akshit Sharma, 25, who works with a multimedia company in Pune and is presently Covid positive, had to rope in a funeral service to cremate his aunt who succumbed to the virus in Delhi. “My aunt, 58, always lived alone in Delhi. She never got married or had children. We were like her own kids. It feels devastating that we could not see her for the last time or be there for her last rituals since my family is also Covid positive at present. My father is in a bad shape after losing his sister. We have requested a local temple to keep her ashes till we are able to immerse them,” he said.Officials at several burial grounds and crematoriums also said they have performed several such “lonely” last journeys. Mohammad Shamim, the supervisor of Delhi’s biggest burial ground at ITO, said, “There have been several cases when none was there to even help us put the body in the grave. It feels really bad seeing people die such lonely deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-families-away-due-to-travel-curbs-funeral-organisers-perform-last-rites-101619465816442.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||4 Covid patients die at Thane hospital; kin allege oxygen shortage||Following the death of four patients at Vedant Hospital in Vartak Nagar, Thane early on Monday morning, relatives of patients alleged these deaths were due to lack of oxygen supply in the hospital. Thane district collector has initiated an inquiry into the incident by forming a special committee, led by IAS officer and Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation chief Pankaj Ashiya. The team will consist of officers from the district and the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The relatives gathered at the hospital premises since around 4am and demanded an inquiry into the deaths. Sadhna Patil, relative of 57-year-old Vijay Patil who lost his life on Monday morning, said, “My brother-in-law was admitted to this hospital on Saturday afternoon as he was not feeling well. His Covid test report arrived on Sunday afternoon stating he was positive. When we spoke to him on Sunday night, he said he was okay. But around 4am, we got a call from the hospital staff using the patient’s mobile to inform that my brother-in-law expired. We were shocked and reached the hospital at the earliest, but there was no response or information regarding his health from the hospital staff till 10.30am. We repeatedly called them and also requested them to let us in, but to no avail.” With the presence of mourning relatives, the hospital had to beef up its security around 11am. Additional police were at the spot and civic officials visited the hospital. By noon, all the bodies were taken to the crematorium. Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said, “An inquiry committee has been formed. It will first collect information about patients who lost their lives and the health status since they were admitted at the said hospital. They will find out the reason for their death and the precise time, they will also inquire if their death is related to oxygen supply. If yes, we will find out who is responsible for the same. Moreover, if any medical negligence was involved in the death and the committee will inquire as to who is responsible for the same. It may also look into other details if necessary as part of the inquiry.”Dr Ajay Singh from Vedant Hospital said, “We have an oxygen facility in the hospital. After checking our internal resources if we feel the need for additional oxygen, we ask TMC. We did the same on Monday and made use of the oxygen facility, there was no shortage. In a span of 12 hours, four patients have died and these are Covid-related deaths. We are ready to submit all details or necessary documents to the committee.” Like Patil, there were three others who lost their lives around the same time. “My aunt, Aruna Pashte, 67, was admitted on Sunday evening. We were told by night that her oxygen was around 95 and her condition is stable. However, around 2am we received a call that the patient is critical and on oxygen. Around 4am, we were told she died,” said Roshan Pashte. Eknath Shinde, urban development minister and guardian minister of Thane city, has ordered all government and private hospitals within Mumbai Metropolitan Region to conduct fire, electric and oxygen safety audit. This has to be done under the supervision of the district collector and municipal commissioner through a third-party expert body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-covid-patients-die-at-thane-hospital-kin-allege-oxygen-shortage-101619466200163.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of oxygen in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said there was no shortage of oxygen supply in Haryana.The CM, who was speaking at the sidelines of a meeting with Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, authorities, said the state had sent a proposal to the Union government demanding 240 tonnes of oxygen. “Industrialist Naveen Jindal will also provide us five tonnes of liquid oxygen per day from his manufacturing plant,” Khattar said, while adding that 650 more beds will be provided for Covid patients at PGIMS, Rohtak. “Currently, PGIMS has a facility of 350 beds, which will be increased to 1,000 beds. We will provide 1,250 more beds at different medical colleges in the state. We have identified two spots with a capacity for 500 beds each,” he said.On patients preferring to go to private hospitals, Khattar said the working of private hospitals was being monitored and that they should refrain from admitting more patients than their capacity. The CM said the government had set a quota on the availability of Remdesivir and private hospitals were being closely monitored to check black marketeering of the medicine.The CM also stopped at the oxygen plant at Panipat Refinery to take stock of the situation. “A site has been finalised for setting up a 500-bed Covid hospital on the premises of the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery, adjoining the oxygen plant. The hospital will have 500m direct connectivity for round-the-clock oxygen supply directly from the plant,” Khattar said. Haryana seeks 40 MT O2 supply from Jharkhand
27-04-2021||Other||Mumbai wakes up to second-warmest April morning in 10 years; rain likely this week||The city woke up to an unusually warm morning on Monday, as the minimum temperature recorded was the second-highest reading for April in 10 years. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 27.8 degrees Celsius – the highest since April 28, 2019, when the mercury had reached 28.1 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature, meanwhile, stood at 34.5 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal.IMDs Colaba station also saw above normal minimum temperature on Monday at 27.7 degrees Celsius. “There has been an increase in the temperature as well as humidity in the past couple of days. There is a low-level discontinuity across all of Maharashtra, and coastal regions in the north-west had cloudy conditions, which led to accumulation of heat at night,” said a spokesperson from IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.IMD officials also said that there is a slight chance of rain in Mumbai and Thane districts this week, under the influence of a weather system passing over parts of central India. “Isolated rainfall and thundershowers may be felt in the eastern part of the state. Mumbai may get some drizzle this week, which may cause a day or two of high humidity,” said the spokesperson.“A north-south trough runs from Marathawada to south coastal Tamil Nadu across north interiors of Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence... isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over Maharashtra and remaining parts of south peninsular India during next four-five days is expected,” IMD noted in its operational all-India weather forecast on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-wakes-up-to-second-warmest-april-morning-in-10-years-rain-likely-this-week-101619466138988.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Inspector accuses ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh of cheating, corruption||A serving inspector of Maharashtra police force has levelled serious allegations of corruption against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, in yet another twist to the saga of charges and counter charges that have roiled the department over the past months.Inspector BR Ghadge, posted at Akola, wrote on April 20 , a 14-page complaint (HT has a copy) against Singh to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackerey, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, the Director General of Police Maharashtra, Sanjay Pandey and DG Anti-Corruption Bureau, alleging that while serving as Commissioner of Police, Thane, Singh indulged in several illegal acts and made crores of rupees.Pandey confirmed receipt of the letter: “A complaint has been received by my office and as per legal procedure it is being looked into.”Singh did not answer phone calls and messages seeking comment.Ghadge’s letter claimed that as Thane CP, Singh gave orders to police officers to extricate some influential people from criminal cases registered against them, allegedly in return for huge sums of money.The letter further alleged that Singh accepted ₹50 lakh to ₹1 crore for posting of senior inspectors, and that he insisted on being gifted gold biscuits on Diwali from all zonal DCPs, ACPs and senior inspectors of Thane police .The letter specifically mentions a cheating and forgery case from 2013 where Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation officials gave extra FSI to builders in dead people’s names and claimed that Ghadge was asked to drop the name of 22 government officials from the case. It also mentions the case involving a fake call centre on Mira road and several others.Ghadge alleged that because he refused to drop the case against the 22 in the KDMC case, four false cases were registered against him.Ghadge has furnished details of the FSI case along with his complaint.According to the complaint, Singh bought 21 acres in Sindhudurg district in someone else’s name. He also alleged that Singh was using two government residences at one time, which amounts to criminal misconduct.Inspector Ghadge said that all these complaints were also previously made by him on September 21, 2015, March 17, 2016, May 30, 2016 and June 8, 2016, but that no action was taken. He added in the letter that he has also filed five write in the Bombay High Court in this regard over the years.Singh was removed as commissioner for what the state government claimed was his mishandling of the Antilla explosives case, and the murder of Mansukh Hiran, the man in possession of the vehicle in which the explosives were found, outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen around a week before it was found with the explosives in late February. He himself was subsequently found dead. Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze has been named as the main accused in both cases by the National Investigation Agency. After his removal as commissioner, Singh wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars in the city. He also approached the courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay High Court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, a move that forced Deshmukh’s resignation.Singh is already facing two enquiries being carried out by DGP Sanjay Pandey.In the first, Pandey is checking whether there was any dereliction of duty on part of Singh in not apprising the government about the Antilia bomb scare . The second inquiry pertains to corruption allegations made against him by police inspector Anup Dange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/inspector-accuses-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-of-cheating-corruption-101619465304456.html
27-04-2021||Other||Antilia case, Hiran murder: Papers found in cop’s Mumbai home, office says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday on Monday conducted searches at three places related to suspended Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, who is in in the federal agency’s custody since his arrest on April 23, in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. NIA sources said that the agency has recovered some “incriminating” documents and articles from the three places. The agency also seized Mane’s red Hyundai Creta from his building premises at Malad residence.A senior officer attached to Mumbai crime branch said an NIA team visited Mane’s former desk and cabin at unit 11 of the crime branch at Kandivli. Mane was in-charge of the unit till March 23.“The search was a part of NIA’s ongoing investigation and the officers in the unit cooperated with the agency,” the crime branch officer added.Another NIA team conducted searches at the local arms unit at Marol where Mane was posted at the time of his arrest.NIA officers said they recovered some documents and material from the Marol office and Mane’s residence during the search, which they are scrutinising.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio – with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note – was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. A case was registered at Gamdevi police station on the same day.Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was originally investigating the Antilia case. But after reports emerged of his links with Hiran – who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17 – Vaze was removed from the probe. Hiran went missing on March 4 and a day later his body was found in Retibunder creek at Mumbra. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it to Hiran before the Antilia incident came to light on February 25.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested on March 13. The agency took over the murder case on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in Hiran’s killing too.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh, alleging mismanagement of the case. He subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. When no action was taken, Singh approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the central agency conducted the inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 24.Meanwhile, NIA sources said the six new handkerchiefs, which were found stuffed in Hiran’s mouth when his body was recovered, were purportedly purchased from a vendor outside Kalwa railway station on March 4.The source said NIA has seized CCTV footage capturing a person purchasing the handkerchiefs and he looked like Vaze.NIA has already secured the CCTV footage in which Vaze is seen travelling from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus towards Thane by train in the evening of March 4, although he maintained that he was at the criminal intelligence unit (CIU), which he headed at the time. NIA and Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) officers – who were probing the cases before the federal agency took over – claim that Vaze had met Hiran at Thane before the latter was allegedly kidnapped and smothered in a car at Gaimukh Chowpatty on Ghodbunder Road. His body was later dumped in the creek.The NIA officer said the agency has found technical evidence suggesting that Mane was present in Thane when Mansukh was allegedly smothered. The agency has been scrutinizing Mane’s phone call details to find out who he was in touch with before and after the Antilia scare and Hiran’s murder.NIA has claimed that Mane was purportedly part of the conspiracy hatched to eliminate Hiran. He was present at CIU office on March 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden Scorpio. According to another NIA officer, Vaze had also assured the trader that he would get him out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after the 48-year-old trader refused to take the blame and get arrested in the case.Apart from Vaze and Mane, NIA has also arrested Vaze’s former colleague at CIU, assistant inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-hiran-murder-papers-found-in-cop-s-mumbai-home-office-says-nia-101619465959150.html
27-04-2021||Lucknow||Ventilators gathering dust: MP writes to Yogi Adityanath||Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore has alleged in a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath that ventilators are gathering dust in hospitals when they are required to be used for saving lives.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP also claimed in the letter that the Balrampur hospital administration was not admitting patients in the hospital due to “lack of manpower” and “spoiling” the name of the chief minister by not using these ventilators for saving lives.“Instead of lying unused, these ventilators must be used for saving lives which is the need of the hour,” he further said in the letter.No official of Balrampur hospital was willing to come on record over the issue. Chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “The issue is dealt by the Balrampur hospital administration who decided utilising the resources.”In the letter, the MP also highlighted what he described as the sorry state of treatment in King George’s Medical University.The MP’s letter also said a couple of heads of department never did duty in the wards, but they were busy highlighting themselves in the media.“A number of beds are lying vacant in these departments so there is a need to do the audit of bed occupancy of the last 20 days,” he said.He also said a number of beds were lying vacant on the fourth floor of the Covid hospital in KGMU, where patients can be admitted after arranging oxygen supply for them.Meanwhile, insiders and family members patients alleged only seven of the 28 ventilators in Balrampur Hospital were operational.A resident of Golaganj, whose mother is admitted in Balrampur Hospital in a serious condition, said, “I am surprised that despite having a number of ventilators, the hospital is operating just seven of them. The patients who require ventilators are left at the mercy of God. It seems human lives have no value.”A hospital insider said, “Yes, as many as 28 ventilators arrived in the hospital last year after the onslaught of corona, but they are lying unused because no one was trained to operate them, and no one wanted to take responsibility for operating these ventilators during such testing times.”People familiar with matter said Lokbandhu Hospital had 18 ventilators but only four of them were operational because the hospital did not have the trained manpower to use these hi-tech ventilators which could save a number of lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ventilators-gathering-dust-mp-writes-to-yogi-adityanath-101619465311283.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine shortage hits drive in Haryana’s Panchkula district||As the district is witnessing a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, the vaccination drive has slowed down due to shortage of supply.The district health department has administered 1,35,118 doses to date, of which 27,388 persons have received the second dose.Despite a promising start, the vaccine drive has been lagging in the district. Authorities attribute this slowdown to a shortage of vaccine supply and health workers getting overworked and infected with the virus.The authorities are now unsure whether they will be able to expand the vaccination drive among persons in the 18-45 years of age category.Number of jabs reduced to one-thirds In the beginning of April, over 3,000 persons were vaccinated daily at around 35 vaccination sites; the number reduced to around 1,000 in the last two days, and even the sites are limited to 14, with only one site for the entire urban Panchkula.“Covishield is almost over. We are left with around 2,000 doses, which will get over in a day or two. And we have kept Covaxin for people requiring a second dose. We are left with around 11,000 doses,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, immunisation officer, Panchkula.She added that they were awaiting a stock of vaccines by April 28.When asked about the reduction in the number of sites, Dr Meenu said this would ensure “the existing doses of vaccine can be used judiciously without much wastage. At the moment, every dose of vaccine matters.”“Also, most of our staff is testing positive,” she added. This month, 37 health workers have tested positive.A lot of chaos was witnessed at the community centre in Sector 12 A, which is the only vaccination centre for urban Panchkula. “The load has increased manifold as people from other cities are also approaching Panchkula for vaccination. There is no need to panic,” Dr Meenu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-shortage-hits-drive-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-101619465120032.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding challans see ninefold jump this year in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh traffic police have issued 14,804 challans for speeding this year, up from 1,636 fines imposed in the corresponding period in 2020. The ninefold jump points towards better enforcement and comes at a time when uniform speed limits have been notified for the city roads to further facilitate awareness and implementation.Palak Goel, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration), attributes the jump to the installation of automatic number plate recognition systems and issuing of traffic violation information slips since May last year. “We appeal to all motorists to stick to the speed limits for their own safety, or else action will be taken,” she says.Meanwhile, the number of challans issued in April has seen a drop as traffic police are awaiting the installation of signage with new speed limits before resuming the drive. Even last year, the number of challans had plunged to just four in April amid restrictions on vehicular movement due to the Covid-19 lockdown.As far as the new speed limits are concerned, not all people are on board. Harman Sidhu, president of the NGO ArriveSafe NGO and member of the UT Road Safety Council, has written to the administrator to increase the speed limits. “A 5% cut in speed can lead to a 30% reduction in road fatalities, as per the World Health Organisation. All roads don’t have pavements and to drive on sector roads at 40km/hour while pedestrians are also walking on the same stretch can lead to many accidents,” he said.Light motor vehicles and two-wheelers are fined ₹1,000 for the first offence while medium and heavy vehicles are fined ₹2,000. For subsequent offences, the fines are ₹1,500 for two-wheelers, ₹2,000 for light motor vehicles and ₹4,000 for medium and heavy vehicles. Even the driver’s licence is suspended for three months on second and subsequent offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-challans-see-ninefold-jump-this-year-in-chandigarh-101619464700585.html
27-04-2021||Other||Test report not essential for hospitalisation: Govt tells Delhi HC||New Delhi: A patient with “steady” symptoms of Covid-19 does not need an RT-PCR test report to get admitted at a hospital in Delhi, the government submitted to the high court on Monday Anuj Aggarwal, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh that the government issued an order on April 23, directing the hospitals that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment in an area dedicated for suspected cases, and no patient should be denied treatment.“It has been informed that many patients with clinical presentation of Influenza-like illness with RT-PCR negative are reporting to hospitals with moderate to severe disease. Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are denying them admission for want of a positive RT-PCR test. Hospitals are hereby directed that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment as per protocol in a dedicated area to be kept for suspected cases,” the Delhi government order read, adding that no patient requiring medical aid should be denied treatment”.The submission by the Delhi government came during a hearing on a petition by Jaideep Ahuja seeking directions to the government to order hospitals not to insist on Covid-positive reports to hospitalise patients who show symptoms of the disease.The petitioner told the bench that the Uttar Pradesh government has a direction that hospitals should not insist on RT-PCR positive test reports for admitting patients.The petitioner cited two instances when patients, both lawyers, were not admitted to hospitals because they did not have the Covid-19 positive report despite showing severe symptoms of Covid. The reports of both the patients were held up at the labs, and were not available to them.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, who was representing the Delhi government, told the court that an order has been issued and hospitals have been strictly asked to comply with the directions.Following this, the bench asked the government to widely publicise the order and ensure that it is scrupulously followed by the hospitals. The court also requested the Delhi government to increase the number of RT-PCR testing centres and to put in place necessary infrastructure to streamline the sample collection process.The direction was issued by the court after several lawyers told the bench that they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were saying they will carry out sample collection after 2-3 days. They contended that the number of daily tests have gone down to around 60,000 from the over one lakh tests that were being conducted earlier.Para on testing numbers in Delhi.Expert quote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/test-report-not-essential-for-hospitalisation-govt-tells-delhi-hc-101619464579436.html
27-04-2021||Other||Army to set up 100-bed Covid facility in Mohali||Amid a crippling health infrastructure, the Army will set up a 100-bed facility for Covid-19 patients in Mohali. It will be manned by the Western Command personnel and jointly run by the civil administration and the Army. The technical and specialist manpower will be made available from the Command Hospital, Chandimandir. The decision was taken during a virtual meeting between Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Lieutenant General RP Singh of the Western Command. The CM said though at present the Covid bed capacity available with the state was sufficient, the situation might change rapidly and thus there may be a requirement for additional beds. Lieutenant General RP Singh assured the CM of necessary assistance.OPD, emergency shifted from civil hospitalMeanwhile, the district health authorities have shifted the out patient department and emergency services from the civil hospital, Phase 6, to the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital in the Industrial Area, Phase 7, with immediate effect. The move will help make space for 40 more Level-2 (oxygen support) beds at the civil hospital, taking the total to 100. At present, all 220 Level-3 (ICU beds with ventilator support) are occupied at private and government facilities in the district, while oxygen beds are also nearing saturation. “A special ward will be set up at the civil hospital to accommodate Covid patients as private hospitals have already run out of the beds. The number of beds will be made available according to the availability of oxygen, doctors and paramedics,” said civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the administration also has around 200 beds at their disposal for setting up an L2 facility at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, subjecte to the availability of doctors and paramedics. Meanwhile, the administration has asked private hospitals to expand their L3 bed capacity, he said. None of the nine government hospitals in the district has ICU beds.District admn constitutes oxygen audit teams In the wake of unprecedented demand for oxygen, the district administration on Monday also constituted 15 oxygen audit teams. Dayalan said an oxygen monitoring committee is already operational and the new teams will give regular updates to it . Comprising three members each, including medical and police officials, the teams will work 24x7 to ensure daily audit of all Covid hospitals in the district. They will liaison with hospitals and ensure that they maintain two-hourly oxygen saturation chart of every patient so that requirement per patient is assessed and the monitoring committee can keep a tab on medical oxygen consumption of each hospital. The teams will also ensure timely shifting of recovered patients from L3 to L2 or L1 facilities, so that more L3 beds are available for critical patients. ‘No crisis-like situation in Panchkula’A day after Panchkula district reported 100% Covid bed occupancy, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar designated Mamta Sharma, estate officer, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, Panchkula, as the nodal officer for bed and oxygen supply management in the district. Executive engineer, HSVP, NK Payal will assist her.“So far, there is no crisis-like situation, as beds are available and no problem has been reported. However, we are making a plan to deal with the situation, in case the number of cases rise,” said Sharma.According to data shared by the authorities on Monday, all 62 ventilator beds were occupied in the district, while 12% oxygen and 37% non-oxygen beds were still available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-to-set-up-100-bed-covid-facility-in-mohali-101619464464070.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Hospitals stretched to the limit in Chandigarh||The UT hospitals are scrambling to push the health infrastructure to cope with the increasing number of Covid-19 patients, especially those who require treatment in the intensive care units.The three Covid-19 dedicated hospitals have been able to add ICU beds in limited numbers, which may not be able to cater to the impending crisis especially when the influx of patients from neighbouring states, including the crisis-hit national capital of New Delhi, is increasing.Out of 126 ICU ventilator beds earmarked for Covid-19, only 19 remained vacant on Monday evening.The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has only been able to push the capacity of ICUs from 45 last year to 72 till Monday evening, while the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 has been able to add 24 more ICU beds to the 49-bed ICU facility.“We have been stretched to our upper limit. If we increase more beds and divert more resources to Covid management, our non-Covid resources will be affected harshly,” said Jagat Ram, the director of PGIMER.“We have diverted the ICUs from non-Covid areas for the management of Covid-19 patients. Managing ICUs is a major task as it requires dedicated workforce because of direct supervision. It requires round the clock availability of doctors and nurses to cater to one or two patients who are in ICU. So there is a limit to which we can go up,” Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson of the institute said.Similarly, at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, all six ICU beds which were installed in pre-Covid times have been earmarked for positive patients now with no additional infrastructure being created on this front in the pandemic.‘OTs being turned into ICUs’The medical superintendent of Nehru Hospital Extension, Dr Vipin Koushal, said that creating ICUs required at least 160 square feet space and that they had even turned operation theatres to accommodate more beds.Yashpaul Garg, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board, and in-charge of Covid-19 management at GMCH-32 said they had started hiring more staff including doctors and nurses on an urgent basis to deal with the crisis.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that every resource available was being utilised for creating more infrastructure: “Oxygen beds are available in good numbers, but there is a limit to creating critical care beds as it requires more workforce and resources.”Social activist and president of Second Innings Association, RK Garg, said that the city needs more ICU beds immediately.‘Professional bodies should set up Covid care centres’The administration has requested retired doctors who want to volunteer at Covid care centres in Chandigarh to send an email and/or call the UT health secretary or the adviser.Adviser Manoj Parida on Monday also called up professional organisations of chartered accountants, advocates and public sector undertakings to set up small Covid care centres across the city.Parida said, “Our community centres are available. Some bhawans can be used. Philanthropists can fund a few of these, meant for the poor only.” The centres, with 10 or more beds, would be run under the supervision of health workers from private or government hospitals, Parida added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-hospitals-stretched-to-the-limit-in-chandigarh-101619464460523.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||State mulls free vax shots only for poor||With four days to go for the vaccination of all adults to kick off, Maharashtra is unlikely to roll the drive out for those in the 18-44 age category in a big way from May 1, owing to challenges related to supply and lack of clarity on whether it would provide free vaccines to all. A day after Maharashtra ministers announced that the government will provide free vaccines to beneficiaries over age 18, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that it may not be possible, adding that the department will move a proposal to provide free vaccine jabs to the poor only.Maharashtra has around 53-55 million people in the 18-44 category and the cost to inoculate them is expected to be around ₹7,000 crore, according to Tope. With vaccines available in short supply, Maharashtra could kick off the drive in a staggered manner, senior government officials said. A panel of senior officials, headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, is working on negotiations with manufacturers, ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply and also deciding the beneficiaries for free vaccines. Meanwhile, Tope said his department is moving a proposal for the state cabinet meeting, that is expected to be held on Tuesday or Wednesday, seeking free vaccines for the poor in the 18-44 category.Tope admitted that there are two views within ministers seeking free vaccination for all. “We have proposed that the economically backward class or the weaker sections of the society should be given free vaccinations at government hospitals. There are two views on this; some are of the opinion that 100% [of vaccines] should be given free of cost, but I do not think it is possible. The vaccination programme for 18-44 ages will require about ₹7,000 crore to ₹7,500 crore. It is not a small amount,” Tope said.Senior ministers are also saying that there is no agitation from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over providing free vaccine shots for all. However, a final decision will be made by Wednesday and announcement is likely before the drive kicks off. On Sunday, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik announced that state will provide free vaccines. Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad also tweeted the same. Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, announced free vaccines, but later deleted the tweet. Since then, the party has tread cautiously on the topic. Sena leader and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut refused to comment on free vaccines, stating that it is the government’s decision.A senior bureaucrat said that the committee under Kunte is also looking at how to manage the funds by diverting it through other schemes. He also added that the start to the vaccination for all adults later this week is expected to remain “symbolic”. “We are still to negotiate with any of the foreign manufacturers only then we will know the cost of the inoculation. The chief minister and finance minister have both said that cost is not a hindrance as vaccination is a priority. Besides the cost, they should be able to provide adequate stock without any delay… The vaccination of 18-44 will start from May 1, but it will remain symbolic due to short supply,” the bureaucrat said requesting anonymity. They state is also preparing to handle the crowds at the centres, for it to not result in chaos or a super-spreader event, considering cases are still high across the state.Speaking about the state’s preparations for May 1, Tope said no manufacturer has committed to delivering stock so far. He said the state will procure stock of Indian companies as well as negotiate cost with foreign brands to bring it around the rates of Indian vaccines, he said. “There could be a law-and-order issue and huge queues at every centre. People want to get vaccinated now looking at the deaths, but the availability of vaccine is a real challenge. None of them [manufacturers] have vaccines now. They are offering stock after a month; that too 10 million every month, but it is very slow,” Tope said.He further added, “We will procure the vaccines available in India, similarly, we will negotiate with the foreign manufacturers, will try and bring it down Indian vaccine prices. We will need foreign vaccines as well to inoculate people faster.”The health department is also planning to procure vaccines to inoculated people the remaining citizens over age 45. Tope said the Centre is not “supporting” the pace of the inoculation state intends to. As of April 25, the state has administered first dose to over 10 million people under the category, while 923,971 people from the category have taken their second jab. Tope said, “A high number of people still remain to be vaccinated in above 45-category. The Government of India is not really supporting to the extent it should have. Our demand [for vaccine] is 800,000 daily, but they are providing 100,000 or 200,000. Many centres are kept closed or we have to function on alternative days. These are vulnerable groups; we have to ensure that they get vaccinated first and faster. “Though, this is a national programme and that Mr [prime minister Narendra] Modi has assured adequate supply for this category, but the rate is very slow. We are proposing to spend to procure vaccines for this category as well. It will expedite the programme so that they are safe. The Cabinet will consider this proposal.”Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already announced free vaccination for all, but there is one-upmanship going on among MVA ministers. “PM has made it clear that Centre will vaccinate all eligible people free of cost. However, the states that want to carry out vaccination in an accelerated manner, they can procure vaccines from the market. There is one-upmanship going on in three ruling parties and therefore, there are such demands [of free vaccines], there are tweets on it and later being deleted. The government should prepare a proper policy as the drive will start from May 1. There is no coordination between the ministers,” Fadnavis said.Maharashtra achieved a landmark by inoculating over 500,000 beneficiaries in a day on Monday. The state is expected to go past 15-million mark soon, the state health department said. the state has vaccinated 14,342,716 beneficiaries. Maharashtra’s previous high was recorded on April 3 when it vaccinated 462,735 people in a day.An epidemiologist who is attached to PD Hinduja Hospital, Dr Lancelot Pinto, said that the Centre and State governments have to work on collaboration to achieve the feat of flattening the curve and achieve herd immunity. “India’s median age is 27, so we cannot achieve herd immunity by only focusing on the 45+ age group. We need to aggressively immunise the young population. Therefore, the governments definitely need to work closely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-mulls-free-vax-shots-only-for-poor-101619464278801.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims record 18 lives in Chandigarh tricity||Showing no respite, the Covid-19 pandemic claimed 18 mores lives in the tricity on Monday, highest in a day since the outbreak last March.While Mohali recorded 11 deaths, equalling its record set just two days back, Chandigarh registered five fatalities, highest in the second wave, followed by two in Panchkula district.Meanwhile, 2,004 people tested positive, including 821 in Chandigarh, 749 in Mohali, and 434 in Panchkula. It was for the fourth time in the past five days that the tricity recorded 2,000+ cases. The grim milestone was crossed for the first time on April 22, and the next day the figures peaked at 2,201. 24 +ve at residential school near TangoriAfter receiving a complaint about students of a residential school suffering from moderate to high-grade fever, the Mohali administration dispatched a medical team to conduct Covid-19 tests. The report of samples taken from Career Point Gurukul situated near Tangori village revealed that 24 people, including students and staff, were positive out of the 100 tested till late evening. They have been isolated at the Covid Care Centre in Gharuan while those found negative are being sent home, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, while calling the school authorities “highly irresponsible” for delay in reporting.The district’s tally has climbed to 42,611 while toll stands at 556, with April accounting for 37% and 22%, respectively. Civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said all 11 people who died on Monday had comorbidities.The number of active cases has touched 8,151, highest since the pandemic. With 585 patients being discharged on Monday, the number of those recovered has gone up to 33,904.5 deaths in Chandigarh, highest in second waveTwo women, aged 40 and 47, were among five people who succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh on Monday. While it was the highest number of fatalities reported in a day in the second wave, the record was set on September 23 last year, with 10 deaths.The UT also reported 821 cases, just seven short of the record 828 clocked three days back. The number of active cases stands at 5,575, an all-time high. As many as 39,513 people have tested positive so far, of whom 33,498 have been cured and 440 have died. The other three deaths reported on Monday were of senior citizens, aged 65, 70 and 80.In Panchkula, every third person sampled tests +veAt 36%, Panchkula district saw a surge in positivity rate, as of 1,193 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 434 turned out to be positive.It means of every three people tested, one was found to be infected. According to the central government guidelines, the positivity rate should ideally be below 5%.In the neighbouring districts of Chandigarh and Mohali, it has been consistently recorded between 15-20% in the past few days.Among the fresh cases, most surfaced in the urban pockets, taking the district’s total to 19,539.With a 68-year-old woman from Sector 4 and a 50-year-old woman from Vasudevpura succumbing to the virus, the death toll climbed to 185. Both women had comorbid conditions, said the health authorities.While 16,721 patients have been cured and discharged, 2,633 cases remain active in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-record-18-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101619464040635.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||New sanitary landfill to cost Chandigarh MC ₹3.73 crore annually||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will have to spend ₹3.73 crore annually on operating and maintaining phase 2 of the sanitary landfill site coming up at the Dadumajra dumping ground.The civic body will bring up the agenda for approval at the MC general House meeting on April 28. The MC plans to come up with three additional sanitary landfill sites at the Dadumajra dumping ground by 2036. It is currently operating Phase 1 of the SLF, which was set up in 2007 and commissioned in 2012. The site covers 10 acres and will reach, as planned, an average height of about 10 metre. Given the large quantity of waste arrival, this phase has almost run out of capacity.The construction of the second phase of the SLF is currently being carried out at a cost of ₹17.85 crore and is expected to be completed by February 2, 2022.A Gujarat-based company, Varun Constructions, was awarded the contract for setting up the new SLF site at Dadumajra for dumping of non-recyclable solid waste. by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL).The site, which lies next to the current dumping site in Dadumajra and the waste processing plant, will be spread over eight acres and developed over a year at a cost of around ₹12.40 crore.The MC, through CSCL, has already begun the Mining of Legacy Waste and Recovery of Land Project at the dumping ground.“The landfill is a crucial component of achieving total waste segregation in the city, in its entire cycle, from collection to processing and disposal. The site will be used specifically for dumping non-recyclable dry waste, which will neither be reused nor processed at the waste processing plant,” said a CSCL official.Scientific development of the site will ensure that no damage is caused to the environment and people living nearby are not inconvenienced. “The site will be surrounded by a 4.5m tall and 10m deep boundary wall and waste dumped there will remain covered. The site design incorporates systems that will leave no scope for seepage of water into the dumped waste or the ground beneath and no foul smell will generated,” the official added.The city’s urban and the rural areas generate about 450 metric tonne (MT) of municipal solid waste (MSW) per day, which is estimated to increase to 788 MT by 2036.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-sanitary-landfill-to-cost-chandigarh-mc-3-73-crore-annually-101619463799307.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala admn to stock up 200 empty oxygen cylinders||To meet the increasing oxygen demand for critical Covid patients, the Ambala administration will stock up 200 empty cylinders in the coming days. An official said the cylinders will be filled at the oxygen generation plant in Saha and oxygen beds at the isolation wards of hospitals in the district will be increased. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma chaired a meeting of representatives of the Oxygen Gas Association on Monday and asked them to make the cylinders available immediately. “They have been told not to supply the cylinders for industrial use and they won’t be given out for private use either,” a statement reads.7 macro-containment zones notifiedIn view of advisories issued by the state and Union government, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also decided to notify seven macro-containment zones in the district. These include Jandli, Luxmi Nagar, Parshu Ram Nagar and Sector 9 in the city and Dayal Bagh, Palam Vihar and Ram Nagar in Cantonment. Sharma, who is also chairperson of the DDMA, prohibited entry and movement of the public in areas along with closure of markets and religious places. MC restricts public entryA day after Section 144 was imposed in the district, the municipal corporation office also fixed the timing for public dealing from 10am to 11am. Sharma, in an order issued on Sunday, prohibited the assembly of four or more people in public places and gathering without the permission of the competent officer won’t be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-admn-to-stock-up-200-empty-oxygen-cylinders-101619463740013.html
27-04-2021||Other||Ventilators gathering dust: MP writes to Yogi||LUCKNOW Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore has alleged in a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath that ventilators are gathering dust in hospitals when they are required to be used for saving lives. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP also claimed in the letter that the Balrampur hospital administration was not admitting patients in the hospital due to “lack of manpower” and “spoiling” the name of the chief minister by not using these ventilators for saving lives. “Instead of lying unused, these ventilators must be used for saving lives which is the need of the hour,” he further said in the letter. No official of Balrampur hospital was willing to come on record over the issue. Chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “The issue is dealt by the Balrampur hospital administration who decided utilising the resources.” In the letter, the MP also highlighted what he described as the sorry state of treatment in King George’s Medical University. The MP’s letter also said a couple of heads of department never did duty in the wards, but they were busy highlighting themselves in the media. “A number of beds are lying vacant in these departments so there is a need to do the audit of bed occupancy of the last 20 days,” he said. He also said a number of beds were lying vacant on the fourth floor of the Covid hospital in KGMU, where patients can be admitted after arranging oxygen supply for them. Meanwhile, insiders and family members patients alleged only seven of the 28 ventilators in Balrampur Hospital were operational. A resident of Golaganj, whose mother is admitted in Balrampur Hospital in a serious condition, said, “I am surprised that despite having a number of ventilators, the hospital is operating just seven of them. The patients who require ventilators are left at the mercy of God. It seems human lives have no value.” A hospital insider said, “Yes, as many as 28 ventilators arrived in the hospital last year after the onslaught of corona, but they are lying unused because no one was trained to operate them, and no one wanted to take responsibility for operating these ventilators during such testing times.” People familiar with matter said Lokbandhu Hospital had 18 ventilators but only four of them were operational because the hospital did not have the trained manpower to use these hi-tech ventilators which could save a number of lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ventilators-gathering-dust-mp-writes-to-yogi-101619462418436.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram DC appeals to people to stay indoors, follow Covid norms||Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, appealed to the residents to stay indoors and follow the night curfew imposed in the district, among other such measures, to curb the spread of Covid-19, according to a release issued by the district administration on Monday. Garg said that, at present, the district has a recovery rate of 75.29%, doubling rate of 22.86%, positivity rate of 8.80%, growth rate of 3.30%, and mortality rate of 0.41%.“The entire planning has been done to break the coronavirus transition cycle in the district. We are serious about the health and security of the people, and the administration is taking concrete steps and keeping a watchful eye on every aspect,” said Garg. He also appealed to the people to ensure a compliance with the Covid rules set by the government and the administration, yet again.“Extensive arrangements have been made at the administration level to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The health department is monitoring persons infected with the virus. A control room has been set up by the administration along with various helpline numbers for medical services, information related to prevention of Covid-19, and plasma donation... and an app has also been launched for patients in home isolation. A team of doctors will give them free health counselling,” said Garg, adding that there are various government portals through which the bed availability in the district or other information related to the infection can be availed.Covid-19 awareness vehicleGarg also said that a Covid-19 awareness vehicle has been travelling to urban and rural areas in the district, informing people to get vaccinated, follow night curfew, stay in their homes, wear masks, maintain social distancing, conduct sanitisation, among others.He also said that a sound system has been installed in the awareness vehicle, through which the people are provided with detailed information about Covid-19 through pre-recorded messages. These vehicles are essentially waste collection vehicles of Ecogreen, the concessionaire of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), for door-to-door collection of waste in Gurugram. Speakers are fitted on top of these vehicles that play minute-long pre-recorded audio about information on Covid-19 in urban areas and villages. The MCG launched this service in April 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-dc-appeals-to-people-to-stay-indoors-follow-covid-norms-101619461038990.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Active cases cross 27,000, admin starts initiatives for patients||The district on Monday reported 3,555 new Covid-19 infections, which took the tally of active cases past the 27,000 mark, and seven deaths according to the health department data.With the spike on Monday, the total cases reached 106,839, while the active cases and the death count reached 27,318 and 436, respectively.Officials of the district administration said that several initiatives are being undertaken to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Efforts are being made on a war footing by the district administration to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. Most patients are recovering from home. The e-Sanjeevani OPD (out-patient department) application has been launched for patients living in home isolation, where they can get free health consultation from doctors. We have also flagged off vehicles from the public relations department that will visit places and spread awareness on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in both urban and rural areas.”Meanwhile, 1,316 positive patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in the district on Monday, taking the tally of total recoveries to 79,085. The rate of recovery in the district stands around 74.02%, as per the data.On the testing front, the health department collected 10,047 samples and reported that the results of 6,134 patients were awaited.On Monday, 976 people got the first dose of the vaccines, while 663 people took their second dosage, as per the health department data. So far, 466,459 people have been vaccinated in the district in total.Helplines launchedA release issued by the district information department released helpline numbers — 0124-2322412, 7011710570, 1950 — for Covid-19 positive patients to avail of help, besides the 1075 helpline of the state government. Officials said that patients can get medical information for availing of health services round the clock.Further, two helplines were also set up — 8826320564 and 9999999953 — by the Gurugram police department for Covid-19 patients to get plasma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/active-cases-cross-27-000-admin-starts-initiatives-for-patients-101619460980087.html
27-04-2021||Lucknow||More offers of oxygen support come in amid Covid challenge in UP||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday called for doubling the health resources to fight Covid-19 while reiterating that oxygen supply to the state was being augmented from various sources even while the number of active cases under treatment crossed the three-lakh mark with the state recording 33,574 new cases and 249 more deaths, which was the highest single-day fatality count in Uttar Pradesh.At the same time, the total recoveries showed an upward trend, going past the eight-lakh mark with 26,719 more patients being discharged in the last 24 hours statewide, according to official data.The state’s total Covid-19 caseload stands at 11,20,176 now.Dwelling on more help on the oxygen front, the chief minister said the Tata and Reliance groups had offered to supply oxygen to UP.The officers concerned should negotiate with them to speed up the process of supply, he said at the Covid review meeting he held virtually with officials.He also asked for increasing the number of oxygen tankers and seeking help from the central government.He also told the officials to keep a close watch on all Covid-19 hospitals in the state and immediately provide them with oxygen as and when they required it.The chief minister once again noted that oxygen supply was being augmented daily with supplies from Roorkee and Kashipur (Uttarakhand), Modinagar (UP), Bokaro (Jharkhand) and the state’s MSME units.He warned the officers concerned that once the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre (ICCCC) allotted a hospital to Covid positive patients, it must be ensured that they find admissions in those hospitals, or else the officers will be held responsible and face action.“Considering the intense transmission rate of the virus this time, there is a need to increase the health resources for Covid-19 at least by double. The health department and the medical education department should prepare a work plan for increasing beds. Now, two more CHCs (community health centres) each should be added to the Covid management list in each district,” he said.Since OPDs (outpatient departments) were closed in hospitals, it was necessary to promote online consultation, publicise the lists of doctors for Covid and non-Covid consultation for the convenience of the people, he added.The chief minister asked the state health minister to monitor the supply of Covid medicine kits to home isolation patients across the state. All Covid patients in home isolation must get the kit containing medicines for at least one week, he said.“Through the CM helpline, the administration must keep in touch with the home isolation patients to track their condition,” he said.He also said many Covid recovered patients wanted to extend a helping hand.“So, encourage such people to come forward, make a list of them. There could be doctors, paramedics etc. Rope them in, they could be deployed at hospitals,” he said.He reiterated that there was no shortage of Remdesivir and other such Covid-19 drugs. Since the state was getting their supply every day, they should be provided free of cost to patients in government hospitals and at concessional rates in private hospitals, he said.Talking about vaccination, he said so far 97,83,416 people had got the first dose of the Covid vaccine and more than 20 lakh had been given both doses. Thus, a total of 1,17,83,880 doses had been administered in the state.“Prepare well for the vaccination drive that is scheduled to begin from May 1,” he said to the officers concerned.Apart from publicising the Covid safety protocols, health specialists should be engaged in spreading awareness about foods that boost immunity and techniques to increase the oxygen level in blood, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tata-reliance-groups-have-offered-oxygen-supply-to-up-yogi-101619459718193.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees record jump in single-day Covid deaths at 380; 20,201 new cases seen||The national capital on Monday witnessed a fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 20,201 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,047,916, according to the health department's bulletin. However, 380 people died in the last 24 hours, the highest ever single- day spike in deaths since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The caseload now includes 14,628 deaths, 940,930 recoveries and 92,358 active cases.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi is currently at 35 per cent, the second highest since last year while the highest positvity rate ever was at 36.24 per cent on April 22. More than 57,600 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 18,904 are rapid antigen tests while the remaining 38,786 tests are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNaat, the bulletin added.The containment zones in Delhi have reached 29,104 while 52,733 patients continue to remain under home isolation.Delhi on Monday joined the list of states which will be administering vaccine doses free of cost to residents above the age of 18 during the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1.Delhi records 20,201 new COVID19 cases, 380 deaths and 22,055 recoveries; case tally 10,47,916 pic.twitter.com/WVpkqT0fKeAddressing a press conference, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday the Delhi government has already approved the purchase of 1.34 crore doses and will work towards speeding up purchases further. Nearly 3 million beneficiaries have been so far inoculated in the national capital.Hospitals across Delhi have been reporting acute shortage of oxygen for a week for treating critical Covid-19 patients. Some hospitals have only managed to make short-term arrangements and are finding it difficult to come up with a permanent solution.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir on Monday hit out at Kejriwal over this shortage and said the state government is responsible for the oxygen tankers while the Centre’s job is to make the gas available. Gambhir also alleged on Sunday that eight oxygen plants were supposed to be set up in Delhi but only one has been installed till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-20-201-fresh-covid-19-cases-380-more-deaths-101619456719421.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Oxygen audit: PMC rectify lacuna in five hospitals||Pune: After the Nashik tragedy, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has found lacuna in oxygen supply system in five civic-run hospitals during the audit of oxygen tanks. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has formed a seven-member committee to check fire audits of medical centres in Pune zilla parishad, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations. The committee will work under the chairmanship of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) chief executive officer (CEO) Suhas Divase, upper district collector Vijaysinha Deshmukh, Pune district chief medical officer, assistant director of town planning, PMC and PCMC fire chief officer and executive engineer of Public Works Department ( electrical division). With the rise in Covid cases, hospitals are increasing oxygen and ventilators beds which are putting extra pressure on existing systems of hospitals like electrical and fire systems. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner said, “We are carrying out audit of the medical oxygen supply system installed at various hospitals in the city. We have given priority to PMC-run seven Covid hospitals. The audit is carried out with the help of a private agency. The problems identified are addressed immediately. We have started work to repair regulators, set up new points, tanks installations.” Dr Sanjiv Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer, said, “The seven hospitals are COEP jumbo Covid hospital, Baner Covid hospital, Dalvi hospital, Naidu hospital, Laigude hospital, Bopodi and ESIC hospital. There are no major problems as all these hospitals have installed new oxygen tanks recently.” Private hospitals responsible if they fail compliance Corporation has given instruction to private hospitals treating Covid to carry out audit of their medical infrastructure. Khemnar said, “We have issued an order to private hospitals to conduct a medical oxygen system audit. After corporation hospitals, PMC health department will cover private hospitals and the latter will be responsible for patients’ safety.” The city’s oxygen demand, according to PMC authorities, has gone up to 300 metric tonnes per day. PMC-run hospitals require 42 metric tonnes of oxygen per day and rest is to for private hospitals. Pune city has around 190 small and big hospitals treating Covid patients with allocated bed capacity of 10,991. The entire district has 475 Covid hospitals with 27,542 allocated beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oxygen-audit-pmc-rectify-lacuna-in-five-hospitals-101619455997788.html
27-04-2021||Pune||5,097 e-pass applications rejected by police: Covid negative report mandatory to travel||The Pune police have rejected a total of 5,097 applications for an e-pass after a Covid-19 negative certificate was made mandatory for all applicants applying to travel out of district. If the certificate is not attached to the application, then the permission for an e-pass is denied outright. A digital pass cell has been commissioned at the Pune city police commissionerate where a total of 11,238 E-passes were requested until Sunday evening. Of which 3,302 passes were sanctioned, while 338 applications had expired, and 2,500 passes were pending. So far, a total of 5,097 applications have been rejected, police informed The E-pass facility has been introduced in all districts of Maharashtra since April 23. In exceptional circumstances, permission is given only when a close family member has died, and the person wants to attend the funeral. In such a case, people are given an E-pass even if they do not have a Covid-19 negative certificate. DCP (Crime) Shrinavas Ghadge said, “It is mandatory to submit the Covid-19 negative certificate for all to receive a digital E-pass. Without this, the application will not be accepted, this must be noted.” According to the guidelines, people who belong to essential services do not need a digital pass for traveling inside the city. However, they need to carry their identity card with them and show them when asked at checkpoints. Digital passes are being issued for people traveling to another district for attending a funeral of a close relative, serious illness, marriage, or for a medical reason. However, the necessary documents need to be submitted online. For the marriage ceremony, the pass will be given to the bride, groom, their parents, siblings, uncle and aunt but a wedding card needs to be attached to the application mandatorily. No permission for travel will be given for commercial purposes. Passengers traveling by a plane will be given a digital pass. Meanwhile, citizens have welcomed the process and said that at least there is a legal path to getting an E-pass which will will resolve many teething issues. Total application for E-Pass: 11,237 Application granted – 3,302 Expired applications – 336 Pending applications – 2,500 Rejected applications – 5049||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5097-e-pass-applications-rejected-by-police-covid-negative-report-mandatory-to-travel-101619452337575.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Drive from May 1: Second-dose beneficiaries to get priority over pvt hospitals, says PMC||Pune: Despite the Centre’s decision, those above the age of 18 years are likely to face hurdles in immediately getting the Covid vaccine dose in Pune from May 1, as the municipal corporation, according to mayor Murlidhar Mohol, may not provide vaccines to private hospitals. Hospitals have now been empowered to purchase the doses directly from manufacturers. Mohol, speaking to media on Monday after reviewing preparations for the universal vaccination programme starting from Saturday, said health officials have informed PMC that the Centre is likely to issue guidelines that the civic body need not provide vaccines to private hospitals, because the hospitals have been empowered to purchase the vaccines directly from manufacturers. “They (health department authorities) have also informed me that maybe a parallel vaccine distribution system could be put in place for which the guidelines could be made. Currently, Pune city has over 73 private hospitals and so if they get the vaccine directly from manufacturers, or the parallel system, then we could have that stock for better distribution at our centres,” said Mohol. According to the mayor, preference will be given to those slotted for their second dose. “Even though all above 18 years of age would now be eligible to get the vaccine starting from May 1, we still have a large number of people above the age of 45 years, who are currently eligible and who have not yet got their second dose, including 0.2 million senior citizens. We will prioritise the beneficiaries who are due to get their second dose.” The city had been leading in vaccinating all above the age group of 45 years who were eligible, until recently, though an irregular supply of vaccines led to a roadblock and the district could not achieve its set target of 0.1 million vaccinations lakh daily. Both leading Covid vaccine manufacturers – Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India - revealed prices for private hospitals and state governments, with Serum making it clear it may not be able to fulfil requirement of for every state on an immediate basis. PMC is awaiting guidelines on the universal vaccination drive. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We are still awaiting government directions from the Centres on those above 18 years of age vaccination, regarding what quota would be allowed to us and about crowd management too. The guidelines say that only those registered beforehand will be allowed to get the vaccine.” Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the hospital board, IMA Pune chapter, said, “IMA can volunteer and purchase vaccines and then redistribute it to smaller hospitals and its members to decentralise the process. We can also volunteer to vaccinate marginalised groups like mentally or physically challenged people, or even the labour class, if the government can subsidise the cost of those vaccines. However, currently, the biggest challenge is vaccine supply. Today there is no regular supply of the vaccines for the eligible age group.” Pune city has 217 vaccinations centres. Of these, 15 government centres provide Covaxin, 104 give Covishield. Twenty-five private hospitals give Covaxin and 73 give Covishield. Pune city has vaccinated about 770,333 as of Sunday and still many more await their second dose. It has been three months since the Centre began vaccinating frontline workers (FLWs) across the country. It started from February 2. However, even as 62,257 FLWs got their first dose, only 21.8% have taken their second dose as per the PMC. Only 17,106 FLWs have taken their second dose while over 57,000 senior citizens have got their second dose. About 74% of the health care workers have got their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/second-dose-for-beneficiaries-to-be-prioritised-from-may-1-awaiting-guidelines-from-centre-pmc-101619450297192.html
27-04-2021||Noida||Rise in prices of raw materials hits Noida’s garment sector||Rising prices of raw materials and packaging items have hit the garment industry in Noida. Exports dipped from ₹20,000 crore in 2019-20 to ₹15,000 crore in 2020-21 and 20% of people employed in the sector have lost their jobs.Lalit Thukral, president of the Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said the pandemic made the situation worse for the ready-made sector. Garment production, both for domestic market and export, was halted for four months between March and June 2020.“When the situation improved to some extent, the garment sector in Noida didn’t make enough business like it did before the pre-Covid era. As a result, during the 2020-21 fiscal, apparel exports suffered a loss of more than 25% as compared to the export figures in the previous financial year,” he said.He further said the steep rise in the price of yarn and cotton, which are part of most apparels, has made things worse. “Yarn’s price per kg increased by more than 22% for 30s combed (combed cotton is a softer version of regular cotton and more expensive), 21.3% for 34s combed and 21.9% for 40s combed during the second half of 2020-21 fiscal. Exporters enter into a price agreement with buyers at least six months before supply. Now, while the mills are increasing the prices frequently and arbitrarily, the buyers or importers are not willing to increase the prices. Besides, duty concession to competitive countries like Bangladesh, Vietnam, etc. because of their Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with importing countries make the situation precarious for the Indian exporters, mainly from Noida,” he said.Thukral also said that the government has recently introduced Refund of Duties and Taxes in Export Products (RoDTEP) from January 1 this year in place of the erstwhile Refund of State and Centre Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL). “The main objective of RoDTEP is to promote the labour-intensive industry and provide a level playing field to exporters, who have been at a disadvantage on account of the FTAs enjoyed by our competitors like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Vietnam. But since RoDTEP, which has reduced the refunds available for traders, does not apply to the apparel sector, our exporters are unable to competitively quote the rates to importing countries. We have requested the government to factor the RoSCTL rates in RoDTEP and release it on priority basis to provide a level-playing field to the exporters,” he said.Manoj Sahu, another exporter, said the major reason for the increase in yarn and cotton prices is due to the massive surge in the export of the raw materials. “The rise in the price of raw material has forced garment exporters to shut down their companies, resulting in large-scale unemployment and subsequently India losing export to other countries. The government should immediately call a meeting of the stakeholders associated with cotton production and apparel exports to resolve this issue and stabilize the raw material prices,” he said.He further said that the withdrawal of duty free import of trimmings and embellishments on February 1 this year has also adversely affected the apparel export business in Noida. “The scheme was a lifeline for exporters as it allowed them to import trimmings and embellishments up to 5% of export duty. We have requested the central government to not only restore but also allow duty-free import with a one-time bond facility for clearing the courier shipments as clearance of these items under a bond for each small import is very cumbersome, and causes delay and adds to the cost,” he said.Meanwhile, concerned about the possibility of a lockdown due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has urged the government to exempt factories from lockdown and requested an ‘essential service’ tag for the labour-intensive apparel export industry.A Sakhtivel, the AEPC chairman, said that to ensure uninterrupted manufacturing at factories, the council has written letters to the union ministers of health, home, textiles and commerce and industry, besides the chief ministers of some states.“The industry supports over 13 million workers directly and many more indirectly in rural and backward areas and largely comprises micro, small and medium enterprises. It will be severely impacted if the lockdown is imposed again,” said Sakhtivel.Requesting the government to exempt the apparel export industry from a lockdown and consider it as an essential service sector, the AEPC chairman also said that such lockdowns create widespread disruption and not only have short-term impacts but also affect the health of the industry in the long-term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rise-in-prices-of-raw-materials-hits-noida-s-garment-sector-101619115771415.html
