28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 surge: HC asks police to avoid arrests in petty crimes||In order to reduce litigation in courts of two states and Chandigarh during the Covid-19 surge, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday came out with a slew of directions, including asking the police to refrain from making arrests in “petty offences” and not to carry out demolitions till June 30. Acting on a suo motu plea, the high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Suvir Sehgal observed that “the situation that has arisen demands that certain measures be taken up so as to ensure that during this crisis, generation of litigation can be controlled for some time”. As per the order, all the interim orders/directions issued stand extended up to June 30. Any order passed which was applicable till “further orders” would continue to remain in force until modified. The time for filing of written statements in a proceeding, unless specifically directed, also stand extended till June30. The high court has also asked the authorities not to carry out eviction, dispossession, and demolition orders and financial institutions have been told not to auction properties in a proceeding during this period. Interim protections and paroles etc given for a limited period also would stand extended up to June 30. The police have been told to not to arrest a person unless there is necessity of arrest for maintenance of law and order or any other emergent case, in a cognisable offence up to seven-year imprisonment, till June 30. Wherever necessary, any aggrieved party can approach the court concerned for modification of order, the HC said. Advocate generals of two states and additional solicitor general, Government of India and UT’s senior standing counsel, all were part of the proceedings on Wednesday. The proceedings have been initiated in view of the Supreme Court directions in this regard. All directions issued would remain in force till June 30, when the case will be taken up again. The court too appointed senior advocate Anupam Gupta as amicus curiae in the matter. The order will be applicable in the case of proceedings before any tribunal, quasi judicial bodies and district courts in the territorial jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-surge-hc-asks-police-to-avoid-arrests-in-petty-crimes-101619634279837.html
28-04-2021||Other||Mohali leads in vaccination drive in Punjab, farm stir slowed some districts||Home to the highest number of active Covid-19 cases among 22 districts of Punjab, SAS Nagar has earned a distinction on the vaccination front. The district is leading by having administered the highest per million (10 lakh) doses in the first phase of inoculation against the deadly Coronavirus. According to data available on the Co-WIN application till April 28, SAS Nagar (Mohali) has administered nearly 2.36 lakh doses per million population in the district, followed by 2.12 lakh in Pathankot and 2.03 lakh in Gurdaspur. In absolute numbers, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana districts have administered higher number of vaccines than Mohali, but in terms of the proportion of population of the district, it has emerged the leader. At least five panchayats in Mohali, Tarouli, Rasoolpur, Barsalpur, Madanheri and Bahadurgarh have achieved 100% vaccination, with all eligible persons above 45 having taken the jab. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan has appreciated this, saying that the targets were achieved at a time when the health workers were under pressure, with high positivity rate being reported from across the state. “Initially, vaccine hesitancy was quite high but then we followed the Lok Sanjhedaari model and collaborated with religious, political and industrial leaders. Day and night camps were also held. Our vaccine wastage of less than 1% is also the lowest in the state,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The laggard districts Mansa, Sangrur and Ferozepur districts have fared the worst in vaccination. In Mansa, the vaccination per million to date is 61,359; Sangrur stands at 68,771 with Ferozepur at 75,610. Mansa chief medical officer Dr Sukhwinder Singh said the biggest reason behind the low vaccination coverage has been the reluctance of farmer groups. He added that when the drive was started in January, farm groups had told them they wouldn’t wear masks or take the vaccine shots. “We faced major hurdles in carrying out vaccination. Finally, we reached out to religious and social leaders to motivate people. With a deadlier strain now claiming lives, residents of the district are coming forward for vaccination and testing,” the CMO added. The farmers’ agitation was also the biggest hindrance in vaccination not taking off in Sangrur, with an official saying that residents told them that they did not believe in a virus and that the vaccine was a ploy of some sort by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to weaken their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-leads-in-vaccination-drive-in-punjab-farm-stir-slowed-some-districts-101619634100602.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Casteist slur: Yuvraj trying to save his skin by giving different interpretation: Police to HC||The Haryana Police have told the Punjab and Haryana high court that former cricketer Yuvraj Singh has admitted to using a derogatory term in a live show and now to wriggle out of it, he is coming up with a different interpretation of what he had said. Hansi superintendent of police Nitika Gahlaut told the court that Yuvraj joined probe on April 14 and produced a written statement which is almost a reiteration of what he said in the plea before the court. “The petitioner is not denying the use of the controversial term rather his major contention is that the word used was in the context of someone in inebriated condition and was not a remark made in derogation of any community. He is trying to give another interpretation to save his skin from the clutches of law,” she said in a reply filed on Wednesday. The police have responded to a plea from the ex-cricketer in February seeking quashing of the FIR. The FIR was registered on February 14, eight months after he apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video in April 2020. The FIR was registered on the complaint of one Rajat Kalsan of Hansi, under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity) and 153-B (assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Prevention and Atrocities Act, 1989. The HC, on February 25, had asked the police to not take any coercive action against him. The police say a survey was carried out and it was found that the term in contention is abusive and used in a derogatory sense. “The person who consumes bhaang is called as ‘nashedi’ and not ‘bhangi’ (term used by him),” police said, citing the survey. The police added that Yuvraj could not produce any document in support of his claims. The police also say him being a resident of Chandigarh would be aware of which castes are under Scheduled Castes category in the region and that it is highly probable that he used the term in a derogatory sense. The police say the trial court should be allowed to appreciate the evidence and plea should be dismissed in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/casteist-slur-yuvraj-trying-to-save-his-skin-by-giving-different-interpretation-police-to-hc-101619634099391.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records deadliest day of pandemic as 142 lose lives||Punjab on Wednesday witnessed 142 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the virus to date, with 22 people succumbing to the contagion in Gurdaspur district alone. Also, 6,472 fresh infections were detected across the state on Wednesday. With Wednesday’s figures, the death toll has gone up to 8,772 while the cumulative tally has reached 3,58,186 infections, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases in the state increased to 53,426 from 51,936 on Tuesday, the bulletin stated. Of the latest fatalities, 18 were reported from Amritsar district, 17 from Sangrur, 15 from Ludhiana, 12 from Mohali, 10 from Patiala, eight in Jalandhar, six in Ropar, five each in Ferozepur and in Hoshiarpur, four each in SBS Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Fazilka, three in Tarn Taran and one each in Moga and Pathankot, it said. Ludhiana saw the highest number of fresh cases at 952, followed by 867 in Mohali, 614 in Jalandhar, 597 in Patiala and 501 in Amritsar, among other districts. As many as 5,272 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,95,988, the bulletin said. There are 97 critical patients in the state who are on ventilator support, while 700 are on oxygen support, it said. As many as 80,860 vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday. Mohali tops in positivity rate Mohali once again witnessed highest positivity ratio with 25.01% of the samples taken found infected with the virus. Muktsar’s positivity ration was 19.75%, followed by 18.27 % in Mansa and 16.95% in Fazilka. Box No OPDs, all beds at GMCs reserved for Covid patients Chandigarh Punjab Government on Wednesday decided to suspend OPDs in state’s all three medical colleges and hospitals at Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot till further orders and reserve all the beds in these facilities for Covid patients. However, emergency services will continue. In a meeting to review the situation of oxygen availability and other requirements, Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni instructed the authorities that prompt action is needed if any eventuality comes up pertaining to oxygen or any other medical essential supplies. He said oxygen shortage, if any, should be immediately taken up with the higher authorities so that steps can be taken. Soni directed principal secretary, medical education and research, to reserve 75 beds in Advanced Cancer Centre, Bathinda, for Covid patients. He also apprised that 900 beds are being added at medical colleges and hospitals. The work on installation of oxygen tanks and generation plants is being expedited throughout the state. He also ordered to regularly audit the supply, availability, and usage of oxygen to tap any leakage or pressure drops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-deadliest-day-of-pandemic-as-142-lose-lives-101619633739258.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents above 18 years register for Covid-19 vaccinations||With the process of registration for Covid-19 vaccination for beneficiaries above 18 years of age commencing on Wednesday, many city residents got themselves registered on the Co-win portal, said officials familiar with the matter.The registration process commenced around 4pm, but the wait time was long as the portal experienced heavy traffic, with millions across the country trying to register on the portal at the same time. Health department officials said that after 5.30pm, the registration process was smoother with many Gurugram residents being able to log in and finish the registration process.Pravin Malik, a resident of Sare Homes and a social activist, said that he applied for the registration though Co-win application as the Aarogya Setu app was too slow. “I applied on the system and got an OTP after the portal sought my details and identity card details with a date of birth. I was registered for Rohtak, as the system was not accepting registration for Gururgam,” said Malik, adding that once he gets the slots he would have to go to Rohtak for vaccination. As per the directions of the union government, all residents above the age of 18 years are eligible for vaccination from May 1. The Haryana government has ordered five million doses of vaccines for the campaign, at a cost of ₹250 crore, the government said on Wednesday.In the run-up to this vaccination drive roll out in the district, Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that a meeting of the district task force would be convened within the next two days to chalk out a strategy for the mass inoculations.“The guidelines for vaccination and the entire plan will be shared by the state government and accordingly, implemented by us. The new arrangement would be different as vaccination at government centres and private hospitals will be separated. The hospitals can now obtain vaccines directly from manufacturers and we won’t supply the doses any more,” said Yadav.For the next two days, Yadav said the focus of the health department would be to use up all the doses available for vaccination, although the process would take place at fewer vaccine sites than usual due to low availability. “We are waiting for directions from the state government in this matter,” he said.Earlier in the day, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that registration data for the Covid-19 vaccination would be available by April 30.“This vaccination campaign will be conducted in hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres, dispensaries, and other institutions. Those who register will get the vaccination date and venue message on their mobiles,” said Khattar.He also said that all the information related to Covid-19 can be obtained on the 1075 helpline number.Khattar also said that number of patients coming from Delhi had put pressure on hospitals in Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and even Ambala. He said that the number of patients coming from Delhi to the hospitals in the NCR districts of Haryana is adding to the problems faced by the hospitals. However, he said that the state government will not refuse treatment on ethical grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-above-18-years-register-for-covid-19-vaccinations-101619633439409.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospital where four died on Sunday to shut operations within a week||The management of Kathuria Hospital on Khandsa Road, where four people died due to an oxygen shortage on Sunday afternoon, decided to shut its operations after patients currently undergoing treatment recover. New admissions were also stopped, said hospital officials, citing shortage of oxygen as the reason for shutting operations.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, said that operating the facility without an assured supply of oxygen is not feasible as another tragedy could unfold. “We are getting help from the district administration but the shortage is still acute. We have decided to discharge all patients by next week when their condition improves. We will cease operations till the situation changes,” said Kathuria.On Tuesday, the hospital discharged six patients, while three were discharged on Wednesday. “We have 18 patients at present,” said Dr Kathuria.Officials responsible for the oxygen supply said that they were also facing difficulties in supplying oxygen to smaller hospitals as the capacity to hold oxygen is less and it was not possible to supply it every two hours. The hospital has a capacity of 30 beds, with a requirement of 40 oxygen cylinders per day.“We are assessing these hospitals and their cylinder capacity to hold oxygen. The hospitals should have oxygen storage capacity to manage operations for at least 10 hours. A call will be taken in this regard so that the entire dynamic of oxygen supply doesn’t get disturbed. This may reduce the number of beds but these will be increased where capacities are higher,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram.On Sunday afternoon, four critically ill Covid-19 patients died around 3pm after the hospital ran out of oxygen around 11am. A magisterial inquiry in the matter is also pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-where-four-died-on-sunday-to-shut-operations-within-a-week-101619633438725.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Five industrial tankers converted to transport oxygen, sent to Odisha plant||The regional transport authority (RTA), in a bid to smoothen oxygen supply in the district, converted five nitrogen and argon tankers into oxygen tankers to enable transportation of oxygen from a plant in Rourkela of Odisha.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram, said that the tankers are owned by private companies that supply nitrogen and argon to factories and private industries. “These tankers were sent to the Panipat industrial area and were converted by an agency overnight. It took six hours to get them cleaned and nozzles were changed to equip them to carry oxygen. A special team was deployed at Panipat cleaning station to check the oxygen level and pressure in these tankers for uninterrupted supply,” she said.Yadav said these tankers were sent to Rourkela by train from the Faridabad railway station and will return late Saturday or Sunday, with a supply of nearly 50 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen supply.At present, the district requires 70 MT of oxygen. Officials said that the 50 MT, coupled with the supply from plants in Bhiwadi and Panipat will ensure a smooth supply of oxygen to all hospitals.Several private hospitals in the city are facing an acute shortage of oxygen, as reported by HT over the past few days. Hospitals also took to social media over the past few days to send out distress calls to the district administration, to help them get oxygen.As the district is facing an oxygen shortage amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, the district administration is trying to arrange oxygen from other states. Officials said that a green corridor will be created from the Faridabad railway station to Gurugram to facilitate the movement of these tankers, along with a police escort.Yadav said they are coordinating with the Rourkela administration to ensure there is no delay in loading and transporting oxygen to Gurugram. “We have intensified our focus on transporting oxygen, which is a key challenge. The conversion of tankers for oxygen will increase the oxygen supply and the demands are likely to be met. We are also trying to arrange oxygen from other places to ensure regular supply for the private hospitals,” she said.Additional chief secretary TC Gupta on Tuesday formed a team of five officials to assess demand for oxygen, its transportation and distribution. The commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, (MCG) Vinay Pratap Singh, was appointed as the team leader along with additional deputy commissioner Prashant Pawar, deputy civil surgeon Anuj Garg and RTA secretary, Dhaarna Yadav. Amandeep Chauhan, the district drug controller, was designated the coordinator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-industrial-tankers-converted-to-transport-oxygen-sent-to-odisha-plant-101619633379940.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||91 large outbreak regions notified, lockdown-like curbs to be enforced||With no signs of the Covid-19 infection abating, the administration on Wednesday notified 91 large outbreak regions in the district and deployed police personnel to restrict the movement of public in these areas. Officials of the district administration said that lockdown-like curbs will be imposed to prevent a localised spread of infections.Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, who issued the directions on Wednesday, said that non-essential movement will be checked while those moving to and from the areas will undergo medical checks. Mandatory temperature checks will be done and symptomatic people will be tested using rapid antigen kits, Garg said. The use of the Aarogya Setu application will also be mandated, he said.According to the data shared by the district administration, a maximum number of the large outbreak regions (LORs) are concentrated in the condominiums along the Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, MG Road, Sohna Road and the Southern Peripheral Road. These areas fall under the jurisdiction of the primary health centres of Tigra, Chanderloke, Nathupur and Badshahpur. According to the district administration, a LOR is defined as an area where there are at least 15 Covid-19 cases, with a localised increase within a defined geographical area. The cases may not be linked epidemiologically but will be considered a LOR for operational purposes. Areas, where at least five Covid-19 cases have been reported, are classified as containment zones. However, officials said that most of the containment zones at present fall within the LORsResidents in LORs, who have taken permission from the subdivisional magistrates to hold social gatherings or other events would not be allowed to do so. Residents would have to reapply for permission and the same will be allowed outside restricted zones, the police said.Pradeep Kumar, SDM, Pataudi, said that all Covid-19 protocols and safeguards like social distancing will be enforced strictly in the LORs. “The enforcement of Section 144 of the CrPC would be strict to break the chain of infection,” he said.Officials of the Gurugram police department said that 400 police personnel were deployed in the LORs notified by the administration, to keep a check on public movement and ensure that markets remain closed, with Section 144 of the CrPC, restricting gathering of four people or more in public spaces, in force.“We have deployed police personnel police station wise and they are setting up barricades to restrict movement of people. They would also ensure that more than four people don’t gather at shops and markets remain closed in these LORs. No social gathering or function is allowed in these areas,” said Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police department.The police said that personnel were also deployed across its east, west, south and Manesar police districts to enforce Covid-19 protocols.The police also appealed to residents to shut religious places inside containment zones, as gatherings of four people are not allowed. “The markets will remain closed in these areas and anyone coming out from these LORs would be tested for temperature and other symptoms by the health authorities,” a senior police official said, requesting anonymity.The health department is in the process of constituting teams for intensive testing, screening and contact tracing of people in LORs. “Multiple teams of health workers will visit isolated patients and assist them in treatment. Increasing testing in these areas and screening of people in large numbers will help in breaking the chain of infection,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Yadav said that they will also form teams to work on contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. The teams will be constituted based on the number of LORs under each public health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/91-large-outbreak-regions-notified-lockdown-like-curbs-to-be-enforced-101619633379258.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Only registered hospitals will get oxygen refill: MCG||Even as hospitals continue to grapple with oxygen short supply despite the district receiving 35 metric tonnes (MT) per day, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that only hospitals registered in Gurugram will be granted supply.In an order issued late on Tuesday, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh observed that hospitals and nursing homes located outside Gurugram district are sending their vehicles to oxygen refilling stations meant to service hospitals and nursing homes of Gurugram, thereby adding “undue pressure” on the oxygen quota allocated for the district. At least six people have died in the city since Sunday due to a shortage of oxygen, according to private hospitals.“In order to stop this practice (of nursing homes and hospitals outside Gurugram district availing of the services of the city’s three oxygen refilling stations), it has been decided that henceforth, only hospitals and nursing homes located in Gurugram district and registered on web portal covidharyana.in will be entitled to get gas cylinders filled at oxygen refilling stations registered with the district administration and in no circumstances will any outside hospitals or nursing homes be allowed access to oxygen refilling stations,” the order stated.A senior official of the MCG, privy to the matter, said, “We had received reports of hoarding of oxygen by small private companies, which was having an adverse effect on both the supply and demand. Many of these companies were selling oxygen to residents at exorbitant rates in black. Hence, over the past two days, we stopped entertaining requests from such companies or individuals and only hospitals and nursing homes were allowed procurement of oxygen from the three refilling stations. The MCG is also in the process of creating a mechanism of our own to ensure personal delivery of oxygen cylinders.”Singh directed the Gurugram police and executive magistrates to ensure that the directions are complied with and that all hospitals and nursing homes accessing the three filling stations are registered with the district administration.Further, the order stated that Gurugram-based hospitals will get the supply only if they update data regarding allocation of beds and occupancy on the state Covid-19 portal by 5pm every day. If registered hospitals or nursing homes fail to update the data, then the district administration will consider discontinuing or limiting the supply of oxygen.Gurugram has three oxygen refilling stations, two of which are in Manesar and one is in Sector 16. The district received 20 MT of oxygen from the INOX oxygen plant in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan and 15 metric tonnes from the Air Liquid Company in Panipat.KK Rao, the commissioner of Gurugram police, said that they have created green corridors for the oxygen tankers from Panipat and Bhiwadi to reach the city without delay and that personnel were deployed at all three refilling stations to ensure compliance with the orders issued by the MCG.“Our teams are escorting tankers to all the plants and teams have been deployed at the distribution plants as well, as identified by the district administration. We are also coordinating with the teams to ensure there is no ruckus created at these filling centres where long queues have been witnessed,” he said.The MCG, in its order, also stated that the civic body’s joint commissioner, Pradeep Ahlawat, has been designated as the nodal officer to ensure “equitable distribution as per requirement at oxygen refilling stations.” Singh said that Ahlwat and his team will ensure that the distribution is done on a token system and that the distributors do not indulge in profiteering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/only-registered-hospitals-will-get-oxygen-refill-mcg-101619633378713.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||People with comorbidities will be given preference in Delhi in Phase III||The third phase of the COVID-19 inoculation drive for those in the 18-44 age group is likely to begin at "moderate" pace in the national capital and people with comorbidities will be given preference, officials said on Wednesday.The Delhi government has placed an order for over 1.3 crore doses with manufacturers. The vaccine will be delivered in phases, an official aware of the development said.Private hospitals will have to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, he said."We are likely to have a moderate start and it will be ramped up gradually," the official said.The Centre will continue to provide vaccine for those aged above 45."So, there will be three channels - Centre, state and private and therefore, the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated a day will increase," another official said.Asked if the more vaccine centres will be added considering the increased number of beneficiaries, the official said, "A little bit expansion might be done, but by and large the number will remain the same."At present, jabs are being given at around 500 centres in the capital.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Monday said everybody aged above 18 would be administered COVID-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.He had also appealed to vaccine manufacturers to bring down the price to ₹150 per dose.Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at ₹600 per dose for state governments and at ₹1,200 per dose for private hospitals.Serum Institute of India (SII)'s Covishield will be available at a price of ₹300 per dose to state governments and ₹600 per dose to private hospitals.The nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive began on January 16.The Centre, which has been inoculating frontline workers and those aged 45 and above, this month announced expansion of the national vaccination drive from May 1, amid a deadly second Covid wave ravaging the country.Registration for this category began on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/people-with-comorbidities-will-be-given-preference-in-delhi-in-phase-iii-101619626803414.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Deaths touch one-day high of 266, new Covid-19 cases drop below 30K in UP||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day fatality count as 266 patients died during treatment for Covid taking the death toll to 11,943, according to official data. Prayagraj recorded the maximum 21 deaths on the day. At the same time, the daily infection count dropped to below 30,000 as the state reported 29,824 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3,169 less than on Tuesday when there were 32,993 fresh cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has reached 11,82,848. “The number of patients discharged is more than new cases,” said additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad at a press conference. During the day, 35,903 patients were discharged, which is 6,079 more than the new cases. The number of active cases, or patients under treatment, is 3,00,041 while the number of total patients discharged till now is 8,70,864 since the start of the pandemic early last year. Till now, 4,03,28,141 samples have been tested in Uttar Pradesh, including 1,841,14 on Tuesday and 1,86,588 on Wednesday. Among the fresh cases, Lucknow reported 3,759, Varanasi 1,909, Kanpur 1,650, Meerut 1,355, Prayagraj 1,261, Agra 1,076, Gorakhpur 1,045, Agra 1,076, Gautam Buddha Nagar 903, Jhansi 634, Ghaziabad 559 and Jaunpur 532. Prayagraj reported 21 deaths, Hardoi 15, Varanasi 14, Lucknow and Kanpur 13 each, Gautam Buddha Nagar 12, Gorakhpur 11, Ghaziabad 12, Agra 10, and Sonbhadra 9, according to state health department data. “All those eligible should go for vaccination as the level of infection, if it happens among those who get the jab, is not severe,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deaths-touch-one-day-high-of-266-new-covid-19-cases-drop-below-30k-in-up-101619631098622.html
28-04-2021||Other||Stage set for final phase of UP panchayat polls today||Voting in the fourth and final phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections will be held on Thursday, even as the Covid-19 second wave surges. Over 5.27 lakh candidates are in the fray for more than 2.10 lakh seats across 17 districts in this round of the election.The state election commission in a statement said: “More than 2.98 crore voters will cast their votes in the fourth and last phase of the polls which will be held from 7 am to 6 pm.” In the first phase of the polls held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The second phase of the polls on April 19 also saw over 71% of polling.In the third phase of the polls held on April 26, a polling percentage of 73.5 was recorded.The 17 districts going to polls are: Ambedkar Nagar, Aligarh, Kushinagar, Kaushambi, Ghazipur, Farrukhabad, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bahraich, Banda, Mau, Mathura, Shahjahanpur, Sambhal, Sitapur, Sonbhadra and Hapur.The SEC statement said that there are 10,679 candidates in the fray for 738 posts of zila panchayat members in the final phase. A total of 55,408 candidates are contesting for 18,356 posts of kshetra panchayat members. Meanwhile, 1,14,400 candidates are in the fray for posts of gram panchayat members, 3,47,436 contestants are fighting for 1,77,648 posts in gram panchayat wards, it said.The candidates will contest on ‘free symbols’ given by the State Election Commission.Meanwhile, more than 170 people, including three candidates for village pradhan posts (gram panchayat), have been charged under the Disaster Management Act, for flouting Covid-19 protocols, at police stations Lodha, Gangiri and Iglas in the past 24 hours.“All the three candidates were holding rallies and processions wherein none of the participants were wearing masks,” Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Aligarh, said in a statement in Aligarh.In view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had last month announced that not more than five people will be allowed to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning for panchayat elections.At the district level, chief medical officers have been made nodal officers to emphasise on following the Covid-19 protocol.Voters will mandatorily have to wear masks and maintain social distancing at polling booths. Instructions have also been issued to make circles maintaining a distance of six feet between voters standing in the queue.The counting of votes will take place on May 2.(With agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stage-set-for-final-phase-of-up-panchayat-polls-today-101619630738600.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||12,444 fresh Covid cases, 95 deaths reported in Haryana||Ninety-five patients succumbed to Covid-19 and 12,444 fresh cases were detected in Haryana on Wednesday. The state yet again registered the highest-ever single day surge in cases and fatalities.On Tuesday, Haryana had recorded 11,931 fresh Covid cases and 84 fatalities.According to the health bulletin, of total 95 deaths due to the contagion, 12 people died in Hisar, 10 in Sirsa, nine in Fatehabad, eight in Jind, seven each in Gurugram, Karnal and Bhiwani, six in Panchkula, five each in Faridabad and Ambala, four each in Sonepat, Rohtak and Kaithal, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Palwal, and one in Nuh.The death toll in state has increased to 4,021 and the active patient count rose to 88,860 while 7,618 people had recovered on Tuesday.Gurugram logged 2,934 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,602, Sonepat 870, Hisar 1,042, Ambala 350, Karnal 760, Panipat 668, Rohtak 236, Rewari 138, Panchkula 520, Kurukshetra 202, Yamunanagar 298, Sirsa 430, Mahendergarh 195, Bhiwani 453, Jhajjar 243, Palwal 114, Fatehabad 264, Kaithal 137, Jind 850, Nuh 91, and Charkhi Dadri 47.At least 48,740 samples were collected in the last 24 hours to detect spread of the virus while 37,461 people were vaccinated.Meanwhile, the Union government has increased the oxygen quota of Haryana from 162 MT to 232 MT a day, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday.Two days ago, Haryana had urged the Centre to increase the oxygen quota to 270 MT amid surge in Covid cases in state.WEEK’S LOCKDOWN IN 2 KARNAL SECTORSConcerned over rising number of Covid patients, the Karnal district administration has decided to impose a weeklong lockdown in Sector 6 and 13 of Karnal.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the lockdown will be in place from Wednesday midnight.As per the restrictions, nobody will be allowed to go outside these sectors. Officials of the health department will conduct door-to-door scanning and sampling of all residents and infected people will be isolated in their houses.The decision was taken to break the chain of virus. A nodal officer will be appointed to monitor the situation. The decision was taken in a meeting with officials of the Karnal administration, municipal corporation, and councillors of these sectors.Banks, coaching centres and eateries in these areas will remain closed but ATMs remain operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12444-fresh-covid-cases-95-deaths-reported-in-haryana-101619630083594.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana restricts sale of remdesivir and tocilizumab||The Haryana government on Wednesday restricted sale and distribution of experimental injectable drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab. The two injections are used to treat patients of Covid-19.A spokesperson of the food and drug administration said that keeping in view the emergency and unmet medical need for Covid, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved restricted emergency use of remdesivir injectable formulations for treatment of patients with severe Covid-19 infection.The spokesperson said remdesivir formulations are required to be sold under the prescription of medical specialists only.Further, remdesivir formulations are required to be supplied for use only to hospital/ institutions to ensure proper use of the drugs as recommended.The spokesperson added that it has been reported that during the pandemic, doctors are irrationally prescribing remdesivir, which is approved as an emergency drug by the Drug Controller General of India or use for only patients in intensive care unit and on ventilator support.“Thus, it should not be prescribed by doctors for patients not admitted in hospitals or those in home isolation,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that irregular sale of remdesivir or tocilizumab is punishable under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act for which drug licenses may be suspended or cancelled.Besides this, any black marketing or hoarding of these drugs is cognisable and punishable offences for which stringent action of registration of FIR will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-restricts-sale-of-remdesivir-and-tocilizumab-101619626419481.html
28-04-2021||Other||Now, pilot escort for Oxygen express||The Indian Railways has decided to escort all Oxygen tanker-carrying special trains under South Eastern Railway (SER) zone and enhance strategic force deployment in wake of the recent Maoist sabotage of rail track on Howrah-Mumbai main line, especially after investigation found that highly explosive ammonium nitrate was used in the blast, senior Railway security officials said on Wednesday.“We are providing pilot escort by light engine to all Oxygen Express trains in Chakradharpur and Kharagpur divisions, as Oxygen is now a national requirement. All passengers trains will also be escorted at strategic timings. We are also enhancing strategic deployment of forces, intensive patrolling and boosting up intelligence sharing with state police,” DB Kasar, SER chief security commissioner cum RPF IG, said.Members of banned extremist faction CPI(Maoist) on Monday blew one meter of rail track on Howrah-Mumbai main line between Sonua and Lotapahar stations under Chakradharpur division of SER.Earlier in the day, Kasar inspected the blast site and was scheduled to have a series of meetings with Railway, RPF and state police officers in the next two days.“A comprehensive investigation is going on, as prima facie looked to be a part of larger game plan involving Maoist massacre of 22 CRPF jawans in Chhattisgarh, support to farmers’ protest etc. The banners and pamphlets clearly mentioned both,” said Kasar.Another senior railway security officer said the blasting on the rail track came off as a major concern because preliminary investigation found that they used highly explosive ammonium nitrate instead of steel can IEDs. “The pieces of the track were blown as far as 35m away,” he said.Maoist squads led by Central Committee Member Patiram Majhi alias Anal da, carrying a reward of ₹1 crore on his head, and Suresh Munda, carrying ₹10 lakh reward, are active under Sonua-Chakradharpur belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-pilot-escort-for-oxygen-express-101619626118424.html
28-04-2021||Ranchi||Lockdown extended till May 6 with few more restrictions||The state government on Wednesday decided to extend the ongoing weeklong lockdown, named as Swasthya Surakasha Saptah (SSS), for one more week till May 6 with few more restrictions in a bid to curb spread of coronavirus infection in the state, officials said.The lockdown, that was scheduled to come to an end around 6am on April 29, will now be effective till 6am on May 6. The decision was taken at the state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting on Wednesday, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. “Keeping in mind the current trend of Covid-19, the government has decided to extend the Swasthya Suraksha Saptah till 6am on May 6,” Soren said. Excluding shops providing essential services, all others will be permitted to open till 2pm only from the earlier timing of 8pm. “In a bid to ensure protection from the virus, we have partially modified the SSS. The shops that were permitted to open till 8pm can now remain open till 2pm, excluding those of essential services,” the CM said. A senior secretary level officer, who was also present in the SDMA, said excluding pharmaceutical shops, all other shops, including that of grocery, liquor, and vegetables and fruits, will open till 2pm only.The government, however, did not take any decision on public transport, sources present at the meeting said.It was also decided to increase number of oxygen beds and non-oxygen beds in the state. “We have decided that 50 additional non-oxygen beds will be ensured in each district so that persons, whose oxygen level have returned to normalcy, can be shifted and treated in the hospital premises,”Soren said.The government imposed SSS from April 22 after cases of Covid-19 soared manifolds. However, despite the lockdown, the number of cases and deaths did not come down. The state recorded 28,463 cases since the weeklong lockdown came into effect till April 27, while as many as 531 died due to the disease during the period.Various sectors and political parties, including the Opposition, demanded the extension in lockdown. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded for complete lockdown, while Congress party demanded extension of the ongoing SSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lockdown-extended-till-may-6-with-few-more-restrictions-101619626058387.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage: 40 centres to remain shut in Mumbai on April 29||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Wednesday announced 40 private vaccination centres will remain shut as they have run out of their vaccine stocks. Another 33 private vaccination centres will also be limited to administering second doses as they have limited stock. Announcing that a fresh stock of Covishiedl will be received at night, the civic body said that all government and municipal vaccination centres will be functional after 12 noon on Thursday.The municipal body also provided a list of centres that will remain closed on Thursday.#MyBMCVaccinationUpdate CVCs that have exhausted their stocks:Worli KoliwadaMaa HospitalRamabai ThackerayVD SavarkarMithagharMT AgrawalWockhardtPrince Ali KhanLilavatiShree Balaji (Malad)Zen MultispecialityCAMARCF (Chembur)#MyBMCUpdate #MumbaiVaccinationUpdate https://t.co/P3S28dYGWbOn Wednesday, the Bandra Kurla Complex jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre ran out of vaccine stock and became inactive. "It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished," Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.Good News Mumbai! We are receiving a fresh stock of #Covishield tonight to be distributed only in Gov & MCGM hospitals/ centres (not Pvt) tomorrow morning. So, all Gov & MCGM CVCs will be functional but only post 12 PM See you getting #Vaccinated #MyBMCVaccinationUpdateThis comes at a time the third phase of the vaccination for people between the age group of 18 and 44 years is all set to begin from May 1. The Maharashtra government, however, clarified that the third phase drive can not be launched in the state from May 1 as the state does not have sufficient doses of vaccines.Countering the Maharashtra government's claims, the Union health ministry on Wednesday said the state still has over five lakh vaccine doses with it and another five lakh doses will be delivered to the state in the next three days."It is clarified that the total Covid vaccine doses received by Maharashtra as of April 28, 2021, (at 8 am) are 1,58,62,470. Of this, the total consumption including wastage (0.22 per cent) was 1,53,56,151. Balance of 5,06,319 vaccine doses is still available with the state for administration to the eligible population groups," the ministry said.Though registration for the 3rd phase of vaccination began on April 28, slots for people in the age group between 18 and 44 years could not be booked as state government hospitals and private hospitals are yet to add their capacity to cowin.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-40-centres-to-remain-shut-in-mumbai-on-april-29-101619625686539.html
28-04-2021||Other||One V-C, four universities to oversee||PATNAOn Wednesday, SP Singh, vice-chancellor of Lalit Narayan Mishra University (Darbhanga), was given the charge of one more university, Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), Patna.With this, Singh now holds charge of four universities in the state. AKU became headless after its pro-VC, S M Karim, who was made to officiate as acting V-C by the Raj Bhawan, was reportedly asked to resign over the controversy surrounding the continuance of Rajiv Ranjan as registrar. A few days ago, Karim tendered his resignation after accepting the resignation of the registrar. Raj Bhawan issued the notification Wednesday, accepting Karim’s resignation, and handed over additional charge to SP Singh. The registrar at AKU is also under additional charge from another university. AKU, set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella, has been without a regular V-C since September 20, 2020, when the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Since then, Karim had been holding the additional charge of V-C. Earlier, Bihar Raj Bhawan had also given SP Singh the additional charge of Pataliputra University and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University in Patna in addition to LNMU to make it four. Asked whether it will be tough for him to handle four universities in the midst of the pandemic, Singh said one has to shoulder responsibility when it comes. “I am a performer. In Pataliputra University, I have done what was not done in the last two-and-a-half years. As long as the additional charge is there, I will discharge my duties with full devotion,” he said, after taking charge at AKU. Apart from Singh, TM Bhagalpur University VC Neelima Gupta is also holding the additional charge of Munger University, while BRA Bihar University VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey holds the additional charge of Nalanda Open University (NOU). But then, it is not the first time that any V-C has been given charge of up to four universities in Bihar. It had also happened during the time of former Bihar Governor late Devanand Konwar when the government and the Raj Bhawan were at loggerheads over the appointment of VCs and the matter landed up in the Supreme Court. Advancing summer vacation In view of the pandemic, the LNMU VC and TMBU V-C have moved a proposal to the Raj Bhawan for advancing the summer vacation in universities to May. Earlier, Patna University teachers association and employees association had also approached the VC for it. However, the Raj Bhawan has not yet taken any decision on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-v-c-four-universities-to-oversee-101619625998883.html
28-04-2021||Pune||PMC to audit beds in each hospital||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to conduct an audit of beds in each hospital to evaluate whether the patients occupying the beds need it, or not. Against the background of a shortage of beds in hospitals in Pune, at both private and government hospitals, PMC will first audit hospitals under its own ambit. As per the PMC health statistics, call centres receive 1,000 phone calls per day from patients seeking admission. Doctors then verify the condition of the patient by asking questions about oxygen level, body temperature and duration of symptoms, among others. Based on that, a doctor will recommend a patient be admitted to hospital. At present, there is demand for oxygen beds in the city. PMC has a total 8,555 beds, including 5,540 oxygen beds, 1,843 beds without oxygen, 610 beds with ventilators and 562 ICU beds. Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are conducting an audit with the help of the zonal medical office and its team, to checking if patient need the beds they are in.” Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal Ccmmissioner said, “We will provide beds to needy patients and avoid unnecessary occupancy of beds in PMC hospitals. The audit will help make beds available. It is a continuous process and doctors will mention it in their clinical report.” PMC is supplying 37 tonnes of oxygen per day PMC is supplying 37 tonnes of oxygen per day to its own civic-run hospitals. PMC requires at least 40 tonnes of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-audit-beds-in-each-hospital-101619625998321.html
28-04-2021||Other||NMCH junior doctors go on strike, their 3rd in a week||PATNAAt a time when the state’s crisis management group (CMG) was discussing on Wednesday ways to tackle the unprecedented phase of the coronavirus pandemic, junior doctors of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMHC), a dedicated Covid hospital in Patna, went on an indefinite strike, their third such stir in a week in protest against the assault on doctors and other staff at the hospital.The junior doctors of the 500-bed government’s premier health institution decided to boycott work after attendants of a Covid-19 patient, who died in course of treatment, allegedly went berserk and assaulted them and other hospital staff on Tuesday night. About 370 Covid patients, most of them under critical care, are undergoing treatment at the NMCH. Junior doctors, numbering around 150, play a crucial role in management of Covid at the hospital, already facing tremendous resource crunch due to heavy load of patients.Health minister Mangal Pandey and principal secretary (health) Pratyay Amrit, refused to respond despite repeated calls. NMCH officials, pleading anonymity, said they were striving hard to win over the agitating doctors to put off their strike during the crisis.One of the attendants, Ashutosh Dubey, said chaos and confusion prevailed in the hospital after PG doctors began refusing to attend on critical patients despite repeated pleas. “Oxygen supply to beds was suspended for some time in the night as well. However, it was restored soon on intervention of senior doctors and NMCH management,” he said.This is the third time this week when junior doctors, who are doing PG courses, went on flash strike, demanding safety and security on the campus. The junior doctors and subordinate doctors allege that they were often abused and assaulted by kin of the patients.Junior doctors’ association president Ram Chandra claimed situation at the NMCH was not improving despite announcements and assurances from the minister concerned and senior officers. “We will not resume work until the health minister and principal secretary, health, visit the NMCH and fulfilled their demands,” said Chandra.The junior doctors have been demanding immediate deployment of paramilitary forces, appointment of doctors and other health staff like nurses and ward boys as per requirement and availability of proper medical infrastructure.Meanwhile, with 13,374 new cases of Covid-infection detected in the last 24 hour, total number of active cases in Bihar has mounted to 98,747 on Wednesday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed his grief over the demise of Pankaj Kumar Singh, director of industries department, due to Covid. He was undergoing treatment at a government hospital where he was admitted in a serious condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmch-junior-doctors-go-on-strike-their-3rd-in-a-week-101619625938384.html
28-04-2021||Other||4 siblings die as fire ravages house in Patna||PatnaThree sisters and their brother were killed after fire broke out in their house in Patna district on Wednesday, police said.The incident happened around 9 am in Alauddin Chak village in the Punpun police station area when the siblings were cooking while their parents were away.Their house suddenly caught fire and all of them were charred to death, police said.The deceased were identified as Dolly (12), Rakhi (8), Aarti (6) and Ankit (4).During the incident, their father Chhotu Paswan and his wife were working in the field.Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed condolence on the deaths and announced ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh for each of those killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-siblings-die-as-fire-ravages-house-in-patna-101619625939047.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Some arriving passengers not tested for Covid-19 at Pune station||The Pune district administration made it clear in its guidelines, that each and every passenger coming from outside the state who does not have a Covid-negative report should undergo rapid antigen test at the Pune railway station. This test and the checking is carried by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, but currently it doesn’t seem to be happening. “We check passengers coming from other states to Pune railway station for the RTPCR test report. While passengers with Covid symptoms do get the rapid antigen test, not all are tested. Also, each and every passenger’s contact details is with us,” said Chandrakant Walemad, PMC health department official. Passenger movement at the Pune railway station has increased ever since tighter curbs, and in effect, talk of the current lockdown began a month ago. At least 10,000 passengers arrive at the Pune station, daily. The Railways, along with PMC officials, are conducting thermal checks, but not all passengers who do not have a Covid-negative report are being given the rapid antigen test. HT had reported how the staff deployed by the civic body is not enough to cover the large number of passengers coming in. At any given time, a maximum of five PMC staffers are on duty at the railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-arriving-passengers-not-tested-for-covid-19-at-pune-station-101619625878342.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Action against 571 lockdown violators in the last 23 days||The Pune police have taken action against 571 persons in the last 23 days, for violating lockdown rules. A case has been registered against the violators under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “This year people are following the Covid guidelines as compared to the previous year, Therefore, the police choose not to take strict action. Action is being taken against those who are not following the rules,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. Last year, at least 27,000 violators faced action and some were even beaten-up by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/action-against-571-lockdown-violators-in-the-last-23-days-101619625578283.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Citizens with disabilities want independent vaccination centre||Citizens with disabilities in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad believe that a separate vaccination centre will ease the process in terms of easy access, convenience and a quicker process. With long queues at most vaccination centres every day, disabled are finding it difficult to navigate through the entire procedure. “People do help us in finding a chair or offer us spaces, but these days many hesitate because of Covid-19. People do allow us to get ahead in the queue and doctors also help us, however, the procedure takes a long time. If there is a different centre then we might not have to deal with long queues and nobody has to bother about us,” said Savita Darkunde, who works at Bank of India, Swargate. Darkunde, who is blind, took her vaccination a few days back and was accompanied by her four friends to the centre. “I was even helped by the hospital staff, but real problems arise for those who are illiterate, as they don’t understand things easily and their disability makes things more difficult for them,” added Darkunde. Pravin Parkhe, who is partially blind and works as an assistant general manager, grade 3, at the Food Corporation of India said, “If there are 10 vaccination centres for citizens, one should be devoted for the specially-abled. Everyone doesn’t offer help, some have reservations, and it creates unnecessary arguments especially when things are so tense at centres due to vaccine shortages.” The National Federation of Blind has written a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) asking them to make 500 doses of vaccination available and the staff to undergo vaccinations after May 1. “For the specially-abled, going at centres is becoming difficult with no public transport and most of them cannot drive on their own due to the disability. I hope the administration provides us the vaccines so we will provide them a suitable place where they can come and vaccinate all of us or we are also ready for door-to-door vaccination,” said Sushil Patil, treasurer, National Federation of Blind. PCMC starts separate centre for specially-abled From Wednesday, the PCMC administration in coordination with Rotary Club of Pimpri has started a vaccination centre for the specially-abled. The first day did not have a big response as many of them were still unaware about the centre. “We have forwarded messages on their groups and also planned a one common pick-up point in the allocated areas where our bus will go pick them up and drop as well. From tomorrow (Thursday) rush will increase,” said Mehul Parmar, president, Rotary Club of Pimpri. The PCMC administration did not release the number of people vaccinated on the first day at the centre. In the twin cities, there are a total of 2,145 people above 45 who are eligible for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citizens-with-disabilities-want-independent-vaccination-centre-101619625458424.html
28-04-2021||Pune||State board extends deadline to fill HSC exam forms||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Wednesday, declared that students of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC), Class 12, can now submit their examination forms one day before the examinations, with a late fee of ₹250. This decision was taken due to the rising number of Covid cases followed by strict lockdown in the state. Those students who have not yet filled up their examination form can register online and fill up the form with a late fee of ₹250. “Earlier, the last day to submit the examination form for HSC students was April 4, with transfer of credit and students with limited subjects were allowed to fill the form by April 22. Due to the rising number of Covid cases in Maharashtra the state government postponed the HSC exams,” said MSBSHSE secretary Ashok Bhosale. “So, it is now decided that students who have not yet filed up the examination form until April 23, can now register online and fill up the form up even one day before the examinations begin. Students have to pay a late fee of ₹250 while filling up the examination form and attach all the necessary documents. We have instructed all the zonal divisions to carry out this process strictly and no student should be left behind,” Bhosale said. Atharv Kamble, an HSC student said, “There was a Covid emergency in our home and so I couldn’t fill-up the form, but now I will immediately register and fill up the examination form for the HSC exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-board-extends-deadline-to-fill-hsc-exam-forms-101619625338362.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Increase in passenger numbers travelling from Pune station||From the beginning of this month, there has been a considerable increase in the number of passengers travelling from the Pune railway station to the rest of the country. Due to the strict restrictions imposed in the state, thousands of labourers have been returning back to their home states. Four trains running at capacity, 1,400 passengers each, are weekly special trainsto different cities like Gorakhpur and Lucknow. According to information given by the Pune railway division, prior to the current lockdown, in February, daily, 25,000 passengers would travel from Pune railway station, on an average of 25 to 30 trains. This number has now doubled and daily, 50,000 passengers travel from Pune railway station, with over 49 train operations. “The train operations and passengers travelling from Pune railway station have increased drastically in the last one month which has almost doubled compared to February and March. Some of the trains originating from Pune are running over occupancy and have a daily waiting list of passengers. Without confirmed tickets and thermal checking, passengers are not allowed to travel from the Pune railway station,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. Meanwhile, there are also some trains which are cancelled due to poor occupancy . These trains include the Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains are originating from Pune railway; due to occupancy of less than 15 per cent, these trains have been cancelled by the railways. “As there is a heavy rush of passengers going towards the north and Northeast India, there are several new special trains operating from Pune,” Jhawar added. BOX Daily trains operating in the month of February, 2021 - 25 to 30 Daily trains operating in the month of April, 2021 - 45 to 50 Daily number of passengers daily travelling from Pune railway station in February - 25,000 Daily number of passengers daily travelling from Pune railway station in April - above 50,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/increase-in-passenger-numbers-travelling-from-pune-station-101619625278443.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Parents fear delay in RTE admissions will affect children||The school admissions under the Right To Education (RTE) have been affected with the extension of lockdown likely till May 15. The lottery for RTE was declared on April 7. However, the admission process is yet to begin due to the current lockdown. Parents now fear that this delay, similar to last year, will affect their children academically. The RTE admissions under RTE for academic year 2020-2021 were finalised in January 2021.Speaking about the delay in the admission process, Soni Rathod from Undri said that her 6-year-old son has been selected under RTE for admission in Class 1. “I have not received any message as of yet to start with the admission process. I have seen my number on the online lottery of admission under the RTE. The online lottery was on April 7,” said Rathod. “Due to lockdown, there has been a delay. We went to the RTE office as well for enquiry. We were informed that the process will start soon and the details will be uploaded on the website. We want the online school to start so that the child is busy. The process should not be delayed as the child will suffer academically,” said Rathod. Under RTE, 25 per cent seats of the unaided private schools are reserved for students from economically backward sections at entry level of preschool and Class 1. For the academic year 2021-2022, there are 982 RTE registered schools in Pune. Of the 55,813 applications, 14,567 students were selected in Pune during the online lottery. Mukund Kirdat, city-based education activist and member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said that even though lockdown is in effect, the education department should start with the admission process. Across Maharashtra, there are 82,129 students selected under RTE during the online lottery. “The schools have already started their admissions. In such cases, there is a huge list of parents waiting under the RTE. If the regular admission under RTE is not done, then the waiting list parents will also suffer. Because some parents are hoping to secure admission through RTE, they have not applied through normal admission for their ward,” said Kirdat. He further added that the education department does not seem prepared even during the second wave. “Document verification for parents under the RTE can start as there are not a lot of parents at a particular school. Such special provisions should be made so that the process is finished soon, and students start their academic year,” said Kirdat. Education department officials said that parents can look for more information regarding the online admission process on the official website of RTE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-fear-delay-in-rte-admissions-will-affect-children-101619625218388.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Housing societies take independent calls on Covid tests for domestic helpers||With no uniform orders by the government on antigen tests or RT-PCR tests for domestic helpers – housing societies in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), are taking independent calls on conducting tests. In Pune, there are 10,000 registered housing societies and some of them are making these tests compulsory.“We are following what the government has said. If societies who want to conduct tests, they can arrange it for themselves, but no compulsion has been made from our side,” said Suhas Patwardhan, chairman, Pune district cooperative housing federation limited. “In my society we have not made it compulsory. I feel domestic workers are more aware about the current scenario and they are keeping their health in check. My maid said that she has to take care of two families – one her own and second, ours, so she gives top priority to her health,” said Rajendra Chuttar, president, Baner-Pashan Link Road welfare trust. In Wagholi, people have taken extra precautions and only allowed maids at homes where the residents need medical attention. “Since the last 15 days, we have put restrictions on the entry of domestic helpers in the society and are only permitting them at homes where there are health issues. We are conducting RT-PCR tests at regular intervals,” said Sanjeev Patil, director, Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA). In PCMC, since April 20, rapid antigen tests are being conducted at various societies. The initiative is undertaken jointly by PCMC and Deepak Foundation, which have conducted tests in 18 housing societies as of April 28. “Every day we are conducting tests at two societies. Along with domestic helpers, we also conducting tests of families whose maids tested positive, as a precautionary measure,” said Tejaswini Sawai, chairperson, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation. On Wednesday, tests were conducted at Nandan Inspera society in Wakad where 90 domestic helpers, which include maids, security guards, car washers and gardeners, were tested. “Society members agreed for the test as it is beneficial for all. Domestic workers were also willing to do a test, so the drive was conducted smoothly,” said Sachin Londhe, chairman of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/housing-societies-take-independent-calls-on-covid-tests-for-domestic-helpers-101619625158271.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||With 985 deaths, Maharashtra sees record jump in daily Covid-19 toll, Mumbai’s new cases increase||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded the highest toll due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 985 deaths, while 63,309 more people were detected positive, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The caseload has now climbed to 4,473,394, including 67,214 deaths and more than 3.73 million recoveries, the bulletin showed.The state’s capital Mumbai, which was seeing a fall in its daily cases also recorded a rise on Wednesday with 4,926 people testing positive, taking the caseload to 640,409. The city’s death toll is nearing 13,000 with 78 deaths seen on Wednesday.The lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra are likely to get extended by another 15 days, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday adding that many other ministers in the cabinet agreed for the extension in order to break the chain of transmission.Also Read| Maharashtra likely to extend Covid-19 lockdownThe restrictions were imposed from April 14 to May 1 banning the movement of people, closure of movie halls, auditoriums, malls, gyms etc. Only essential services are exempted. On April 22, another set of restrictions were introduced by the Maha Vikas Aghadi-led state government on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings till May 1.Tope pointed out these restrictions have helped in bringing stability in cases hoping they will start declining in the near future.Maharashtra on Wednesday joined the list of states which will provide free vaccination to all residents between the ages of 18-44 in the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, scheduled to start from May 1. All residents will have to register themselves on the CoWin app in order to get inoculated, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said.Also Read| Covid-19: Maharashtra to vaccinate all citizens between 18 and 44 years for freeThey will be further divided into three categories- 18-25 years, 26-35 years and 39 to 44 years in order to avoid any inconvenience, Tope said on Wednesday.However, Maharashtra is still continuing to report a shortage of vaccine doses. Health minister Tope said a full-fledged roll-out of the May 1 vaccination drive is not possible due to this shortage and the state government is unlikely to get vaccine doses from both Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech before May 20.According to news agency PTI, health experts have warned a slowdown in Maharashtra’s vaccination drive can pave the way for a third wave of the Covid-19 disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-record-jump-in-daily-covid-deaths-at-985-mumbai-s-new-cases-increase-101619623131174.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Dose shortage hits Covid vaccination drive in Pune||PUNE At least 39 lakh people from Pune district under the age of 45 years will have to wait for their turn to get vaccinated as the state public health minister Rajesh Tope announced that full-fledged rollout of the inoculation drive from May 1 is not possible for the want of vaccines.While the wait for younger ones has extended further, those above the age of 45 years are also facing problem as the drive had to be stopped on Wednesday as the administration did not have a stock of Covishield doses.At many places, senior citizens had to return without jab as centres did not get vaccine supply.Pune last received its stock on Sunday which was 35,000 for the city and 55,000 for the rural areas. However, on Wednesday the entire stock along with the ones in the pipeline, the ones already distributed to the hospitals and the centres, came to a complete grinding halt.Asif Shaikh, a beneficiary, said, “Today (on Wednesday) I went to three vaccination centres in Pune, but they didn’t have and when I asked them about availability they said they don’t know. Now, where is management and why we can’t get the vaccine?”Another beneficiary Harish Pandey said, “My parents (70 and 65-years-old) have received the first dose of vaccine and now they are waiting for the second dose. I am worried they will receive it on time due to shortage.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted on Wednesday that, “Unfortunately Pune has run out of stock Covshield vaccine for today (28/4). I am going to be talking to the city & state administration today to understand the exact reasons behind the supply vs. demand mismatch, and hopeful resolve the same by tomorrow.” (sic)A senior Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official who is responsible to procure and distribute vaccine in the city said, “We have not got the stock as of yet and when we asked the state about when the next stock would arrive we have not got any answer on the same. We get to know only an hour before the stock arrives and state officials who inform us get to know only half an hour before the stock arrives. The Covaxin doses are reserved to be used only as a second dose and even that is now over.”Currently, all aged above 45 are eligible to get the vaccine until May 1 when all aged above 18-44 will get the vaccine unless the state government decides to postpone it due to lack of vaccine.As of the latest data from the state health department as of Tuesday Pune district has vaccinated 44.11% of the estimated population aged above 45 years with the first dose. Out of the 1.17 crores estimated population of the district, 35 lakh are estimated to be those aged above 45 years. Out of the 35 lakh, 15.54 lakh have got the first dose.Registration woesOn Wednesday, the Co-WIN app was to open up for vaccination of those aged between 18-44, however many complained that they could not get themselves registered. While those who got themselves registered could not get a schedule since the app showed only distant locations available for vaccination like Indapur, Alephata and Baramati and some said that those aged below 45 were unable to get the slot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dose-shortage-hits-covid-vaccination-drive-in-pune-101619622818178.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra vaccinates more than 1.53 crore||With over 3.88 lakh more people receiving the COVID-19 jabs in Maharashtra, the overall immunisation count in the state has crossed 1.53 crore, a health official said on Wednesday.At least 3,88,247 eligible people were inoculated on Tuesday, the official said.Of them, 4,017 healthcare workers received the first dose of the vaccine, while 9,899 were given the second dose, he said.As many as 20,276 and 13,753 frontline workers were administered the first and second jabs, respectively, on Tuesday, the official said.In the above 45-year category, 2,12,699 people received the first dose and 1,27,603 the second dose, the official said, adding 65,140 people were inoculated in Mumbai alone.According to the Maharashtra health department, the state has inoculated a total of 1,53,37,832 people so far, including 25,15,076 in Mumbai alone.As many as 10,99,415 healthcare workers had received the first dose, while 6,09,790 had received their second dose, it was stated.Similarly, 12,74,492 frontline workers have received the first dose, while 4,58,586 have taken the second dose.In the 45 plus category, 1,06,71,093 people have got their first dose and 12,24,456 the second dose so far.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 66,358 fresh cases and 895 fatalities that raised the tally of the infections to 44,10,085 and the toll to 66,179. The state currently has 6,72,434 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-vaccinates-more-than-1-53-crore-101619621681985.html
28-04-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 4 arrested for black-marketing of Remdesivir; NSA charges likely||Four people were arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida on Wednesday for alleged black-marketing of remdesivir injection, which is in shortage amid an increased demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic, police said.The roles of a contractual employee working in the office of the Gautam Buddh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) and a lab technician working at the All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi have also come to light in the racket, they said.According to officials, the accused were selling the life-saving drug at inflated costs of up to ₹50,000 for a single vial of remdesivir to the needy people, as against its normal pricing which does not go beyond ₹3,500.Greater Noida Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Vishal Pandey said, "The four accused were held by the Knowledge Park police station team and two remdesivir injections, considered life-saving drugs in this pandemic, were seized. ₹49,600 cash was also seized from them while a Honda Civic car used by them has been impounded."Those held have been identified as Shubham Goyal, Vaibhav Sharma, Shivam Sharma and Yogendra Singh, the police said, adding that they were found near a private hospital in Greater Noida.Two other people - Vikash Kaushik, who works at the CMO office in Noida on contract basis, and Sumit, a lab technician at Delhi AIIMS - are also part of the racket and searches are on to arrest them, Pandey said.The Additional DCP said an FIR has been lodged over the matter at the Knowledge Park police station while action would be initiated against the accused quartet under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) and the Gangster's Act as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-4-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-nsa-charges-likely-101619618070981.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 44°C, highest this season||The maximum temperature in parts of Delhi breached the 44 degrees Celsius mark on Wednesday, the highest this season so far, according to the India Meteorological Department data.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 42.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.The minimum temperature settled at 22.3 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.The mercury rose to 44.4 degrees Celsius in Najafgarh and Narela, and 44 degrees Celsius in Mungeshpur, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The weatherman said partly cloudy weather, gusty winds and light rain is expected in the city on Saturday.The maximum temperature is expected to dip to 38 degrees Celsius by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-44-c-highest-this-season-101619621426707.html
28-04-2021||Other||Work for setting up 500-bed Covid hospital begins in Panipat||Work for setting up of the 500-bed temporary hospital for Covid-19 patients began near the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery on Wednesday.The hospital is being set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with the Haryana government.As per officials, 250-bed hospital will be set up in the first phase and the second phase of the 250-bed hospital will be set up later. As per a tweet of Haryana health minister Anil Vij, the Army’s Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and other medical staff for the facilities.Officials said that material has already reached and hundreds of labourers and employees will continue for 24 hours in shifts. The first phase of the hospital will be made operational in the next 10 days and the second phase will start admitting patients in the third week of May.The hospital is being set up near the Panipat refinery due the availability of oxygen within the plant. The hospital will have a direct pipeline from the refinery for uninterrupted oxygen supply. He said that work for setting up of an underground oxygen pipeline will start from Friday.Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh said that all other formalities for supply of electricity, drinking water, and toilets are being made and an agency for management of the biomedical waste has been hired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-for-setting-up-500-bed-covid-hospital-begins-in-panipat-101619621439189.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Chandigarh: Educational institutes closed till May 15||Educational institutes in the city will stay closed till May 15, the Chandigarh administration decided on Wednesday.The decision to extend the closure post April 30 was taken at the war room meeting. “The detailed order will be issued on Thursday,” Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, higher education and school education, Chandigarh, said.The instructions to close all educational institutions of the city were first issued on March 23, and since then have been extended thrice – till March 31, April 10 and April 30.PU officials said the varsity will deliberate on the matter on Thursday. Currently, only the main library of the varsity is open for research scholars, while classes are being conducted online.30 grace marks for Class 9 and 11 studentsTaking a lenient view amid the current situation, the district education officer has announced that students of Class 9 and 10 can be given 30 grace marks to pass a subject or get a compartment in the results for the 2020-21 session.The grace marks can be given in any number of subjects, but the aggregate cannot exceed 30. The results of Classes 9 and 11 will be declared on Thursday. The compartment examinations will be held at the school level after the summer vacations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-chandigarh-educational-institutes-closed-till-may-15-101619621318815.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Property not registered on carpet-area basis to be declared illegal: HARERA||Any property sale agreement, if not registered based on carpet area alone, will tantamount to indulging in unfair trade practice by the promoter and attract action, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram cautioned.The HARERA, Gurugram has issued regulations for sale of apartment or building in any real estate project on carpet-area basis, said HARERA, Gurugram, chairman Dr KK Khandelwal.“Any sale of real estate project (on any other basis except carpet area) after the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 coming into force will be declared null and void by HARERA,” Dr Khandelwal said.He added that property in real estate projects is not properly described by way of mentioning super area without specifically giving details and breakup of the components included in the super area.He said that the practice of sale of real estate on super area basis is misleading, ambiguous, opaque, and gives rise to confusion and complexities, and at times, triggers avoidable litigation.The HARERA chairman said that to ensure sale of plot, apartment, building, etc in a transparent manner and to protect the interest of consumers in the real estate sector, regulations have been made by the Authority.Khandelwal said that before Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 came into existence, there was lack of a legal description for the term ‘carpet area’.“Now, this vagueness and uncertainty has been addressed. The term carpet area has been specifically and distinctly defined under Section 2(k) of the Act (ibid),” he said.He added that the definition of carpet area as provided under Section 2(k) of the Act means the net usable floor area.“Externals wall, service shafts, balcony, verandah and open terrace have been excluded from the definition of carpet area. However, the internal partition walls of the apartment are not excluded as they form a part of the integral structure that is the carpet area,” he said.“The definition of carpet area has now been made transparent and leaves no scope for any ambiguity categorically specifying the property,” said Khandelwal.All walls that are constructed or provided on the external face of an apartment will be regarded as ‘external wall’ and all walls or independent columns constructed or provided within an apartment will be regarded as ‘internal partition wall’, he added.He said that no conveyance deed of a real estate unit will be registered except on the basis of carpet area.In cases where the real estate unit is allotted to the allottee prior to the Act coming into force, the promoter at the time of registration of the conveyance deed will make disclosure of all the components constituting the super area and the conveyance deed will be registered only on carpet-area basis.Dr Khandelwal said that regulations will be applicable to all real estate projects, irrespective of the fact that they are registered or registerable or exempted from registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-not-registered-on-carpet-area-basis-to-be-declared-illegal-harera-101619620778703.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR helps: Residents run errands, arrange meds, cook food, amid rising cases||One act of kindness can save a life. And folks in Delhi-NCR have taken upon themselves to help out people as much as possible in these trying times, amid the rising coronavirus cases. Whether it’s offering to cook food for the Covid positive individuals/families, running a local errand, arranging medicines, looking for plasma donors, or helping out with information such as on available hospital beds, they are doing it all! Some like restauranteur Ankur Malhotra, from Noida, is part of many WhatsApp groups, and help in passing on the relevant information. “My friends call me jugadu. Things are really bad and getting worse. Some people want injections, medicines or where beds are available with oxygen. I keep on passing information and sharing references to anyone who needs them,” he says. Kirti Khanna, a corporate professional, recently took to social media to extend help with local errands such as arranging medicines and food. “I’m seeing friends lose their relatives. I could figure out that there is a lot of chaos, and people genuinely need help. And the feeling of helplessness of not getting some of the basic is very overwhelming at times. So I thought I could connect people to chemists in Gurugram. I love to cook so I can provide food. My husband is home so he can deliver. I can just talk to them to make them feel better. Simply try to be there. When the world is going crazy, all you need is an act of kindness,” she says.Sakshi Banga, a Delhi-based lawyer, who is going all across the city delivering medicines herself, says, “The situation is horrifying right now. I’m helping out people as much as possible. And we all need to help each other out! People have been asking about availability of beds, plasma donors, Remdesivir, and even doctor’s appointments for a video consultation... People aren’t able to connect to good doctors, especially those who have peculiar conditions. I’m available at 9871073448, if anyone needs help.”Gurugram-based homemaker Priyanka Talreja, who recently sent food to a Covid patient and a relative in her family, says she’s open to helping out others too. “You need to eat well for recovery during Covid. I would try my level best to help others, too. This is the time when we need to stand by senior citizens, and those living alone, arrange medicines. My cook called me, and I arranged the number of a guy who does our check-up. So, help in whatever little ways we can.” And then there are some like Aditya Amit Gundh who are running informal groups that promote art, spirituality and fitness to ease the anxiety and stress induced due to the pandemic. He says, “There are people who want to talk, as there is a lot of anxiety and fear. There is a real threat outside, but perceptive threat is also why people are suffering because of fear of loss of job, and health concerns. Within this group, there are people capable to help in times of need. We are offering people to just open up, call us and just speak. Every Sunday there is an online baithak where poets, singers come together to entertain people. Anyone can log in at Instagram.com/dimensionscommune.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-helps-residents-run-errands-arrange-meds-cook-food-amid-rising-cases-101619620480065.html
28-04-2021||Other||Covid patient inflow from Delhi-NCR leading to shortage of oxygen-support beds in Haryana hospitals||Amid reports of bed shortage and oxygen support system in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), increasing number of patients from there are getting admitted at hospitals in Haryana from the past few days.Recently, Haryana health minister Anil Vij had said that patients from Delhi are coming to Karnal, Rohtak and Ambala. “As per a survey, 70% patients in the districts of Gurugram and Faridabad hailed from Delhi. Extra beds are being made available for these patients,” Vij said.MOST PATIENTS FROM DELHI IN CRITICAL STAGEAs per officials of Karnal health department, nearly 32% of the total Covid-19 patients hospitalised in hospitals in district are from Delhi-NCR.Most patients coming from Delhi are in a critical stage and require oxygen support, said the officials.As per data, of total 443 beds with oxygen support at 17 Covid hospitals in district, 142 are occupied by patients from Delhi. And 63 of total 197 patients put on ventilators are from Delhi.Also, 102 of total 440 patients admitted at hospitals in Rewari are from Delhi, Rajasthan and other districts; and 350 of nearly 1,000 patients in Hisar are from Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan. However, 95 of over 500 patients undergoing treatment in Jhajjar are locals.A PGIMS official, pleading anonymity, said 401 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at the institute and many of them hail from Delhi-NCR districts.Similarly, around 10-15% patients admitted in Covid hospitals in Panipat and Kurukshetra are from other districts and most of them are from Delhi, increasing bed occupancy, especially in the ICU.Doctors said most patients from Delhi are admitted in private hospitals in Haryana.STATE HOSPITALS FACE SHORTAGE OF BEDSWith number of patients increasing with each passing day, the district administrations are facing shortage of beds.In Karnal, only 10 beds with oxygen support are left unoccupied and one with ventilator support.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “Around 32% patients from Delhi are admitted in Karnal hospitals as we cannot refuse treatment to anyone. Providing life-saving facilities is our top priority.”He said following surge in number of patients, an oxygen storage tank is being set up at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH), Karnal and number of ICU beds with oxygen support is being increased from 60 to 100.OFFICIALS COMPILING DATARohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said many patients from Delhi-NCR are admitted at hospitals in district and have been shifted here due to shortage of beds in the national capital.“We are compiling report as to how many patients from Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad are undergoing treatment in district,” he added.Sonepat civil surgeon Dr JS Punia said many patients from Delhi are visiting hospitals in district for Covid treatment.Jhajjar chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Dahiya said due to proximity to Delhi-NCR, many patients from there are coming for treatment at hospitals in district.“We have 160 ICU beds in district, including private hospitals. Of these, 147 are occupied. There are 26 ventilators in district, of which 23 are occupied; 447 oxygen beds (excluding ICU), of which nearly 400 are occupied. There can be shortage of beds in future but for now, the situation is under control,” he added.LOCAL KIN HELPING OUT NCR PATIENTSAccording to doctors, people are taking help of local relatives to admit patients by giving address of the local relative as attendant of the patient.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Dr Sukhbir Singh said, “Patients from Delhi are coming to our hospitals but we don’t have the exact data of them as many are providing local address of their relatives. We are ensuring that all patients coming to us get treatment as per government norms.”Anju Gupta, of Delhi, said she has shifted her husband to a private hospital in Sonepat after they failed to find a bed in Delhi. “At this time, our focus is on my husband’s recovery. Two days ago, when the oxygen supply was about to run out, my relatives managed to bring three gas cylinders for my husband,” she added.Ankit Kumar, of Gurugram, said he has shifted his mother to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh after they failed to find an ICU bed for her. “Our only one concern is getting enough oxygen supply. Doctors are working really hard to treat my mother whose lungs got infected,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-inflow-from-delhi-ncr-increasing-in-haryana-hospitals-101619619278779.html
28-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot goes under isolation after wife tests Covid +ve||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday isolated himself after his wife Sunita tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Sharing the news on Twitter, Gehlot said, "My wife Sunita Gehlot has tested positive for Covid-19 and is asymptomatic. As per protocol, her treatment under home isolation has started."Gehlot added on the micro-blogging site he will be going under isolation as a precautionary measure and hold Covid-19 review meetings with doctors and officials daily at 8.30pm.The chief minister had been actively taking part in offline meetings with officials to discuss the overall Covid-19 situation in Rajasthan.मेरी पत्नी श्रीमती सुनीता गहलोत कोविड पॉजिटिव आ गई हैं (असिम्प्टोमैटिक)। प्रोटोकॉल के अनुसार होम आइसोलेशन में उनका ट्रीटमेंट प्रारम्भ हो गया है। अब मैं एहतियातन आइसोलेशन में रहकर चिकित्सकों एवं अधिकारियों के साथ सांय 8.30 बजे रोजाना होने वाली कोविड समीक्षा बैठक लूंगा।The state's caseload has is nearing 547,000 including 3,806 deaths, 155,182 active cases and 387,976 recoveries. On Tuesday, 121 succumbed to the disease, the highest single-day spike in deaths while 16,089 more people were found to be positive.As Rajasthan has been facing shortage of oxygen supplies and essential drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, a group of three state cabinet ministers- health minister Raghu Sharma, energy minister BD Kalla and urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal arrived in Delhi on Tuesday and met several Union ministers to brief them about this shortage along with the overall Covid situation in Rajasthan.After the meeting got over, CM Gehlot said his ministers were successful in explaining the entire crisis to the Union ministers who have assured full assistance. “As a result, the state government will be able to make better management for the protection of the lives of the people of the state,” an official statement quoting Gehlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-goes-under-isolation-after-wife-tests-covid-ve-101619618676978.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||UP logs highest single-day spike in Covid deaths at 266; 29,824 new cases seen||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 266 more people succumbing to disease, while 29,824 new cases pushed the tally to 11,82,848.The death toll in the state now stands at 11,943.A total of 35,903 Covid-19 patients were discharged after recovery in the past 24 hours.Of the 266 fresh deaths, Allahabad recorded 21 deaths, followed by 15 in Hardoi, 14 in Varanasi, 13 each in Lucknow and Kanpur, 12 each in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad, 11 in Gorakhpur and 10 in Agra, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement here.Of the new cases, Lucknow reported 3,759 cases, followed by 1,909 in Varanasi, 1,650 in Kanpur, 1,355 in Meerut, 1,261 in Allahabad, 1,076 in Agra, 1,045 in Gorakhpur and 1,041 in Bareilly.A total of 8,70,864 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after recovery so far.The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 3,00,041, the statement said.In the past 24 hours, more than 1.86 lakh samples in the state have been tested for Covid-19, taking the total samples tested so far to 4.03 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-logs-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-deaths-at-266-29-824-new-cases-seen-101619616954353.html
28-04-2021||Indore||Covid-19: Cases registered over unauthorised weddings in Indore||Two cases have been registered in the district for the organisation of weddings without permission, police said on Wednesday.Indore is among the districts worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the administration has imposed `Janata Curfew' till April 30, prohibiting any kind of functions.On receiving information that weddings were taking place without permission, police raided two venues in suburban Rau area on Tuesday."At both the venues, when our teams reached, the family members fled. We seized tents, lights, chairs, etc," said local police station in-charge Narendra Singh Raghuwanshi.Cases were registered against respective families under IPC sections 188 (disobeying an order of a government official) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), the official said.People are also vigilant and post marriage invites or photos of weddings on social media to alert the administration.Deputy Inspector General of Police Manish Kapooria said several families have postponed marriages, but there are also cases of wedding rituals being conducted at home in the presence of close relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/covid19-cases-registered-over-unauthorised-weddings-in-indore-101619614342758.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||'Corona curfew' to be imposed in Chandigarh from Thursday as Covid-19 cases rise||The Chandigarh administration has decided to impose a 'Corona curfew' in the district from Thursday evening in view of the rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The curfew will be imposed in Chandigarh from 6pm on Thursday (April 29) and will last till 5am every day, the district administration informed. In addition to the 'corona curfew', a separate weekend curfew will also remain applicable in Chandigarh from 5am on Saturday to 5am on Monday.During the curfew timings in Chandigarh, all activities except essential services will remain closed. Only emergency services personnel and those associated with essential services will be allowed movement in view of the restrictions.The administration had first imposed the night curfew on April 6, from 10pm to 5am. The timings were revised to 9pm-5am on April 23.As with similar curfew in other states, shopping malls, auditoriums, restaurants, gyms, and spas in Chandigarh will have to shut down by 5pm, before the curbs are into effect. Home delivery of food items is allowed till 9pm.Police, civil defence, prisons, home guards, fire and emergency services personnel are allowed to carry on their duties as these fall under 'essential services' allowed during the Covid-19 lockdown.Emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, pharmacies and other associated services remain open. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of private clinics shall be allowed to carry on with their duties.Essential nutriment facilities in Delhi such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, and confectionaries shall also remain open. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.All educational institutions, school, colleges, coaching institutions, and libraries in Chandigarh will remain closed till May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corona-curfew-to-be-imposed-in-chandigarh-from-thursday-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101619611933062.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||It appears you want people to die: Delhi HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it appeared that the Centre wanted people to die as according to the new protocol on use of Remdesivir for COVID-19 treatment, the drug was to be given only to those on oxygen support."This is wrong. This is a complete non-application of mind. Now people who do not have oxygen will not get Remdesivir either. It appears you want people to die," Justice Prathiba M Singh said to the central government.It appears the Centre was changing the protocol to reduce the shortage of the drug, the high court said."This is complete mismanagement," the court added. It was hearing a plea by a lawyer who is suffering from COVID-19 and was able to get only three out of the six doses of Remdesivir required.Due to court's intervention, the lawyer got the remaining vials on Tuesday (April 27) night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/it-appears-you-want-people-to-die-delhi-hc-tells-centre-101619611572785.html
28-04-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Conservancies changed face of Malleshwaram||Art holds a dubious place in many circles. There are those who say self-righteously, “I just don’t understand this modern art.” There are economists and investors who put a price tag on this deep human instinct to paint and express -- just visit the Bhimbetka caves in Madhya Pradesh to see early rock art. There is the art that is taught in schools but as children get older, it gets taken out in lieu of maths and science. Globally, art departments are suffering from funding-cuts, thanks to the pandemic. And then there is art that is inclusive, expansive, out on the streets. Never before have we wasted art more than during this pandemic when we all have been stuck at home.You want proof? Come to Malleshwaram in Bengaluru and you will see a colourful, spirited and resounding defense to the question: of what value is art?It is art that has drawn me to Malleshwaram several times during Covid. Walking through streets where the artists have painted an ode to their neighbourhood is nothing less than a joyous and healing experience. But let us begin from the beginning.In early April, a group of artists got together to paint walls in different parts of Malleshwaram (and all across Bengaluru). There is Anpu Varkey’s mural of the white sari-clad feet of a woman near Seva Sadan. Round the corner in a tiny lane, Chandana B V has painted the champaka or sampige flowers that fill Malleshwaram with its fragrance. Diagonally across the road is a woman contemplating over a fresh cup of filter coffee, by artist Enoch Ebenezar. Artist Girija Hariharan has painted a lovely portrait of sari-clad women surrounded by marigolds in the lane just behind Veena Stores, known for its idlis. Spandana Vella has painted sparrows, beloved to Bangaloreans. Saksham Verma has created the title ‘Malleshwaram in many hues’ both in English and Kannada. There are other artists who came together to form Geechugalu, a collective that has painted these murals.You can see the photos of their murals across Bengaluru on their website geechugalu.wordpress.com or on their Facebook page ‘Geechugalu’ or ‘Bengaluru Moving’ that are posted along with the hashtag #malleshwaramhogona or ‘let’s go to Malleshwaram’. As a friend Madhu Natraj says: “Do you need any more proof that Malleshwaram is the centre of the universe?”But then, I knew that, Madhu. It was art that took me to Malleshwaram.What is interesting though is the foundation upon which all this art flowered. A number of civic and government agencies have joined hands with passionate citizens to create these murals and street art.Take ‘Bengaluru Moving’ for instance. It promotes a cause that is dear to all Indians: safe streets for walking. Bengaluru’s traffic is horrible. That we all agree, even those who love this city. The way forward is public transport like Namma Metro and pedestrian-friendly streets. The goal is to encourage more citizens to use “non-motorised transport” like bicycles or our own two feet. But how to walk in a city that is all dug up?Enter the lanes that architect Suchitra Deep calls “conservancies”. Suchitra lives and works in Malleshwaram. As we walk together through the congested thoroughfares of Malleshwaram, Suchitra quickly turns into tiny lanes that run parallel to the main streets. These, she says, are “conservancies” that were used primarily for manual scavenging when Malleshwaram used to have large plots with several bungalows. Today, these tiny lanes have no traffic and are a pleasure to walk through. In fact, I couldn’t believe that they were right in the heart of the city. No horns, no scooters, just me and the art that lined the walls. Very civilised and healing.Suchitra has been mapping the “conservancies” since 2013. A confluence of grants kick-started her idea to convert them into walking streets. The community group she is part of, Malleshwaram Social, collaborated with Sensing Local which is an “urban-living lab”, according to its website. Sensing Local works on a variety of issues to help create sustainable cities. Together, they created M-ULL (Malleshwaram Urban Living Lab) and won a grant from the Department of Urban Land Transport (DULT) as part of its Sustainable Urban Mobility Programme (SuMA). Sensing Local also got a grant from Purpose with the goal of improving walking and pedestrian-friendly streets. These grants brought in the artists. So there you go: a government department (DULT) helping a variety of urban initiatives to beautify streets. Thank you, DULT, SuMA, Sensing Local, Malleshwaram Social and Geechugalu. Today, about 160 people are working together on this project.What is Suchitra’s learning from all this? “I had many ideas as an architect but my own limitations stopped me from going further. Each collaborator we brought on board gave us more reach, but still we needed funds. DULT stepping in helped us with that and involved the government. The Purpose grant helped bring in the artists. The moment you have artwork on this scale, it makes it pop. So it takes the coming together of many individuals and organisations to make change happen in the correct way.”Shoba Narayan is waiting for the dust to clear as she kicks up some dirt, all while trying not to fall into the gutter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-conservancies-changed-face-of-malleshwaram-101619610938127.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid crisis, PG students to continue as resident doctors||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has directed all medical colleges in Punjab to continue with the services of MD and MS students as resident doctors till fresh admissions. The National Medical Commission (NMC) has issued a circular, asking PG students in medical colleges across the country to continue as resident doctors to help the healthcare system deal with the rising Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. Also read: PM Modi sanctions procurement 1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators from PM-CARESNo fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done in the state medical colleges due to the postponement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. More than 400 final year MS and MD students are working as residents in three government and four private colleges. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for the treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. BFUHS seeks to ensure that the present batch continues to serve as resident doctors to help deal with the Covid crisis until fresh admissions are made to PG courses and final year exams are held. Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of BFUHS, said that due to the surge in Covid cases, the NEET-PG exam was postponed, resulting in delay in the joining of new batches for postgraduate courses. “In order to ensure that there is no shortage of residents in handling the surge, all medical colleges have been asked to continue with the services of final year PG students as residents until the fresh batch of students join,” he said. The post-graduate medical course exams have been stalled in the states due to the escalating Covid situation. Tackling Covid the priority Dr Ruhee Dugg, the BFUHS registrar, said: “While there are no classes for PG courses right now, we are providing online classes to MBBS batches.” Dr Rajeev Sharma, the principal of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, said due to the rising caseload, all PG students, including 80 final year students, are performing duties at the college’s Covid wards. “Tackling Covid is our priority so all other activities, including exams, stand postponed for now. Usually, the duty burden on PG students is decreased a month before their exams. But right now, they are performing duties round the clock to support the health system, so it is not the right time for exams,” he said. Dr Jaspinder Pratap Singh, a final year PG student, said he has no problem performing duties for an extended period, but it should be counted under senior resident shift. “The bond period to serve as a resident doctor for final year postgraduate students will end in May, so the period we have to serve in June onwards should be counted under the senior resident doctor’s shift,” he said. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in February every year and the final year exams are held from April-May in Punjab medical colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-crisis-pg-students-to-continue-as-resident-doctors-101619610279119.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare, Hiran murder case: Sunil Mane’s NIA custody extended to May 1||A special court here on Wednesday extended till May 1 National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody of Mumbai police officer Sunil Mane, arrested in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.Mane was arrested on April 23 after he was called for interrogation in connection with the Antilia and Hiren murder cases. He was remanded to NIA custody till Wednesday, when the federal agency sought his custody further.Claiming that Mane played a role in the conspiracy of Hiran’s murder, the agency said they wanted to confront Mane with certain documents related to vehicles seized and also with call data record related to the case.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the South Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day.Sachin Vaze was in charge of the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran himself was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it in early February.Also Read | Suspended Mumbai cop Sunil Mane was in area when Mansukh Hiran was killed: NIANIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both and was arrested by NIA on March 13.The Maharashtra government transferred then police commissioner Param Bir Singh over his management of the case. Singh wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours per month and when no action was forthcoming approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the central agency registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 24 after a preliminary probe.Meanwhile, Vaze, who is presently in judicial custody, has asked the court to permit him to have a chair and mattresses in prison as he has difficulty in sitting on the floor. He further claimed that he has been suffering from dental issues. The court has asked the prison authority at Taloja jail to provide him necessary medical assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-hiran-murder-case-sunil-mane-s-nia-custody-extended-to-may-1-101619609798205.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi Covid patients putting strain on Haryana hospitals: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said that health institutions of the state are under stress primarily because Delhi-based Covid-19 patients have taken admission in hospitals from Gurugram to Ambala. “We will not deny health facilities to Delhi-based patients in our health institutions. Patients from Delhi are coming to Gurugram and in some cases up to Ambala in large numbers,” Khattar said at a press conference in Chandigarh, admitting that the administration had not anticipated the size and scale of the second Covid-19 wave.Also read: Maruti Suzuki to shut down Haryana plants to make oxygen availableOver the past three days, Haryana has logged over 11,000 new cases daily with 11,931 fresh Covid-19 cases and 84 fatalities on Tuesday. Active cases climbed to 84,129 on Tuesday. Khattar said once the caseload of Delhi stabilises, it will reduce pressure on Haryana also as the flow of patients to the state will slow down. Says what hit us is nothing short of tsunami Stating that meeting the demand of medical oxygen was the biggest challenge before the state government, he said no one had imagined that there would be such a massive demand for oxygen cylinders. Khattar said Covid is not just on the rise, but its graph is surging beyond estimates. “One can expect a deluge in the rainy season and prepare accordingly, but what has hit us is nothing short of a tsunami,” he said. Tankers being flown to Orissa The transportation of medical oxygen was another area of concern and he pointed out that the state was facing a shortage of tankers to transport the oxygen. After the Centre on Wednesday increased the oxygen quota of Haryana from 162 to 232 MT, the state government despatched five tankers to Orissa to fetch the oxygen by road. The chief minister said two tankers were being sent to Orissa by air and they will come back by road with the oxygen. Under the revised plan, Haryana was allocated 70 MT of medical oxygen from Orissa. “After we start receiving and supplying 232 MT of oxygen, we will be able to assess the requirement,” he said, urging people to come forward and fight the pandemic unitedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-covid-patients-putting-strain-on-haryana-hospitals-khattar-101619609378219.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||273 patients counting on 'few hours' of oxygen: AMU's hospital sends out alert||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU)'s Jawaharlal Nehru medical college and hospital on Wednesday sent out an alert, saying it has not received oxygen cylinders for the past four days and its own plants are running out of liquid oxygen.The frontline central government hospital in Uttar Pradesh, which is a part of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), has 273 oxygen-dependent patients, including those suffering from Covid-19, officials said.Though the hospital has oxygen plants, they have just "a few hours" of liquid oxygen supply, a senior official said, adding that a truck of liquid oxygen is expected to arrive today.Of the 273 patients, 63 are Covid-19 positive, 140 have shown symptoms of the infection and are being tested, and 70 are non-Covid patients in serious condition, the officials said."We have not received a single cylinder of oxygen since the past four days and are now totally dependent on our own three plants for oxygen, which are awaiting supply of raw material (liquid oxygen)," the medical college-cum-hospital's principal Shahid Ali Siddiqi said.Two of the plants are at the trauma center of the hospital, while one at its old building complex. These plants convert liquid oxygen to a gaseous state and then it is administered to patients."Our two liquid oxygen plants at the trauma center are left with just a few hours of supply. We are expecting a truckload of raw stock supplies any time today. We hope that with this fresh arrival of stock our two plants will continue to function without a break," he said.Siddiqi said the third liquid oxygen plant in the old building is functioning round the clock and is a "lifesaver". This plant has raw stock "for another 36 hours", he said.Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday recorded its highest Covid-19 death toll so far as 265 people succumbed to the disease, while the state added nearly 33,000 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 11,53,097, according to official data.In view of the shortage, AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor Wednesday announced that the university will install a new oxygen plant within the next 30 days.The university has from its own resources generated ₹1.4 crore for purchasing this plant on an emergency basis, he said.AMU Registrar Abdul Hamid said, "Our main priority is to save human lives". The new plant will also be able to refill oxygen cylinders, he said.Aligarh MP Satish Gautam had told reporters on Tuesday night that he had a telephonic conversation with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The chief minister has assured that medical oxygen is being brought from Bokaro in Jharkhand and with this, the immediate requirements of Aligarh, Mathura, and Agra will be fulfilled.He said that the chief minister has assured that the present shortage would be met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/273-patients-counting-on-few-hours-of-oxygen-amu-s-hospital-sends-out-alert-101619607637285.html
28-04-2021||Bhopal||Treat vaccination against as national duty: Madhya Pradesh home minister||As Covid-19 cases surged in Madhya Pradesh, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Wednesday appealed to people to treat vaccination as the national duty, saying the vaccine is the only permanent solution against coronavirus."Lockdown, mask, sanitizer, corona curfew are all temporary arrangements, the vaccine is the permanent solution and I urge people especially youth to consider it as their national duty," Mishra told reporters as registration for free inoculation for the people between 18 and 44 years got underway.He also urged people not to attack doctors, paramedical staff, nursing staff and policemen in the event of the death of any person as they are putting themselves at grave risk for the safety of the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/treat-vaccination-against-as-national-duty-madhya-pradesh-home-minister-101619605870247.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Covid positive pet parent in Delhi-NCR? Boarding facilities come to the rescue!||To feed or take out your furry bundle of joy becomes difficult when you or your family come in contact with Covid-19. And this has led many Covid positive families to send their pets to boarding facilities in Delhi-NCR, which are taking ample precautions to take care of the pawsome beings in the most hygiene way. “The problem is if a family has one Covid positive member, who gets hospitalised, then how do they take care of the ailing patient as well as their pets? In such cases often neighbours denying to help because not everyone is comfortable with animals,” says Vipul Agrahari, from Happy Petting. He says he has been getting four to five calls every day to enquire about the facility. “A lot of first timers are calling. And people calling us say that they need seven to days of boarding, till the time their second test is done, and the report comes out negative. But, not just those with Covid are looking for boarding facilities at present. During the lockdown last year, with all the time people had, they preferred to buy a dog, which has increased the number of pet dogs, and even birds, cats, rabbits, and guinea pigs. Those pet parents, too, are looking for boarding facilities; but don’t want to board their small pets at big farmhouses. So we provide separate boarding facilities to cater to their needs,” adds Agrahari. “I’m getting around three calls per day from people where in the who family has become Covid positive,” says Arun Shivakumar, from Delhi-based Pet Home Boarding. He adds, “About 60% pets at our three acre farm are from families that have tested Covid positive recently. We have 38 dogs as of now. And we go and pick them up with utmost safety while wearing masks, gloves and keeping sanitisers handy. And we offer to keep them for a minimum of 15 days. But, as soon as we bring them here, we give them a shampoo bath. Dogs don’t get affected by coronavirus, but they can be a carrier of it. So, we also sanitise ourselves to evade any possibility of getting the virus.” Kuldeep Singh Chauhan, a farm-based boarding Pet Lovers Hut, in Delhi and Gurugram, says it’s difficult to provide pick up facility due to rise in demand. “People are enquiring for boarding facilities for 15 days, and we are getting a lot of calls! I’m not giving the facility of pick up now. Normal tareeka nahin hain ab pets ko rakhne ka. Relatives or friends of the Covid affected families are still leaving their pets with us. And first we give the dog a bath, and only then take him inside the kennel. If even someone isn’t infected with Covid, it’s difficult to be sure about it in such times. Bahut se log toh batate hi nahin hai. This has happened in the past, and later when they came to pick up the pet then they said that they were in quarantine. Hence we have to be extra cautious now, and don’t take any chances.”There are some kind souls who are helping others take care of their pets in these difficult times. Take for instance Tara, a Delhiite who works in an e-commerce firm. “I love dogs, and my husband and I am willing to take people’s dogs into our house. We offer to take of pets of families who have turned Covid positive, and have got a couple of calls so far. There are a lot of people who need help right now. So, if we can help, then why not? But we can’t take multiple pets since we don’t have a house help at present.” she says.Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-positive-pet-parent-in-delhi-ncr-boarding-facilities-come-to-the-rescue-101619603919035.html
28-04-2021||Patna||Lord Budhha’s idol smuggled from Nepal, seized in Bihar; 4 arrested||Bihar’s West Champaran police have arrested four people including two Nepalese citizens with an idol of Lord Buddha, allegedly stolen from Nepal recently, police said Tuesday late evening. Acting on a tip off, a police team raided the house of one Mohit Kumar at Devgarh village under Sahodra police station area of West Champaran district and seized the statue, weighing 7.75 kgs. Its antiquity and value have not been established yet. “During interrogation, we learnt that the statue was brought from Kathmandu. Further investigation into the matter is on,” said Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police (SP), Bettiah on Wednesday. Measuring 21cm in height and 15cm in width, the idol (black in colour), is believed to be made up of ‘Ashtadhatu’ or octo-alloy (eight precious metals) and its estimated value in the international market remains to be assessed. The police have approached the archaeological survey of India for this purpose. Ashtadhatu is often used for casting metallic idols in Jain and Hindu temples in India.“ASI’s visit will make things clearer,” said the SP. There are two Indian nationals among those arrested. They are identified as Mohit Kumar and Manoj Kumar, both residents of Bhikhnathori village located on the Indo-Nepal border. The arrested Nepalese nationals were identified as Raju Rana and Vinod Khabas - residents of Sundar Basti in Thodi area of Nepal’s Parsa district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lord-budhha-s-idol-smuggled-from-nepal-seized-in-bihar-4-arrested-101619602717624.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: A “Gao-Kus” organises Pune to form a medieval “Kasba”||Till date, we have been discussing Pune’s time-line through scattered remains. Today, we shall geo-tagging the names found through various archives and public memory to physical locations, to make the first map of Pune in medieval times. In the last column, we witnessed the Bara Arab building a formidable fortress - Kille Hissar - on the banks of the Mutha during Bahamani rule. Some residential arrangements would have been made for soldiers, officers, commanders, helpers and Muslim residents. But, what was this fortress protecting? Bara Arab built the Killa-e-Hissar on the elevated portion formed between the then Ambil odha and the Madhala odha (stream passing through Pawale chowk), on the remains of previous settlement. He moved the settlement outside fort walls. Thus, instead of a complex settlement with temples, houses and public places, Pune was divided into a distinct military base and a civilian settlement separated by fort walls. The civilian population was shifted west of the fort and occupied the area form Madhal odha to the Nagjhari stream, on the border of present day Somwar peth. After the disintegration of the Bahamani dynasty, Nizamshahi rule descended on Pune. It was time of frequent conflicts and constant battles. Many medieval towns and villages of Maharashtra had a “Gao-Kus” -fortification wall along the boundaries built for protection against enemy attacks. In order to protect the settlement of Pune, it was appropriate that an additional fortification wall - Gao-Kus - be built around the civilian settlement. There was significant population of potters along the river Mutha, as water and river soil is their main raw material. The area occupied by potters was known as Kumbharli, then. Thus, it was only logical for the gateway to the northeast to be named as :Kumbhar Ves”. It survived till few decades back when it was demolished during road expansions. The Kumbhar Ves Maruti shrine exists even today. There are references to a small, dam wall and bridge, Dagadi Pul, built near Kumbhar Ves during the Nizamshahi period, which served as singular path to cross the river. The fertile grounds along the Nagjhari river to the fort were cultivated for flowers and vegetables, predominantly by the Mali caste or “gardeners”. The entire fertile track was known as “Mali” and the term has been frequently referred to in archival records to denote irrigated and cultivable lands. The gateway opening towards the Nagjhari stream to enter Mangalwar peth was known as Mali Ves, which is lost today. The area has several families belonging to the Mali caste residing in the neighbourhood at present.The area, which is uncultivable and used for non- agriculture purpose is called Mujeri, and lies next to Mali. It is mainly allotted for building settlements or people who practice livelihoods other than farming. The fortification wall near the Nagjhari houses a Maruti shrine named Gao-Kus Maruti, even today. It finds mentions in various medieval records. One can still observe the fortification wall’s heavy rectangular blocks marking the end of Pune’s settlement. If we venture along the Nagjhari stream one finds remains of the ghats, bastions and steps leading to the stream. The southern gateway marking the boundary of the settlement was “Kedar Ves”, named after the Kedareshwar temple, next to the present day Kasba Ganpati. The older settlement of Kasars (specifically referred to as Bangadi Kasar) or bangle makers, are from this area. They are distinct from the Tvastha Kasar or the Tambat (coppersmiths) who settled in same area in a later period. The entire area around the Pawale chowk to Kedareshwar is hence, known as Kasarli - the settlement of Bangle makers - in medieval archives. The western region of Pune is where the Mawal region lies and hence, the gateway was named as “Mawal Ves”. Thus, the medieval settlement of Pune was effectively protected on all four sides by the town wall and the military garrison near the river in the north. Purandare Daftar informs us that Pune was reorganised by combining Kasarli, Kumbharli and Pune villages. NV Joshi, a 19th century Marathi writer erroneously reported in the book Pune Sharache Varnan, that Kasarli, Kumbharli and Punawadi were the three villages brought together. Unfortunately, there is no evidence to suggest that any particular part of Pune was known as Punawadi. But, the name has stuck and many books on Pune still carry this wrong information.Dr Jaymala Diddee rightly observes that Kasarli and Kumbharli, which are closely located along with Pune’s main settlement, are not separate villages, but different areas of the same town. On the ground, the medieval settlement of Pune consisted of Kasarli, Kumbharli, an older settlement, and parts of Mali and Mujeri. It is pertinent to note here that during this period, the rural character of Pune’s original settlement has undergone significant change. The previous “Balutedars” of the rural Pune, were recognised as the artisans or Kasab-dars. The artisan settlement in Persian is commonly known as “Kasbah”. Here in Pune, communities practising various professions such potters, bangle makers, gardeners, and farmers, were settled within the town wall to form the Kasba - a medieval, semi-urban settlement. It also included the traders, Brahmins, and Maratha village officials. This resettlement formed an epicentre which served as the foundation for expansion of urban Pune later.The “Kasba Pune” is an excellent example to study the town planning of medieval India. Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal’s register, “Pune Nagar Samshodhan Vruta 1-4”, and Dr Avisnash Sowani’s thesis on urban development, bring to us many important archival records to help us identify places in medieval Pune. In next column we shall study the quintessential “Kasba of Pune” and its movers and shakers in greater detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-a-gao-kus-organises-pune-to-form-a-medieval-kasba-101619600618333.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj businessman adopts 3 govt hospitals, to set up oxygen plant||A Prayagraj businessman says he is setting up a modern oxygen generation plant to supply free gas to three city-based, state-run hospitals, which experienced shortage of the life-saving gas in the past couple of weeks as its demand rose dramatically due to a sharp rise in Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen support.A former student of Allahabad University, Umesh Jaiswal has promised lifelong supply of free oxygen to Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital, Dufferin Hospital and Colvin Hospital beginning August, when he expects the new oxygen plant to start operating.The plant is to come up in a plot measuring 7,400 square meters at sector 3 of Naini Industrial Area. The district administration and Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation have helped him procure the land for the proposed plant, says Jaiswal.While Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital is a dedicated Covid treatment facility with 180 beds, the other two--Dufferin and Colvin, are non-Covid hospitals with a combined capacity of around 350 beds. Dufferin is a women-only hospital.All three hospitals put together, on an average require about 225 oxygen cylinders daily. The Beli hospital alone requires 200 of these cylinders. All three have been facing shortage of oxygen from time to time during the recent weeks, said authorities, who didn’t wish to be named. From August onwards, their oxygen needs will be taken care of by Jaiswal’s plant, with a planned capacity to refill 1100 cylinders a day, which can even go up to 1500 cylinders.Jaiswal says his decision was driven by the “recent deaths” in the district due to shortage of oxygen. “I have a separate business, never in my wildest dream had I thought of putting up an oxygen plant,” he says. He says he was inspired on the occasion of Ramnavmi after reading about a Varanasi businessman, who decided to install an oxygen plant to help Covid patients. “Then and there, I also decided to initiate something of this kind for Prayagraj,” says Jaiswal.Jaiswal’s primary business is road construction. He says he was advised by close friends to set up a large and modern plant if he really wanted to make a difference.“The next day, I spoke to senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, Sarvashresth Tripathi, who helped me meet the divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal, who forwarded my proposal the same day to the authorities concerned,” he said.After the district magistrate’s (DM) approval, all the required paperwork was completed swiftly. “I have given orders to a Gujarat-based company for installing an automatic oxygen synthesis plant, which can produce liquid oxygen and its gaseous form simultaneously,” he says.The district authorities are confident that the project will take off very soon. “All support is being extended to the businessman for setting up the plant on priority. We are confident that work on it will start anytime in the coming few days,” said Bhanu Chandra Goswami, DM Prayagraj.The plant is estimated to be built at a cost of ₹14 crore and the registry of the land it will be built on, will be done in a couple of days, Jaiswal says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-businessman-adopts-3-govt-hospitals-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-101619600557808.html
28-04-2021||Patna||23-pairs of passenger trains suspended in Bihar due to poor occupancy||The Eastern Central Railway (ECR) announced suspension of 23 pairs of inter-Bihar passenger trains apart from a few bound to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. The suspension, effective Friday, was due to a drastic drop in occupancy amid the second wave of Covid-19, which is sweeping the state along with the rest of the country.“Movement of 23 pairs of special passenger trains for short distances will stand cancelled since April 29 till further date owing to poor occupancy and with a view to curb the spread of Covid,” said chief public relations officer (CPRO), ECR, Rajesh Kumar. He said no decision had been taken to suspend the movement of long-distances express trains, however, factors, such as the number of reservations, were being monitored and the long-distance special trains may be regulated in future if passenger traffic remains low.“Trains passing through Bihar are low on occupancy. Still, they are being run for the convenience of the people,” said a railway officer.Passenger train services from Patna to Gaya, Mugalsarai, Muzaffarpur, Barauni, Rajgir, Bhabua are among those suspended apart from some services from Muzaffapur to Narkatia, Raxaul and Samastipur.Oxygen Express not to deliver oxygen to BiharThe Central Eastern Railway (CER) chief public relations officer (CPRO) clarified that no Oxygen Express was presently scheduled to deliver the precious gas to Bihar. The railways have been running this facility to deliver liquefied oxygen to states such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, where hospitals are suffering a critical shortage of medical oxygen leading to deaths of Covid patients.Hospitals in Bihar are also grappling with the shortage of oxygen supply with the administration trying to revive defunct refilling plants and enhance capacity of existing oxygen generation plants with the refilling centres across the state.On April 20, state health minister Mangal Pandey had claimed the crisis will be over once the Oxygen Express became operational. He was not available to comment on the current situation in the state.Covid fund to help infected railway employeesThe ECR set up a Covid fund to help infected employees. Public relations officer (PRO) Rajesh Kumar said 3,884 employees had turned positive and 50 persons had succumbed to the disease in the last one year. As many as 1,891 employees of the zonal railways were still under treatment, he added. ECR is trying to set up Covid control helpline centres at all divisions of the zone, he said.Alarming rise in Covid infections continue12,604 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, increasing the virus caseload to 428,001, with capital Patna being worst-hit, a health department bulletin said. The state saw 85 fresh casualties, taking the death toll to 2,307. Among the new cases, Patna’s share was maximum 1,837, while Bhagalpur reported 654 cases, Aurangabad reported 622 and Begusarai- 611 infections. Chief minister Nitish Kumar held a high-level meeting to review the Covid situation for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/23pairs-of-passenger-trains-suspended-in-bihar-due-to-poor-occupancy-101619596717384.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Jimmy Shergill among 35 booked for defying Covid lockdown in Punjab||Actor Jimmy Shergill and national award-winning director Eeshwar Nivas were among 35 crew members booked for defying the Covid lockdown while shooting for the web series, Your Honor, in Ludhiana on Tuesday night. Sub inspector Harjit Singh said that 150 crew members were shooting for the series at Arya Senior Secondary School in Ludhiana at 8pm, two hours after curfew had been enforced to check the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown has been imposed from 6pm to 5am in Punjab to curb the spread of the pandemic. Also read: Canada sending ₹60 crore fiscal support to India for pandemic responseNivas and crew members Akashdeep Singh and Mandeep Singh were arrested and granted bail. When the police reached, a court scene was being shot for the second season of Your Honor in which Shergill plays the role of a judge. It is an adaptation of an Israeli web series by the same name. A case has been registered at the division number 1 police station under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The school authorities said that the crew had received permission from the Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal for shooting the scene on the premises. School principal Rajinder Kumar said, “We allowed the crew to shoot for the series after they got the permission from the commissioner of police. The production team had sought permission for 10 days between April 23 and May 2 and were shooting at different places on the campus.” Insisting that the school had been sanitised before the shooting began, he said: “We told them to abide by the Covid-19 protocol and shooting was on in the prayer ground, which has a capacity for 800 people. Our school was established in 1849 and has an old colonial structure. We don’t charge anything from anyone who uses the premises for shooting. Many movies have been filmed here.” With inputs by Deepa Sharma Sood||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/actor-jimmy-shergill-among-35-booked-for-defying-covid-lockdown-in-punjab-101619595037406.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Need hospital bed for Covid-19 patient in Lucknow? Check availability here||Uttar Pradesh continues to witness a massive surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with many people failing to find beds in hospitals to admit critically ill patients.On Tuesday, UP’s capital city Lucknow reported 4,437 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths and 5,960 fresh recoveries, according to official data. The overall toll in the city due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,713. The number of deaths on the day was the highest since April 24 when 42 fatalities were recorded. The number of active cases has dropped below 50,000 in Lucknow for the first time since April 18. At present, there are 49,064 active cases in Lucknow.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereFamilies of Covid-19 positive patients are knocking on the doors of hospitals across the city in a desperate bid to save the lives of their near and dear ones, prompting the Uttar Pradesh government to announce last week that no hospital in the state will turn away patients. It further said that if state-run hospitals run short of beds the patients can be sent to private hospitals and the government will bear the expense.District magistrate in-charge Dr Roshan Jacob directed officials to issue online links and update bed details in hospitals so that the patients and their families do not face any difficulty finding them, HT’s sister publication Live Hindustan reported. The information regarding Covid Hospitals in Lucknow can now be obtained from http://dgmhup.gov.in/EN/covid19bedtrack.Hospitals in Lucknow began updating the details on the web portal from Tuesday and the information is available for the people to access.Roshan Jacob said that all government and private hospitals have been provided with login credentials on the portal, where they will update the details regarding vacant and filled beds regularly, according to Live Hindustan. It is necessary for all hospitals to fill the details every morning at 8am and 4pm in the evening.Meanwhile, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed the state government officials to make teleconsultation arrangements for Covid and non-Covid patients in every district of the state. He has also said that doctors, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and UP Nursing Home Association must play a key role in spreading awareness about Covid-19 and clear any doubts that the citizens may have, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/need-hospital-bed-for-covid-19-patient-in-lucknow-check-availability-here-101619592357361.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's BKC jumbo center runs out of Covid-19 vaccines: Report||Just two days ahead of the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo Covid-19 vaccination center has run out of vaccine stock. The vaccination center is inactive.Boards reading 'Vaccine out of stock' were put up outside the BKC center on Wednesday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished," Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.However, despite it being out of stock, people gathered in huge numbers outside the center.The vaccination drive at the vaccination center was earlier halted for the same reason on April 20.Under phase three of the vaccination drive, everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1, the central government said on April 19. The registration for the same will begin at 4 pm on Wednesday.According to official data, there are 6,74,358 active cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-bkc-jumbo-center-runs-out-of-covid-19-vaccines-report-101619591967036.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-army chief guns for Capt after his dare to Sidhu||Joining the turf war between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, former army chief General JJ Singh (retd) on Wednesday said that he lost the Patiala assembly seat as a Shiromani Akali Dal candidate in 2017 as the election was fixed between the SAD and the Congress. General Singh’s remarks came a day after Captain Amarinder Singh dared Sidhu to contest against him from Patiala, saying he would meet a fate similar as General JJ Singh’s who forfeited his security deposit. Also read: Capt dares Sidhu to contest from Patiala, Cong MLA hits back“It’s an open secret that in 2017, the elections in Lambi and Patiala were fixed. Don’t forget that once you (Capt Amarinder Singh) had also lost your security deposit from Patiala,” General Singh said. “Everyone in Punjab is aware that you are hand in glove with the Badals. Under a plan, the Badals helped you in the 2017 assembly elections, and now you are helping them in the sacrilege cases,” the former Akali candidate said. “Main tai ik mamuli zahi election harya han, par tusi zameer har chuke ho (I have lost only an election, but you have lost your conscience),” General Singh tweeted. General Singh had had also contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Khadoor Sahib as the SAD (Taksali) candidate. He had attacked the SAD leadership for fixing the match with Captain Amarinder Singh after the 2017 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exarmy-chief-guns-for-capt-after-his-dare-to-sidhu-101619591737453.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||PG medical students to continue as resident doctors till new admissions||The National Medical Commission (NMC) issued a circular, asking medical students in post graduate colleges across the country to continue doubling up as resident doctors to help healthcare apparatus deal with the massive rise in Covid-19 cases seen during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic.Final year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. The fresh NMC directive seeks to ensure that the current batch continues to serve as resident doctors to help deal with the present crisis until fresh admissions are made to PG courses and final year examinations are held.NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in the month of February every year and the final year examinations are generally held between April-May in Maharashtra colleges.“The start of the 2021-2022 academic session will be delayed and the new batch of first year PG students will join only after NEET-PG examination is held, followed by counselling to allocate colleges,” the NMC circular released on April 27 said. It further states that the students continued deployment as residents will help ensure there is no shortage of hands to deal with the surge of Covid-19 cases.Originally scheduled to take place on April 19, the National Board of Examinations (NBE) postponed the entrance examination to PG medical courses earlier this month after a fresh Covid surge in several states. Similarly, all under graduate (UG) and PG medical examinations were postponed in several states, including in Maharashtra.With no new students joining medical institutes anytime soon, the NMC has also advised colleges to continue providing accommodation and stipend to the PG students during this extended period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pg-medical-students-to-continue-as-resident-doctors-till-new-admissions-101619588977088.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Three prisoners escape from Patiala jail during curfew||Three prisoners, including a deportee from the United Kingdom, escaped from the Central Jail at Patiala on Tuesday night by making a hole in the wall of a cell. The three escaped from the jail located in the heart of the city near the SSP office and police lines during the curfew hours from 6pm to 5am, imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. Also read: India logs 360,960 new Covid cases taking tally to 17.99mn, toll above 200,000The jail officials noticed the escape only in the morning and alerted the police of neighbouring states. Sher Singh, who was deported from the UK, is undergoing a 22-year sentence. He was brought to India under an Indo-UK pact on the transfer of convicts. He was brought to the high-security Patiala jail from the Bathinda prison only a week ago. The second escapee, Inderjit Singh, is from Ranipur Kambo village in Kapurthala district, while the third is Jaspreet Singh of Ropar district. A search is on for the trio and a case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-prisoners-escape-from-patiala-jail-during-curfew-101619587177245.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||GNCT Act, which gives more powers to Delhi L-G, comes into force from April 27||Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is now the ‘government’ in the National Capital as the Centre notified the amended Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 on Tuesday. A gazette notification issued on Tuesday says the act comes into force from April 27, which means that day-to-day decisions taken by the Arvind Kejriwal Cabinet in the Union Territory will have to have opinion of the L-G. The act, passed by the Parliament last month, gives overarching powers to the Delhi L-G in day-to-day functioning of the Union Territory; a move criticised by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and other Opposition parties saying this obstructs the functioning of an elected government. On the other hand, the Centre has claimed that the act promotes “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further defines the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court.” According to the controversial act, the “government” in Delhi would mean L-G in the context of all legislations to be passed by the state assembly. This, according to the Centre, is in consistency with the status of Delhi as a Union Territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions. The bill makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive action in the city. It also bars Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made till this act comes into effect will be void, according to the bill. According to the act, the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating its procedure and the conduct of its business which are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Parliament of India. The Supreme Court had, on July 4, 2018, ruled that the L-G cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and that he must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers. The Centre has however said the new act seeks to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court. “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 (1of 1992) was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers for the National Capital Territory of Delhi and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Section 44 of the Act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism provided in the act for effective time bound implementation of said section. Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to Lieutenant Governor before issuing order thereon,” the statement of objects and reasons stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gnct-act-which-gives-more-powers-to-delhi-l-g-comes-into-force-from-april-27-101619584356811.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses immediate relief to hospital where fire killed 11 Covid patients||The Bombay high court on Tuesday refused an urgent hearing on a petition filed by Sunrise Hospital challenging the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s order revoking its provisional occupancy certificate after 11 Covid patients died in a fire there on March 25.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was informed by senior advocate Aabad Ponda that the hospital has 250 beds and sufficient arrangement of oxygen supply to treat Covid-19 patients. Ponda cited the current situation and the capacity of the hospital and said it should be permitted to reopen. He added that the decision of BMC was arbitrary as it did not give the hospital a hearing.Also Read | HC takes note of chaos at crematoriums, calls for a report from MaharashtraOn April 11, the BMC cancelled the certificate granted to Sunrise Hospital on May 6, 2020.Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted that a notice had been issued to the hospital owners to attend a hearing but as they did not appear, the decision to revoke the certificate was taken ex-parte. Sakhare added that after the fire, the no objection certificate and nursing license of the hospital was cancelled. He added that as the electricity supply of the hospital was cut off and the building is sealed by the police, the hospital could not be allowed to restart.After hearing submissions, the bench said, “We do not want the hospital to start at this stage. It will have to wait.” The bench posted the matter for further hearing in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-immediate-relief-to-hospital-where-fire-killed-11-covid-patients-101619581056118.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||L-G Anil Baijal now ‘government’ in Delhi as Centre notifies amended GNCT Act||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal is now the ‘government’ in the Union territory after the Centre notified the amended Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 on Tuesday.“In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 (15 of 2021), the Central Government hereby appoints the 27th day of April, 2021, as the date on which the provisions of the said Act shall come into force,” the ministry of home affairs said in a notification.The controversial act, which effectively hands executive powers to the lieutenant governor from the city-state’s government and legislative assembly, was cleared by Parliament last month amid a walkout by Opposition parties.Following the amended GNCT Act enaction, it is now mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the Lt Governor before taking any executive action in the city. The chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is also not allowed to make any rule to enable itself or its Committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions.The Act states that the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating, its procedure and the conduct of its business that are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Parliament of India.While there are no comments so far on the act from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, and senior AAP leaders , they had earlier termed it “unconstitutional” and “anti-democracy”. The AAP also held a protest on March 17 in Delhi’s Jantar Mantar against the Bill – which has now been notified as a law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-anil-baijal-now-government-in-delhi-as-centre-notifies-amended-gnct-act-101619580788794.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Mercury to shoot up, a hot day predicted for Delhi today||Delhi is likely to witness a hot day on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 42°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 20°C, four notches below normal, and the maximum temperature was 41°C -- three degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the very poor category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 306.Also Read | Rain, thunderstorm likely over parts of NW India till May 1An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has deteriorated to the lower end of the very poor category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and southwesterly, surface winds and ventilation is forecasted to improve for the next two days. AQI is likely to marginally improve to the lower end of the very poor to poor category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-to-shoot-up-a-hot-day-predicted-for-delhi-today-101619580456226.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Cylinder blast at refill facility in Manesar causes panic||An oxygen cylinder exploded while being refilled at a facility in Manesar around 5.30pm on Tuesday, following which the plant, located in Sector 7, shut operations for two hours, the police said. Families of Covid-19 patients alleged that hospitals asked them to shift their relatives to other facilities as they did not have sufficient oxygen supply left.Even as officials of the district administration refuted allegations that the incident affected oxygen supply, hospital managements and residents said they were left in the lurch. No injuries were reported in the incident.Bharti Joshi, a resident of Sector 4, said that she received a call from Shri Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary Hospital located in Village Budhera around 5.30pm. “They asked me to take my husband as there was no oxygen supply due to an oxygen cylinder blast in Manesar. I told them that my husband will die if we remove him from oxygen support, they said he will die if they leave him here. No bed is available anywhere and my husband’s situation is critical,” she said.Officials at the SGT Hospital confirmed the incident and said they would run out of oxygen by 10.30pm. “We have asked the families to take their patients as we will not be able to provide oxygen support. We have run out of oxygen supply. We are trying to get the cylinders refilled from different plants as directed by the district administration,” said a senior doctor, requesting anonymity.Dr Bijender Sindhu, the nodal officer of SGT Hospital, said that there were nearly 60 Covid-19 patients, all of whom were on oxygen support.“We are getting 18-20 cylinders a day but we need at least 90. The district administration is helping us but the supply is limited due to which we are facing an acute shortage for the last 10 days,” he said.People at the spot said the situation became tense after they were informed that oxygen might not be supplied on Tuesday night and the area was cordoned off, said a senior police officer privy to the matter. The plant, which refills cylinders for a majority of private hospitals, shut operations for two hours.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner, said that it was a small incident. “This incident has not impacted the oxygen supply of the city and if any hospital is asking families to shift patients, we will check the issue,” he said.Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said, “No injuries were reported and the supply was resumed soon after.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cylinder-blast-at-refill-facility-in-manesar-causes-panic-101619579310061.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||4 dead in hospital fire in Maharashtra’s Thane||At least four persons died after a fire broke out at a private hospital in Maharashtra’s Thane district in early hours of Wednesday, said officials. Twenty patients were under treatment at Prime Criticare Hospital, a non-Covid healthcare facility in Mumbra area of the district, when it caught fire. Six of these patients were admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation said the deaths took place “after” the patients were “shifted to various other hospitals”.Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) of Thane Municipal Corporation also confirmed that all patients including those in the ICU were shifted from Prime Criticare Hospital to different nearby hospitals.“The fire broke out at 3.40 am on Wednesday, two fire engines, two water tankers, five ambulances and one rescue vehicle were rushed to the spot. We rescued all the 20 patients admitted in the hospital and shifted them to nearby hospitals. All of them were alive when we shifted them; they [the four] died in the respective hospitals after shifting.”A fire department official said a short circuit in the meter room of the hospital could have triggered the fire. The exact cause of the fire will only be known after detailed investigation.Maharashtra housing minister and Mumbra MLA, Jitendra Awhad, said at least “three to four” people died in the fire. “The RDMC and the fire brigade team were in the process of extinguishing the fire. Six patients in the ICU of the hospital on fire were shifted to nearby hospitals. The fire will be investigated by the police.”Prime Criticare Hospital was located around 40 kilometers north-east of Mumbai. Last week, 15 patients died in a fire at a Covid hospital at Virar in Maharashtra’s Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-dead-in-hospital-fire-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101619577875936.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana records 13 deaths, highest single-day toll this year||Thirteen people lost their battle to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours even as 1, 136 more tested positive for the virus, health officials said on Tuesday. This is the highest single-day toll of the year so far. The previous high was recorded on March 30 when 11 persons died due to the infection. On April 26, April 24, April 19 and March 28, Ludhiana had recorded 10 deaths each. On all other days this year, the death count remained in single digit. The all-time high of deaths was recorded during the first wave when the district recorded 18 deaths each on August 31 and September 3. The district’s toll currently stands at 1, 322 while the cumulative tally of cases is 51,492. There are 7, 462 active cases in Ludhiana at present. Mounting cases put stress on medical infra The rising cases are mounting pressure on the medical infrastructure of the district. Currently, 1, 094 beds in private hospitals and 119 in government hospitals are occupied by Covid patients. As many as 31 patients are also on ventilator support at government hospitals, a sharp rise from Monday’s figure of 24. Those who succumbed to the virus on Tuesday include seven men and six women, the youngest being a 39-year-old male resident of Madhopuri. Of these, most of the deaths were reported from rural areas. Among the women who died are an 88-year-old from Udham Singh Nagar, an 80-year-old from Sherpur, a 75-year-old from Subhash Nagar, a 60-year-old resident of Shivpuri, a 59-year-old resident of Basant Nagar and a 45-year-old from Dashmesh Nagar. The men who died, besides the 39-year-old, have been identified as a 68-year-old resident of Aman Nagar, a 67-year-old of Ghungrana village, a 63-year-old resident of Jugiana village, a 58-year-old resident of Macchiwara, a 51-year-old resident of New Satnam Nagar and a 50-year-old resident of Azad Nagar. Bittu takes stock of isolation wards Lok Sabha Member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu on Tuesday visited the Ludhiana civil hospital and took stock of the isolation wards and beds there. After holding a meeting with officials at the Civil Hospital, Bittu inspected isolation wards and all essential equipment being used for treatment of Covid patients. He also asked the drug department to keep a check on the alleged hoarding of oxygen and other essential drugs and said this will be dealt with a heavy hand and the perpetrators of this heinous crime must be brought to book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-13-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-this-year-101619564254104.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Decoys, informers help police nab black marketeers||With instances of black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial drugs to treat Covid-19 emerging every day, the Delhi Police on Tuesday asked its personnel to activate their human intelligence networks, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders who are fleecing Covid patients and their families by charge heft sums of money for a single cylinder or medicine vial.On Tuesday, Delhi high court pulled up the Delhi government, and said its system was not working since the black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines was rampant.Delhi has been hit by a severe shortage of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black marketeers who are selling them at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported earlier that a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir for ₹25,000, as against an MRP of about ₹3,000.Police said they have also started monitoring the activities of staff at hospitals and pharmacies to see how oxygen and medicines were reaching black marketeers.On Monday, a woman nurse of a private hospital was arrested for allegedly selling remdesivir injections, and the technical director of the intensive care unit (ICU) of another private hospital was arrested for rerouting oxygen cylinders to the black market, a senior police officer said. “The nurse was selling one remdesivir vial for ₹38,000 to her conduit, Sudhir, who further sold it to any person in need for ₹60,000. Both were arrested on Monday,” said DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.Over the past week, Delhi Police have arrested 18 people and recovered 104 remdesivir vials, over 100 oxygen cylinders and oxymeters, and other crucial kits, in eight searches.The latest search was carried out on Monday, when three men, including the 41-year-old technician director of a private hospital in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar, were arrested for allegedly hoarding and black marketing oxygen and nitrogen cylinders and oxygen flowmeters, police said. “They were selling a standard oxygen cylinder for ₹50,000 and the smaller one for ₹30,000,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.“The arrested persons used to purchase old cylinders from scrap dealers through auctions. We are trying to ascertain from where they had managed to refill the cylinders,” DCP Thakur said.They were identified as Ansar Ahmed,41, and his associates Sumit Saini,33, and Mohit Kumar, 23. The arrests came after information was received through police informers.Social media has been flooded with SOS messages from patients or their families, seeking medicines and oxygen. The officer cited above said racketeers were cashing in on their desperation. In many cases, the fraudsters took money but never delivered the items, he added.“Our personnel are keeping a vigil on chemist shops, scrap dealers, hospital staff, dealers and distributors of medical equipment, and oxygen refilling stations. Social media monitoring is also being done,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/decoys-informers-help-police-nab-black-marketeers-101619559723252.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's crematoriums run out of wood, seek forest dept’s help||Delhi’s municipality-run crematoriums are running out of wood required for pyres on account of the rising number of Covid-19 deaths -- 2,648 since April 20 according to the HT dashboard -- and sought help from the state forest department, as per municipal officials.The municipal agencies in the city (north, south and east MCDs) have approached the state forest department to help arrange for wood. Separately, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has asked issued an order directing officials to use dried cow dung as fuel.Senior civic officials said that their crematoriums have been leased out to NGOs who arrange wood through government suppliers. Before the second wave hit the city, the largest crematorium of Delhi, the Nigambodh Ghat, required 6,000-8,000 kg of wood daily, but this has now risen to 80,000-90,000 kg daily.North MCD mayor, Jai Prakash, said the stock of wood in crematoriums is depleting fast. The corporation has had to create additional makeshift cremation facilities in parking lots and parks, and the requirement for wood has significantly gone up. “We require the cooperation of the Delhi government to meet the daily wood demand,” he said.All three municipal corporations are controlled by the BJP.The city’s forest department said it has received requests from municipal agencies for wood. Deputy conservator forests (north division) Aditya Madanpotra said on Tuesday that they have granted permission to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is constructing the regional rapid transit system (RRTS) in Delhi, to cut the branches and tops of at least 500 trees in advance to meet the demand of crematoriums.The south division of the forest department has also granted permission to cut 200 dead and dried trees in different locations on request from SDMC.Shiv Kumar, one of the caretakers of the Paschim Vihar cremation ground, explained that each pyre needs 500-600kg of wood. “Because of the shortage, we have brought it down to 450 kg... Every day we are getting over 200-300 bodies, so you can calculate how much wood we need daily,” he said.EDMC on April 25 issued a notice allowing the use of dried cow dung at crematoriums. “We are asking NGOs, citizen groups and cow shelters to donate cow dung cakes for this purpose,” said Nirmal Jain, mayor, EDMC.SDMC has also written to the Delhi government to ensure that the supply of wood from neighbouring states to reach the city without interruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-crematoriums-run-out-of-wood-seek-forest-dept-s-help-101619559472773.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Low turnout at Delhi's 24x7 vaccination centres||The turnout at the Delhi government-run 24x7 vaccination centres has dropped significantly due to the lockdown, several district officials said.They also pointed out that several health care workers tested positive for Covid-19 in the infection’s fourth wave in the city, leading to a staff crunch, and there was a need to rework the round-the-clock vaccination plan for the effective utilisation of personnel.“We have eight sites where we provide 24x7 vaccination. We used to get about 70-100 people at all the sites between 9pm and 9am in a day before the lockdown. But now, the numbers have dropped to somewhere around 35-50,” a senior official from the northwest district said.Each vaccination site has a team of five people, including one vaccinator. The Delhi government on April 5 ordered that one-third of all vaccination centres in government-run hospitals function will round-the-clock.The north municipal corporation, which runs one 24x7 centre, said just 10-15 people come to take the vaccine after evening. The mayor of the north corporation, Jai Prakash said, “Most people come during the day for vaccination. We are getting 10-15 people at our centre between 9pm and 9am The Delhi government needs to rethink the 24x7 vaccination centres to ensure effective utilisation of health care workers. Now, we are facing a staff crunch as many workers have contracted the infection. Maybe the timing can be revised till 10pm or 11pm, since not many people come late night, or something should be done to encourage people to come at night.”A district magistrate who asked not to be named said that government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients were also facing a staff crunch.“Hospitals treating Covid patients have raised the issue of running these 24x7 centres these days. We will take up the matter with senior officials. So far, there is no problem in running the 24x7 facility in the non-Covid hospital,” said the district magistrate.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment when asked if there were plans to reassign staff at round-the-clock vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/low-turnout-at-24x7-vaccination-centres-101619559249868.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Record 381 deaths in Delhi, positivity rate still over 30%||For the eighth day in a row, the Capital’s Covid-19 positivity rate remained over 30% -- on Tuesday, the city recorded 24,149 infections over 73,800 tests, a positivity rate of 32.7%.On Tuesday, with 381 new deaths, Delhi also reported its highest ever single day death toll. This was the sixth consecutive day when the city recorded more than 300 deaths. The total number of deaths was 15,009 on Tuesday.Positivity rate -- the proportion of samples that return positive for Covid-19 -- is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with increasing new cases, it indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community. The city had never before seen this high a positivity rate for so long.The city had earlier recorded a positivity rate of more than 30% only a few times – three separate days in April-May of last year when the number of tests wasn’t consistent, four straight days in June when the city recorded its first wave and one day in July.A total of 24149 new deaths were reported in the city on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed Covid-19 infections in the city to 1,072,065, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government.Experts said that the worst is yet to come for the city, as cases and deaths are expected to continue rising in the near future particularly because the positivity rate is so high in the Capital right now.“All the statistical models indicate that with the current trajectory, the number of cases will likely peak in mid-May. And deaths will peak two weeks after that. Last year, the curve of the infection was bell-shaped. This year, however, it is almost vertical. What this means is that the decline will also be slower,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).He also called for a push towards genome sequencing, so that variants of Sars-CoV-2 can be tracked in the city.“Now, there is a clustering of cases; entire families getting infected in one go. This is the time there should be cluster sampling done for genome sequencing. And, it is important to get the results of the samples collected in April in the same month so that action can be taken based on the information.”The number of hospitalisations have also remained at around 18,800 for three days now, with many hospitals running out of beds to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-381-deaths-in-delhi-positivity-rate-still-over-30-101619558940784.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Never asked for a five-star Covid facility: Delhi High Court||The Delhi high court said on Tuesday it did not make any request for creating Covid-19 facilities for its judges, staff and their families in a five-star hotel and that an order saying so was “very misleading”.“Do you think we as an institution can ask something like this when people are dying due to the lack of oxygen and they are not getting rooms in the hospitals? Will this not be patently discriminatory that people are not able to get beds and we say reserve 100 rooms in a 5-star for us?”The Delhi government on April 25 issued an order directing The Ashoka hotel to convert 100 rooms into a Covid-19 care centre, where priority was to be given to Delhi high court judges and other judicial officers and their families. The order said that Primus Hospital would manage the Covid care centre at the five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri, adding that it was done on the request from the Delhi high court. The order was withdrawn on Tuesday night.“The projection is that we have made this request to benefit ourselves or that you have done this to appease us,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The court took suo motu cognisance of the matter and issued notice to the Delhi government seeking to know its stand.Terming the government’s move as “unthinkable”, the bench said: “This is very, very misleading. High court has not made any request. There is no communication in this regard… We have not made any such request. We have not said anything of this kind. Two of our judicial officers have died. Our concern as their well wishers, therefore, was that we wanted in case they need hospitalization, then they should not face any problem and that has been translated into this order,” Justice Sanghi said.The court said that the government cannot create such facilities for a certain class of people and asked the Delhi government to take “corrective measures” to withdraw the order.When senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, tried to apprise the court that media was making a wrong projection and that it was their “mischief”, the bench remarked that the press had not done anything wrong in reporting it.“Media is not wrong in pointing this out,” it observed.The bench noted in its order that an enquiry was made with the registrar general of the Delhi high court about any request, “who in turn denied in negative”.A Delhi government spokesperson said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday asked for the file to investigate how such an order was passed in the first place. “Not even the deputy chief minister, who is the nodal minister for Covid management in Delhi or the Delhi health minister were aware of the order. No copy of the order has been sent to them either. That is why the deputy CM has asked for the file,” the spokesperson said.According to the April 25 order issued by the sub-divisional magistrate, Chanakyapuri, Geeta Grover on April 25, Primus Hospital in Chanakyapuri was directed to run a Covid Health Care facility, provide ambulance for transfer facility and also be responsible for disposal of the biomedical waste.The matter will now be heard by the chief justice of the Delhi high court as a public interest litigation (PIL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/never-asked-for-a-five-star-covid-facility-delhi-high-court-101619558782960.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Emergency services hit amid clash after patient dies in private hospital||The family members of a patient who died of Covid-19 and security staff at the emergency department of the Indraprastha Apollo hospital clashed on Tuesday morning, leading to injuries to several people, officials said.A 60-year-old woman was brought to the hospital emergency ward last night. She required an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. However, there were no ICU beds available, a hospital official said.“She was given oxygen and first aid in the emergency department. The doctors had requested the family to take her to another hospital as there were no ICU beds available at Apollo and the patient was crashing,” the official said. The woman died at around 8am, after which her family and some alleged local residents vandalised the emergency department. In the clip, the security staff could also be seen hitting people with sticks.In a statement on Tuesday, the hospital said, “Unfortunately, the patient died at around 8 am, post which the patient’s family members resorted to vandalism, destruction of hospital property and assault on our doctors and staff. The situation was brought under control through hospital security staff and use of the police. While the hospital deeply condoles the death of the patient, it is deeply shocked at the behaviour of the patient’s family against doctors and healthcare workers who are providing untiring services amidst the pandemic.”The hospital had to suspend emergency services for around two hours after the incident, officials said.According to the police, the only people injured in the incident were the two sons of the dead woman. RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said that no complaint to the police was made by either side until Tuesday evening. “No one from the hospital is injured,” Meena said.The DCP said the family of the woman brought her to Apollo Hospital around 2am on Tuesday after she tested positive for Covid-19. “They brought their own oxygen. Since there was no bed available at the hospital, they waited until morning, but the woman died,” the DCP said.Her death led to a heated exchange between her relatives and the hospital guards. “The patient’s relatives and the hospital guards then clashed and two sons of the deceased suffered injuries. No one from the hospital was injured,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/emergency-services-hit-amid-clash-after-patient-dies-in-private-hospital-101619558462876.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||‘You’re not taking action’: Court pulls up Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said its confidence in the Delhi government was “shaken”, and that it may ask the Centre to intervene if they are unable to efficiently manage supplies of oxygen and other essential resources amid the second Covid-19 wave. It also said that the families of those who died in the city hospitals due to shortage of oxygen must be compensated, and directed the government to submit a complete list of the victims.“Set your (Delhi government) house in order... enough is enough. If you (Delhi government) cannot manage then tell us, we will ask the Centre to send its officers. We will ask them to take over,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who represented the Delhi government.The bench was incensed by the Delhi government’s inability to curb black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen cylinders and medicines in the city after complaints from various hospitals that they were not getting oxygen from refillers and that the government was not helping them.They contended that the Delhi government was supplying oxygen to refillers without any direction or accountability.On its part, the Delhi government expressed helplessness, saying the refillers were not giving them details of their supplies to the hospitals and nursing homes.Anguished at this, the bench told the government: “There is an artificial shortage of oxygen. Your management of the oxygen cylinder distribution is nothing but a ‘lollipop’. This cylinder business is a mess. You have to look into it and put your house in order. Your system has failed. Black-marketing of oxygen still continues. How are people procuring oxygen? Large-scale hoarding is going, and you are not taking action,” the court told the Delhi government.It also directed the Delhi government to take over the plant of a city-based oxygen refiller, Seth Air Product, which apparently withheld 20 metric tonne of oxygen without supplying it to several hospitals, including Maharaja Agrasen and Venkateshwara.Seth Air’s representative Tarun Seth sought to defend the firm, saying the Delhi government had not given any direction on the supply of cylinders.But the bench retorted: “We will take you in custody... People are dying and you are making profit even at such time. This is not the time to become vultures. If any person dies for shortage of oxygen, we will hang you.”Issuing contempt notices to five refillers for not appearing before the court on Wednesday, the bench remarked: “If they are belligerent, then they will see our belligerence. We will keep them in custody if they are playing with people’s life like this...”“We will not countenance such actions. We make it clear that if any of the refillers do not provide the requisite data then strict action would not be taken not only by Delhi government but also this court,” the bench said.During the proceedings, the court was also informed by S Bankata, a doctor at Batra Super Speciality Hospital, that they lost 21 patients between Saturday and Sunday due to shortage of oxygen. Last week, Jaipur Golden Hospital said that it lost over 20 lives due to shortage of oxygen.At this, the court ordered: “We direct the Delhi government to file a report after taking enquiries into deaths from the hospitals and nursing homes which have taken place due to the shortage of oxygen. The report should have the name of the patient, the ward/room, time of death in a tabular form.”“We have to compensate these persons. It is the responsibility of the State,” said the bench, asking for all details in four days.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and the continuous supply of oxygen in hospitals and nursing in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/youre-not-taking-action-court-pulls-up-delhi-govt-101619558181460.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen supply in Capital to be pushed up, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that his government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France, and added that they were setting up 1,200 more intensive care unit (ICU) to provide relief to a health care system that has been stretched beyond its capacity amid a raging fourth wave of Covid-19 infections.The health infrastructure in Delhi, which is in the middle of a “last resort” lockdown to arrest the alarming spread of the infectious disease, remains overwhelmed by record highs in infections and deaths, with complaints of shortage of medical oxygen and ICU beds pouring in from across the city.In a digital news briefing on Tuesday, the chief minister said that within a month, 44 oxygen plants will be set up at various hospitals in Delhi, including 21 that will be imported from France. Of these, the Centre will install eight oxygen plants by April 30, he said.Kejriwal said the situation has improved significantly in the past two days after the chaos witnessed last week due to an oxygen shortage. “We do not have as many SOS calls from hospitals now as we got on three days last week – Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. I want to thank the central government for helping us through this time by providing their top officials who worked in close coordination with the senior officers of the Delhi government. I thank our Delhi government officials too who have worked day and night to address the crisis,” he said.Delhi reported 24,149 fresh cases on Tuesday even as 381 people died of the infection in the city. The positivity rate continued to stay above the 30% mark at 32.72%Due to a shortage of tankers, the Delhi government was facing problems in transporting its oxygen quota decided by the Centre, he added. “Hospitals were jam-packed, and I was scared that a major untoward incident may lead to deaths due to lack of oxygen.”Kejriwal said they were arranging 500 ICU beds at the Ramlila Ground in front of the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. “Another 500 ICU beds are being readied at the main Ramlila Ground in front of Lok Nayak Hospital. At the Radha Saomi Satsang facility, we are arranging 200 ICU beds.” Kejriwal said that by May 10, the Delhi government will add 1,200 ICU beds to the Covid-19 infrastructure.He said the current Covid-19 wave is dangerous because it is more infectious and is making patients severely ill. “That is why the demand for ICU beds has increased manifold.” He said every hospital is treating patients more than its capacity. “All ICU beds are full. The central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] facility in Delhi Cantt, but all beds got filled in just three hours.”“The Delhi government has decided to import 18 cryogenic tankers from Bangkok [Thailand], which will start arriving from tomorrow [Wednesday],” he said. Kejriwal said they have sought the Centre’s help to have the Indian Air Force airlift these tankers. “Once these 18 tankers reach the city, the problem of transporting liquid oxygen will be solved, and Delhi will get its full quota of oxygen from the Centre…”“We are importing 21 PSA oxygen plants from France. These are ready-to-use plants and will be installed in different hospitals. In the next month, we will be installing 44 oxygen plants in Delhi. Of these, eight are being installed by the Centre. For some reason, the project was delayed, but now by April 30, these eight plants will be ready. The remaining 36 oxygen plants will be set up by the Delhi government of which 21 are being imported from France and 15 are indigenous.”A government spokesperson said while IAF is airlifting these tankers, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) is coordinating the transportation till Delhi.The Centre provides up to 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi daily, but the Capital has faced a deficit of about 100MT due to transportation issues, according to people aware of the developments.The Delhi high court on Tuesday said its confidence in the Delhi government has shaken and it may ask the Centre to step in to manage the escalating situation.Kejriwal said many chief ministers and industrialists came forward to help the Delhi government after he wrote to them seeking support. “Talks have advanced with some of them, but they have requested not to be named. So, I thank all the chief ministers, industrialists, NGOs, and religious organisations who have come out to help us in this crisis. Whatever decisions I announced is because of their help in some way or the other.”Posting a message on Twitter later, Kejriwal thanked Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren after he announced that 58MT oxygen was being sent to Delhi from a plant in his state.Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospitals Forum, said, “Whatever the government is doing now – like getting the tankers and oxygen plants – is a good step but should have been done before. We must ensure that all hospitals install at least small oxygen plants that can act as buffer before they are given registration, just like we ask for fire clearance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-supply-in-capital-to-be-pushed-up-says-kejriwal-101619557959914.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to add 1,000 ICU beds at Ramlila grounds||With Delhi running out of intensive care unit (ICU) beds by Tuesday, and with no let-up in the number of fresh cases of Covid-19 being reported from the city, ICU facilities are being created at central Delhi’s Ramlila Maidan and another vacant Ramlila ground in east Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. The facility in central Delhi will be linked to the Lok Nayak hospital while the one in east Delhi will be attached to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, Kejriwal said.The two facilities will be in addition to the 200 ICU beds that are being readied at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. All 1,200 ICU beds will be ready by May 10, the chief minister said.“We are arranging 500 ICU beds at the Ramlila ground in front of GTB hospital. Another 500 ICU beds are being readied at the main Ramlila Maidan in front of Lok Nayak hospital. At the Radha Saomi Satsang facility, we are arranging 200 ICU beds. By May 10, we will add 1,200 ICU beds to our Covid-19 infrastructure which is now completely overstretched,” Kejriwal said. He further said this wave of Covid-19 is more “dangerous” because it is more infectious and is making people severely ill.“Despite trying our best, every hospital in Delhi is currently overburdened. Each hospital is treating patients beyond its capacity. All ICU beds are full. The Central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO facility in Delhi Cantonment, but all beds there got filled in just three hours. That means Delhi has so many serious patients roaming around the city in search of ICU beds and treatment,” he said.Spokespersons of Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals were unavailable for comment.With Delhi continuing to report well over 20,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 every day since the past 10 days (from April 17), the city has run out of dedicated ICU beds for Covid-19 patients.North MCD mayor Jai Prakash, under whose jurisdiction the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi falls, said, “We have granted permission to the Delhi government to convert the Ramlila Maidan into an ICU facility of 500 beds... We also assured the government of our cooperation and help to control this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-add-1-000-icu-beds-at-ramlila-grounds-101619557484822.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Lucknowites rising to food cause amid Covid chaos||The surge in Covid19 cases and suffering of people has brought a human side to all. Many good samaritans have emerged to the occasion and are offering services in their own personal capacity. Some Lucknowites have identified home-cooked food needs of those in quarantine and helping them in all possible way. Geetika Kapoor, an educationist, got inspired by a boy in Sector-63, Noida who started free-of-cost food to quarantined senior citizen in his locality. “When my brother was in quarantine in Vikas Nagar we took services of tiffin provider. So, I thought over it and initiated this service in Gomti Nagar for senior citizens. I posted on social media and from Monday started with 11 people. I prepare lunch for them and another portion for dinner and get it delivered by my driver,” she said. People from different places are calling her to help with funds which she politely refused. “The happiness that I am getting in serving people is beyond explanation. My friend Neeti Juneja got motivated and she too has started with eight people in Surya Nagar, Agra. I hope more people join in this tough time which I pray get over soon.” Last week, four friends Talha Alvi, Ali Rizvi, Shirish Sharma and Amit Kumar decided to start free quarantine food service. “We friends pooled in some funds and started food service at Ali’s home from Saturday. As orders started pouring in, we hired a cook and we are now given 75 deliveries for some 30 families in Gomti Nagar and Indira Nagar,” said Amit, a businessman. Since they were delivering themselves, it became challenging. “So, Akashi Abraham is helping us with their Project Khel volunteers. We are exploring delivery by food aggregators for far-off places. We are even managing a delivery at Sushant Golf City as people are really in need,” he added. Similarly, Mashi Biryani World is providing free quarantine food to people in isolation in Chowk locality. “This is our third day. Our target area is Old City, and we now are providing services to patients admitted in as well. Ranging from 40 and 60 packets we are offering. On Labour Day (May 1) too we will be providing free meal too all food aggregator delivery boys,” said its owner Rizve Mashi. Besides these samaritans, many restaurants are also quarantine food for a small price. Sassy Canteen in Gomti Nagar, The Bun-tie Project on Faziabad Road and many others are offering homestyle cooked food for the quarantined lot which can offer them nutritious food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknowites-rising-to-food-cause-amid-covid-chaos-101619557473198.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||With ICU beds running out in city, struggle to get care for critically ill||Some patients being wheeled in to hospitals by the time it’s too late, others being given oxygen on stretchers and chairs in the triage area, and some others lying in ambulances, autos and vans parked outside hospitals seeking medical treatment — these scenes have been recurring in the national capital for over the past week as hospitals run out of ICU beds and shut down emergency departments for want of oxygen ports and cylinders.On average, the city has reported over 24,000 cases daily over the past seven days. Though only a small percentage of them need hospitalisation and nearly 20,000 people have also been recovering from the disease, Delhi’s overall bed capacity of 20,751 -- and particularly its ICU capacity of 4,742 -- is not being able to keep up with the inflow of fresh patients.Only 13 beds were vacant, according to the Delhi government’s portal on Tuesday night. Of these, 11 were at a hospital meant for pregnant women who have contracted Covid, and the other two -- one at the AIIMS Trauma Centre and the other at Medeor Hospital in Qutab Institutional Area, were also unavailable because of a queue of patients slotted for the beds.This has led to hospitals being forced to turn away the critically ill patients, either for want of oxygen or beds, and more patients and their relatives have been desperately running from one health facility to another.“We had to close the casualty Tuesday; there is no space to even sit there. We have been taking in patients who need ICU care and giving them oxygen in the casualty; there are eight such patients in the hospital right now. There are no ICU beds; we have accommodated as many patients as we can. Now there are no oxygen ports to attach ventilators to,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent, Holy Family hospital in Okhla.The situation is getting worse, according to another doctor from the hospital. “Wards are jam-packed; people are being ventilated using anaesthesia machines that are normally used in surgeries. There are patients on stretchers, wheelchairs, even on the floor. And everybody is on oxygen except those who are to be discharged. At least 10 to 15 patients are being brought dead every day. We are subconsciously triaging patients, and taking in the relatively healthier ones who have a chance of survival,” the doctor said, asking not to be named.Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj hospital in Rohini, agreed that daily about 10 patients are wheeled by the time it’s too late to save them.“If I decide to add 100 beds in the hospital today, they will get filled just by those who have called me today,” he said.For the patients they cannot admit, the hospital take them into its emergency departments, gives them medicines and oxygen to bring up the saturation to 90%, before allowing them to leave to continue their hunt for a hospital bed.A resident doctor from Lok Nayak hospital, who has been working in the ICU, said: “We are getting young patients without comorbidities. But they are struggling too. The other day, when a patient was wheeled into the ICU, her oxygen saturation was 10%. I’ve never seen oxygen saturation that low in a patient without any other disease.”A doctor from Safdarjung hospital said on condition of anonymity: “Every time we discharge a patient, the bed is filled up immediately. Patients are desperate to get an ICU bed, but ICU beds cannot be created just anywhere -- they need proper infrastructure to provide high flow oxygen of up to 60 to 70 litres a minute.”Dr CM Bhagat, director of Bhagat Chandra hospital near Dwarka, said, “Every day, one or two patients are brought dead because they have been running around the city in search of a bed. Every day, I get requests from at least 200 people.”At the smaller 50-bed Panchsheel hospital, which does not have ventilator or high-flow oxygen beds, several patients chose to stay on whatever oxygen was available rather than risking going out and not getting a bed.“They told me, let the patients stay there, they will die if taken back home,” said Dr VK Goyal, medical director of the hospital.Demand for helplineThe hospitals have suggested creating a central helpline for allocating beds to patients so that they do not have to go from one hospital to the other.“There should also be an ambulance stationed at all big hospitals to transport patients to other facilities. I have several patients in the casualty who just need a little oxygen support; they at least can be managed at smaller hospitals,” said Dr Ray.He also suggested that the government take control of a few big centres completely and keep them only for patients being referred by other hospitals.Dr Bharadwaj said, “We also need to educate people on how to take care of the sick at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-icu-beds-running-out-in-city-struggle-to-get-care-for-critically-ill-101619557141737.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Man kills ‘drug dealer’ pregnant wife in Delhi; video of killing surfaces||A woman pregnant with twins and released from jail just three days ago in a drugs case was gunned down by her husband outside her home in south-east Nizamuddin on Tuesday morning, police said.The murdered woman’s domestic help was also shot while trying to save the woman, but he is likely to survive, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).The crime, which was captured by a CCTV camera, showed the alleged killer taking his own time to fire about a dozen rounds at his wife.According to the DCP, the woman, Saina, was earlier married to Sharafat Sheikh, an alleged gangster and drug dealer who is in jail after being booked under MCOCA and NDPS Act.Saina was arrested a few months ago for her alleged involvement in drug deals, only to be released on bail on Saturday on the ground that she was eight months pregnant with twins.“About a year ago, Saina married a man named Waseem. We are still ascertaining whether she was legally separated from Sheikh or not,” the DCP said.But when Saina was in jail, the DCP said, Waseem entered into an extramarital relationship with her sister. “When Saina was released from jail on bail, Waseem did not meet her. That led to frequent quarrels between them,” the DCP said.Also Read | ‘Your system has failed’: HC asks Delhi govt to take action on oxygen hoardingThe quarrels culminated in a final showdown outside Saina’s house on Tuesday morning. CCTV footage showed Waseem purportedly pulling out a gun and trying to shoot Saina. It was at that moment that Saina’s domestic help, Shahdat, tried to step in but got shot.Thereafter, Waseem can purportedly be seen taking several aims at his wife’s head and other body parts, reloading his gun and then shooting at the collapsed woman repeatedly.In between, he brandished his gun, threatening local residents to stay away during most of the drama.The DCP said that since the suspect was known, his parents were contacted and he was nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-kills-drug-dealer-pregnant-wife-in-delhi-video-of-killing-surfaces-101619556652532.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bambiha gang shooter held in Moga for killing Lawrence Bishnoi aide||The Moga police on Tuesday arrested a Bambiha gang shooter who allegedly gunned down gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar outside a night club in Chandigarh in October last year. Brar was state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). The arrested accused was identified as Beant Singh, a resident of Maadimustafa village in Baghapurana sub-division of Moga district. He is also wanted in other criminal cases, including that of ransom and dacoity, registered at various police stations across Punjab, said Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill. Beant was arrested along with his accomplice Sunil Kumar, alias Baba of Moga, who is also facing 12 criminal cases. Five pistols, ammunition and drug powder were recovered from their possession. The SSP said in retaliation to Gurlal Brar’s murder, the Bishnoi group had killed Ranjeet Rana near Muktsar and Youth Congress district chief Gurlal Pehalwan in Faridkot. During preliminary interrogation Beant revealed that he along with his two accomplices killed Gurlal Brar to avenge the murder of Lavi Deora (a member of Bambiha group), who was killed by the Bishnoi gang at a fair in Kotkapura in 2017, the SSP said. “Beant has also revealed that the sarpanch of his native village, with whom he had an old rivalry, was his next target,” SSP Gill claimed.A case under section 25 of the Arms Act and section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bambiha-gang-shooter-held-in-moga-for-killing-lawrence-bishnoi-aide-101619556272509.html
28-04-2021||Other||Patients with mild symptoms don’t need CT scan, say experts||With the second wave hitting the district, as well as the country, with more vengeance, Sanjivani Group, in association with the Ludhiana administration, took to social media on Tuesday to dispel misinformation surrounding the virus and its treatment. They also guided patients in home isolation on how to improve oxygen levels by ‘proning’ (lying on your belly). This, they said, will reduce the load on hospitals.In a Facebook Live session by Sanjivani Group, on the official page of the district public relations officer (DPRO), cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who was the moderator, posed questions on behalf of residents to expert Dr Rajesh Mahajan. RTA secretary Sandeep Singh Garha was also on the expert panel to respond to queries pertaining to the arrangements put in place by the Ludhiana administration.Dr Rajesh Mahajan said Covid patients with mild symptoms do not need a CT-scan after they have undergone an RT-PCR (reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction) test. He added that they could take multivitamin, vitamin C and simple crocin tablets during their quarantine period with strict monitoring of oxygen level, which should not fall below 95.He said people must continue to wear masks, practice social distancing and hand hygiene to break the transmission chain.Answering to a query of a Covid patient, Dr Mahajan asked him to wear a face-mask even at home to curtail spreading it to anyone who has recovered from the disease, and wait for four weeks before getting the Covid jab.Dr Mahajan also spoke about proning to improve oxygen levels. He added that lying face down was known as proning which was a medically accepted position to improve comfort and oxygenation. He said that if the oxygen level drops below 94, a patient in home isolation must lie on their belly as the position improves ventilation.Expert also said that home isolation patients must practice proning by learning the correct way from their doctors.Meanwhile, RTA secretary Sandeep Garha said the administration was adopting an effective mechanism for patients in home-isolation. He added that the department’s staff members call them every day to enquire about their health status, including oxygen levels, fever, cough or other symptoms so that in case anyone develops serious issues, they can be shifted to nearby health centres.Helpline numbersResidents can reach out to the administration on helpline numbers: (6284912553) for beds, (7837018500 and 0161-2421091) for oxygen, (9814718704) and (6284531852) for any kind of psychological help for Covid patients and state health helpline 104.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patients-with-mild-symptoms-don-t-need-ct-scan-say-experts-101619556152592.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||In second wave, virus is spreading fast within families: Kashmir experts||In the second wave, coronavirus is spreading fast within families as compared to the previous year, health experts in Kashmir say. More and more families, with all or most of the members, are getting infected as people living in close spaces, particularly in Srinagar, are more prone to contracting Covid.“The virus during this wave is more communicable. That is the reason that the number of cases is rising immediately and virus is spreading fast within families. This year, a Covid patient’s chances of infecting others are more than last year,” said Dr Rouf Hussain Rather, community medicine specialist and in-charge of data analysis at divisional Covid control room.“Family means a unit. It rarely happens if anybody gets infected that his family won’t be affected. Such cases are more this year,” he said. Rather attributed the exponential increase in cases in the second wave to two key factors — virus being more communicable and absence of lockdown.President of Doctors Association Kashmir and an influenza expert, Dr Nisar ul Hassan, said that new studies have proven that Covid spreads more in indoor settings as it is airborne. He said that there are more contributing factors specific to Kashmir. “Climate is one of the reasons. Even in summers due to chilly weather, our doors and windows remain closed. You are vulnerable because of the climate and because of congested places. There are less nuclear families here and most people still live in joint families in Old City. After hospitals, these houses can be super-spreading places,” he said.With all or most of the members getting infected, families are approaching many social organisations and NGOs for help. Members of Athrout Kashmir, an organisation engaged in philanthropic work in the Valley, said they have been witnessing multiple cases where entire families have been infected with Covid. “The last two days have been very emotional at Athrout. We are receiving several such cases. Yesterday, a Covid patient walked into our office for an oxygen concentrator for his mother. He said his entire family has tested positive and he has nobody else to arrange oxygen support for his mother,” the organisation mentioned on its Twitter handle.In another post on Saturday, it said: “A man walked into our office today requesting for (an) oxygen concentrator for his mother. Seven of his family members were tested positive and he was the only one who had escaped the virus. He said, ‘Life is no less than a nightmare when seven of your family members need oxygen supply’.”The organisation said that it has issued 30 oxygen concentrators and BIPAP machines in the last 48 hours. “Every machine provided carries a sorrowful tale of plight and helplessness. We request all such unfortunate families to please call on our numbers and we will ensure help reaches you,” Athrout said.Another organisation, SRO (Social Reforms Organisation)-Kashmir has now asked such families to contact them for food and other needs.“If whole family has reported COVID+ and there is no one to cook your food. DM (direct message) with your number and location. Someone with whom we have tied up will call you. Only DM, don’t use our helpline for this. Srinagar city limits only,” it said on its Twitter post.The doctors say that when the whole family gets affected by Covid, it takes away the support system of the patient. “The Covid decimates the support system of a patient which is the gruesome part of it. When a person gets sick in a family, generally other members pitch in and try to serve the patient, but in Covid, most of the times 60-70% family members are involved. So one loses a big support system when he/she is ill or critically ill,” said Dr Asif Wani, lecturer at government medical college in Srinagar.“What I understand is that it is not only a medical emergency but a socio-medical emergency. Besides the medical, there are social implications of this disease as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-second-wave-virus-is-spreading-fast-within-families-kashmir-experts-101619555798182.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||1,300 more beds added for Covid-19 patients in Srinagar||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, 1,300 additional beds have been set up in Srinagar to cater to the need of patients.Srinagar district has reported highest number of coronavirus cases and deaths in entire J&K and people have been complaining of shortage of beds and medicines from the last few days. Deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad on Tuesday visited various Covid care isolation centres established in Srinagar to oversee the arrangements put in place for patients to be kept there for isolation to prevent spread of infection. Seven such centres have come up at Kashmir University Zakura Campus, Hyderpora, NIT Srinagar, Indoor Stadium Srinagar, marriage hall Sanatnagar, Haj House Bemina and IMPA Hostel MA Road.“He was apprised of addition of 1,300 beds at the Covid care isolation centres in Srinagar to meet out any emergent situation. As many as 325 beds have been set up at Kashmir University Zakura Campus, 300 beds at Hyderpora and 295 at NIT Srinagar. Similarly, 120 beds have been kept available at Indoor Stadium Srinagar and 100 beds at marriage hall in Sanatnagar while 125 beds have been kept ready at Haj House Bemina and 80 at IMPA Hostel MA Road. Besides bedding, Covid-19 kits and other necessary items have been provided with each bed,” the official spokesman said.The deputy commissioner has appealed to the people of Srinagar to strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing and asked people to restrict their moment, particularly in designated Covid containment zones, to control the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1300-more-beds-added-for-covid-19-patients-in-srinagar-101619555796611.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Grim scenario: More Covid patients dying in rural belt in Punjab||In what could add to the worries of Covid-hit Punjab that is witnessing a sharp spike in deaths this year, the government data has revealed that the case fatality rate (CFR) or the mortality rate due to contagion is far more in rural areas than the urban population. The CFR in villages is 2.8% against 0.7% in urban areas, said state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday. The minister said 58% of Covid deaths this year are of patients from rural areas, even as the villages accounted for only one-fourth of the total cases (27%). “Urban areas which are reporting far more positive cases (73%) have witnessed 42% of deaths,” he added. At present, the Punjab CFR stands at 2.02% and 82.5 % of deaths have been recorded from a population that is above 51 years of age, said Sidhu. Stressing upon the need for early diagnosis as well as treatment of coronavirus, the minister attributed the high number of deaths in the rural areas to delay in approaching the healthcare facilities. “Even those having mild symptoms should visit their nearest healthcare facility immediately,” he added. He said as per record 83.92% of patients have visited the hospitals first time with severe symptoms, 0.11% visited with moderate symptoms and 7% visited the health facilities with mild symptoms from January 1 to April 12. Pointing out the risk factors of the population who are suffering from co-morbidities, the minister said that patients with hypertension and diabetes are advised to strictly follow the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour as their lives are at high risk if they catch the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grim-scenario-more-covid-patients-dying-in-rural-belt-in-punjab-101619555794679.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s daily Covid caseload crosses 3,000 mark, Section 144 imposed in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported 3,164 fresh novel coronavirus infections, the highest daily case tally since the pandemic began, taking the overall Union territory’s cases to 1,66,054.With 25 Covid-19 deaths for the second day in a row, Jammu and Kashmir again recorded the highest single-day toll since the outbreak taking the UT’s overall toll to 2,197. Of the new cases, 2,134 cases are from Kashmir while 1,030 are from Jammu, besides 174 travellers.While 15 of the deaths were reported in Jammu division, 10 people lost their lives in Kashmir.So far the toll of people who succumbed to the virus in April has reached 203. Officials said with 1,144 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 489 in Jammu district, 197 in Baramulla, 174 in Budgam, 143 in Anantnag and 123 in Bandipora.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 22,283, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.As many as 1,457 patients have recovered, including 801 from Kashmir and 656 from Jammu.So far, 1,41,574 people have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 85.25% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.12 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far. The month of April has already witnessed 35,094 Covid infections, the second highest monthly total after September, 2020 when the first wave of Covid-19 had peaked and the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.Srinagar administration has decided to impose Section 144, banning assembly of five or more people. “In view of massive spurt in positive cases in Sringar and after due deliberations, Section 144 of CrPc is imposed hereby within the municipal limits of the district to contain further spread of the epidemic. Assembly of five or more persons is banned with immediate effect,” the DC said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-daily-covid-caseload-crosses-3-000-mark-section-144-imposed-in-srinagar-101619555793524.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla sees surge in oximeter, oxygen concentrator demand||With Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly, Shimla town is seeing a surge in demand for oximeters and oxygen concentrators. The two main hospitals in Shimla — state’s premier facility Indira Gandhi Medical College and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital — are running short of beds, despite more than 1,300 Covid-infected patients being under home isolation. The government has already taken over the regional ayurveda hospital in Shimla and still negotiating with private hospital owners, who so far have been reluctant to extend facilities. Besides, the district administration has been mulling to creating a makeshift hospital at Shimla’s ice skating rink which is the biggest open space in the town after the Ridge. The ice skating rink, nowadays popular as ice skating club, was set up in 1920. The site of the rink is most ideally situated adjacent to the Circular Road, just below the Scandal Point and conveniently approachable from all parts of the town. “I am feeling helpless. Throughout the day, I have been attending calls for oxygen cylinders and concentrators,” said Sumit Sharma, who runs an NGO that provides oxygen concentrators and cylinders for free to caner and tuberculosis patients. “There is panic among people. Some of them are even demanding ventilators, which cannot be operated by individuals,” he said, adding that demand has increased manifold. There are many families under home isolation that have not even tested for Covid-19 infection and have self-isolated themselves. “It’s harrowing time for patients in home isolation. There were no oxygen concentrators available in the market and I had to arrange one from a close relative from Kotkhai for a friend of mine,” said former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan. “There is no end to calls for oxygen concentrators. In fact, the demand had increased ever since people realised the conditions of Shimla hospitals during the first wave. We have supplied more than 500 concentrators in Shimla town alone in last one year. We have about 15 concentrators available to be rented and all of them are booked,” said Mohit Sirkek, who is associated with a Chandigarh-based private company supplying medical equipment in Shimla. The demand for oxygen concentrators is out of panic too. “Actually, people only require supplement when the oxygen saturation drops below 94. Some cases are genuine while some are just demanding the oxygen concentrators out of panic. Lot of cases of breathlessness are being reported in the hospital,” said professor of pulmonary medicines in IGMC, Dr RS Negi. The normal oxygen level should remain above 94, he added. State logs steepest daily spikeHimachal on Tuesday recorded steepest spike of 2,157 Covid infections ever since the outbreak in March last year, taking the state’s caseload past 90,000-mark. The total case tally now stands at 91,350. The death toll mounted to 1,374 after 27 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, highest 631 were reported in Kangra. This is highest ever single-day spike registered in any district ever. Hamirpur saw a spike of 300 infections while 264 cases were reported in Solan, 238 in Mandi, 195 in Shimla, 118 in Una, 110 in Sirmaur, 103 in Kullu, 86 in Chamba, 82 in Bilaspur, 17 in Lahaul-Spiti and 13 in Kinnaur. Ten deaths were reported in Kangra, four in Shimla, three in Mandi, two each in Kinnaur and Una, and one each in Chamba, Hamirpur and Solan. The active cases in the state have also crossed 15,000-mark and reached 15,151. Recoveries climbed to 74,783 after 1,305 people recuperated. Identify sites to be turned into makeshift Covid care facilities: Jai Ram to officialsChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday visited Sundernagar to review the facilities being created for patients at the makeshift Covid care hospital. The chief minister also visited the old buildings and structure of BBMB colony at Salapar to explore the possibilities of creating additional facilities for Covid-19 patients if the situation warrants.While presiding over a meeting to review Covid-19 situation at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College in Nerchowk at Mandi district, Jai Ram said that in view of sharp surge in number of infections in the state, the Himachal government had decided to upgrade the bed capacity for patients to about 5,000.He said that Nerchowk medical college has been dedicated as Covid-19 hospital and additional 100-bed makeshift facility was coming up in the adjoining complex of the hospital, which would be ready within next four to five days.Jai Ram said the state government was upgrading and enhancing its capacity to meet any eventuality. He said that about 1,000-bed capacity would be created for Covid patients at Parour in Radha Soami complex of Kangra district. He said that work on MCH building at Mandi would be completed within a month for which additional funds had been provided.He said that state government has also urged the people visiting or returning to Himachal to get RT-PCR negative report and stay in home isolation for at least two weeks.The chief minister directed the officials to provide oxygen facility to maximum beds in the Nerchowk medical college. He said that the bed capacity of hospital at Ratti must be enhanced from 25 to 50.Jai Ram also directed the officials to enlist all such institutions/buildings in the district that could be used for providing better medical facilities to the Covid-19 patients in case of increase in number of patients.He also felt the need for strengthening home isolation facilities in the state. He said that efforts would be made to strengthen healthcare facilities in Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts to lessen the load on medical college at Nerchowk. He also asked the officers to ensure proper coordination among them for effective tackling of this pandemic.Later, the chief minister also inspected under-construction makeshift pre-fabricated hospital at Bangrotu in Mandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-sees-surge-in-oximeter-oxygen-concentrator-demand-101619555792514.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted gangster Jaipal’s aide Gavi arrested from Jharkhand||Punjab Police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested a history-sheeter, Gavi Singh, a key drug and arms smuggler, from Sarai Kila Kharsawa district of Jharkhand. Gavi is facing over 10 criminal cases, including of murder, dacoity, kidnapping, extortion. Also known as Vijay and Giani, he is a close aide of Punjab’s notorious gangster Jaipal. A resident of Raaya Wala village in Ferozepur district, he was working as a gym instructor at a village in Jharkhand. The arrest was made by a team of Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police and the operation was supervised by AIG Gurmeet Chauhan. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said Gavi had fled the state as police were chasing him. He said Gavi had close links with drug smugglers based in Pakistan and Jammu & Kashmir. Gavi had also managed to give police the slip in 11-kg heroin recovery case in February 2020. The police also recovered a Toyota Fortuner SUV, five mobile handsets and three internet dongles from his possession. Police tracked the location of Gavi in Sarai Kila where he was living in a rented flat at Sri Nath Global village on a fake identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wanted-gangster-jaipal-s-aide-gavi-arrested-from-jharkhand-101619555612426.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt dares Sidhu to contest from Patiala, Cong MLA hits back||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dared Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to fight an election against him from Patiala, saying that he (Sidhu) would lose his security deposit. Amarinder said that Sidhu cannot take him on from Patiala as long as he is in the Congress, but is trying to jump ships. “He can fight against me but he will lose his deposit like General JJ Singh (retd) did,” the chief minister said in an interview to a TV channel when asked about the increased political activities of Sidhu and his wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, in Patiala. Former army chief was the SAD candidate against Amarinder in the 2017 assembly polls and had lost his security deposit. Both Amarinder and Sidhu belong to Patiala. Amarinder’s broadside against Sidhu, on a day he held meetings with party legislators, signals the start of a full-on war between the two. Sidhu, who had resigned from the state cabinet two years ago, has been taking swipes at chief minister ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed the chargesheets filed by the Punjab Police SIT in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. Sidhu promptly took the social media to hit back at Amarinder, and said his fight is for justice and punishing the guilty, and an assembly seat is not even worth discussion in the same breath. “Efforts to derail Punjab’s conscience will fail,” he tweeted, asking the CM not to beat around the bush and explain why there has been no justice in sacrilege cases. “Netritva par sawal hai? Mansha par bawal hai (Leadership is under question and there is uproar on intent),” he added. Terming Sidhu’s attacks as “indiscipline”, Amarinder said he was probably trying to go to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) or some other party and only he can tell which one. “The BJP will not take him as he left the party after abusing everyone. The SAD is also not a choice. He is attacking the chief minister which clearly means he is preparing to go…the sooner he wants to go he can go,” the chief minister said in his first response to the former minister’s frequent digs. On the efforts to make Sidhu the state unit chief or deputy chief minister in the state cabinet, Amarinder questioned these demands. “Why should he be made the party president? What is lacking in (present state unit chief) Sunil Jakhar who is doing a very good job,” he asked. The chief minister said that Sidhu joined the party just four years ago and all the cabinet ministers are senior to him. “Several of them started in Youth Congress. Are they senior or someone who has joined recently? Delhi (Congress central leadership) has to take a decision. If I am asked for my opinion, I will tell them exactly this,” he said without mincing words. The Amarinder-Sidhu face-off has put paid to AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat’s efforts for cricketer-turned-politician’s rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-dares-sidhu-to-contest-from-patiala-cong-mla-hits-back-101619555075411.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ambulance fares in Ludhiana fixed to check overcharging||The traffic police and the regional transport authorities held a meeting with private ambulance operators on Tuesday after complaints regarding them fleecing the Covid-19 patients and the kin of the deceased poured in from various quarters.Regional Transport Authority (RTA) secretary Sandeep Singh and assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh warned the ambulance operators against overcharging for carrying patients and bodies of the deceased.The ACP said that with the consent of ambulance operators, they had fixed the maximum fare for 25 km at ₹2,500. After 25km, the operator can charge ₹12 per km. Similarly, for ventilator-fitted ambulances, the maximum charges for 25km have been fixed at ₹5,000. After 25km, the operators can charge ₹25 per km.The ACP and the RTA secretary said that the people can file complaints against the ambulance operators for over-charging. The police will take stern action against them.On Monday, two families of Covid-19 victims were forced to take bodies of their kin to the cremation ground in an auto-rickshaw and cycle rehri after a private ambulance operator demanded ₹3,500 to 4,000 from them for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambulance-fares-in-ludhiana-fixed-to-check-overcharging-101619555072445.html
28-04-2021||Other||Hospitals not to release bodies without ambulance: Ludhiana admn||Facing flak after two families were forced to take the bodies of Covid patients, aged 76 and 60, on a cycle rehra and in an auto-rickshaw for cremation to Dholewal ground on Monday, the administration instructed hospitals to not hand over the bodies to family members until an ambulance is made available.The decision was taken during the meeting of a committee formed by deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma to ensure necessary arrangements are in place for the last rites of Covid victims. The committee is head by municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, who conducted a meeting with the MC staff on Tuesday.During the meeting, the department also decided to set up a control room at the civil hospital to arrange ambulances to carry bodies. Videos of family members taking the bodies in a cycle rehra and auto rickshaw had gone viral on social media sites on Monday, following which the administration swung into action. The family members of the victims said ambulance drivers were demanding up to ₹3, 500 for ferrying the bodies.According to Covid protocol, employees or volunteers wearing PPE kits are supposed to ferry the bodies to cremation grounds. Carrying bodies in auto rickshaws and cycle rehras increase the chances of infection among the others.MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon said the cremation of Covid victims is being carried out at three cremation sites in city -- Dholewal area, Model Town extension and cremation ground near Arora palace on Gill road. The MC has also identified five more cremation grounds for the cremation of Covid victims, if the need arises. These include a ground in Barewal area, another one behind KVM School, Daresi area, near Gaughat Gurdwara and Jamalpur area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admin-instructs-hospitals-against-releasing-bodies-sans-ambulance-101619554772338.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong resort bash: Bathinda mayor’s husband, 2 councillors among 12 arrested||The police on Tuesday arrested 12 persons, including two Congress councillors and the husband of the newly elected Bathinda mayor, for attending a celebratory function at a local resort four days ago in violation of Covid guidelines. Police said pictures of the party, showing elected representatives, on a Congress activist’s Facebook page gave cops clinching evidence.“Congress councillors Sukhraj Singh Aulakh and Rattan Rahi were held along with the husband of mayor Raman Goyal, Sandeep Goyal, who had hosted the party. Husbands of six other newly elected women councillors have also been arrested,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk. They were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 Disaster Management Act. Later, all accused were released on bail.However, some of the alleged key violators, including the newly elected senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan, finance minister Manpreet Badal’s son Arjun Badal and the minister’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Johal, did not figure in the FIR. Goyal, a city-based wine contractor is a close aide of Manpreet and Johal. Pradhan had confirmed to the media that most of the 43 Congress councillors and party leaders had a brief social gathering on Friday. SSP Virk said more arrests will be made after thorough verification. “As a raiding party did not find any conclusive evidence at Three Palms resort, located on the city outskirts, our teams followed FB pages of the suspects to gather photographic evidence. On the basis of these digital proofs, the accused were zeroed in and taken into custody,” said the SSP. A large group of Congressmen had gathered at the luxury resort to celebrate the installation of the first Congress mayor of Bathinda, the traditional bastion of Akalis. Photos and videos of the party at the resort that were leaked are being shared widely on social media through the FB pages of some councillors. Police administration faced wide criticism for trying to hush up the violation due to the presence of politically influential persons at the unauthorised gathering posing a risk of virus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-resort-bash-bathinda-mayor-s-husband-2-councillors-among-12-arrested-101619554533801.html
28-04-2021||Other||Shaurya Chakra awardee’s murder: NIA files charge-sheet against 8 KLF terrorists||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a charge-sheet against eight men connected to Pakistan-based proscribed terrorist organisation, Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), for the murder of Shaurya Chakra awardee comrade Balwinder Singh Sandhu on October 16, 2020. Sandhu, who was conferred with the bravery award for fighting against terrorism in Punjab, was gunned down by two bike-borne men at his home in Bhikhiwind town of Tarn Taran district. The NIA had taken over investigation from the state police in January this year. NIA officials said Sandhu was killed to terrorise Indians, especially those who are opposed to the Khalistani ideology. The accused are Sukhmeet Pal Singh, alias Sukh, alias Bhikhariwal; Sukhraj Singh, alias Lakhanpal; Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bhura; Gurjit Singh, alias Bha, of Gurdaspur district; Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi Dhillon; Akashdeep Arora, alias Dhaliwal; Jagroop Singh of Ludhiana, and Inderjit Singh alias Inder, of Tarn Taran.The charge-sheet was filed in the NIA Special Court, Mohali, under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 212 (harbouring offender) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Sections 25 (1B) and 27 of the Arms Act, and Sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). NIA officials said the transnational conspiracy was hatched by Pakistan-based self-styled chief of KLF Lakhvir Singh Rode and top foreign based KLF terrorists who provided arms, ammunition and funds to the accused. WELL-OILED NEXUS, SAYS AGENCY“A well-oiled terrorist-narcotics-criminal nexus, wherein narcotic drugs and weapons were smuggled by Pakistan-pbased entities from across the International Border in Punjab for generation of funds for executing terrorist acts has also been unearthed,” the officials claimed. They added investigation had established that the foreign-based KLF leadership had recruited, financed and armed gangster Bhikhariwal and tasked him to execute the killing through his associates. After the killing of Harmeet Singh alias Happy PHD, the operational chief of the KLF in Pakistan, in January 2020, Bhikhariwal was directed by Rode and other KLF operatives through encrypted communication platforms to kill Sandhu.The reconnaissance of the target was carried by charge-sheeted accused Inderjeet Singh, while sharp-shooters Gurjit Bha and Sukhdeep Bhura were recruited for killing Sandhu. The other chargesheeted accused are associates of Sukh Bhikhariwal who were instrumental in organising logistics and shelter to the shooters, said officials. Bhikhariwal was deported from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) by the Delhi police in December 2020 in pursuance of a case in which Gurjit Bha and Sukhdeep Bhura were arrested with their three Kashmiri accomplices for attacking a police party. Bhikhariwal was also wanted by the Punjab Police in around a dozen criminal cases, including the Nabha jail break on November 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shaurya-chakra-awardee-s-murder-nia-files-charge-sheet-against-8-klf-terrorists-101619554232336.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLAs press Capt for quick action in sacrilege cases||A day after Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa offered their resignations over the state government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases, several party MLAs on Tuesday conveyed to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh their apprehensions about the political fallout if justice is not delivered in these cases quickly. The MLAs, who met the chief minister at his farmhouse in Siswan village near here, pressed for quick action in these politically sensitive cases before the state assembly elections due early next year, citing growing anxiety about the government’s ability to deliver justice on this emotive issue. The common thread running through the feedback shared by several MLAs on mood on the ground was that the government cannot be seen procrastinating on taking action in the matter, and that it should move fast after the legal setback so that they can answer the people, according to sources. The Congress had, in the run-up to the 2017 state polls, promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and the subsequent police firing. The party legislators met Amarinder in two separate groups of 15 each. While MLAs from Ludhiana, Patiala and Sangrur met him first, those from Ferozepur, Fazilka and Muktsar were part of the second group. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, advocate general Atul Nanda, director general of police Dinkar Gupta and justice Mehtap Singh Gill (retired) were also present. The council of ministers had, in its meeting on Monday, decided to set up a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Kotkapura firing case in compliance of the order of the Punjab and Haryana high court which quashed the report of the earlier team. It also decided to file an appeal against the HC order in due course. Nanda briefed the MLAs about the circumstances in which the government set up the fresh SIT and reasons, including gaps in the investigation led by then IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, that were cited by the high court while quashing the charge sheets filed by the Punjab Police in the firing case. The chief minister is scheduled to meet MLAs from Majha and Malwa and the remaining districts on Wednesday. One of the participants said everyone was really concerned about the impact of the high court order. “They pressed the urgency of the matter and wanted the chief minister to find a way at the earliest,” he said. Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli said the members told the chief minister that people were really worried and there are likely consequences if this sentiment persists. “Capt Saab assured us of quick action. We expressed our confidence in the chief minister and his leadership,” he said. Amarinder met the party MLAs on the day he also lashed out at the party’s Amritsar East MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu who has been sniping at him ever since the court quashed the SIT report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mlas-press-capt-for-quick-action-in-sacrilege-cases-101619553753659.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana runs out of vaccine stock||The Ludhiana district on Tuesday ran out of Covishield and Covaxin vaccine stock with several patients returning from private and government hospitals without being administered the dose. Only 2,949 people got the jab against the daily target of vaccinating 18,000 residents. On Monday, 8,822 residents were vaccinated while the figure was 13,276 and 17,003 on Sunday and a day before. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said 28,000 vaccines reached the city from Chandigarh by the evening. “But even this stock will last not more than two days,” he added. A number of private hospitals in the city reported having no vaccine for the last 2-3 days. Christian Medical College and Hospital ran out of Covishield while doses of Covaxin were still being administered from the remaining stock on Tuesday. At Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, some residents were given the dose till noon before the vaccine ran out of stock. Dr GS Grewal of SAS Grewal Multi-specialty hospital said they had not received the vaccine supply for the last three days. The health department had stopped supply to around 75 private hospitals in mid-April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock-101619553579591.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Trial court closes Kotkapura firing case as proceedings against all accused dropped||With the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing all the chargesheets filed by the special investigation team (SIT) led by former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the matter, a trial court in Faridkot on Tuesday disposed of the 2015 Kotkapura firing case and dropped proceedings against all the accused. Now a fresh legal process would be initiated after filing new chargesheets. The accused were not discharged as charges were not framed against them so far. Six former and serving police personnel, including former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, and former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Mantar Singh Brar were named as accused in the case. The defence counsel on Tuesday moved application for dropping the proceedings, citing quashing of the SIT’s chargesheets by the high court. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi also discharged the surety bonds submitted by the accused.“A file has been sent to the ilaqa magistrate to proceed further in the matter in accordance with law,” Lekhi said.Hearing in Behbal Kalan case adjournedThe court adjourned the hearing in the Behbal Kalan firing case to May 18 after the defence counsel claimed that the accused had also filed a writ petition in the high court seeking quashing of the SIT chargesheets in the episode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trial-court-closes-kotkapura-firing-case-as-proceedings-against-all-accused-dropped-101619553572254.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for all above 18 in Punjab from May 1 to get delayed||The vaccination drive for all above 18 years of age in Punjab from May 1 is most likely to get delayed with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) conveying to the state government that it will not be able to deliver the Covishield orders before the middle of the next month. The state on Sunday had booked 30 lakh doses with the SII. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “We cannot say if the drive will start from May 1 as the central government has not been able to issue adequate doses to vaccinate even the 45-plus category. Many vaccination centres in Punjab remained closed on Saturday due to shortage of jabs. Can vaccination for all be done like this?” “We have been told that the central government would get supply of all doses before May 15,” Sidhu added. An inadequate supply of Covid-19 shots has hit the vaccination drive in Punjab with 310 centres administering the jabs across the state were closed. The state on Tuesday witnessed one of the lowest single-day vaccination tally at 35,833. Of these, 9761 were those getting the second shot. This despite the fact that the state health department on Monday claimed to have over 1 lakh doses at its disposal. This low vaccination was attributed to poor supply of jabs and the strike by the National Health Mission (NHM) employees who had decided to boycott all Covid-related work for the day.Director (health and family welfare) Dr GB Singh said the vaccination process was hit at 294 government-run centres and 16 private facilities. The state has a total of 3,040 vaccine centres of which 254 are run by private hospitals. “The centres where the vaccination came to a halt did not get doses because of less availability with the districts. The supply to the centres is given on the basis of the demand and we have to maintain stock for the second dose as well,” he added. On Tuesday, the state got 1.5 lakh doses from the central government and now has nearly 2 lakh doses available with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-all-above-18-in-punjab-from-may-1-to-get-delayed-101619553516205.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t just say, quit your posts: Bir Devinder to Jakhar, Randhawa||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) leader and former deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh on Tuesday asked Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to quit their posts in the real sense if their conscience is burdened with the colossal failures of the Congress government on all fronts. In a statement, he said that Jakhar and Randhawa offered their resignations in the cabinet meeting only for the purpose of “observable optics” for the public eye. Randhawa and Jakhar had offered their resignations on Monday over the sloppy manner in which the sacrilege and the subsequent police firing cases have been handled. “If the governance in the state of Punjab has gone literally berserk and failed to deliver, the Congress party is also to be blamed squarely,” the former deputy speaker said. He said Jakhar has apparently failed to appraise the Congress high command with regard to the domineering functioning of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ever since he assumed his second term as chief minister in March 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-just-say-quit-your-posts-bir-devinder-to-jakhar-randhawa-101619553332117.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 100, Punjab logs first three-figure deaths in a day||Punjab on Tuesday registered highest ever deaths with 100 people falling prey to the Covid-19 virus in past twenty-four hours. Also, 5,932 people were detected positive for the virus on Tuesday. According to the government’s media bulletin, maximum 17 deaths were witnessed in Amritsar district, followed by 13 in Ludhiana, 11 in SAS Nagar, nine in Patiala, seven each in Bathinda, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur , six in Fazilka, five in Ferozepur, four each in Kapurthala and SBS Nagar, and three each in Muktsar and Tarn Taran. Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana registered highest ever 1,136 cases followed by 828 in SAS Nagar, 636 in Bathinda, 565 in Jalandhar, 492 in Patiala, 431 in Amritsar, 256 in Fazilka, 206 in Mansa, 185 in Muktsar, 164 in Faridkot, 161 in Hoshiarpur, 145 in Sangrur, 118 in Pathankot, 99 in Ropar, 82 in Moga, 62 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 56 in Tarn Taran, 58 in Gurdaspur, 49 in Ferozepur and 41 in Barnala. Every fourth person tested in Mohali found positive Mohali district on Tuesday registered highest positivity rate of 24.83%, underlining that every fourth person being tested for the virus has been found positive. Fazilka with 22.52%, Muktsar with 20.15%, Bathinda with 20.73% are the other districts showing very high positivity rate. A total of 10 districts of Punjab have showed positivity rate higher than 10% as on Tuesday. Additional curbs on shops, industryThe home department on Tuesday ordered all shops, including those in malls and multiplexes, to close by 5pm with home delivery up to 9pm. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the home department has issued detailed order imposing additional restrictions to be strictly imposed throughout the state till further orders. However, daily night curfew (already enforced from 8pm to 5am) shall now be from 6pm to 5am on all days prohibiting all the non-essential activities. Week-end curfew from 5am on Saturday up to 5am on Monday will be imposed. However, all essential activities will remain exempted. All private offices, including service industry, have been allowed to work from home only. The spokesperson said the chemist shops and shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, dairy products, vegetables, fruits, besides manufacturing industry have been exempted from Covid restrictions, subject to adherence of Covid protocols. The movement of employees/labour of manufacturing industry and vehicles carrying them has also been allowed with requisite permission. Likewise, activities including ‘to and fro’ movement of passengers travelling by air/train/buses, construction activities in both the urban and rural areas, agriculture including procurement, horticultural, animal husbandry, veterinary services, e-commerce and movement of all goods, vaccination out-reach camps have also been exempted from the aforesaid restrictions subject to strict adherence of health protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-100-punjab-logs-first-three-figure-deaths-in-a-day-101619553154439.html
28-04-2021||Lucknow||Eight patients die due to lack of O2 in Meerut hospitals: Doctors||Atleast eight Covid-19 patients died in two hospitals of Meerut in the past two days due to shortage of oxygen, said hospital authorities on Tuesday.Speaking to reporters, the administration of both hospitals admitted these patients could have been saved had there been proper supply of oxygen.Three patients died on Sunday night at Anand Hospital, a private facility where 173 people were undergoing treatment when a scarcity of oxygen was reported to the administration.The officials managed to shift 10 critical patients who required high-flow oxygen and also managed to provide a few cylinders to maintain oxygen supply in the hospital. Dr Subhash Yadav, who is part of the hospital’s management, said the facility required 400 cylinders but got only 90 cylinders and now has been increased to 200.“Under such circumstances they shifted critical patients to other hospitals, but three patients succumbed due to shortage of oxygen,” he told reporters.Authorities at KMC hospital in Meerut, another private facility, said three to four patients died on Monday and two or three on Sunday due to shortage of oxygen. This was confirmed by Dr Sunil Gupta, a doctor at the hospital, but later denied by the hospital staff.Meerut chief medical officer Dr Akhilesh Mohan said the hospitals had not given any report about the death of patients due to shortage of oxygen. He accepted that there was shortage of oxygen but added that everything possible was being done to maintain adequate supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eight-patients-die-due-to-lack-of-o2-in-meerut-hospitals-doctors-101619552480719.html
28-04-2021||Other||Sikh bodies to protest against quashing of SIT report on April 30||Sikh bodies under the leadership of former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh will protest against the quashing of the special investigation team (SIT) report on the Kotkapura firing incident in 2015 on April 30. The Punjab and Haryana high court had delivered this judgment. Interacting with reporters at the Amb Sahib Gurudwara in Mohali on Tuesday, Singh said, “We will start our protest from Kotkapura on April 30, where we will burn the copies of judgment.” The former jathedar claimed, “We will burn copies of the judgement at all district headquarters and the central event would be held at Kotkapura Chowk, where these incidents happened six years ago. I appeal to political, social, religious groups of all shades to come together and send a stern warning to powers that be. Since the 1980s, successive governments in India have been meddling in Sikh religious affairs.” He alleged that the Badals were voluntarily playing into the hands of the establishment to enjoy power, perks and privileges. Former leader of opposition MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira claimed, “Our protest is on the lines of farmers burning copies of the three farm laws in Punjab. It’s a democratic form of protest as this judgement has dashed all hopes of justice of the aggrieved family and community.” Former Punjab finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said the CM apart from doing lip service isn’t at all interested in delivering justice to aggrieved family and community. Others present were Hardeep Singh Dibdiba; Sukhraj Singh, son of victim of Behbal Kalan firing; Joga Singh Chappar; Sikh preacher Dapali; MLA Pirmal Singh; MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu and former MLA Ranjit Singh Talwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-bodies-to-protest-against-quashing-of-sit-report-on-april-30-101619552492154.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana night curfew: People rush home, shops down shutters as clock strikes 6||A 1, 500-strong police force and around 50 personnel from the quick response team (QRT) got into action mode on Tuesday evening to enforce the 6pm-curfew in keeping with the state government’s latest directives to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections. Though the curfew was to begin at 6pm, shopkeepers were to bring their shutters down by 5pm. Most shopkeepers at Chaura Bazar, Books Market, Ghumar Mandi, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Model Town and Sarabha Nagar were seen pulling the shutters down on their own but at some places, there was confusion over the timings, with many shopkeepers under the impression that they could operate till 6pm. But once the curfew kicked in, all prominent markets wore a deserted look and only a few people were seen walking on the streets.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezian said that earlier the cops were getting shops closed at 8pm but on Tuesday, they began the drive at 5pm.“Checkpoints were also installed at various locations in the city for proper enforcement of night curfew. Action will be taken against residents found violating the orders,” he said while adding that only chemist shops and hospitals are allowed to operate after 5pm.Ajay Kumar, a garment shop owner in Chaura Bazar, said that at 5pm sharp, cops came and asked them to close their shops. “We thought the curfew would start at 6pm. We didn’t even get time to pack up properly,” he said. Jagjit Singh, an eatery owner near Old Session Chowk said, “We had to close our shop too early. Usually, people visit the shop in the evening to eat. The restrictions have brought our earnings down by at least 90%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-night-curfew-people-rush-home-shops-down-shutters-as-clock-strikes-6-101619552372115.html
28-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand ambulance driver dances in PPE kit at wedding procession, video goes viral||A video clip of a Uttarakhand-based ambulance driver, dancing at a wedding procession in a PPE kit has gone viral on social media. Ambulance driver Mahesh from Nainital district claimed to be constantly under mental stress while ferrying Covid-19 patients and felt relieved, to some extent, by dancing at the wedding procession in the Haldwani area on Monday.Mahesh, ambulance driver at Dr Susheela Tiwari government hospital in Haldwani, said, “I am constantly working to ferry Covid-19 patients to the hospital and I didn’t go home due to which I am under a lot of stress. I couldn’t stop myself after seeing the baraat (wedding procession) in front of the hospital.” The wedding procession was passing in front of the hospital where Mahesh works. He could not resist the tune of the band and came out from his ambulance to take part in the procession. Everyone was surprised to see a PPE-clad ambulance driver dance in the baraat (procession), some even distanced themselves from him. “I danced for nearly 10 minutes and forgot everything. It was a relief,” he said. “After dancing, my mind felt a little better and I forgot my stress. And that is why I danced,” Mahesh added. Yuvraj Pant, a psychologist at Dr Sushila Tiwari government hospital, said, the ambulance driver was on duty to take the bodies of the patients who died from the Covid-19 to the post-mortem house. “There are frequent deaths from Corona infection. In such a situation, he was under a lot of stress.” “There is ‘shaking therapy’ to get relief from stress. When the stress hormone is released, it is found in the blood. In such a situation, if the body is moved through dance, sports and yoga, then the stress is released,” Pant said. He further said, “this is how Mahesh was able to reduce his stress by dancing. We all should undergo shaking therapy during the present scenario so that the stress, anxiety, blood pressure, heart problems can be overcome and their side effects are reduced,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-ambulance-driver-dances-in-ppe-kit-at-wedding-procession-video-goes-viral-101619552252381.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for all: 3 main challenges for Mumbai’s hospitals||On Tuesday state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state will need 120 million doses for 57.1 million residents in the ages of 18-44. The state currently has a few hundred thousands as part of the national Covid-19 inoculation drive, which is currently open to those above 45, health care and frontline workers. It remains uncertain that the drive, which was to open to all adults starting May 1, will begin. However, vaccine stock is not the only challenge that Mumbai faces. The expanded rollout will nearly double the city’s target population, requiring the government as well as the private sector to add more centres, decentralise procurement and ensure crowd management. Mumbai currently has 132 vaccination centres including 42 civic-run, 17 state-run and 73 privately run centres. Its current target population above 45 years is around 4 million. With the addition of the population between 18 to 44 years, another 4 million people will be added to this pool. Mumbai has so far administered over 2.8 millon doses – nearly 60,000 on Tuesday itself. HT spoke to several experts and asked them one main question: What will it take to ensure effective vaccination of all adults?DECENTRALISING EFFORTS “Mumbai’s current vaccination capacity is 85,000 doses per day,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC. “We have administered a maximum of 67,000 doses in a day. As the vaccination stock gets streamlined, we can achieve the total capacity and expand further,” she said. According to Gomare, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has now allowed states to directly sanction private hospitals as vaccination centres, where earlier, proposals needed to be sent to the ministry for approval. “As more private hospitals are added, vaccination drive will be decentralised gradually,” she said. The guidelines issued by the Centre last week also confirmed that manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will be free to supply 50% doses to states and in the open market – which can be procured by hospitals or corporates directly – and the manufacturers will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1. States will, however, need to monitor the hospitals that have procured stocks, and declared them on the COWIN app. Thus, apart from the vaccination drive that the state will carry out, procuring stock from the Centre, and from manufacturers, private hospitals will also be able to buy vaccines and vaccinate people. The civic body is also considering the possibility of using large community halls, schools and other such spaces for vaccination. Augmentation of vaccination booths in the currently functional jumbo vaccination centres is also a priority. However, the big challenge that poses the BMC, and other authorities is to ensure that as new vaccine centres get approved, they stay true to the guidelines laid down by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 on the procedure and guidelines for administration of the vaccine at state and district level. For example, every centre must necessarily have an area where those who have just been vaccinated can sit for at least 30 minutes to ensure that in case of any adverse effect detected, they can be treated immediately. It must also ensure safe storage, transportation and delivery of vaccine doses, which should be maintained at the right temperature. According to Gomare, bigger health facilities will be able to make such arrangements. “The problem is with dispensaries and urban health centres which have very small spaces. But we are in the process of shortlisting centres which may have large halls or open grounds nearby, that can be linked to the centres and converted into post and pre-vaccination waiting areas,” she said. SCALING UP INFRASTRUCTURE The BMC plans to scale up the jumbo facility at the Bandra Kurla Complex so as to double the number of vaccination booths from 15 to 30. The BKC facility is among the largest civic-run centres with the capacity to carry out 8000 vaccinations per day. On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed civic officials to identify locations for additional 227 vaccination centres in the city -- one in each electoral ward. Chahal has directed these centres to tie up with local hospitals nearby where citizens will be rushed in case of any adverse effect. “We have administered a maximum of 6800 doses in a day,” said Dr Rajesh Dere, who heads the facility. “Given that we have a large space, increasing the capacity further will be easy for us,” he said. The facility built on the MMRDA grounds has structural stability up to May 31. A structural stability assessment is carried out by engineers to ascertain if the structure is safe and can withstand internal activities as well as seasonal changes. An audit will be conducted to ensure monsoon preparedness, as well. Private hospitals too have begun discussions on increasing their capacity. “We currently have five booths and we are looking at adding another five as vaccination opens for all adult populations. The question is if we will have enough stocks,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital. “Our hospital is also considering 24/7 vaccinations,” he said adding that the space management will be easier with online slots. At Parel’s Global Hospital, authorities are looking at doubling the number of vaccination counters. The hospital currently has three counters and has carried out an average of 220 vaccinations in a day. “We expect the numbers to go up to 450-500. The number of doctors, nurses and associated staff will be accordingly increased,” said Dr Jigna Shrotriya, deputy general manager (Medical Services), Global Hospital. PRICING Dr Santosh Shetty, chief executive officer of Kokilben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital said that securing doses for the private sector seems to be the biggest challenge. “We have spoken to the manufacturers and they have commitments to the centre and states up to May end. Accommodating the private sector is likely to happen only after the third week of May,” he said, adding that their hospital has administered nearly 800 doses in a day when the supply of stocks was good. “We can easily double our capacity by simply adding more hours. Space is not a problem at our hospital.” “We don’t know how soon the stocks will arrive after we start the process,” Bhansali said. India is currently administering only two vaccines: homegrown Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and AstraZeneca’s Covershield manufactured by Serum Institute of India. The Centre is procuring them at ₹150 per dose and distributing them to the states. But from May 1, the states will also make their own purchases and private sector hospitals too will have to procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. The vaccine manufacturers have quoted different selling prices for the Centre, states and the private sector. “The centre has offloaded the pressure onto the states. This will have significant implications on the vaccination drives, especially in high burden states like Maharashtra,” said Soumitra Ghosh, assistant professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “Shifting away from the centralised model leaves the manufacturers with an upper hand. This decision will lead to profiteering, chaos and confusion over the coming days,” he said. Private hospitals will have to further work out their pricing based on storage, handling and manpower costs. “If the need arises, we will cap these costs in the private sector,” said Dr Subash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-all-3-main-challenges-for-mumbai-s-hospitals-101619552072837.html
28-04-2021||Other||Realty crisis: 108K units remain unsold in Mumbai||The real estate sector continues to stagnate in Mumbai as a staggering 108,929 housing units remain unsold in the city. From January to March, 6,780 housing units were launched in Mumbai, of which 5,775 houses were sold. As an average of 1,908 housing units is sold every month in Mumbai, it will take at least 57 months to sell its unsold inventory, according to a study conducted by real estate research firm Liases Foras, which pointed out the realty sector’s grim situation, especially amid the second wave of Covid-19 lockdown, where the entire sector has been paralysed. In any realty market, the ideal inventory should not be above 15-20 months. According to Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, this huge inventory is a cause of worry. “The second wave of Covid-19 will only make things difficult for the real estate sector as the sales volume will decrease significantly,” said Kapoor, adding, “In addition, the state government has made things more difficult by withdrawing the stamp duty cut in March-end. The stamp duty cut had helped drive the sales in the past few months,” he added. The Builders’ Association of India (BAI) said both slowdown and government policies have caused havoc in the realty sector, resulting in the piling up of such a huge inventory. “There was an economic slowdown in the past few years which slowed down our sales considerably. In addition to it, the government levied huge premiums and taxes, forcing us to hike the real estate prices, which drove homebuyers away from the market,” said Anand Gupta, chairman, BAI (housing and RERA committee). “Just as things were looking up, the second Covid-19 wave and the subsequent lockdown again dissuaded homebuyers from buying properties,” he added. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) region, which along with Mumbai includes Navi Mumbai, Thane and Raigad, also has an unsold inventory of 286,992 units. It will take at least 48 months to clear MMR’s inventory, given that approximately 6,000 units are sold monthly. Paras Gundecha, founder of Gundecha Group – one of the leading real estate firms – said that the coming days may not be good for the realty sector. “The real estate sector is driven by sentiments, and currently we are witnessing a negative sentiment all across. We will face difficult times in the coming days due to the Covid-19 wave, and for this, the government needs to give us incentives like re-imposing the stamp duty cut,” said Gundecha. The real estate industry in the past few years has been going through a recessionary phase. Builders raised realty prices to unaffordable levels, forcing many buyers to postpone their plans to purchase. In addition, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), as a cautionary exercise, laid down stringent lending norms. However last year, the Covid-19 pandemic caused an upheaval in realty market, with sales plummeting considerably. Last August, the government announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 to December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move had played a huge role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary market. However, after March end, the government refused to extend this scheme despite the real estate sector’s plea. The second wave of Covid-19 then hit the country, bringing more distress for the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/realty-crisis-108k-units-remain-unsold-in-mumbai-101619552012885.html
28-04-2021||Other||Wheat stubble burning starts in Malwa, experts warn covid scenario could worsen||As wheat harvesting season draws to a close in Punjab, 84 fire farms have been reported from south Malwa districts since April 15, even as the practice is banned. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) data shows that Mansa reported 25 rabi crop farm fires between April 15-25, the highest among seven the southern districts in the state. Bathinda and Fazilka have recorded 16 each, followed by Faridkot (10), Moga (8), Ferozepur (9) and Muktsar (2).Sources said the cases may increase in the next few weeks before paddy transplantation begins, also claiming that the number might be higher, as the data is based on satellite imageries taken by the State Remote Sensing Centre and some fires might have escaped its radar. PPCB state nodal officer Ashok Sharma said in the corresponding last year, no major incident was reported due to the climatic conditions. “Around April 13 last year, parts of Punjab had witnessed spells of rain and hailstorm, and it had delayed harvest. The PPCB started monitoring fires on April 15. Data has been sent to the field staff for cross-verification and to fine the erring farmers,” Sharma added. Bathinda chief agriculture officer (CAO) Bahadur Singh Sidhu said nothing alarming has been noticed. “Wheat stubble is used to make dry fodder for cattle, and few farmers burn only leftover roots. These roots can be easily mixed into the soil, but some farmers find it easier to burn it,” he said.33 INSTANCES IN SANGRURSangrur district has reported 33 cases of wheat residue burning to date, even as the state is battling covid-19 pandemic. The smoke due to stubble burning is likely to worsen the respiratory disease in patients. Farmers claim that if they do not burn the wheat crop residue, their fields will consume more water during preparation for next crop. “Farmers are helpless and have to burn stubble. If the government takes action, we will oppose it,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). PPCB executive engineer Rajeev Gupta said no challans had been issued yet. Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinder Pal Singh Grewal said it was irresponsible of farmers to burn crop residue. “There is no need to burn wheat residue, as it can be managed easily. Nodal officers are looking into the matter,” added Grewal. Dr Rahul Gupta, of Sangrur civil hospital, said the residue burning practice is harmful amid Covid-19 pandemic as the smoke affects throat and lungs. “People suffering from asthma and old allergies are prone to covid infection and residue burning precipitates it. This time, covid patients are coming in large numbers from villages. If stubble burning cases increase, the number of covid patients will also rise,” added Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-stubble-burning-starts-in-malwa-experts-warn-covid-scenario-could-worsen-101619552012424.html
28-04-2021||Other||Study group to look into litigation by school staff in Maharashtra||With a large number of cases pertaining to service conditions, salaries and other issues of teachers and non-teaching staff of schools in the Maharashtra being filed in various courts, the state government has now formed a study group to look into the common areas of dispute. The education department announced the formation of the study group in a government resolution (GR) dated April 26. As per the GR, the study group was formed in light of the “confusion and miscommunication” caused among the government officials while representing various cases filed by school staff. “The government pleader representing the state and in turn the school education department’s officers in each such case are usually not the same. On many occasions, it is observed that there is a lack of coordination among the officers of the department giving instructions to such government pleaders, and resultantly, such submissions are made on behalf of the state government by such government pleaders in similar matters, which are substantially inconsistent,” stated the GR. With similar cases being filed by staffers and in light of the inconsistency in response from the government, the Bombay high court had vide its order dated April 1 observed, “Once the position of law is laid down by this court and if the state does not challenge the view taken, there is no reason why the state government should not issue clarificatory instructions to its officers to bring the position in consonance with the law laid down.” The government has thus formed a 12-member study group with the joint secretary of the school education department as its chairman. “This study group ought to give suggestions as to how this type of litigation does not arise in the first place. It will also give suggestions as to how in respect of such common disputes, the state government and resultantly, the school education and sports department is able to put up a common as also consistent defence in all such matters, before the hon’ble courts” stated the GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/study-group-to-look-into-litigation-by-school-staff-101619551951519.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana cyber cell warns of fake oximeter apps||If you happen to receive a message asking you to download an app from the Google Play Store that can check your blood oxygen level using your phone, then beware! It’s most likely a phishing attack to hijack your biometric as well other confidential data from your cellphone.The police have warned users not to install fake oximeter mobile applications from any links they may have received over email, SMS or social media. According to them, cyber criminals are employing such means to steal personal data and passwords, which can be misused in stealing cash from bank accounts and blackmailing.Amid the ongoing surge in Covid-19 cases, links for downloading such applications are doing the rounds on various social networking sites.Cyber cell-1 in-charge inspector Pawan Kumar said that they found such dubious apps and consulted medical experts about their authenticity. The experts claimed that phones cannot measure blood oxygen levels as they have no physical SpO2 blood oxygen sensor.Kumar said that after downloading such apps, the users are asked to put their finger on the rear camera of their phone. “These apps steal biometric details such as fingerprints. Some applications also claim to measure body temperature, heartbeats and even blood pressure to trap the users,” he added.“Cyber criminals have also launched other phishing applications such as pink WhatsApp to defraud the users. We advise all not to download such apps,” he said.Perils of video chat with strangers Sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge of cyber cell-2, said that fraudsters are trapping people through video calls too.“Cyber criminals, including women, honey trap phone users by sending them friend requests and ask them to video chat with them. The fraudsters then record these videos, morph them, and blackmail people to extort money from them,” he said.The police have received some complaints regarding such fraud and are investigating the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cyber-cell-warns-of-fake-oximeter-apps-101619551832059.html
28-04-2021||Other||4-MW waste-to-energy plant at Deonar: Mumbaiites oppose plan||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s proposal to set up a 4-megawatt (4MW) waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Deonar dumping ground was largely met with objections from citizens and experts, during an online public hearing on Tuesday, organised as per the procedure for obtaining environmental clearance (EC). Several attendees also raised objections as a copy of the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) report has not been shared publicly, as per the rules of the Environment Impact Assessment Notification (2006), for the project. “Central guidelines clearly state that the full EIA report is to be shared publicly in multiple languages, 30 days before the public hearing. This is a crucial step towards educating people about the projected benefits and pitfalls of a certain project, which has been completely sidestepped by BMC. How are stakeholders expected to make their decisions based on incomplete information,” said Shweta Bhatt, director (conservation) of Conservation Action Trust. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has only shared an executive summary of the EIA report on its website. As per the document, the project is being executed at a cost of ₹504 crore. An environment management plan (EMP) has also been drawn up with a capital cost of ₹ 815 lakh and recurring cost annual cost of ₹96 lakh. “An additional air pollution control plan has also been put in place with a budget of ₹25 crore,” said Minesh Pimple from BMC’s solid waste management department. In response to citizens’ objections, Pimple said BMC will be putting up a copy of the full draft EIA report under the ‘solid waste management’ section of its website. “The executive summary covers the project in totality. But as some people are seeking more technical information, the full report is being uploaded on our website. Any inquiries based on that should be directed to us by Monday [May 3],” he added. Bhatt, among other attendees, also pointed out that the WTE model has seen little success as well as public resistance in other parts of the country. “This model incentivises the production of waste instead of focusing on-source segregation. Across Europe, WTE plants are being shut down because they emit carcinogenic dioxins and furans. In India, the calorific value of waste is low, making it unsuitable for incineration and more harmful, emissions wise,” said Sushant Bali, an environmentalist who attended Tuesday’s meeting. Moreover, of the 100-odd attendees who were present during the online hearing, only one, Mejaz Ansari, was a resident of the area. “There are lakhs of people who live near the Deonar garbage dump whose lives are already affected. Most of them will not able to attend online hearings. This public hearing should be delayed till the Covid-19 situation has improved. How can a public hearing be held when the people most directly concerned cannot attend,” said Ansari. BMC officials, however, maintained that the project is essential to tackle Mumbai’s burgeoning waste problem. “People need to understand that our aim is not power generation, but eliminating waste. Take any country in Europe where source segregation is done. It has taken them decades to reach there. The larger public does not follow the solid waste management rules at source, necessitating such an intervention,” said Pimple, clarifying that a second public hearing would not be held, despite citizens’ requests. The Deonar dumping ground is India’s oldest landfill, set up in 1927. Currently, the site receives 800 tonnes of solid mixed waste and 1,200 tonnes of construction and demolition waste each day. As per the summary EIA, “Entire waste is being dumped in an unorganised way. This causes environmental damage, which makes the surrounding areas of Chembur, Govandi and Mankhrud unfit for habitation.” The proposed WTE plant is being built at a budget of just over ₹500 crore, and will produce 4MW of power. BMC’s proposal allows for expansion up to 8MW. An area of 12 hectares has been earmarked within the dumpsite to set up the power plant. The terms of reference were granted by the state environment department last June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4mw-waste-to-energy-plant-at-deonar-mumbaiites-oppose-plan-101619551771556.html
28-04-2021||Other||Constituents in distress, UP lawmakers press for oxygen supply||Cutting across party lines and looking out for the interests of their constituents with less than a year to go for the state assembly elections, lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh have urged the state government to expedite the supply of oxygen to hospitals in their respective districts to save the lives of Covid-19 patients.In a tweet, former Uttar Pradesh finance minister and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bareilly Cantonment MLA Rajesh Agarwal urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure the supply of oxygen to hospitals in Bareilly district.Bareilly should not be considered less important than Lucknow and Gorakhpur divisions, he said, adding that the hospitals in Bareilly required 25-30 MT (metric tonnes) of oxygen daily. The chief minister’s office should give orders for the supply of oxygen to districts located in Bareilly division, he said.Jawahar Lal Rajput, the BJP MLA from Garautha assembly constituency in Jhansi, said the hospitals in Jhansi were facing an oxygen crisis. There was an immediate need of oxygen to save lives, he added.“I have written a letter to the chief minister and informed the officers in the chief minister’s office as well. On Monday, I talked to chief secretary RK Tiwari to expedite the supply of oxygen to Jhansi (from the stock) that Uttar Pradesh has received from Bokaro (Jharkhand) and the central government,” he said.Rajput said that in order to expedite the supply of oxygen to hospitals in the seven districts of Bundelkhand region, the state government should run an Oxygen Express train to the oxygen plant at Rourkela Steel Plant in Odisha.“In comparison to Bokaro, it will take less time to get lifesaving oxygen from the Rourkela Steel Plant for the Bundelkhand region,” he said.BJP MLA from Bairia seat in Ballia Surendra Singh said, “I have sent a letter to the chief minister to ensure the rapid supply of oxygen to hospitals in Ballia district. The hospitals in the districts are facing an acute oxygen crisis. The lives of a large number of patients are at risk. Rather than centralized supply from Lucknow, the state government should decentralize the oxygen supply across the state. The Oxygen Express and tankers should unload oxygen in east UP, rather than in Lucknow. Valuable time will be lost in the supply of oxygen from Lucknow to the other districts,” he said.Leader of Opposition and Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Bansdih in Ballia Ram Govind Chaudhary said, “I am regularly drawing the attention of the state government toward the oxygen crisis not only in Ballia, but also in various other districts of the state. I have told the chief minister that officers are misguiding him and giving wrong data regarding supply of oxygen to various districts. Since Saturday, the officers are saying that oxygen is reaching the hospitals in east UP. Three days have passed, but oxygen has not reached the hospitals. The state government should take the Opposition into confidence, hold meetings and make the oxygen supply transparent to instill confidence among the people,” he said.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Bhinga Aslam Raini said, “I am writing letters regularly to the chief minister’s office to draw attention to the lack of health facilities in the hospitals in Shravasti, Balrampur and Bahraich districts. The government and private hospitals located in these three districts are facing oxygen shortage and several patients have died. The supply of oxygen by road to districts in the Terai region of UP will take time. The state government should airlift oxygen cylinders to the airstrips and helipads in the area for quick supply.”UP Congress Committee president and MLA from Tamukhiraj in Kushinagar Ajay Kumar Lallu said his party had been drawing the state government’s attention to the “oxygen crisis” following a surge in Covid-19 cases. “The districts in east UP and hospitals located in the far-flung areas are the worst affected. The coronavirus infection has spread in the rural areas. The patients admitted in the community health centres require oxygen. The Congress government in Chhattisgarh has sent oxygen tankers to a private hospital in Lucknow,” he said. For his part, Congress MLC Deepak Singh on Tuesday said he committed his legislators’ fund for Covid management, especially for oxygen and ventilators for Amethi district.“I wrote to the district authorities asking them to purchase and install oxygen concentrators. Also, I have asked them for the training of staff for handling the ventilators,” he added.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national secretary Anil Dubey said, “We do not have any legislators (MLA or MLC), but I wrote to the chief minister, demanding oxygen supply, especially allowing cylinders to the individuals and also removing the rider of CMO’s referral for admissions to Covid hospitals.”Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “This government, its ministers, and district officials are not listening to anyone. They have become inaccessible. District officials have been busy with panchayat polls more than the Covid management. Leave alone the Opposition, this government is not listening to its own party MLAs. It has made things so centralised that now people like us cannot help people directly--be it with oxygen, ventilators, hospital beds, or Remdesivir. How can a legislator help a person with his Covid treatment, if he is not getting a bed? The issue is not funds but management. Last year, ₹1500 crore of MLA funds accumulated for Covid was not utilised, oxygen plants were to be made but they were not installed. The CM and PM CARES funds were unutilized.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constituents-in-distress-up-lawmakers-press-for-oxygen-supply-101619551713213.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore blames influx of outsiders for second wave in Chandigarh||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday blamed the influx of outsiders for the Covid-19 second wave in the city.Addressing the media, in only his second such interaction since the outbreak last March, Badnore said, “Three major activities have taken place in Chandigarh, which could have contributed to the second wave in the city. The city hosts the legislative assemblies of Punjab and Haryana. When house sessions take place, a large number of outsiders come to the city, which cannot be avoided as the city is the capital of both the states.”Badnore further said that a major influx of outsiders in the city was also witnessed when physical hearing of cases had restarted in the Punjab and Haryana high court. During the first wave last year, only virtual hearing of cases was being done.“Similarly, when we opened the OPD in PGIMER, a large number of outsiders had started to pour in,” he said.The UT administration had called a meeting of mediapersons for seeking their suggestions on Covid-19 management in the city.When asked about opening of the OPDs in Chandigarh hospitals, Badnore said, “We have to create a balance between physical and virtual examinations of patients. There is no system for testing for Covid before the OPD. All of them also cannot be directed to get tested before they come to the OPD.”‘50% ICU beds occupied by patients from other states’Badnore said that majority of the beds have been occupied by people from outside Chandigarh and it has been challenging for the administration to ramp up the medical facilities. “No doubt to keep the number of fatalities low, we need the health facilities to be active to deal with severe cases. However, when it comes to ICU beds, less than 50% are occupied by patients from Chandigarh, while others are occupied by people from as far as Ladakh and J&K. The issue is that we cannot refuse them,” said the administrator. Health officials said the situation is similar in the case of oxygen beds as well. Government hospitals in Chandigarh have been able to mobilise only 126 ICU beds with ventilators, with a few diverted from non-Covid wards. On Tuesday evening, only 14% (18) ICU beds were available, with nine at GMCH-32, eight at PGIMER, one at GMSH-16 and none at the hospital in Sector 48. Meanwhile, the occupancy of 666 oxygen beds stood at 78%.Army to set up 100-bed facility at PU hostel within a week In order to strengthen the health infrastructure, the administrator said that the Indian Army will be establishing a 100-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients at the Panjab University International Hostel.Later, Col Jasdeep Sandhu, director, civil military affairs, Western Command, said that the necessary liaison has been established with the Chandigarh administration and the 100-bed hospital will be established by moving a field hospital from Himachal Pradesh.“Our medical teams are visiting the selected place on Wednesday, and the hospital will be functional in five to six days,” he said.The Western Command has already agreed to set up a 100-bed Covid hospital in the neighbouring Mohali district as well.Badnore also chairs an all-party meetEarlier in the day, the administrator chaired an all-party meeting at the UT Guest House to seek suggestions from political parties on Covid management strategy.In the meeting, Congress opposed the imposition of lockdown in the city. Congress councilor and leader of opposition in the MC, Devinder Singh Babla, said, “The administration is confused as they put a lockdown for a day and then suddenly the next day, they discontinued it. The health department is not ensuring that necessary drugs are being made available to the patients. Price of the drugs/medicines should be regulated and availability be checked.”The Aam Aadmi Party, on the other hand, backed the lockdown only if the experts advised in its favour. They also suggested fully exploiting the health infrastructure lying in disuse in several locations in the city like Palsora.Former city MP and senior BJP leader Satya Pal Jain advised the administration of a health war room, which should have a helpline for oxygen and medicine availability and one for the patients needing help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badnore-blames-influx-of-outsiders-for-second-wave-in-chandigarh-101619551652156.html
28-04-2021||Other||Searching for live-saving drugs at night is an ordeal in Lucknow, say Covid patient’s kin||Pawan.dixit@htlive.com LUCKNOW If Covid patients need medicines at odd hours in case of an emergency, they are at God’s mercy. Almost all medical stores are pulling down their shutters by 10pm, including those in front of KGMU, Balrampur Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Gomti Nagar. As a result, many families are having a harrowing experience while searching for life-saving drugs in the state capital during late night hours. Vikas Thakur, 48, a resident of 645A/1276, Saraswatipuram, Jankipuram, reported breathing trouble on Monday around 4pm. His oxygen level was hovering between 88 and 92. The family booked an online consultation with a doctor. By the time Vikas’ turn came and the family received doctor’s prescription suggesting immediate hospitalisation, it was 9pm. Thereafter, Vikas’ wife, Kavita Singh, daughter Muskan, 22, and family friends began a frantic search for medicines prescribed by the doctor. These life-saving drugs were the only hope for the family as arranging an oxygen cylinder was next to impossible. “All medical stores in front of KGMU, Balrampur Hospital and Lohia (RML) were closed. Not a single one was open. We managed to get only three medicines from a local medical store. We could not get a single life-saving drug prescribed by the doctor, including Medrol 16mg and Fabiflu,” said Kavita Singh. All of us returned with no option but to pray and wait for the morning, she added. At 9am on Tuesday, a family friend queued outside Sachdeva Medical Store at IT Crossing. It was around 11am that he was able to get all medicines barring an injection. “From IT Crossing to Jankipuram, we tried to reach home by a two-wheeler. After around 15 hours of doctors’ consultation we were able to give medicines to Vikas,” said Ravi Kumar, Vikas’ friend. But the search for medicines did not end here. Injection Medrol 40mg was yet to be procured. “This is an important injection advised by the doctor for infection in the chest. From Jankipuram to IT Crossing it was not available in any other medical store,” said Kavita. Finally at 3pm, the family managed to get the injection from the medicine market, Aminabad. After oxygen cylinders, getting emergency drugs is also proving to be an ordeal for family members of Covid patients, said kin of Vikas. “No one wants to take a risk. No medical store owner is willing to keep the store open through the night. Generally, by mutual consensus medical stores operate turn-wise during night outside KGMU, Balrampur Hospital and RML hospital,” said a medical store owner near Balrampur hospital. The fear of the pandemic is such that no one is willing to keep his medical store open during night hours, he added. Experts suggest that some medical stores all across the city must be kept open through the night on rotation basis so that patients can get emergency drugs even at odd hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/searching-for-live-saving-drugs-at-night-is-an-ordeal-in-lucknow-say-covid-patient-s-kin-101619551471486.html
28-04-2021||Other||82-year-old woman defeats Covid in Gorakhpur||Age is just a number for those blessed with strong willpower and a calm approach to tackling challenges.An embodiment of these qualities, Vidya Devi, 82, has become an inspiration for the people of Gorakhpur battling the second wave of the Covid-19 infection. After 12 days of home isolation, she was declared negative for the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen in the RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test on Monday.She had seen several people falling prey to Covid-19 infection in her locality Alinagar in the heart of the city. And when she, along with five family members, got infected, she told them not to panic but follow the Covid protocol and take the medicines prescribed by the doctor.Her son Hari Mohan Srivastava said, “My mother is co-morbid. She has high blood sugar and blood pressure. When her oxygen saturation level declined to 79, the family members became anxious, but my mother immediately started doing exercise to increase the oxygen level. She also used the lung exercise instruments to get normal oxygen saturation counts. For a day, she remained on oxygen support at home. Her endeavour to recover paid dividends. Soon, the oxygen level shot up to 94 and, on Monday, it increased to 97.”After 12 days, not only Vidya Devi, but the remaining family members, who had been Covid-19 positive, also recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/82yearold-woman-defeats-covid-in-gorakhpur-101619551351440.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nine patients succumb to Covid-19 in Ambala district||Nine patients admitted at various hospitals in Ambala lost the battle to Covid-19 on Tuesday, making this the highest number of single-day fatalities here since the onset of the pandemic last year.As per the office of the civil surgeon, five patients died in the city, three in the cantonment and one in Shahzadpur; 216 patients have died of the virus to date and 29 in the past one week. The district has a fatality rate of 1.09%.It has been learnt that one of the nine patients, a 40-year-old man, who was on Bi-PAP support, collapsed and died at the toilet of the isolation ward in the city’s civil hospital on Monday evening.While the recovery rate is 84.16% with 382 patients recovering on Tuesday, 332 fresh cases were reported, taking the active caseload to 2,889.Most of the patients who died were admitted at late stages and some had multiple ailments, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.Dr Sanjeev Singla, deputy civil surgeon, told the reporters, “It’s high time that residents follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. I could attribute the sudden surge to many of the mutants that have emerged overtime and symptomatic patients hiding in their homes, reporting to hospitals late.”Meanwhile, panic spread across health circles as a patient’s attendant complained of “no availability” of O2 for her infected family member at the city’s civil hospital.Mithun Verma, a Congress councilor from ward number 10, also alleged that the attendants of patients have to bring out the empty cylinders and replace them with filled ones, amid the unavailability of staff.SDM (City) Sachin Gupta reached the facility to check on the scare and said, “There was some panic that the oxygen might finish and the filled cylinder won’t be available enough O2 was available with the hospital and the patient is stable.”Eight ventilator beds available for online bookingThe district administration has started online booking for 75% of available beds in government and private facilities, according to which only eight beds were vacant as on Tuesday.These included six at the district’s largest dedicated Covid facility at Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana, and two at the civil hospital in Ambala Cantt. No ventilator bed was available in the city that has been largely affected by the second wave.To avail the facility, the patient or the attendant has to fill the required details at the dedicated portal “Ambala Hospital Covid Management” accessible from the Ambala district website.SDM Gupta, in-charge of the initiative, said that the patient is given a window of 3 hours to arrive at the hospital, failing which the booking lapses. “It is only after the primary diagnosis and at the discretion of the doctor that the patient will be admitted,” the IAS officer said.Utsav Shah, chief minister’s good governance associate, said that the availability numbers will be updated at least twice a day through the nodal authority at the civil surgeon’s office, who will be connected with the respective hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nine-patients-succumb-to-covid-19-in-ambala-district-101619551232679.html
28-04-2021||Other||4,437 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths in Lucknow||The state capital on Tuesday reported 4,437 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths and 5,960 fresh recoveries, according to official data. The overall death toll in the city has gone up to 1,713. The number of deaths on the day was the highest since April 24 when 42 fatalities were recorded.The number of active cases has dropped below 50,000 in the state capital for the first time since April 18. At present, there are 49,064 active cases in Lucknow. So far, a total of 1,42,132 people have defeated Covid-19 in the state capital.Dy CM Dinesh Sharma admitted to Rajdhani HospitalUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was admitted to the Rajdhani Covid Hospital here on Tuesday after he complained of a problem in breathing, nearly a week after testing positive for the coronavirus. Sharma informed about his hospitalisation through a tweet.The deputy chief minister and his wife had tested positive for the coronavirus on April 21.Meanwhile, Vijay Sahu, owner of Sahu group and Sahu Cinema, died due to the coronavirus disease on Tuesday. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4437-new-covid-19-cases-39-more-deaths-in-lucknow-101619551231463.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panel for sweeping reforms in PU senate, syndicate||The high-level committee constituted to examine the governing structure of Panjab University (PU) has accepted the suggestions made by the three-member sub-committee regarding the constitution and composition of varsity’ senate and syndicate.Based on these suggestions, the recommendations of the panel and the comments of the Punjab government, the final report will be prepared by the committee and submitted to the office of the vice-president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU.No registered graduates’ constituencyThe high-level committee during the last meeting on April 19 has resolved that as a substitute to registered graduates’ constituency, four eminent PU alumni be nominated by the chancellor. They have also resolved that 18 persons will be nominated by the chancellor instead of the existing provision of 36.In the last meeting, the nominees of the Punjab government had sought time to seek the views of their state on the proposed changes, which will be incorporated in the final report.Recommendations of sub-committeeAccording to the recommendations made by the sub-committee, the election will be held for only 14 members of the senate, including two professors elected from university departments and two members elected from among associate and assistant professors. Four members will be elected from among the principals of affiliated and constituent colleges and six members will be elected from among the teachers of affiliated colleges. Besides this, two members will be from the Punjab legislative assembly. There will be no separate constituency of faculties.The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February to recommend governance reforms in light of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November had informed PU to initiate governance reforms as per the provisions mentioned in the PU Act and regulations.The committee has received only 167 responses from the stakeholders, out of which 113 have given suggestions on governance reforms. Moreover, only three meetings have been held by the committee.No election for syndicate members proposedAccording to the report submitted by the sub-committee, which was accessed by HT, instead of 15 elected members, it was proposed that 10 members be nominated to the syndicate by the vice-chancellor on seniority basis by rotation. These members will be from among the deans of faculties, university teachers, college principals and professors, and a teacher other than professors of colleges. The report also states that a person once appointed as a member of the syndicate will not be repeated.Propose realignment of territorial jurisdictionThe high-level committee has also accepted the proposal submitted by the sub-committee regarding the realignment of territorial jurisdiction of PU. It had been suggested that the colleges situated in close proximity may be affiliated to PU and the colleges situated in distant places (200km-250km from PU) like Fazilka, Abhohar, Muktsar be affiliated to other state universities depending upon their respective proximity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-for-sweeping-reforms-in-pu-senate-syndicate-101619551112118.html
28-04-2021||Other||UP panchayat polls: HC seeks SEC’s explanation over deaths, Covid violations||The Allahabad high court on Tuesday took note of reports related to deaths of government employees on panchayat election duty and directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to explain by the next hearing as to why it failed in checking non- compliance with Covid-19 guidelines during various phases of the panchayat elections in the state. The court also asked the SEC to explain why action may not be taken against it and 27 of its officials for the same, including prosecuting those responsible for such violations. The court mentioned a news report which alleged there were 135 deaths of government employees on panchayat election duty due to Covid-19. The state is witnessing four-phase panchayat elections that began on April 15 and will end on April 29. Fixing May 3 as the next date of hearing in the case, the court directed the state government to place before it by then the details of beds for Covid-19 patients, medicines and oxygen supplied in various hospitals of Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi. The high court also directed the state government to ensure health bulletin, twice a day, in major government hospitals of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi, giving health updates of the patients. The hospitals were asked to use large screens to give details of patients and their oxygen saturation levels. Further, the state government was directed to declare on the district portals of these cities the number of beds that were occupied and vacant in Covid-19 wards and ICUs of all government and private hospitals. The bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar passed the order on a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on the spread of Covid-19 in the state and the condition of quarantine centres. The court said that mere antigen negative report should not be a ground to discharge a patient as such patients could still infect others. They needed to be shifted to non-Covid wards for at least a week. For this, the government needed to gear up to set up makeshift wards on the campuses of hospitals, the court said. The court directed that government hospitals be provided with sufficient medicines and injections, including Remdesivir, for patients. The oxygen supply to hospitals should remain uninterrupted, the court said. On the difficulties faced by Covid-19 patients, the court observed, “If even after seven decades of our attaining freedom with so many heavy industries set up, we are not able to provide oxygen to our citizens, it’s a matter of shame.” The court said the authorities concerned must ensure proper management of doctors, medical and paramedical staff as they were all working day and night and getting infected as well. On certain reports of attacks on medical staff by the public, the bench said, “When near and dear ones die, they go frustrated at the system of healthcare in the state and soft targets of their ire are the medical and paramedical staff.” “The situation overall in the major cities of Uttar Pradesh has gone very chaotic for the current Covid surge. Whether it is day or night, the ghost of Corona is marching on the roads and streets of the major cities of the state and it can be anybody’s fate. Those who are resourceful will survive and the rest as histories of past pandemics tell us may die for want of proper healthcare. As the government in its wisdom has resolved to only two days’ weekend lockdown to break the chain and has further proceeded with some measures as a sequel to that, but mere fact that number of positive cases, as have been shown to have been reduced a little in numbers due (to) two weekend lockdown days, nothing remarkable seems to have been achieved on the front of public health care to the satisfaction of the people,” the bench observed. The state government was asked to increase the number of ambulances immediately and to ensure that ambulances must be well equipped with life-saving devices. The bench also directed the government to ensure that every Covid related death was reported to a judicial officer to be appointed by district judge at the end of the day. The government should also ensure the correctness of the data forwarded to the officer concerned each day. Further, cremation in Covid death cases must be done as per the guidelines issued by the government. The bench observed, “We make it clear that we will not tolerate any paperwork or public announcements to show account of the steps taken and its sufficiency as it is now an open secret that government had gone complacent due to weakening of virus impact by the end of 2020 in the state and the government got more involved in other activities, including panchayat elections.” “Had it been constantly vigilant, it would have prepared itself to face the onslaught of the pandemic in its second wave. Posterity would never forgive us if we remain oblivious to the real public health issues and let the people die for want of adequate health care,” the bench added. The court said, “Though we acknowledge the fact that government alone cannot fight with its available resources and needs people’s cooperation and active participation of various other non-government bodies, but those in power must shun the attitude of ‘my way or no way’ and should welcome suggestions from all the quarters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-hc-seeks-sec-s-explanation-over-deaths-covid-violations-101619550632682.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula reserves Sector-20 crematorium for Covid deaths||Amid a surge in deaths due to coronavirus, the Panckula municipal corporation (MC) has set aside Sector-20 crematorium exclusively for the disposal of bodies of Covid victims.As per the data, as many as 90 Covid victims were cremated here between April 1 and 27. Of these 47 were Panchkula residents.“Against one to two Covid victims being cremated per day last year, the number has now gone up to 13 in a day. At times, the figure is much more,” said an official at the crematorium, which has 15 sheds with one being non-functional.Earlier, only two sheds were reserved for cremating virus victims, but from the past three to four days, all sheds have been dedicated for the purpose, the official said adding, “Today, we disposed of 13 bodies.”The MC has deputed three sanitary workers to help with the last rites of the victims. “Cremation of one body takes five to six hours. Though we have kept additional sheds for Covid victims, an electric crematorium will be of great help,” he said.Gas-based crematorium soon Meanwhile, mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Tuesday said that a gas-based crematorium will be opened for free of cost cremation of Covid victims.On a visit to the Sector 20 cremation ground, Goyal informed that the proposed crematorium will be made operational within a day or two.“This will be Panhckula’s first gas-based crematorium where people dying of Covid-19 will be cremated for free,” the mayor said adding, “Up to six bodies can be cremated at the facility in a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-reserves-sector-20-crematorium-for-covid-deaths-101619550631971.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body helpline not working, complain residents||Residents complained that helpline numbers introduced by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) for availability of beds, ambulances, civic hospitals are not working. Kalyan resident, Pawan Gupta (41), said, “I called the helpline number mentioned on the website to inquire about a bed. It said the number was out of service. I called the war room. The person asked me to call the hospitals directly.” A KDMC health department officer said, “There might be some technical error on the lines. The numbers are working. We will ensure the technical problem is resolved at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyandombivli-civic-body-helpline-not-working-complain-residents-101619550572509.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Chandigarh slug it out over oxygen quota||As most state and UT governments are scrambling to maintain a steady supply of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, Punjab and Chandigarh were recently found jostling over the quota of the life-saving gas.The two governments clashed over the sanctioning and supply of 20 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen while trying to convince the Centre on who should get it.The dispute started when the Union government allocated 20 MT of liquid oxygen to Chandigarh-run hospitals through Inox plant in Barotiwala, Himachal Pradesh.“Punjab requested the Centre to allocate the oxygen quota to the state government rather than Chandigarh. The Centre even accented to the same,” said a senior UT official not wanting to be named.On this, the Chandigarh administration raised an objection with the central government insisting that the quota should be given to the UT.“Both Punjab and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) were getting oxygen from a supplier in Dehradun. As there was some disruption in this supply, Punjab insisted that as per its requirement, it should be given the Chandigarh quota. It was under the impression that the 20 MT quota granted to Chandigarh also included PGIMER’s share,” said the UT official.The UT then again approached the Centre. “We informed the Centre that our requirement is 40 MT and we need the sanctioned quota of 20 MT. We also clarified to Punjab that the allocated 20 MT does not include PGIMER’s share, which is independently getting its oxygen supply,” the official added.When contacted, the UT adviser Manoj Parida confirmed the dispute. “We have now sorted out the issue, and the Centre has reassigned the 20 MT oxygen quota to Chandigarh,” he said.Parida also assured that oxygen available in city hospitals was sufficient to deal with the surge. Three oxygen plants have been commissioned at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32; GMCH, Sector 48; and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16 – which will fulfil 50% of their requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chandigarh-slug-it-out-over-oxygen-quota-101619550571988.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Longer night curfew, lockdown on the cards in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh authorities are “actively considering” extending the night curfew in the city on the lines of Punjab and Haryana, and are also open to a longer lockdown in the coming days, said a top source in the administration on Tuesday. “This will bring uniformity and facilitate greater coordination between the three administrations in the tricity,” said the official, while adding that the decision on the night curfew extension is likely to be taken within a day or two.The administration had first imposed the night curfew on April 6, from 10pm to 5am. The timings were revised to 9pm-5am on April 23, and now, the administration is likely to revise them further to 6pm-5am. “There is no alternative now, but to impose stricter restrictions in the city with a sharp increase in the positive cases in the past one week,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. The Punjab government had announced fresh restrictions on movement on Monday, extending the night curfew by two hours, from 6pm to 5am, and ordering a strict weekend lockdown. Earlier, Haryana had also directed the closure of non-essential shops from 6pm.  “We will be discussing the imposition of longer lockdown and weekend lockdown with the central government, and also deliberate upon it in the Covid war room meeting,” said the official. The UT officials, it is learnt, are also in talks with their Punjab and Haryana counterparts for a pan-tricity lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/longer-night-curfew-lockdown-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh-101619550513864.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity loses 20 more lives to Covid-19||Breaching new grim milestones every day, Covid-19 claimed 20 lives across the tricity on Tuesday, highest since the outbreak last March. The previous record of 18 deaths was set just a day back. As many as 232 people have succumbed to the virus this month, with Mohali district accounting for more than 50%.Even on Tuesday, Mohali recorded 11 deaths, for the third time in four days, which is also its all-time high. With six fatalities, Chandigarh reported the biggest single-day spike in second wave, and Panchkula reported three casualties.In terms of fresh cases, Chandigarh hit an all-time high with 837 people testing positive, though the cumulative figures for the tricity dropped below 2,000. Mohali recorded 828 cases and Panchkula 253, taking the total to 1,918, which had peaked at 2,201 on April 23. In Chandigarh, the number of cases crossed the 40,000 mark amid a record surge on Tuesday. A 30-year-old man was among the six people who succumbed to the virus. During the first wave, the highest single-day fatalities were recorded at 10, on September 23. As many as 40,350 people have tested positive so far, of whom 33,924 have recovered and 446 have died. At 5,980, the number of active cases is inching towards 6,000.Mohali orders industry to hand over oxygen cylindersA day after Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan constituted teams to audit oxygen requirement at hospitals, it has come to the fore that the district is falling short by 6 metric ton (MT). While the daily requirement is 26 MT, only 20 MT is available.Stating that the requirement will go up further with the setting up of more oxygen beds, the DC issued orders under the Disaster Management Act, mandating all industrial or other units in possession of oxygen cylinders to make them available to the oxygen management committee. The owners and managements of the units will be held personally responsible for any lapse, states the order. Amid a steep surge, as many as 131 people have died in the district this month, while 16,794 have tested positive. The total has reached 567 and 43,439, respectively, with as many as 8,235 cases still active, highest since the outbreak. Meanwhile, with 733 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered has climbed to 34,637.ITBP training centre a micro-containment zoneThe Panchkula administration on Tuesday declared four areas, including the training centre of Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Bhanu, as micro-containment zones. The other zones have been declared at residential areas in Sectors 15, 16 and 21. “Many persons have been tested positive in these areas for Covid-19; thus there being a high positive rate (sic),” states the order, while banning any kind of assembly in these areas and restricting movement. All shops and religious places falling in these areas will also remain closed.The DC has directed the officials concerned to ensure timely supply of medicines, milk, essential items and safe drinking water besides regular power supply in these areas.Meanwhile, the death of three senior citizens, belonging to Sectors 14, 15 and 20, took the district’s toll to 188. All had comorbidities. The district has reported 19,792 cases so far of which 16,937 have been cured and 2,667 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-loses-20-more-lives-to-covid19-101619550512757.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||HC takes note of chaos at crematoriums, calls for a report from state||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to provide a status report on crematoriums and morgues across the state, after being informed that the situation at cremation centres was chaotic. It was also brought to the notice of the court that the crematoriums were insufficient to deal with a large number of bodies of Covid victims being brought for a funeral.The court also questioned the centre regarding the lax surveillance as a result of which private persons – a member of Parliament (MP) from Ahmednagar managed to get stock of life-saving drugs like Remdesivir from a pharmaceutical company in Delhi, while the SOPs entail pharma companies to provide its manufactured stock directly to the states. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, said that though the PIL was originally scheduled to be heard on May 4 it was listed on Tuesday to ascertain the progress and compliance of its orders on April 22. The PIL sought directions to the state, Centre and civic authorities against the mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19. Advocates Simil Purohit and Arshil Shah for the petitioner informed the court that though the BMC had been updating data on the number of Covid-19 positive cases the helpline for the availability of Covid-19 beds in the hospital was not operational. The BMC through senior counsel Anil Sakhare however disagreed and said that the helpline number was very much functional. The bench then directed the advocates to call helpline number 1916 to verify the claims of BMC. After the calls were answered, the bench sought to know how best the BMC could make known the vacancy of beds so that it would be immediately reflected on the dashboard on the BMC portal. When the petitioners’ advocates drew attention to the issue of dead body management and sought directions to augment the existing infrastructure to cope with a large number of bodies of Covid-19 victims being brought for the funeral the court directed the state government to immediately ask all district collectors to ensure effective dead-body management and have synchronized system for crematoriums. The court then observed that in some crematorium gas furnaces were not in order and relatives of deceased Covid-19 patients faced various issues, the court directed the state government to inform it on measures taken by authorities to improve the condition of crematoriums and also sought the status of morgues in the state. The court also took note of the report that an MP from Ahmednagar had got 10,000 vials of Remdesivir to distribute locally while the state was the sole implementing authority for distributing the life-saving drug. The bench observed that the Aurangabad bench had taken cognizance of the report on April 26 it had not passed any specific order on it.Aurangabad bench had in its order had stated: “Meantime, respondent authorities be at liberty to take effective steps, as they would have taken in the event of such eventuality and do what a call of duty demands them to do.” In light of this, the bench asked the state, “How can 10,000 vials be made available by airlifting them from Delhi by a chartered plane? Would it not amount to private distribution by the person? Delhi itself is in crisis.” The court added that if it found further instances where pharmaceutical companies were providing Remdesivir directly to private individuals, it would pass an injunction against the duo. “We want drugs to reach everyone who is needy and should not be only in the hands of a few,” added the bench and posted the PIL for further hearing on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-takes-note-of-chaos-at-crematoriums-calls-for-a-report-from-state-101619550511457.html
28-04-2021||Other||SGPC chief meets CM; says govt must not acquire gurdwara land in Mohali||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday met Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh to raise issues related to the Sikhs. “Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) wants to acquire about 12 acre land of Gurdwara Amb Sahib at Mohali. This is the property of the community and the SGPC cannot sell it or let anyone acquire it forcibly. The CM has assured us that the land will not be acquired at any cost,” Kaur said. Kaur added that the issue of the solar system being installed at Golden Temple Complex has also been taken up with the Punjab CM. “The SGPC wants to install a 2.2 megawatt (MW) solar system in collaboration with the Sikh sangat. Due to lack of space, the system will be installed at the Gurdwara Satlani Sahib. We have appealed to the CM for clearance,” she said.“The CM was also asked to immediately release ₹43 crore scholarship funds for Scheduled Caste (SC) students enroled in SGPC’s educational institutions. The balance of 2017-2019 has not been released. We are struggling to pay salaries,” Kaur added. Kaur also asked the CM to issue instructions for passing the construction plans of new sarais (inn) for the sangat arriving at the Golden Temple. She added that the CM was also asked to hand over the Bassi Pathana Jail in Fatehgarh Sahib district to the SGPC and allow renovation of the historic Diwan Todar Mal’s Haweli (mansion). “Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, the 9th Guru, was kept in Bassi Pathana Jail and it must be preserved with its heritage intact,” she added.Kaur said the SGPC has invited Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to the function being organised at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal in Amritsar on May 1 to mark the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Guru. She said, “Due to the pandemic, the centenary celebrations will be held in a symbolic manner.” She appealed to the CM to relax the lockdown on weekends, in view of the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-chief-meets-cm-says-govt-must-not-acquire-gurdwara-land-in-mohali-101619550451913.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||State records highest one-day Covid toll of 895||After a significant drop in daily Covid-19 cases (48,700) on Monday, the daily caseload went up again to 66,358 on Tuesday, although authorities said the state has reached its peak and a downward trend is expected soon. The state, however, reported its highest one-day spike in deaths of 895, which took the toll to 66,179. The state cabinet is likely to take a decision on extending the existing lockdown, which is till May 1, further. The state has also sought an expression of interest from global supplies for oxygen, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators. Mumbai continued to see a drop in cases on the second day in a row, logging 3,999 cases, although the testing was lower at a little over 30,000. The city has reported less than 4,000 cases over last two days, after clocking more than 5,000 cases continuously for more than a month since March 24, when it reported 5,190 cases. The city’s case tally stands at 635,483 and toll at 12,920. “The drop in state’s cases on Monday was a ‘weekend effect’, as the number of cases and their reporting goes down on weekends. They went up on Tuesday, but have not crossed the average mark of daily caseload, which has been hovering around 66,000. We can easily say the Covid-19 case trend has stabilised,” a health department official said. Nashik outstripped other districts in daily caseload, reporting 12,436 cases and 69 deaths on Tuesday. Pune district logged 9,078 cases and 80 deaths, 6,895 cases and 63 deaths in Nagpur, 1,840 cases and 8 deaths in Chandrapur and 1,562 cases and 18 deaths in Sangli. Aurangabad district added highest 162 deaths on Tuesday, although the new cases logged were 1,468. The state has 672,434 active cases as on Tuesday, down from 699,858 on April 22. Pune has highest active patients (104,561), followed by Nagpur (75,219), Thane (72,302) and Mumbai (68,603). Amid the rise, the state is expected to extend the ongoing complete lockdown at least by a week. “Task force members, officials from health and other departments are of the opinion that it should be extended at least by a week. They feel it would help in reducing the cases and relieving the stress on health infrastructure. The decision is expected to be taken in state cabinet on Wednesday,” an official from Mantralaya said. State health authorities say that the districts like Nashik, Nagpur and Ahmednagar will follow the trend witnessed in Mumbai, MMR and Pune and stabilise in the next few days. The high number of deaths is expected to continue for the next few days. “The rise in the death number is always seen a couple of weeks after the spike in the cases begin,” said an official from the health department. Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope said they expect the cases to decline in coming days. “From daily caseload hovering around 65,000, it dropped to 48,700 on Monday. The number of patients discharged was more than the new cases. It has resulted in the improvement in the recovery rate from 81% to 83.5%,” he said. Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital, said the lockdown has helped in bringing down the cases and the trend is likely to continue. “Maharashtra is witnessing the downward trend early than that anticipated at national level, because the second wave hit Mumbai and Maharashtra first. Similar trend was witnessed during the first wave too. We can avoid the spikes in cases by adapting mass vaccination drive. However, the mortality rate is expected to continue for a week or two as it always lag behind the cases by 2-3 weeks,” he said. Prof Manindra Agarwal who was associated with the Covid-19 research in IIT Kanpur said that Mumbai is past its peak. While Pune and even state has reached its peak, Nagpur will reach its peak in next two days. “Pune and Maharashtra saw erratic trend of cases with ups and down, but it was very steady curve for Mumbai. Cities like Nashik and Nagpur are still reporting high cases, but they will reach their peak in couple of days,” he said. Tope said that the state government has called for supply from international market for 25000 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen, 10 lakh vials of Remdesivir, 40,000 oxygen concentrators and oxygen tanks for the districts. “The expression of interest has been called for by relaxing stringent conditions. We expect the response in three days. The procurement will help tide over the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir and ramp up the health infrastructure,” he said. The test positivity rate (TPR) too has declined over the last one week to 23.51% despite the significant rise in the tests at the daily average of 2,73,283 between April 21 and 27. Against 1913001 tests during this period, the state reported 449726 cases. The positivity rate in the earlier two weeks (April 14-20 and April 7-13) was 24.76% and 24.71% respectively. The daily testings in the state have been stepped up gradually from 2,34,652 during April 7-13 to 2,54,526 during April 14-20 and 2,73,283 in the week ended on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-records-highest-one-day-covid-toll-of-895-101619550332915.html
28-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Naini jail inmates make masks, soon to supply outside||The inmates at Naini jail of Prayagraj are offering their part in the fight against Covid-19 by manufacturing masks not only for themselves but for other people as well. With the help of the Naini Jail administration, the prisoners are producing a large number of masks every day which is being distributed to prisoners and jail staff to stay safe from coronavirus infection. The prisoners with stitching experience are supervising the team of dozen prisoners who are engaged in manufacturing masks.The Naini jail officials said that raw material for masks and stitching machines are being provided to the prisoners who are producing not only enough masks to be used inside the jail premises but soon they will be supplied outside to be used by others.Senior superintendent at Naini Jail PN Pandey said a team of 12 prisoners are engaged in the production of masks at Naini Jail under the supervision of jail inmates who have experience in stitching. Using sewing machines, the prisoners are producing at least 600 to 700 mask per day which is used by a large number of prisoners lodged at the Naini Jail. The excess masks will soon be supplied outside to be used by the government staff engaged in Covid duties, he added.It is worth mentioning that Covid-19 infection has spread at a fast pace among prisoners and jail staff. While a total of 21 prisoners and jail staff were tested positive over a week back, the number has increased to 135 now. These include 114 male prisoners and 9 in women barracks. Moreover, 12 jail staff including jailor and deputy jailors has also been tested positive for Covid-19.Senior jail superintendent PN Pandey said all prisoners who tested positive for Covid-19 have been shifted to Covid care centre at jail premises where they are being taken care of round the clock by a team of doctors and medical staff. The serious patients whose oxygen level goes down are being referred to SRN hospital for further treatment. Due to intensive care and strict implementation of guidelines, no deaths due to Covid have occurred at Naini Jail so far. At present Naini jail has 10 oxygen cylinders and an adequate supply of necessary medicines, he added.It is worth mentioning that at present around 4500 prisoners are lodged at different barracks of Naini jail in contrast to its capacity of 2060 prisoners. Jail officials say that despite all precautions strict implementation of guidelines, it is hard to control the spread of Covid infection in overcrowded barracks. If a single prisoner gets infected, then all others in the barrack are exposed to Covid-19 threat. Jail officials said special care is being taken of old age prisoners while regular sanitisation of jail premises is being carried out using fire tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-naini-jail-inmates-make-masks-soon-to-supply-outside-101619550332308.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: CSIR-IGIB to study 4,000 Maharashtra samples for genome sequencing||The Maharashtra government has roped in the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) for genome sequencing of 4,000 samples of Covid-positive patients. The premier biological research institute of the country will not only sequence the genome and list the number of variants, but will also map behavioural patterns of each strain based on the health issues faced by the patients and the treatment provided. Genome sequencing is an exercise to study changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. CSIR-IGIB will collect 100 samples from each district and send them to the National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), Pune and CSIR-IGIB, Faridabad for genome sequencing. It will start in 10 districts, where samples will be collected for a month (100 samples from each district), followed by another 10 districts the next month. This will go on until all 36 districts in the state are covered. The study will be completed in four months, officials said. The aim is to help the state identify the number of active strains in Maharashtra, their effect on human bodies and determine the change in treatment protocol or public health strategies required to contain the spread, officials said. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte confirmed that a memorandum of understanding has been signed between the state medical education department and CSIR-IGIB to start the project. “CSIR-IGIB will collect around 100 samples from each of the districts. It will also take clinical data of the treatment prescribed to each patient and their response to the treatment. The research organization will list the number of variants found during the genome sequencing process and also map their patterns that include how they affected the human body or which part of the body, etc. It will also help ascertain if there are different variants infecting citizens in different regions of the state,” Kunte said. Among the worst-hit states, Maharashtra is yet unaware of the number of strains and their behaviour that may have led to the surge in cases. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) recently confirmed the presence of a double mutant variant in the tested samples, but also said the data was not enough to attribute the surge to it, officials said. “The double mutant variant has been found in 206 samples in Maharashtra. It is high in Nagpur, at 20% of the samples, but there is not enough data to correlate it with the nature of the surge,” NCDC said on April 14. At 24%, the double mutation virus – now classified as B.1.617 – was the most common in the samples sequenced in the 60 days prior to April 2. The variant was first detected on October 5 and was relatively obscure till it was found in increasing number of samples from January, the India situation report on outbreak.info showed. On April 1, it accounted for 80% of all analysed genome sequences of mutant variants sent by India to the global repository GISAID. B.1.617 was first found in a large number of samples in Maharashtra, the first hot spot of the second wave of infections, which, till April 7, added more than half the new cases being recorded in the country. Maharashtra has so far reported around 4,400,000 cases and average daily cases have been around 59,000 a day this month. It has also reported maximum casualties and the tally has reached around 66,000. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is handling responsibility for coordination of the project, said they know there are variants of concern, but to correlate this we have to match the clinical data such as symptoms, age etc. with the genetic data. “We need to collect more data to say the current variants of concern are responsible for the current circumstances. We will be collecting district-wise random samples every week in a systematic way. These samples will be sent to the NCCS, Pune laboratory and IGIB laboratory, Faridabad and then the data will be used to determine district-wise strategies,” Dr Joshi, who is also a member of a state appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients, said. Currently, 13-14 districts in Maharashtra are badly hit with the pandemic. “They are now in the phase of recovery, but there are variants of concern operating in each district. This independent survey will give us a deep understanding of what is happening. It will also give us insights on our public health strategies or treatment strategies whether they need to be modified,” he clarified. Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR-IGIB, said he would comment only after commencement of the project. Saurabh Vijay, secretary of state’s medical education department, said the study is necessary to take necessary steps in advance. “It is natural behavior of the virus to mutate. In such a scenario, we need to understand at least what is happening with the changing behaviour of the virus so that we can be better prepared,” he said. The ministry of health and family welfare, in its statement issued on March 24, said that 771 of the 10,787 samples that were sequenced were found to have the variants of concern (VOC). The Centre last month said that three known VOCs were also found in Maharashtra. The Centre revealed 56 of these were B.1.1.7, five B.1.351 and one P.1. State health minister Rajesh Tope recently said 1,100 samples have been collected from Maharashtra as part of regular surveillance of genome variations and of them, 500 samples have been examined. “We have sought a detailed report from the Centre, but were informed that it will be made available only at the end of the research,” Tope said to a news daily??? In another release issued on April 16, the ministry also said the states were advised to send samples of genome sequencing along with clinical data of positive patients, but many states are not doing so. A consortium of 10 national laboratories called — Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) — was formed in December 2020 to carry out genome sequencing of circulating viruses and correlate the findings with other trends. “The INSACOG guidelines were shared with states. It would have helped INSACOG discover other variants of concern. However, several states, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala have not shared such data, although others, including Punjab and Delhi have,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-csir-igib-to-study-4-000-maharashtra-samples-for-genome-sequencing-101619550211314.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||HC deplores state govt’s failure to procure more Remdesivir vials||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday expressed exasperation at the failure of the state to provide sufficient Remdesivir vials to Nagpur and adjoining districts even though the Central Committee had allocated nearly 4.35 lakh vials for 10 days. When the state argued the Centre had not sent vials as per the state-wise chart, the HC bench admonished the state for not pursuing it with the Centre. The next hearing has been scheduled on April 29.A division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation, was informed that on April 24, following its April 23 directions to the state to seek allocation of more Remdesivir injections for 10 days from April 21 to 30 in view of the shortage being faced by Maharashtra, the Central committee had revised the allocation list. The committee had increased the allocation to 4.35 lakh vials for the period. The central committee order dated April 24 required the state to take certain steps and place its supply order with the manufacturer. However, advocate S P Bhandarkar, amicus curiae, submitted that despite orders from the bench the shortage persisted and even oxygen and beds for the growing number of Covid-19 patients were in short supply. The government pleader for the state informed the bench that nodal officer for the state of Maharashtra has been appointed and he was coordinating with other nodal officers and manufacturers. The bench then asked the nodal officer to file an affidavit to place on record steps in pursuance of April 24 central government order.The bench questioned why private pharmacists in Vidarbha were allowed to directly place orders with manufacturers. The state further informed that apart from sourcing Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs locally, it was also planning to import from Bangladesh, Singapore, Hong Kong etc and permission was sought from the Centre and a response was awaited.On being informed of Covid care centres not making Remdesivir available for needy patients, the court directed the district collector Nagpur and NMC to carry out individual checks at different hospitals. The bench also directed the DC Nagpur to set up control room of 30-40 officials on 8 hour shifts to oversee allocation of beds and oxygen cylinders. The bench also sought to know why the manufacturing plants around Nagpur had not supplied oxygen. The bench was then told that the collector of Nagpur had messages that from Wednesday Nagpur would get 110- 130 MT oxygen from Bhilai Steel Plant, as per earlier order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-deplores-state-govt-s-failure-to-procure-more-remdesivir-vials-101619550151312.html
28-04-2021||Other||Appoint staff to ensure oxygen supply in hospitals is constant: TMC||A day after four patients allegedly died due to lack of oxygen in a private hospital in Thane; the civic commissioner held a meeting with all doctor representatives from private hospitals across Thane city. Members of the Covid task force were also present in the meeting, wherein, all private hospitals have been asked to appoint one person in each hospital to ensure the smooth functioning of all safety norms and continuous supply of electricity and oxygen. “Hospitals should be in touch with Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) oxygen cell and ensure there is enough supply of oxygen at all times. We have to ensure there are no untoward incidents caused due to any lapses. Hence, we are putting into place certain rules like appointing an officer for this purpose,” said Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.Urban development minister, Eknath Shinde has ordered a structural, fire and oxygen audit of all hospitals, private and government, within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Moreover, instructions have been given to deploy fire engines outside every Covid centre to prevent accidents. In every civic body, the assistant commissioner and the ward officer will be responsible for monitoring the oxygen supply in private hospitals. Similarly, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has set up a war room for oxygen supply, intending to not inconvenience the patients’ family. A team of six officials led by deputy municipal commissioner Babasaheb Rajale has been deployed. This team will monitor the oxygen reserve in every government as well as private facilities every three hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/appoint-staff-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-in-hospitals-is-constant-tmc-101619550091941.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks 120mn doses for 18+||The Maharashtra government has sought 120 million Covid-19 doses from the two Indian vaccine manufacturing companies for the inoculation of 57.1 million citizens in the 18-44 age category. With the availability of vaccines a challenge, there is a question mark over the vaccination drive for those in the 18-44 age group from May 1. The state government will allow vaccination for this group only by appointment on Cowin app. The Maharashtra government, meanwhile, is scheduled to decide on free vaccination in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday. In a related development, the state on Tuesday crossed the landmark of administering 15 million vaccine doses, State public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state wrote to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech on April 26, but so far, the companies have not responded. He added that Serum Institute, which manufacturers Covishield shots, has conveyed that they cannot commit to orders before May 20. “Availability [of vaccines] is the biggest challenge. Even if we are ready to spend, there is no stock available. We have written to Serum and Bharat Biotech but so far, they have not responded. We have sought 12 crore vaccines, asked them the delivery schedule, and the rates. Covishield will not be available before May 20. All states will face this question on how to start vaccination from May 1 if there is no vaccine available,” Tope said.Besides the challenge of vaccine availability, the state cabinet is expected to discuss invitation of global tenders to procure vaccine for foreign manufacturers in its meeting on Wednesday. Senior officials said that the state would need consent from the Centre to import. One option that is being considered, officials said, is to invite expression of interest and not tender to import vaccine. “We can gauge the schedule and rates through an expression of interest,” an official said requesting anonymity.Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar said that they do not think the Centre would deny permission to import vaccines given that Indian manufacturers cannot match the pace of demand. “We will discuss details on floating global tenders for vaccine. After I made the statement [earlier] about importing we were asked how can we float tenders without a go-ahead from the Centre. If Indian manufacturers—Bharat Biotech and Serum—are unable to provide, then importing is an option and I do not think that the Centre will deny the permission,” Pawar said.He also added that the proposal to provide free vaccination will be discussed in the cabinet meeting. “The proposal [for free vaccines] will come up in the cabinet, I have signed it and now the file is with the CM for his signature. The proposal will be discussed tomorrow [Wednesday] in the cabinet; all the cabinet ministers will give their opinions. A decision in the interest of the people that decision will be made and announced by the chief minister.”When asked about the financial burden on the state government if it decides to provide free vaccines, Pawar said, “The government will take a decision on it tomorrow (Wednesday). Actually, it is the responsibility of the Centre government to vaccinate all the people. But, the Centre’s stand on it is not clear and we are following it up with the Centre on the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44. If the time comes, the state government will take decision in the interest of the people.” It is estimated to cost ₹7,500 crore for the free vaccination of the 18-44 category, Tope had told HT.Tope added that people in the 18-44 category should not rush to the vaccination centres unless an appointment is confirmed on the Cowin app. He reiterated that since there is no vaccine, there is a question mark over the drive itself.“The vaccination for 18-44 category will only happen through the Cowin app. Nobody can go directly to the centre for vaccination. Only after booking an appointment online, one can go to the centre for vaccination. So, do not throng at the centers. As of now, vaccines are not available. Even if we want to start it, manufacturers cannot provide us. There is a hurdle till manufacturers provide the vaccine so till then nobody should rush to the centers. There is a question mark over the drive starting on May 1 because of availability,” Tope said.The health minister added that the state expects the Centre to intervene to bring down the prices quoted by the two Indian manufacturers to supply shots to the state governments. Serum Institute has announced a price of Rs400 per dose for state governments and Rs600 per dose for private hospitals. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs600 per dose for state governments and at Rs1,200 per dose for private hospitals. “We expect the Government of India to intervene and help reduce the rates of vaccines so that it does not burden the state exchequer,” Tope said.Maharashtra, on Tuesday, administered 15 million Covid-19 vaccine jab to its citizens. The landmark came a day after the state vaccinated over 500,000 beneficiaries--its highest in one day. Maharashtra tops the list of states with by administering 15 million doses since the drive commence on January 16. Health minister Rajesh Tope and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar lauded the efforts of the healthcare workers. Pawar in a tweet said, “The invaluable contribution of our healthcare workers, officials & social organisations has resulted in the State completing a record of 1.5 cr vaccination! With our combined efforts we shall continue to vaccinate more & more people in future too.” Tope said that the “milestone” was crossed and now the state’s target is to vaccinate 800,000 people in a day.On the lack of vaccines, a war of words broke out between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sachin Sawant, Congress spokesperson, targeted prime minister over the lack of availability, saying what is the strategy of the Centre. “If Serum tells @OfficeofUT ji that it can not supply vaccine till 20th May as all stock is booked by Modi govt. It has put vaccination for age group 18-44 under question mark We can’t simply discuss lack of vaccines after so many mnths of corona.Modi ji, Whr is ur strategy? (sic)”. Sawant further stated that the Centre restricted the supply to two companies and put the onus on State governments to procure vaccines for 18-44 age group.BJP, meanwhile, asked the clear the doubts of people over the vaccination drive from May 1. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the state government should put out list of the vaccination centers in advance to avoid crowding. “Considering the large number of people in the age category, the state should give list of centres in the urban areas and in the districts. Additional vaccination centres should be made and their locations should be announced. The State should also announce whether people can walk-in to the centres or they need prior appointment,” Upadhye asked in a statement.The MVA and BJP also battled over the supply of stock from the Centre for the vaccination of people over age 45. As Maharashtra went past 15 million mark in total inoculated beneficiaries on Tuesday, PWD minister Ashok Chavan said that the state has the capacity to vaccinate 600,000 people daily. “Had adequate vaccines been provided, Maharashtra would have crossed 20 million mark by now. Today, one out of six people in Maharashtra would have been vaccinated,” Chavan said in a tweet.Responding to it, Upadhye said, “Maharashtra has the capacity but due to its negative politics it has averaged 200,000 vaccinations per day. The truth is that the Centre is providing all the vaccines, but the planning is poor. What is the plan for vaccination of people between 18 and 44? Will it be free? How many vaccines have been ordered?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-120mn-doses-for-18-101619550091327.html
28-04-2021||Other||Oxygen shortage: 7 patients shifted from Thane’s Diya Hospital||Seven patients had to be shifted from Diya Hospital in Waghbil to Universal Hospital in Gokul Nagar due to a shortage of oxygen. Despite Universal Hospital being a non-Covid facility, permission was granted for the same by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) at the eleventh hour.Moreover, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) provided five jumbo cylinder to Diya Hospital. The hospital raised an alarm when it was depleting its supply and asked the relatives of the seven patients admitted in the hospital to be shifted elsewhere. Dr Harish Kedar, a partner with Diya Hospital, said, “There are seven patients in the ICU, all of them are on oxygen support. We realised about the depleting oxygen supply at 4pm and contacted the vendor. But as there was no assurance of supply. We then informed the TMC.”Although TMC made provision for 20 jumbo cylinders late on Tuesday evening and gave a backup too for these patients, as a precautionary measure the hospital shifted the patients to a different hospital around 8pm.This saved the seven patients and their relatives a lot of anxiety and nightmare of shifting hospitals at the last moment. One of the seven patients had tested negative but still required oxygen for breathing assistance, she was also moved to Universal Hospital. Officials of the TMC rushed to a private vendor at Turbhe who provided oxygen cylinders. Shankar Patole, Assistant Municipal Commissioner, TMC said, “If hospitals inform us at the eleventh hour it is very difficult to make provisions for the supply; in this instance, the said hospital’s vendor could not continue the supply of oxygen. Hospitals should ensure that there is confirmed provision of oxygen for at least next 24-48 hours.” He added, “When we come to know of a shortage, we need to coordinate, make arrangements for the supply and the cylinders have to reach the hospital as well, all of this requires time. We have currently provided 25 jumbo cylinders to Diya Hospital. Moreover, two dura cylinders will also be given, to be kept as a standby in case of an emergency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-shortage-7-patients-shifted-from-thane-s-diya-hospital-101619550032433.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Poll rallies led to Covid spread, Sena alleges; BJP blames Maharashtra govt for its failure||Citing the Madras high court’s (HC) observations that Election Commission (EC) is responsible for the Covid-19 surge, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gathered people in poll-bound states for campaigning, who got infected and spread it elsewhere in the country. The Sena leader added that while Madras HC said EC should face murder charges, the Centre is planning to reward the former Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) by appointing him a governor. Raut further said that the Centre should take the Madras HC’s remarks seriously. The Madras HC on Monday came down heavily on the EC for “not stopping political parties” from violating Covid-19 protocols during their campaign rallies for Assembly polls in four states and a Union territory over the last month. It further said that murder charges should probably be put on the panel for being “the only institution responsible for the situation that we are in today”.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Raut said, “A few senior BJP leaders in Delhi were preaching to us that the Covid has nothing to do with the elections. They were saying that Covid cases were rising in states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh where there were no elections. This was not correct. The people from across the country were mobilised in West Bengal for campaigning and returned to their states which led to a surge in Covid cases,” he added.Countering the allegation, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “Maharashtra government has failed on all counts including tackling the Covid outbreak in the state. The Shiv Sena and other two parties daily come up with different ideas to blame the Centre for their failure.”Raut added that even though the court has blamed the EC, the Centre is planning to give former CEC Sunil Arora, who is tipped to be the next governor of Goa, a “return gift”. He said, “The Madras HC said that the EC should be held responsible [for spreading the virus]. PM Narendra Modi, who has now been taking the Covid seriously, will certainly take the Madras HC’s remarks seriously. But I have heard in the last few days that the government is planning to reward the retired election commissioner, under whose tenure the elections were held, by appointing him as a governor. However, we trust Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/poll-rallies-led-to-covid-spread-sena-alleges-bjp-blames-maharashtra-govt-for-its-failure-101619549851329.html
28-04-2021||Other||Thane to get two jumbo vaccination centres||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has made preparations to set up two jumbo vaccination centres and is in the process of roping in more private hospitals for the next phase of vaccination that will begin from May 1. Currently, the city has 56 vaccination centres including private and government centres; however, only around 40 are functional regularly due to the shortage of vaccines. Preparations are in place for two jumbo centres; one will be set up at Kausa stadium and the other at Vartak Nagar. “We will be following the same model as BKC and NESCO facilities. It will help in accommodating a large number of people and in conducting vaccination drive for more beneficiaries. Moreover, we have shortlisted a few more private hospitals that can partake in the vaccination process. As of now, the state government directives have mentioned the involvement of private hospitals for vaccination from May 1 onwards. So preparations are also on those lines, however, considering the shortage of vaccines we are not sure how much of these can be possible. We have all the infrastructure in place and even now if we get the desired number of vaccines we can begin with the vaccination process,” said Khushboo Tawri, medical officer, TMC.Currently, TMC has 56 vaccination centres including 13 private hospitals, with the capacity to conduct 10,000 vaccinations daily. However, only around 40 centres are operational regularly due to the shortage of vaccines. As of now both the first and booster dose of Covishield is being administered and the only booster dose of Covaxin within TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-to-get-two-jumbo-vaccination-centres-101619549791325.html
28-04-2021||Other||In 2nd covid wave, 25% of deaths reported from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur||For the past two months, the two Doaba districts of Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur have reported around 25% of Punjab’s 2,716 deaths due to covid-19, data with the state health department shows. From Feb 26 to April 26, Jalandhar recorded 351 deaths, while Hoshiarpur reported 338 deaths for a total of 689. Amritsar saw 303 deaths and Ludhiana 283. After a quick analysis of this data, the Punjab health department has sent a team to Hoshiarpur to study the other contributing causes of these deaths, as the district has a relatively low population. Punjab reported 1,64,362 new positive cases, with 43,348 (25%) cases coming from Doaba region. Overall, Jalandhar has seen 1,054 deaths; Hoshiarpur (704); Amritsar (896); Patiala (735), while Ludhiana has 1,309 highest in the state till April 26. From March 25-April 26, Amritsar has recorded the most deaths at 245; Hoshiarpur (222); Ludhiana (211); Patiala (178) and Jalandhar 176. Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar have also doubled their case count since February. The health department believes that UK strain of Covid-19 has led to the steep rise in active cases in Punjab. Over 80% of samples of Covid positive people sent for genome sequencing to the Pune laboratory in March were found having the UK strain. In Jalandhar, the UK strain had mainly hit Phillaur and Nurmahal towns that reported a high number of cases. In Hoshiarpur, 31 cases of the UK strain were detected. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “The high number of deaths in Hoshiarpur is a concern and we have been studying the situation of the district. In Dasuya and Hoshiarpur hospitals, patients refused to be treated in hospitals outside the district for level-3 care. Late reporting of patients was another reason for higher number of deaths.” Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said level-3 treatment had now been started in Hoshiarpur and private hospitals had also been roped in. Jalandhar district family welfare officer Dr Raman Gupta claimed late reporting of patients led to the deaths and co-morbities was also a factor. “Now, however, we are also seeing deaths of pregnant women,” he said, adding that the new strains of the virus, including the UK one, has been very infectious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-2nd-covid-wave-25-of-deaths-reported-from-jalandhar-hoshiarpur-101619549673161.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 84 fatalities, Haryana breaks Covid-related death record||With 11,931 fresh Covid-19 cases and 84 fatalities on Tuesday, Haryana continued shattering its per day grim records pertaining to the widespread surge of the virus.The new cases and fatalities on Tuesday eclipsed the tally of Monday when the state saw 11,504 new cases and 75 deaths. Even on Sunday, 10,985 new infections and 64 deaths were recorded in Haryana.According to the health bulletin, Gurugram and Faridabad accounted for at least 42% of total 11,931 new cases detected across state on Tuesday.Active cases climbed to 84,129, and 7,184 patients recovered on Tuesday despite the state reporting the highest single day fatalities and cases.Another bright spot was Covid critical patients’ tally coming down to 806 from 1,308 on Monday.With 84 fatalities, the state’s death toll mounted to 3,926. Ten people each died of the contagion in Gurugram and Hisar, nine in Ambala, eight each in Rohtak and Jind, seven in Fatehabad, six in Bhiwani, four in Karnal, three each in Panchkula and Sirsa, and two each in Rewari, Kurukshetra, Palwal, Kaithal, and Nuh.At least 24% of the cumulative fatalities across state pertain to Faridabad and Gurugram, as per data.The recovery rate kept its downhill march as it came down to 80.33% from 80.88% on Monday and the positivity rate rose to 6.20% from 6.07% of a day earlier.Against 35,523 samples taken on Monday, the health department took 47,198 samples on Tuesday.Gurugram recorded the highest 3,684 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,330, Sonepat 940, Hisar 642, Ambala 332, Karnal 725, Panipat 564, Rohtak 313, Rewari 87, Panchkula 253, Kurukshetra 207, Yamunanagar 315, Sirsa 621, Mahendergarh 306, Bhiwani 145, Jhajjar 218, Palwal 60, Fatehabad 219, Kaithal 325, Jind 561, Nuh 37 and Charkhi Dadri 47.The cumulative number of people tested positive so far stood at 4,47,754 and 3,59,699 patients have recovered from the contagion.DIP IN VACCINATIONHaryana has vaccinated 37 lakh people so far and on Tuesday 33,665 people were vaccinated in the state.In the past one week till Monday, 3.92 lakh people were vaccinated even as during April 12-19 period 6.27 lakh people received the shots.According to Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Kumar, the speed of vaccination drive has slightly been reduced by the rising number of fresh cases.“The staff is limited. Despite this, they are performing duties of vaccination and contact tracing. We have inoculated over 1.10 lakh people so far,” he said.Dadri immunisation officer Dr Ashish Mann said that over 1,800 people were being given the jab everyday in district.Jhajjar deputy civil surgeon Dr Ranbir Singh said that about 1.11 lakh people have received the first dose.“The vaccination speed has decreased in the last one week as more people are appearing for testing and we can’t give vaccine during infection period. Currently, people are focusing on testing more than vaccination,” Dr Singh said.MDU POSTPONES UG, PG EXAMSThe Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Tuesday postponed odd semester exams of undergraduate and postgraduate classes which are scheduled to start from May 1.The decision to postpone the exam was taken due to rise in Covid cases.Last week, the varsity had announced to conduct exams through online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-84-fatalities-haryana-breaks-covid-related-death-record-101619549500270.html
28-04-2021||Other||New cases in Navi Mumbai down by 42%: NMMC credits lockdown||The number of Covid-19 cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) jurisdiction has now come down by 42%. While lockdown is considered to be a major reason, there was a dip in the testing rate by 12%. During the surge, the average number of per day cases was 1,200 with the highest on April 4 with 1,536 cases. The number of tests conducted, including both RT-PCR and antigen, during the same time was around 8,000 daily. Since April 18, the number of cases has been below 1,000. NMMC has been reporting around 700 cases daily on average. The minimum number of cases recorded was 503 on April 26. However, the testing has gone down to 7,000 per day. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Banagar said, “The RT-PCR testing that was being done at private labs has gone down, due to which, the average number of daily testing has also gone down. In a way, it is a good sign that people are not panicking and rushing to do RT-PCR tests and are doing the same as per the need. Our lab has a capacity of conducting 3,000 tests which we manage to stretch to 3,500.” Bangar added that lockdown has played a major role in the decrease in cases. An officer from NMMC requesting anonymity said, “As per the pattern observed in other states, the surge in cases is quick, however, the decrease too is equally fast. We had reached the peak in early April and the cases are now coming down as per the pattern seen elsewhere.” According to activist Anarjit Chouhan, “Even as the cases might have come to 500 per day, there was a time when we had only 50 to 55 cases per day. So definitely, this not the best that the corporation can do. Also, I am sceptical regarding the death rate being recorded by NMMC. The deaths might be much higher than those reported.” While the mortality rate from April 1 to April 17 was 0.04%, it went up to 0.53% from April 18 to April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-cases-in-navi-mumbai-down-by-42-nmmc-credits-lockdown-101619549491262.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccine for 18-44 age group at private centres only||To prevent overcrowding at Covid-19 vaccination centres in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided that starting May 1, the government and civic vaccination centres will vaccinate only citizens over 45 years of age, while those in the 18 to 44 years age group will be vaccinated at private hospitals. Further, vaccination for them will be done only through appointments, and no walk-in vaccination will be allowed. However, the decision on who will have to pay and who would get the vaccine for free will be decided by the state government.According to the civic body, the citizens in 45 years and above age group will be vaccinated at 63 government and BMC-run vaccination centres and can also opt for private vaccination centres. Those in the 18-44 age group will have to go to 73 private hospital-run vaccination centres.The civic body is also in the process to increase the vaccination centres from the current 134 to 389 to cater to the growing number of people to be vaccinated. The new arrangement for different centres for different age groups may change at a later stage, said civic officials. The vaccination for the age group between 18 to 44 is likely to kick off from Saturday.The BMC, on Tuesday, also announced that it is in touch with vaccine manufacturers directly to procure vaccine doses for the city.On Tuesday, the single-day highest 72,606 citizens were vaccinated in the city.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday directed civic officials to identify locations for additional 227 vaccination centres in the city. The above decisions were taken by Chahal in a video conferencing meeting with health department officials and all 24 ward officials in the city.The 227 additional vaccine centres can be local health posts of the BMC, nursing homes, private hospitals, community/marriage and party halls. All the ward officials are directed to be prepared with the list of such locations in the next two days. Chahal has also directed that these centres should have tie-up with local hospitals nearby where citizens will be rushed in case of any adverse effect, said civic officials.However, a decision on whether citizens between 18 to 45 years of age will have to pay up for the vaccination or not will be decided by the state government, post a decision on pricing. The BMC official added, “We have been directed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU)’s with nursing homes and hospitals nearby the vaccination centres. This means if we have a vaccination centre in our health post or say marriage hall, the MOU will cover the individual who may require hospitalisation post-vaccination. The hospital or nursing home should be located nearby the vaccination, and the individual reporting adverse effect post-vaccination will be rushed there.”A BMC official who attended the meeting said, “The plan, for now, is to vaccinate 18 to 44 years of age group only at private vaccination centres based on appointments. This arrangement will remain for now to ensure there is no crowding at vaccination centres. In the coming days, we will add 26 private vaccination centres that will take the count to 99.”Currently, the city has around 136 vaccination centres including 63 run by the civic body and government as 73 by private hospitals. The civic body will add 227 more centres (one centre in each electoral ward) and allow 26 more at private hospitals, which would mean there will be 389 vaccination centres in the city.The civic body aims to start around 500 vaccination centres in the city.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had told HT last week, “We are planning to have nearly 500 centres in the city for vaccination, and the same will be implemented with the help of corporators.”The BMC has also appealed to housing societies and corporate offices to tie up with private hospitals and get vaccinated in bulk once the stock arrives, BMC said in a statement.The BMC in its statement added that in the coming days additional 26 hospitals will be added to the list taking the total number of private vaccination centres from 73 to 99. Also, the BMC is going to set up a cold storage facility for the storage of vaccine doses in Andheri that will supply to the western suburbs. Currently, Kanjurmarg cold storage facility can store 12 million vaccine doses. Additionally, there is a storage facility for storing vaccine doses in Dadar for the island city and central Mumbai.According to BMC officials, it will take a call on whether to float global bids and procure vaccine doses directly from the state government once the state issues guidelines on the same. It is in touch with the two manufacturers namely Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech who are currently authorised to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines in India.Meanwhile, on Tuesday 72,606 citizens were vaccinated of which 2,484 were health care workers, 3,720 were frontline workers, 37,208 were senior citizens above the age of 60 and 291,94 were citizens in the age group of 45 to 59. Overall, since January 16, 2,355,215 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccine-for-18-44-age-group-at-private-centres-only-101619549431208.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 3,999 cases, 59 deaths||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 3,999 Covid-19 cases, the lowest reported in a day since over a month ago. On March 23, Mumbai reported 3,514 new Covid-19 cases. On March 24, Mumbai reported 5,190 cases, marking the start of the upward trend of cases. The highest number of cases reported so far in Mumbai in a single day is 11,206 cases on April 4, 2021. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 59 Covid deaths. The total case tally has gone up to 635,483 and the toll to 12,920. There are 68,603 active cases in the city at present. Tuesday’s number of cases is also a result of 30,428 Covid-19 tests conducted in Mumbai, on Monday, with a positivity rate of 13.14%. This is in comparison to 23,650 tests conducted on March 22, that reflected March 23rd’s cases. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak in Mumbai, the highest number of Covid-19 cases have been reported in the age group between 30 and 39 years - 118,749, which contribute to 18% of the total cases, and the highest number of deaths have been reported in the age group of 60 to 69 years - 3,660, which contribute 28% to the total number of deaths due to Covid-19, according to data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This age-wise bifurcation is available for 627,657 cases and 12,783 deaths, figures until April 25, 2021 show: The age group of 0 to 9 years contributes to 1.6% (10,448 cases) of the total cases reported in the pandemic so far; 10 to 19 years contributes to 4.3% (27,124 cases) of the total number of cases; 20 to 29 years contributes to 15% (94,645 cases) of the total cases; 40 to 49 years contributes to 17.3% (108,841) of the total cases; 50 to 59 years contributes to 17.2% (108,123 cases) of the total cases; 60 to 69 years contributes to 12% (76,136 cases) of the total cases; 70 to 79 years contributes to 6.5% (40,864 cases) of the total cases; 80 to 89 years contributes to 2.2% (14,349 cases), and 90 years and above to 0.3% (2263 cases) of total Covid-19 cases. However, the highest case fatality rate (CFR) - which is the number of deaths as a per cent of the total number of cases - has been reported in the age group of 80 to 89 years - 10.2%. This age group has reported a total of 1,472 deaths, and 14,349 Covid-19 cases. The age group of 90 years and above has reported a CFR of 8.6%, with 196 and 2,263 cases. CFR in the age group of 70-79 years is 7.4%, which has reported 3044 deaths; followed by 4.8% in the age group of 60 to 69 years. On the contrary, mortality in children is 0.16% in the age group of 0 to 9 years and 0.12% in the age group of 10 to 19 years. Data available from October 2020, shows that the bulk of Mumbai’s Covid-19 patients were in the age group of 50 to 59 years - 45,779 cases, followed by 30 to 39 years - 42,433 cases. Until October 2020, the highest number of deaths were reported in the age group of 60 to 69 years - 2,789 deaths. The fatality rate was the highest in the age group of 70 to 79 years, which recorded 2,181 deaths of the total 17,009 cases, with a case fatality rate of 12.8%. This was followed by patients in the 60 to 69 age group, which recorded 2,789 deaths in 32,483 cases, with a case fatality rate of 8.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-3-999-cases-59-deaths-101619549311182.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sanctions ₹9.40 crore to DCs for Covid containment measures||The Haryana government has sanctioned advance funds amounting to ₹9.40 crore to the deputy commissioners for expenditure on containment measures of Covid-19, including quarantine, sample collection and screening, besides procurement of essential equipment and laboratories.Additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal said that the amount will be met out from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to make expenditure on the items and norms of assistance provided by Centre.He said that of this amount, ₹7 crore is sanctioned for 14 districts (Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak, Rewari, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Jind).About ₹2.40 crore is sanctioned for eight other districts (Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri and Nuh).These funds will be utilised for making provisions for temporary accommodation, food, clothing and medical care for the people affected and those sheltered in quarantined camps, other than those home quarantined, or for cluster containment operations. Cost of consumables for sample collection and support for checking, screening and contact tracing will also be covered.The sanctioned amount will also cover the cost of setting up additional testing laboratories within government, apart from cost of consumables and testing kits.The funds will be utilised for covering cost of PPE kits for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities, as well as thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, oxygen generation and storage plant in hospitals, strengthening ambulance services for transport of patients, setting up containment zones, Covid hospital, Covid care centres and consumables at government hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sanctions-rs-9-40-crore-to-dcs-for-covid-containment-measures-101619549134886.html
28-04-2021||Other||68% surge in IIT-Bombay’s intellectual property rights applications||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) recorded a 68% rise in the number of intellectual property rights (IPR) applications for its innovations in 2020-21, , even as the pandemic had locked the campus for students last March. The institute filed 262 applications for IPR in the financial year 2020-21 as compared to 156 IPRs in 2019-20. Of the 262 applications, 15-20 were for innovations and solutions for Covid-19, 163 were patent applications, 88 were trademarks (as compared to mere eight last financial year), and 10 design registrations. IPR protects innovations from misuse, fosters competitive research and also helps commercialise new products and solutions in the market. The increase in trademarks indicates more licensing possibilities, said Milind Atrey, dean (research and development), IIT-B. “Trademarks are usually applied when either an industry partner is showing interest in getting a licence or when the researcher wants to start up a company. So an upward trend in more trademarks is a sign that more research is now getting ready for licensing,” said Atrey. The campus closed down on March 14, 2020, as Covid-19 cases surged. Soon, the institute announced an early summer vacation and semesters kicked off thereafter with online classes. Currently, there are around 3,000 research scholars and students on campus, but most of the 11,000-odd students are still studying online. “The pandemic shut down the campus for students but changed the priorities for resident faculty members and researchers. They could allocate more time to their research activities and prepare for the application process, which would have been put off otherwise,” Atrey added. The number of patents granted to researchers in the institute has also doubled, from 67 last year to 120 this financial year. Atrey attributed this rise to a more efficient filing process of the central government. “With streamlining of the patent filing process by the Indian patent office of the central government, the applications are now processed faster,” he said. While earlier innovators had to wait for five-seven years to get a patent, now the process takes around three years, he said. IIT-B’s director Subhasis Chaudhuri said that protecting IP is the first step towards the institute’s new focus on the translatability of research output. “IIT-B plans to put more emphasis on the translatability of our research output when protecting IP is the first step. Along with our incubator SINE (Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship), newly established school of entrepreneurship and the forthcoming Research Park, we plan to set up a TRL (technology readiness level) booster in the campus. Hopefully, with such efforts, IIT-B can catalyse the growth in Indian industry,” said Chaudhuri. “We want to emphasise on the importance of industry collaboration in this process. So every research statement or problem should come from the industry, and every time a research is published or patented, it would be ideal to have an industry partner waiting. This is foster a more competitive research culture,” said Atrey. For all Indian patents, the institute bears the expenses for the application process. “Thereafter, if an innovator wants to apply for a patent abroad, we take a call on the commercialisation possibilities of the application process, taking into account the commercialisation aspect of the technology,” said Atrey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/68-surge-in-iit-bombay-intellectual-property-rights-applications-101619549071165.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC quashes 2013 summoning order against Haryana politician Sukhbir Kataria||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed summoning order by a Gurugram court against former Haryana sports minister Sukhbir Kataria in a 2012 fake voters’ case.The complaint was lodged in 2012 by one Om Prakash who had alleged that 3,865 persons had been enrolled as voters twice and they had cast two votes at both places in 2009 assembly elections.Kataria had won the 2009 election from Gurugram by 2,140 votes. The allegations were also of misuse of the electricity bill, ration card, etc for enrolment as voters.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia, while quashing the summoning order, observed that the magistrate ignored a report approved by Gurugram commissioner of police, who had been directed by the HC to look into the issue. Police, in the report, had claimed that the complainant did not cooperate and Kataria was also given a clean chit.The court also found that summoning of Kataria was on the basis of photocopy of documents on the basis of which, trial court had concluded that his handwriting and signatures matched with that of one used in the alleged forged documents.“The allegations of forgery to fill out the forms on part of Kataria as such would not be justified by the trial court in the absence of originals and without an opinion of any expert evidence,” the court recorded.The HC also quashed the FIR against Devinder Singh Kadiyan, a Haryana food and supply department officer, who was also an accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-quashes-2013-summoning-order-against-haryana-politician-sukhbir-kataria-101619549013949.html
28-04-2021||Other||HC deplores Maharashtra govt’s failure to procure more Remdesivir vials||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday expressed exasperation at the failure of the state to provide sufficient Remdesivir vials to Nagpur and adjoining districts even though the Central Committee had allocated nearly 4.35 lakh vials for 10 days. When the state argued the Centre had not sent vials as per the state-wise chart, the HC bench admonished the state for not pursuing it with the Centre. The next hearing has been scheduled on April 29. A division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation, was informed that on April 24, following its April 23 directions to the state to seek allocation of more Remdesivir injections for 10 days from April 21 to 30 in view of the shortage being faced by Maharashtra, the Central committee had revised the allocation list. The committee had increased the allocation to 4.35 lakh vials for the period. The central committee order dated April 24 required the state to take certain steps and place its supply order with the manufacturer. However, advocate S P Bhandarkar, amicus curiae, submitted that despite orders from the bench the shortage persisted and even oxygen and beds for the growing number of Covid-19 patients were in short supply. The government pleader for the state informed the bench that nodal officer for the state of Maharashtra has been appointed and he was coordinating with other nodal officers and manufacturers. The bench then asked the nodal officer to file an affidavit to place on record steps in pursuance of April 24 central government order. The bench questioned why private pharmacists in Vidarbha were allowed to directly place orders with manufacturers. The state further informed that apart from sourcing Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs locally, it was also planning to import from Bangladesh, Singapore, Hong Kong etc and permission was sought from the Centre and a response was awaited. On being informed of Covid care centres not making Remdesivir available for needy patients, the court directed the district collector Nagpur and NMC to carry out individual checks at different hospitals. The bench also directed the DC Nagpur to set up control room of 30-40 officials on 8 hour shifts to oversee allocation of beds and oxygen cylinders. The bench also sought to know why the manufacturing plants around Nagpur had not supplied oxygen. The bench was then told that the collector of Nagpur had messages that from Wednesday Nagpur would get 110- 130 MT oxygen from Bhilai Steel Plant, as per earlier order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-deplores-maharashtra-govt-s-failure-to-procure-more-remdesivir-vials-101619548957213.html
28-04-2021||Other||Hajis to get two doses of vaccine before applying for pilgrimage||The Haryana government has directed Hajis to take both doses of Covid vaccines during 2021.An official spokesperson of the Haryana State Haj Committee said that the Haj ministry of the Government of Saudi Arabia has informed that it is mandatory for applicants applying online for Haj to take both doses of Covid vaccine before going on pilgrimage.The spokesperson added that the Hajis will have to take the first dose of the vaccine before going to Saudi Arabia and the second dose while going there. He said that without certificate of the Covid vaccine, no one will be allowed to go to Saudi Arabia.The spokesperson said that any Haji, who wishes to go on the pilgrimage, can get a certificate by contacting medical officers of their respective district and take a dose of Covid vaccine.The spokesperson said that the decision to call or not to call the Hajis will be taken by the Saudi government on its own. The Haj Committee India, Mumbai, and the State Haj Committee will take further action only according to the decision of the Saudi government.The applicants have been asked to be prepared at their level by taking both doses of Covid vaccine before going on Haj.The spokesperson said if Hajis face problems regarding vaccine administration, the Haryana Haj Committee can be contacted on helpline number 0172-2741438 and 9815489590.VACCINATION DRIVE START AT FARMERS’ PROTEST SITE IN JINDThe Jind health department on Tuesday started a vaccination drive at Khatkar toll plaza in district where farmers have been protesting against Centre’s three farm laws for the last few months.The vaccine jabs were given to 25 farm leaders who are leading the protest in district.BKU district chief Azad Palwan said they have agreed on health officials’ advice to start a vaccination camp at the toll plaza.“I have also received the vaccine jab to fight the virus. Farmers will cooperate with doctors to get the vaccine jab and will continue the protest until our demands are not met,” he added.Satbir Singh Pehlwan, head of the Khera Khap, also received the vaccine jab and assured doctors that farmers from different villages visiting Khatkar toll plaza will get the vaccine dose.“We are with the doctors in this fight against the contagion. We have asked the doctors to start a vaccination camp at the toll plaza,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hajis-to-get-two-doses-of-vaccine-before-applying-for-pilgrimage-101619548956534.html
28-04-2021||Other||Row erupts over CM Khattar’s ‘dead won’t come back’ comment||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar came under sharp criticism from the Opposition Congress over his comment that “it was pointless to argue over Covid-19 fatality figures as the dead won’t come back to life, and the focus should be on providing relief to those suffering now”.Khattar was replying to questions on the alleged under-reporting of deaths due to coronavirus as the figures of crematoriums and burial grounds do not match with the official numbers. “The kind of difficult situation we are going through, we don’t have to play with data. Our entire focus should be on how people will recover and how we can provide them relief,” he told reporters in Rohtak on Monday.“And those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” he said at one point, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether or not the official number of deaths was correct.The opposition Congress was quick to slam his remarks with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying, “These can only be the words of a merciless ruler. There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government’s inefficiency so that the deaf BJP government can hear the echo.”Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja also slammed Khattar for such an “irresponsible” statement. “The people are suffering from serious disease and waiting for medicines, oxygen supply and ventilators and Haryana chief minister is making irresponsible statements on Covid patients’ deaths. Congress condemns his statement,” she said.Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi also condemned the CM’s comment. “These remarks are shameful. I strongly condemn the thinking of the chief minister,” the Congress leader tweeted.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-erupts-over-cm-khattar-s-dead-won-t-come-back-comment-101619548832430.html
28-04-2021||Pune||PMC to source vaccines directly from Serum for universal vax drive: mayor Mohol; centres run out of stock on Tuesday||On Tuesday, Pune’s vaccination drive saw a dip in the number of eligible beneficiaries who got the jab, as many centres ran out of vaccine stock. Pune got its last supply of doses, 35,000, on Sunday, and has been awaiting fresh supply since. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted saying that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), would try to get direct supply from the Serum Institute of India (SII), to ensure that the universal vaccination programme to start from May 1 for all aged above 18 years, could go on smoothly.Mohol tweeted on Tuesday: “The corona vaccine will be available in the open market from May 1. Against the backdrop of this decision of the Central Government, we are trying to procure the vaccine directly on behalf of the Pune Municipal Corporation. The CEO of Serum Adar Poonawalla will be contacted and clarification will come soon. If the vaccine becomes available from Serum, it will help the people of Pune to get vaccinated faster.”On Tuesday, during a video conference, state officials informed all the district administrations that starting from May 1, private hospitals would not be able to procure vaccines from the state. A senior official who attended the conference said, “The state has said that the entire stock which will be available with the state will be only supplied to government hospitals and not private hospitals. All aged above 18 years to 44 years, would have to approach private hospitals. That age group will not be able to register appointments with government hospital in Pune. The private hospitals will decide the price while the government hospitals would be reserved for those aged above 45 years.” On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope also announced that SII has promised to provide the required stock to Maharashtra only after May 20. Since May 1 the central government has allowed the states to vaccinate all above the age of 18 years, however, the state government has expressed that this would mean 120 million more people are added to the eligibility criteria and that the state would need 240 million doses, at least, for these many people. However, SII, located in Pune, has a manufacturing capacity of six million every month and all the states and other countries and multiple multinational organisations are in the queue to procure vaccines from SII, which is mass producing Covishield. As of Tuesday, Pune is still vaccinating using the doses it got on Sunday. On Tuesday, 24,720 beneficiaries got the jab ,including health care workers (853), frontline workers (1,693), senior citizens (13,109) and those above 45 (9,065). However, many centres had to be shut as no vaccines were available. A senior PMC immunisation official said, “We are still using the doses we received on Sunday and we have not got any message regarding when we will get the next stock. We get the doses only an hour before, which also creates problems when we want to create sessions in advance.” On Monday a total of 185 vaccination centres were operational. However, on Tuesday, only 134 were operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-source-vaccines-directly-from-serum-for-universal-vax-drive-mayor-mohol-centres-run-out-of-stock-on-tuesday-101619537489475.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Camp in good hands: PCB ensures steady oxygen supply; old Command hospital now Covid care centre||PUNE Lt Gen JS Nain, GoC-in-C Southern Command, on Tuesday, visited the old Command Hospital complex to review a dedicated medical facility established for treatment of Covid cases. Gen Nain said, “We are fully geared up to extend medical aid to the state government and people of Pune at this facility. A dedicated team of doctors and nursing assistants have been placed in the hospital to take care of Covid patients”. A statement issued by a senior officer, part of the core group coordinating medical assistance at the Command Hospital, read: “Southern Command has been historically linked with various humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations in its area of responsibility, spread over 11 states and four Union territories. Clear directions have been given by the Army Commander, Southern Command, to be prepared to provide appropriate Covid medical facilities to assist citizens in need, while remaining fit to meet various contingencies.” Also, the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has been able to generate a stock of oxygen and is now taking the assistance of social organisations to ensure a back- up of oxygen cylinders. PCB chief executive officer, Amit Kumar, said, “The board has been playing a key role in providing critical services like ventilator, oxygen and ICU facilities to covid patients and has successfully saved lives of many of them since the second wave hit the city,” he said. Credai offers assistance Credai-Pune Metro has donated 10 ventilators and 10 high oxygen flow devices to PMC and PCMC hospitals. The association has donated the devices and ventilators to Baner Thergaon, PCMC. A 30-bed Covid ward for Pune police at the DY Patil hospital in Pimpri was inaugurated recently.“Credai-Pune Metro is also committed to contributing five additional ventilators here,” said Anil Pharande, president, Credai-Pune Metro.“Credai Pune is planning to vaccinate 0.15 million labourers, free of cost, after May 1,” said Ranjit Naiknavare, vice-president, Credai Pune-Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/camp-in-good-hands-pcb-ensures-steady-oxygen-supply-old-command-hospital-now-covid-care-centre-101619534669093.html
