30-04-2021||Bangalore||In a first, Drones deployed for sanitisation and medicine delivery in Bengaluru||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday inaugurated an initiative to use drones to sanitise containment zones as well as deliver medicines and essential goods to the affected people.Talking to the media during the inauguration, the chief minister said, “During these difficult times, it is very important to supply timely delivery of emergency medicines and Covid vaccines. I’m happy that for the first time in the country, drones are ready to supply medicines and also for sanitising public places (in Bengaluru),” he said. The drones with a capacity to ferry 35-40 kilograms of materials can be used for delivering medicines and essential goods besides sanitising the areas. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) recently granted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) a conditional exemption for testing the feasibility of drones in delivering vaccines. A task force led by MP for Bengaluru central, PC Mohan, has tied up with a start-up Garuda Aerospace for the purpose. “For the first time in India, drone delivery of vaccines will undergo feasibility analysis and field trials in Karnataka. If successful, this could be a breakthrough in ensuring Covid-19 vaccines reach remote villages in Karnataka and geographically isolated locations across India,” Mohan said. Bengaluru’s civic body, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) special commissioner Rajendran Cholan IAS said that automated robots can eliminate human contact in the entire distribution process. “Front line workers who transport vaccines from one location to another could themselves be carriers of the virus,” he said. Bengaluru Urban district alone on Friday witnessed 26,756 fresh Covid-19 infections and 93 deaths, taking the total active cases in the city to 2,59,058 and deaths to 6,375 since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/in-a-first-drones-deployed-for-sanitisation-and-medicine-delivery-in-bengaluru-101619807389338.html
30-04-2021||Other||16-yr-old forced into flesh trade, rescued from Panipat||The child helpline of Panipat has rescued a 16-year-old girl of Bihar, who was allegedly married to a 40-year-old man of Taraori in Karnal.As per police, the girl belongs to Chapra district in Bihar and was brought to Panipat by a woman of her village, who then got her married to the man.The girl alleged that her husband sexually exploited her and forced her into flesh trade.On Thursday, she managed to reach Panipat and told the woman about the incident.Pooja Malik, coordinator of Child Helpline, said they got the information, following which, she along with police reached the house. The girl was rescued and sent to Nari Niketan.She said that the girl will now be taken to child welfare committee and her statement will be recorded.Panipat DSP Satish Vats said as per statement of the victim, a zero FIR under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered and forwarded to Karnal police for action against the man.Police have also arrested the woman who brought her to Panipat and said that action will be taken as per probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16yrold-forced-into-flesh-trade-rescued-from-panipat-101619806189237.html
30-04-2021||Other||TV journalist Rohit Sardana cremated in Kurukshetra||Senior television journalist and news anchor Rohit Sardana’s mortal remains were cremated at his hometown in Kurukshetra on Friday.Sardana, 41, died of cardiac arrest, days after he tested positive for the virus.Sardana, who was an executive editor and TV news anchor with Aaj Tak of the India Today Group, is survived by his wife, two daughters and parents. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Noida.On April 24, he had tweeted saying that he has developed Covid symptoms and later a CT scan confirmed the infection. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, sports minister Sandeep Singh and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini attended the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tv-journalist-rohit-sardana-cremated-in-kurukshetra-101619806069226.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown in nine Haryana districts till Monday 5am||The Haryana government has imposed weekend lockdown from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am in Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts as 77% of the state’s total Covid-19 fresh cases were detected there on Thursday.These nine districts have been witnessing an alarming surge in fresh cases every day.For instance, on April 27, when Haryana recorded 11,931 new cases, 8,727 cases were from these districts.Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said the weekend lockdown has been imposed as the pandemic is again posing threat to public health.Any person violating the curbs will attract proceedings as per law under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The government has advised the public to stay indoors during the lockdown period.SERVICES EXEMPTEDDuring the lockdown, people involved in essential services such as law and order, emergency and municipal services, health, electricity, fire, media, etc will be exempted from the restrictions.Passengers going to or returning from airport, railway station or bus stands will be exempted.Students appearing for examination and those on exam duty will also be exempted on production of admit/identity card.There will be no curbs on those engaged in manufacturing of essential goods and on movement (inter-state and intra-state) of essential and non-essential goods.All vehicles or persons in bona fide transit (inter-state or intra-state) will be allowed to pass but only after verification of point of origin and destination.All medical establishments, public and private sector, manufacturing and distribution units, chemist, medical equipment shops, laboratories, etc will remain functional. Transportation for all medical personnel, nurses, paramedical staff, and other hospital support services will be permitted.GATHERING LIMIT TO BE FOLLOWEDAll wedding functions being held with prior permission will be allowed subject to limit of a maximum of 50% hall capacity with a ceiling of 30 persons in indoor spaces and with the ceiling of 50 persons in open spaces.The industrial units will have to mandatorily apply on Saral Haryana portal by providing necessary details to generate requisite passes for the employees or staff.An official spokesperson said to implement these containment measures, the district magistrate area will deploy executive magistrate as incident commanders in the respective local jurisdictions.The incident commander will be responsible for the overall implementation of these measures in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekend-lockdown-in-nine-haryana-districts-till-monday-5am-101619805889330.html
30-04-2021||Other||Govt hospitals in parts of Haryana face shortage of ventilators||Amid reports of high demand of ventilator beds due to rise in Covid-19 cases, ventilators in many government hospitals in Haryana are not functioning.As per data gathered from the district health officials, nine of 16 ventilators in government hospitals in Jind are functioning, seven of nine in Bhiwani, three of 14 in Hisar, and no ventilator in government hospitals in Jhajjar are functioning.Dadri and Rewari have 11 and three ventilators, respectively but these are not functioning as they don’t have trained staff to operate the ventilators.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said they have 113 ventilator beds and all are full.Rohtak civil hospital has two ventilator beds, all of which are occupied.VENTILATORS OCCUPIED IN PVT HOSPITALS TOOMost private hospitals in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Hisar and Rewari have no ICU bed with a ventilator vacant.Jhajjar has 26 ventilator beds (all in private hospitals) and only two were vacant till filing of the copy. Rewari has 21 ventilator beds in private hospitals and 17 are occupied.“As soon as a ventilator is available, we will admit the next patient. We are regularly checking oxygen supply and patients require it as per severity of their condition. We are getting calls for ventilator beds and are providing treatment as per our capacity,” Dr Dahiya said.A senior health official from Dadri said they have contacted two private hospital doctors to give them some time to operate their ventilators and they had agreed to the request.“Now, both doctors have refused to join our hospital as more Covid patients are being admitted at their hospital. A Delhi-based woman, who got admitted here died this week as we do not have trained staff to operate the ventilator. We have ventilators but not the required staff,” the official added.A senior district official from Rewari said state cooperative minister Banwari Lal reprimanded health officials as three ventilators are non-functional due to staff shortage.“The minister asked the health officials to provide the same to private hospitals if they do not have trained staff to operate the ventilators,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-hospitals-in-parts-of-haryana-face-shortage-of-ventilators-101619805829140.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid recovery rate drops by 16% in April||The coronavirus (Covid-19) has claimed lives of at least 35 people every day in Haryana in April. While the recovery rate dropped by 16% in the last 30 days, active cases rose from 10,362 to 97,562, as per official data.During the month, 1.95 lakh people were tested positive and over 1 lakh people recovered from the infection even as the positivity rate increased by 2%.The death toll rose from 3,164 on April 1 to 4,216 on Friday when the state recorded 98 more fatalities. April, as per data, has been most fatal in terms of size and scale of the surge in fresh cases and number of lives (1,052) the virus sniffed in 30 days.Active cases grew at a massive pace in April. For example, Gurugram, the most affected NCR district, had 2,147 active cases on April 1 and on Friday its active case tally stood at 36,692.Similarly, in Faridabad, active cases increased from 637 to 11,456 in a month.As per data, the month began with 4.67% positivity rate and it stood at 6.63% on Friday. Similarly, the recovery rate dropped from April 1’s 95.37% to 79.14% on Friday.However, the number of vaccine shots administered increased from 17 lakh to 38 lakh in the month.MONTH CAPPED WITH HIGHEST FATALITIESOn Friday, at least 73% of the total new Covid-19 cases came from the nine districts of Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad, where the state government has imposed weekend lockdown.Total 98 patients succumbed to the contagion in state with Gurugram recording 14 fatalities, Hisar 11, Ambala nine, and Rewari and Bhiwani eight each.In the last 24 hours, 50,031 people were tested in state. Of 13,833 fresh cases on Friday, Gurugram recorded the highest of 4,435 new cases, Faridabad 1,434, Sonepat 912, Hisar 860, Ambala 415, Karnal 883, Panipat 526, Rohtak 377, Rewari 259, Panchkula 324, Kurukshetra 287, Yamunanagar 463, Sirsa 563, Mahendergarh 472, Bhiwani 246, Jhajjar 221, Palwal 150, Fatehabad 320, Kaithal 112, Jind 489, Nuh 46 and Charkhi Dadri 39.On Friday, 9,348 people recovered, pushing the cumulative tally of patients recovered to 3.86 lakh of 4.87 lakh total positive cases.FATEHABAD DC TESTS POSITIVEMeanwhile, after Fatehabad DC Narhari Singh Banger tested positive for Covid, the Haryana government has directed HCS officer Dr Munish Nagpal, who is ADC Fatehabad, to look after the work of DC Fatehabad with immediate effect till Banger recovers and joins duty, an official order stated.MARKETS IN KARNAL TO REMAIN SHUT TILL MAY 10The Karnal district administration has decided to shut all markets in city till May 10.Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the decision to shut markets from April 30 midnight to May 10 was taken after a meeting with the representatives of market associations in district.The DC has urged residents to follow direction of the government and stay inside their homes to break the chain of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-covid-recovery-rate-drops-by-16-in-april-101619805711260.html
30-04-2021||Other||‘Third phase of vaccination to be delayed in Haryana’||The district health officials of Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari, Dadri, Jind and other parts of Haryana on Friday said that the third phase of vaccination which will cover people in the 18-44 age group will not start from May 1 as they have not received the vaccine doses.Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Kumar said registration for eligible persons aged above 18 has been opened on CoWIN portal but vaccination will not start from May 1 as they are yet to receive the vaccine doses.“We will continue vaccination of all aged above 45 as we have enough stock to inoculate them. Those above 45 are allowed to walk in for vaccination but those above 18 will have to pre-register. We have not received information from the state headquarters as to how many persons above 18 have registered for inoculation,” Dr Kumar added.Jhajjar deputy civil surgeon Dr Ranbir Singh said no slots have been opened for booking a session and the same will be started after they get details of those who will get the jabs.“The beneficiaries will have to report at the given vaccination centre to receive the jab. Walk-ins will not be allowed. We are hoping that the third phase of vaccination will get more pace as compared to the other two phases. We will ensure that there is no rush at the vaccination centres,” Dr Singh added.A senior PGIMS functionary said they are yet to receive the vaccine doses for third phase of the inoculation drive.“Vaccination will start once the state receives substantial number of vaccine doses from pharma companies. For the third phase, Centre has given assent to state governments to directly place orders with pharma companies,” the official added.Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said vaccination for the 18-45 age group which was scheduled to start from Saturday has been postponed in district.“It might get delayed for 3-4 days as we are yet to get data of those who have registered for vaccination,” he said.He added that there are over 10,000 doses (of Covishield and Covaxine) available with the department for beneficiaries coming in for second dose.While Yamunanagar civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said he has a target of inoculating 10,000 residents of the age group on the first day, but the doses are yet to arrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/third-phase-of-vaccination-to-be-delayed-in-haryana-101619805652061.html
30-04-2021||Other||Mamata Banerjee’s virtual crash course for candidates, polling agents ahead of counting day||Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee organised a crash course for her party’s candidates and their counting agents on Friday, ahead of the counting of votes scheduled on May 2.Out of the 294 assembly seats, the 45-minute virtual session was attended by 287 candidates and their counting agents who would be on the ground on the big day, other than top leaders of the party including TMC MP and chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “The chief minister stressed on the fact that we should not fall for any rumours and should remain focussed on the counting till the end. For some assembly seats, agents have been alerted that the TMC may lag in the first few rounds but would ultimately have the last smile. So, the agents should not leave their seats at any point of time feeling dejected,” said a candidate, who attended the meeting.“She also advised that counting agents, at no point in time, should accept any food, drinks or even cigarettes from anyone. A mobile number has also been given to everyone, which would act as a helpline if the agents and candidates face any problem,” another candidate added.Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal, said, “She (Banerjee) may give a last-minute vocal tonic to her candidates, but BJP would have the last smile and would win more than 200 seats as projected by Amit Shah. It’s now a matter of just a few hours”. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has already announced a three-layer plan on Wednesday to ward off the threat of coronavirus infections during the counting of votes for assembly elections, ordering more counting halls, banning public gatherings outside centres and allowing entry to candidates or polling agents only if they are fully vaccinated or have a Covid negative report.On Friday 48-hours ahead of the polling day preparations were in full swing across all the 108 counting centres and more than 700 counting halls. Candidates and polling agents queued up at various centres to get their Covid-test done. At Howrah, a scuffle broke out between the counting agents when they were standing in a queue to get their tests done. “This year the counting process would be lengthier as all Covid protocols need to be followed and materials would have to be sanitised thoroughly. Unlike previous years when the trend starts showing by 12 noon and 1 pm, this year it may take much longer,” said a poll panel official. The month-long poll season, which began with a high octane political battle between the BJP and the TMC but was overshadowed by the surge in Covid-19 infections in the state, came to an end on April 29. The counting of votes is scheduled for Sunday. Exit poll results for the assembly elections were announced on Thursday. Pollsters projected a cliffhanger in West Bengal, where the TMC is looking to retain power for the third term and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident of securing a majority of over 200 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mamata-banerjee-s-virtual-crash-course-for-candidates-polling-agents-ahead-of-counting-day-101619803909434.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 27,047 fresh Covid-19 infections, 375 deaths in last 24 hours||Delhi on Friday saw a spike of 27,047 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections and 375 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. The daily new cases witnessed a rise of 2,812 cases as the national capital reported 24,235 new Covid-19 cases and 395 deaths in the last 24 hours on Thursday, the health bulletin showed.After Friday's hike, the total number of active cases in Delhi stands at 99,361, and the Covid-19 caseload reached 1,149,333.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The positivity rate in the Capital also increased from Thursday. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 31.76 per cent on Thursday. In the last one day, positivity rate rose by 0.93 percentage point, the bulletin showed.82,745 tests were conducted in Delhi in the last 24 hours to detect the presence of the virus. The testing in last 24 hours has increased as on Thursday, 81,829 samples were tested for Covid-19.On Friday, of the 82,745 number of tests, over 62,734 RT-PCR tests, often considered as gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis, were conducted and more than 20,011 of the samples were tested through the rapid antigen process.The total number of containment zones as of Thursday were 35,924, which have now increased by nearly 1,300 as 37,223 containment zones are present in the Capital as of Friday.As many as 25,288 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, down in recovery as 25,615 patients discharged on Thursday. The case fatality rate remained the same as Thursday- 1.40 per cent.Delhi government on Thursday clarified the discrepancy in the death toll as the toll stood at 15,377 but in Wednesday's health bulletin it was mentioned as 14,248.As per the bulletin, 4,693 dedicated Covid care centres and 79 dedicated Covid care health centres are vacant in Delhi as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-27-047-fresh-covid-19-infections-375-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101619794096243.html
30-04-2021||Other||Nearly 4,000 police personnel test positive in 20 days in UP, 34 die||As many as 3,977 police personnel tested positive and 34 died in the past 20 days during the second wave of Covid-19 that gripped the state since April 10, said senior police officials here on Thursday.“There are 3,490 active cases in the police department on April 30,” said a senior official, adding that 2,514 fresh cases were reported in the past eight days.The official said 2,780 active cases were reported from the district police units, 239 cases from the other police office units, 188 cases from the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), 145 cases from the Government Railway Police (GRP), 69 cases from the police training centres, 59 cases from the state police headquarters in Lucknow and 10 cases from the home guards’ wing.He also said the active cases in the police force were merely 105 on April 10, which had increased to over 33 times in 20 days.Overall, 16,698 police personnel had tested positive and 116 of them died during treatment between April 24, 2020 and April 30, 2021, the official added.During the year-long period, 96 of the deaths were reported from the district police units, eight from PAC, four from the director general of police (DGP) headquarters, three from other police units, two each from GRP and home guards’ wings and one from a police training centre, the official said.He also said 13,291 police personnel on field duty in districts across the state tested positive between April 24, 2020 and April 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-4-000-police-personnel-test-positive-in-20-days-in-up-34-die-101619802348482.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||UP to give jabs to 18+ in seven districts first||Uttar Pradesh will begin the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 18 years of age in only seven of the state’s 75 districts on Saturday. These seven districts have been chosen as they have a high active caseload. The other districts will be covered later. The state authorities hope to get a supply of 10,000 vaccine doses by Saturday morning.“The seven districts where the vaccination drive will be launched for the beneficiaries above 18 years include Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi. Here, the active cases are high. Hence, we begin from these districts and more districts will get the benefit later,” said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad on Friday.“We have taken up those districts where the active cases are over 9,000. There are seven such districts,” said Prasad.In Lucknow, a stock of 3,000 doses of the Covid vaccine has already been kept in cold chain points to be distributed at 10 vaccination centres in the city. These centres have been identified for the vaccination of people above 18 years of age. The stock will be given to the vaccination centres at around 8am, said chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar.The 10 vaccination centres in Lucknow for the new phase are: King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lok Bandhu Raj Narain Hospital, Rani Laxmibai Hospital, Civil Hospital, Jhalkaribai Hospital, Awantibai Hospital, Balrampur Hospital and BRD hospital. Each centre will get 300 doses. In Varanasi, chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said a vehicle had been sent to Lucknow for bringing the vaccine doses to Varanasi. The doses were likely to arrive early on Saturday morning. Prayagraj’s district nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination Dr RS Thakur said 3,000 doses of Covaxin had been received by Prayagraj for vaccination of individuals aged above 18 years. The vaccination will take place from 11am to 5pm at four rural primary health centres in Chaka, Jasra, Kotwa and Jhunsi areas, besides MLN Medical College, Dufferin Hospital, MD Eye Hospital, Railway Hospital and TB Sapru Hospital in the urban areas of Prayagraj. Dr Thakur said the vaccines would be administered to only those individuals who had got themselves registered in advance.A health department officer who did not wish to be named said in view of the uncertainty over the supply of vaccine doses, the state government had decided to run the third phase on a trial basis in the seven districts. The state government hopes that it will get the required doses in the first week of May to launch the drive in the remaining districts. Director general (family welfare) Dr Rakesh Dubey said the private hospitals and medical colleges will have to procure vaccines from the manufacturers to give doses to beneficiaries above 45 years of age and also to those between 18 and 44 years of the age (for the phase commencing on May 1). For earlier phases, the private hospitals and medical colleges had procured the vaccine doses from the state government. The private centres were charging ₹250 per dose from the beneficiaries. To get Covid-19 vaccines for the third phase, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to float global tenders to procure four to five crore doses of Covid vaccines.The state government has already placed an order for the supply of one crore Covid vaccine doses —50 lakh doses each from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin and the Pune- based Serum Institute of India (SII) that makes Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-give-jabs-to-18-in-seven-districts-first-101619801808391.html
30-04-2021||Bhopal||2 MP men convert bike, auto into mini ambulances to help people amid Covid-19 crisis||Two men in Madhya Pradesh have been helping many amid the Covid-19 crisis by using their bike and auto as ambulances, ferrying Covid-19 patients to the hospitals, HT has learnt.Thirty-four-year-old Javed Khan, an auto driver in Bhopal, converted his auto, which was purchased on loan, into an ambulance after selling his wife’s gold pendant and earrings worth ₹10,000. Mechanical engineer Azeez Khan of Dhar has been using his bike for the same purpose and has spent his savings worth ₹30,000 for the same. They are providing their services free of cost to help the people in need. “During the lockdown, I was sitting at home and reading news that people are facing trouble in reaching hospitals. I thought of helping such people. But I thought just to help them in reaching the hospital is not enough, so I thought of converting my auto into a mini ambulance. The oxygen is one of the most important things for Covid-19 infected patients so I fit an oxygen cylinder in my auto.”“My wife Kishwar Khan helped me financially by giving her gold pendant and earrings. I sold it for ₹10,000. I posted my numbers on social media so that people can contact me any time. As of now, I helped 12 people in Bhopal in the past two weeks,” said Javed.He said, “I have saved some money to repay the loan of my auto but now I am using this money to bear my household expenses.” Khan, 39, said, “I have been working as a fabricator for the past so many years. I read some news that people are facing difficulty in reaching hospitals due to a kutcha road or narrow lane so I thought of developing a bike ambulance. I constructed an attachment with a bed, an oxygen cylinder and a metallic cover. The structure is attached to my bike and this is how I am able to take the patients safely to the hospital.” In the past week, Khan has helped eight people. Javed said, “It takes 4-5 hours and someday more than eight hours to get the cylinders refilled at a centre in Govindpura but it motivates me to help more people.” Although the duo doesn’t charge any money for the services, people are donating money to help them refill oxygen. People who took their services have appreciated their effort. A resident of Awadhpuri, Sunil Dug, said, “I was discharged from the hospital two days ago, I needed an ambulance to reach home but I didn’t get any vehicle till late at night. I saw Javed’s number on a social media platform. I contacted him, he was 12 kilometres away from the hospital but he came and took me to my home which was 13 kilometres from the hospital. When I asked for money, he refused to take any but I donated some money for his welfare service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/2-mp-men-convert-bike-auto-into-mini-ambulances-to-help-people-amid-covid-19-crisis-101619799349159.html
30-04-2021||Ranchi||Hazaribagh man out during lockdown dies after being ‘beaten’ by police, probe on||A 50-year-old man, who was out while lockdown was in place along with his wife and younger brother, died allegedly after police thrashed him on Thursday evening. The wife of the deceased lodged a complaint in this regard with Chouparan police station on Friday.The deceased was identified as Chakkan Bhuinyan, a resident of Machla village in Hazaribag district. According to his wife Babita Devi, she, along with his husband and brother in-law Shankar Bhuiyan, was going to attend a wedding on Thursday around 5.30pm when the incident took place. “On our way at Karma village (around 1km from Machla village), a patrolling police vehicle came and stopped in front of our bike. On enquiry, we told them that we were going to attend a wedding ceremony, but they started beating my husband with sticks. He died on the spot,” Devi alleged.Corroborating Devi’s claim, mukhiya of Karma village, Rajdev Yadav, said, “The incident took place near my residence. Babita and Shankar protested, but the police beat them also. After the brutal thrashing, police left Bhuiyan on the street. We took him to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.”Meanwhile, Barhi deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Nazir Akhtar, who was leading the police investigation in this connection, visited Karma village on Friday and talked to locals. He said, “The body of the deceased was sent to Hazaribagh on Friday for postmortem examination. We are investigating the matter. We will be able to say anything after investigation is completed. Action will be taken if anyone is found guilty in the incident.”Police patrolling vehicles were roaming to ensure no shops are open after the given time limit in a bid to ensure implementation of the ongoing Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, the DSP said, adding, “In light of the lockdown, shops are not allowed to open after 2pm.”Yadav, who is also president of Mukhiya Sangh of Chouparan block, said, “Irate villagers put up a road blockade on Thursday night, demanding action against the police personnel involved in the incident. We have also demanded compensation and job to Bhuiyan’s wife. Bhuiyan, a daily wage worker, was the sole bread earner of the family.”The state government recently on Wednesday extended the previous weeklong lockdown till May 6 with few more restrictions in a bid to break the chain of rapidly spreading coronavirus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hazaribagh-man-out-during-lockdown-dies-after-being-beaten-by-police-probe-on-101619798748275.html
30-04-2021||Other||Record 15,000-plus cases in state in a day||PATNABihar reported 15,853 new Covid cases on Thursday, its largest single-day spike so far and far higher than its peak last year when it recorded 12,686 cases in September-end.Patna once again led the tally with 2,844 new cases, followed by Gaya (1203). Barring two districts, Buxar and Sheohar, the rest 36 districts reported more than 100 cases on Thursday. Meanwhile, according to executive director of State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, Bihar received a supply of 76 metric tonnes of oxygen on April 22, 63 MT on April 23, 156 MT on April 25 and 90 MT on April 28. “The state has a storage capacity of 350 MT,” he said. In a related development, Patna’s Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), which the state government had earlier announced to convert into a dedicated Covid hospital, has decided to stop registering other patients. The government has announced to make it a 400-bed dedicated Covid hospital. In an order issued on Friday, the hospital administration clarified that OPD, other surgeries and works in other departments will remain closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/record-15-000-plus-cases-in-state-in-a-day-101619798628934.html
30-04-2021||Other||Chief secretary dies of Covid||PATNABihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, who has been suffering from Covid-19, passed away Friday at a private hospital in Patna. Singh, a 1985-batch IAS officer, became the chief secretary on February 27 this year and was to retire on August 31.The news of chief secretary flashed came in while chief minister Nitish Kumar was in the Cabinet meeting, held virtually. The cabinet observed silence for a minute to condole his demise.“He was an able administrator and was liked by his colleagues. It is a big loss,” the CM said. Governor Phagu Chouhan described Singh as “an able administrator”.“Arun Kumar Singh led from the front in State’s #FightAgainstCOVID19 and made supreme sacrifice,” the IAS Association tweeted. Additional chief secretary Amir Subhani has already been officiating as acting chief secretary since Arun Kumar Singh fell ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-secretary-dies-of-covid-101619798628290.html
30-04-2021||Other||Summer vacation in universities, colleges from today||PATNAIn view of unprecedented surge in Coronavirus cases, the summer vacation in Bihar’s universities and colleges has been advanced by a month and will now begin from Saturday (May 1). A notification to this effect was issued by the Raj Bhawan on Friday. “After due consideration of the proposal from the vice chancellors, the Chancellor has been pleased to declare summer vacation in the universities and colleges from May 1 to May 31, instead of earlier scheduled period from June 1 to June 30, with a condition that if any examination scheduled to be held has not been conducted so far, it shall strictly be conducted between June 1-15,” said the Raj Bhawan notification. In view of the pandemic, LNMU V-C and TMBU V-C had moved a proposal to the Raj Bhawan for advancing the summer vacation in universities to May. Earlier, Patna University Teachers’ Association and employees’ association had also approached the V-C for it. The department of education has already announced closure of all private and government and private schools, colleges and coaching institutions till May 15, though there has to be 25% attendance of teachers and staff. Any decision regarding advancing summer vacation in schools is, however, yet to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/summer-vacation-in-universities-colleges-from-today-101619798568241.html
30-04-2021||Other||Bihar clears ₹4,000cr for free vaccination to all aged 18-45 years||PATNAThe Bihar cabinet on Friday approved allocation of ₹4,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccine to be given free of cost to all aged between 18 and 45 years this fiscal. The cabinet also gave its nod for allowing the health department to rope in qualified firms to supply medical oxygen to all government hospitals and the policy to encourage setting up of plants for generation of medical oxygen.As the vaccination for all those aged between 18 and 45 was scheduled to start from May 1, the cabinet meeting was scheduled urgently on Friday to approve the fund allocation for vaccine procurement, said a senior official who was present in the meeting. The cabinet meetings are usually held on Tuesdays.Officials, however, said the fresh vaccination drive is unlikely to take off as scheduled for want of adequate doses of vaccines, even though the cabinet approved the release of ₹1000 crore from the total allocation of fund for vaccination. They said the state government had sought supply of around 1 crore doses of vaccines from Serum institute of India (producer of Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin), but the firms declined sending the consignment to the state for want of vaccines’ availability. SII and Bharat Biotech had assured to supply the vaccine by 3rd week of May, they said.The department has been allocated ₹90 crore to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply all medical college and hospitals for the next five years. As per the agreement, the engaged firms are deemed to develop cryogenic storage for liquid oxygen in the hospital premises. Premier medical colleges used to consume medical oxygen worth over ₹2 crore per annum.In another important decision, the cabinet also approved the oxygen policy under which the government would offer up to 30% subsidy on cost of establishing oxygen generation plant to any private investor in the state.The formal press briefing of the cabinet decisions, however, was put off owing to death of Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, a 1987-batch IAS officer, due to Covid in a private hospital on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-clears-4-000cr-for-free-vaccination-to-all-aged-18-45-years-101619798508934.html
30-04-2021||Other||HC pulls up state for lack of info on Covid hospitals, care centres||PATNAThe Patna High Court Thursday evening expressed displeasure over lack of a strong information system and directed principal secretary (health) in the state to ensure that the information regarding Covid care centres and dedicated hospitals, with their addresses and phone numbers, are put on the website of the health department by Friday. The court has been hearing the matter in the form of a suo motu PIL. The bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah was also upset with different facts presented before it regarding allocation of quota of oxygen by the central government. “Previously, we were told 194 MTs of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) had been allocated as daily quota for the state by the Centre in addition to state’s own generation. Now the state counsel says 194 MT quota includes 34 MT generated inside the state, which means the state is entitled to lift 160 MT of LMO only,” the bench added. The court also pointed out that the sources of oxygen supply and the volume, as furnished by the state government, was not adding up. “The least said the better,” the court remarked.Meanwhile, additional solicitor general for India, KN Singh, told the court that the Centre had purchased 102,000 cylinders, of which 2827 D-type cylinders and 13309 B-type cylinders are being allotted to Bihar and the supply will commence by first week of May. “The court expects that the said process is expedited, considering the dire need of medical oxygen and cylinders in different hospitals treating patients,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-pulls-up-state-for-lack-of-info-on-covid-hospitals-care-centres-101619798508234.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Collector orders inquiry into misappropriation of funds allocated to sex workers||A day after Hindustan Times reported misappropriation of funds, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has now ordered an inquiry while constituting a committee to probe the matter. The collector accepted that money meant for commercial sex workers during the pandemic was credited into other accounts. The collector In its report, HT highlighted that part of an amount of ₹7.94 crore, released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to commercial sex workers (CSW) in Pune in view of Covid-19 pandemic, was deposited into the bank accounts of maids and waste pickers living in Annabhau Sathe Nagar, Tarawade vasti, Mohammadwadi. “Yes, we received the complaints, I have ordered enquiry. I am busy right throughout for oxygen supply meeting. I have asked the RDC (Resident District Collector),” said Deshmukh through text messages while expressing to share more details given his presence in series of meeting in meetings related to Covid situation. On April 29, Nitin Pawar, president, Hamal Panchayat Samiti and Nitin Waghmare, founder Akhil Bharatiya Bahujan Sena, along with the NGO Saheli and the National Network of Sex Workers presented a statement to the district collector informing him of the misuse of the funds. //While the district collector is still in the process of finalizing the details of the enquiry, the women who had received ₹15,000 for three months are facing a dilemma. The state released ₹7.94 crore and transferred it to 5,296 bank accounts belonging to commercial sex workers in Pune based on a Supreme Court order, dated September 21, 2020, that victims of the flesh trade be compensated by the administration with assistance like provision of food grains and cash. The court ruled that no documentary proof must be taken from victims while delivering the welfare measures and sops. The women from Tarawade vasti signed a consent form by members of an “unknown NGO” gave copies of their Aadhar cards and bank passbooks and paid an additional ₹200 for the service. “We want to return the money, but there is a small problem. We do not have the entire amount with us as the people who filled the forms asked us to pay them ₹7,000 in cash, which some of us have paid already,” said Manjusha Edke, one of the beneficiaries who wants to return the money. HT tried to trace the number shared by the women, but it was switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/collector-orders-inquiry-into-misappropriation-of-funds-allocated-to-sex-workers-101619797848339.html
30-04-2021||Other||Railway engineer booked for molesting woman, duping husband of Rs1.5 lakh||PUNE A railway engineer has been booked by the Pune police on Friday for molesting a woman and duping her husband of ₹1.5 lakh, under the guise of getting him a job in the railway department. The engineer also allegedly used a castiest slur against the couple, for which he has been booked under the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act.The couple were employed at the engineer’s house as since 2019, according to the police. Over the years, the man promised the man a job in the railway department and had taken a sum of ₹1.5 lakh.“ We have got the information about the amount from their complaint. The investigation is going on,” said ACP Chandrakant Sangale of Lashkar division of Pune police.However, as he allegedly failed to get him a job and failed to return their money, the couple started asking for the money. The man then allegedly pulled the woman inside the house and forced himself onto her, according to her complaint.The complainant woman is a 27-year-old who lives with her husband in an outhouse in the railway quarters.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act has been registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railway-engineer-booked-for-molesting-woman-duping-husband-of-rs1-5-lakh-101619796168228.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 situation better due to restraint shown by all, no need for stricter lockdown: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said there was no need to impose a stricter coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown as there was an improvement in the state's condition owing to the existing curbs. "We have been able to contain the spread of Covid-19 due to restrictions and lockdown. Our estimate was that there might be 10 lakh positive active patients till now, but there are 7 lakh such cases," CM Thackeray said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state's health infrastructure is also seeing an upgrade, Thackeray said, but there was a shortage of medical professionals. "We are ramping up the health infrastructure but where should we bring doctors and nurses from?" he said.Further, he addressed the issue of shortage of oxygen. "We are facing a shortage of oxygen as we are using around 1700 metric tonnes while we produce only around 1200 metric tonnes. Around 500 metric tonnes of oxygen has been allocated by the Centre," CM Thackeray said.Talking about imminent second wave of Covid-19 in state, he said, "The entire world is facing several waves of Covid-19 and the situation in Maharashtra will be no different, according to experts."The state government is prepared for the Covid-19 waves to come, he said. "We have started our preparations for the same but we do not expect it to be a big wave," he added.Also Read: Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-AugOn vaccination, the CM said the state needed 12 crore doses of vaccines for its six crore population in the age group of 18 to 44. The state was ready to buy the entire stock in one go, he said. "But the vaccine stock is limited. Only a few firms are manufacturing the doses in our country but we are in talks with other firms. However, we will be getting only 18 lakh doses for the age group of 18-44 in May," he said.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 66,159 cases, pushing the total infection count to 4,539,553. The tally of active cases reduced to 670,301 as 68,537 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. As many as 771 new deaths were reported in the state, taking the toll to 67,985.On Wednesday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope had announced that the lockdown in state will be extended by another 15 days beyond April 30. "All members of the Maharastra Cabinet are of the opinion that current Covid-19 restrictions should be extended for the next 15 days," Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-situation-better-due-to-restraint-shown-by-all-no-need-for-stricter-lockdown-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101619794268405.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Another Man’s Rancour||In many ways, it is emblematic of a widespread concern: In a world consumed with social media communication, how should one continue communicating on social media during the apocalyptic situation that India and her people currently face? Indeed, when despair and grief have become daily occurrences and when disease and death loom so near at hand, how should people — most likely isolated, anxious and challenged themselves — carry on with what is most likely their only means of engagement with the outside world during these harrowing times? After all, even at the best of times, communication on social media can be a minefield of thin skins, raw feelings and hurt sentiments. Such is the nature of the beast that one man’s opinion can easily become another man’s rancour. Now, in a situation where the smoke from mass cremations obliterates the sun and passions run high and tempers fast, who knows what will or will not trigger another or offend or upset or wound? Of course, as soon as it was evident that the second wave was proving to be substantially more deadly than anything India had witnessed earlier and that the government’s handling of it was woefully inadequate, many had converted their social media platforms into helplines and ersatz bulletins, to marshal support and funding for those in need. But what of the others? Were they to cease their social interface altogether, if it were not strictly pandemic-related? Would anything other than posts about the current crisis be viewed as suspect, callous and inappropriate in these gut-wrenching times? And what of people’s need to express themselves in their authentic voices; would they have to be silenced, or altered to be accepted? “I’m not sure what to do,” a friend posted this week on his social media timeline. “Today I’ve been unfriended by someone who took grave offence over my recent posts which he felt were insensitive to the current crisis, because they alluded to other things, in my case photographs and words about happier, more buoyant times. Besides being hurt, it made me wonder if there was some truth to what he said. What do you all feel?” he enquired. “Should I desist from doing so? I’d be happy to hear your views and be advised by them…” Couched in those simple words was a conundrum that must have had presented itself in some form or the other recently, to perhaps everyone who possessed a smart phone and an internet connection. After all, with the current levels of anguish and pain experienced by almost every body and with the heightened sense of stress and anger that prevailed, who would want to add insult to injury by appearing thoughtless, uncaring or inconsiderate through their communique? One popular food blogger explained his peculiar problem with this post: “While witnessing the unfolding tragedy, I just cannot bring myself to post pictures of the delicious takeaway dishes I’ve ordered in the past few weeks” He wrote, “Even though I know it would help the restaurants and chefs commercially, at a time when their industry is floundering. But I am saving them and promise to upload them at a better time in the future.” His honesty and sincerity had been appreciated by the food and beverages industry and his followers. But God knows, so many others had got it woefully wrong, and daily the ticker toll of those who’d put their foot in their mouth would rise and fall like the Sensex. These included tone-deaf stars who posted pictures of themselves at beach resorts, even as their compatriots faced extreme pain and loss; prominent influencers whose attempts at empathy had been called out as empty buttressing of their images; industrialists whose utterances angered those that regarded them as nothing more than ham-handed PR; and of course politicians, polarising and maladroit at the best of times, who were afforded the brunt of it all, with armies of bigoted trolls from opposing ideologies, waiting to pounce on their every word and wage full blown battles with them. A fashion influencer with over 25,000 followers became a lightning rod for ridicule when she posted that she was “sick of seeing only sad posts about Covid” on her timeline. “Can everyone stop posting sad news and only put up happy posts?” she requested. Expectedly, the backlash was huge, and her peers demanded that she take her post down. “Turn off your social media if you are so disturbed by what you see” was the representative admonishment. “But don’t ask others to stop helping or doing what they can on their own timelines.” But as everything else, opinions were divided on what was appropriate during the crisis. For instance, the staging of the mega million-dollar IPL was seen to be distasteful and extremely inappropriate by many, even as others argued that it afforded them a much-needed coping mechanism to take their minds off the grim reality around them. Still others argued that businesses had to continue for the wheels of the economy to keep turning. Interestingly, our friend who’d sought advice after being unfriended on account of his “inappropriate” posts, harking back to better days, received his answer sooner rather than later through a volley of responses, what came through unequivocally was a resounding call for kindness and compassion through the ongoing calamity, of allowing for more latitude, of being slow to strike, of cutting people slack, of being gentler and more tolerant, of not holding grudges, and of being and letting be… “Healing, coping and carrying on has many dimensions,” read one comment. “One size doesn’t fit all, and we are all finding ways to keep ourselves upbeat during this crisis.” “What one should engage in on one’s own timeline is absolutely personal and cannot be dictated by some other person,” read another, while a third wrote: “I think in these terrible times, all of us need diversions and to be reminded of better days and your posts gave me strength to carry on by reminding me of them.” So, whereas no one really can specify what exactly makes for appropriate communique during a crisis, what people appeared to be saying was that this was a time for maturity and tolerance and for magnanimity and gentleness for oneself and others. “Everyone you meet is fighting a battle you know nothing about” goes the old axiom. “Be kind. Always.” But what of a situation when everyone you were likely to meet faced not an unknown battle, but a very real and present danger in the form of a global pandemic? Shouldn’t kindness and tolerance and a conscious effort to take a break from anger harsh judgement and unkind words be the order of the day?You would think so, given the circumstances, as would most others. But perhaps it is emblematic of our time and the distress and helpless anger that people are currently experiencing, that even a simple call to practice kindness, gentleness and compassion, through these challenging times, could offend a whole section of folks...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-another-man-s-rancour-101619794669611.html
30-04-2021||Other||Cook on the run after stealing Rs60 lakh from employers||PUNE A 28-year-old cook employed by a construction company for four engineers living in Pimpri has been booked for stealing ₹60 lakh in cash from them.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ajit Sanjaykumar Rajhans (31), who lives with three others in Mahindra Antheia in Nehrunagar, Pimpri.The complainant and the three others work for a private multi-national construction company.The 28-year-old suspect is on the run from the police with the cash, meant to pay salaries of the workers on the company’s construction site.“We are on the lookout for him,” saidassistant police inspector S Lodhe of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case.The theft happened between 3pm and 7pm on Wednesday from the house where the complainant lives.The cook used a duplicate key to open the locked wooden cupboard and the locker inside it in order to steal the cash, according to the complainant.A case under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cook-on-the-run-after-stealing-rs60-lakh-from-employers-101619794488082.html
30-04-2021||Pune||8K minutes of veteran film-artiste interviews available on NFAI website||On the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Indian cinema pioneer Dadasaheb Phalke, the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has published a treasure of audio recordings in the public domain. About 8,000 minutes of interviews of veteran film artistes from the Indian film industry are now made available on the NFAI website. Starting from the silent era of Indian cinema, these are the fascinating tales of journeys of actors, technicians, producers, directors and studio owners. Conducted mostly in the 1980s, these interviews were recorded as part of the oral history project of NFAI’s research programme and features long interviews of pioneering film personalities, narrating the experiences about their life, stories and anecdotes from the world of cinema. “We are delighted to make available this vast treasure of audio recordings which constitutes a rich reference material for anyone who is interested in studying Indian cinema. One of the main objectives of NFAI is to disseminate knowledge about Indian cinema and I am glad that these voices from the past can now be heard across the world,” said Prakash Magdum, director NFAI. There are 53 interviews with the audio recording of about 8,000 minutes duration of film artists conducted in five languages- Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, English and Bengali. The artists include who’s who of the Indian film industry including JBH Wadia, Akkineni Nageshwar Rao, Vijay Bhatt, P Bhanumathi, SD Subbulakshmi, MK Radha, P Leela, C Honnappa Bhagvathar, Zunzarrao Pawar, Dada Salvi, Chandrakant Gokhale, RM Krishnaswamy, SV Venkatraman, R Ramamurthy, KS Prakash, V Gopalakrishnan, R B Lakshmidevi, Shahu Modak, E Mohammed, V V Bapat, Vivek, Vishnupant Jog, Nanasaheb Sathe, Ganpatrao Bondre, Nilu Phule, Sharad Talwalkar, Shobha Sen, Surykant Mandhare, Chittaranjan Kolhatkar and Soumitra Chatterjee among others. The longest interview in the series is of veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee taken by Anasua Roy Chaudhary with a duration of 584 minutes. These long interviews not only throw light on the personal journey of these artists but also give an in-depth account of the changes in the Indian film industry over a long period of time. One of the major highlights of the oral history project of NFAI is the interviews of several old associates of DG Phalke who closely worked with the father of Indian cinema. These artists, coming from diverse backgrounds, entered the film industry at its nascent stage and went on to act in roles in Phalke’s Hindustan Cinema Film Company. India’s first child artist and Dadasaheb Phalke‘s daughter Mandakini Phalke Athavale is extensively interviewed where she speaks about working as a child Krishna in Kaliya Mardan (1919). Several of these silent era artists including Ganpatrao Tambat, Sahdevrao Tapkire, Baburao Patil, Narayan Tambat, Haribhau Lonare, and Vasant Shinde worked in Phalke’s studio in various capacities. They share their intimate experiences of working with Phalke in the process throwing light on the humane side of Phalke as well as his craft of film making. The oral history project of NFAI started back in 1983, where the interviews were recorded on audio cassettes only. Later, with the shift in technology, this project were converted into the Audio-Visual History project in 2008, where a film/video was recorded interspersed with clippings from related films and other visual material like photos, posters to illustrate the interview. These interviews were conducted by scholars as a part of this project in the 80s and 90s at the artist’s house. Bapu Watve, one of the artists from Prabhat Film Company and a film historian who conducted most of these interviews, historian and writer Randor Guy conducted many in-depth interviews in Tamil, Telugu and English. There are 26 interviews in Marathi, 10 in Tamil, 12 in English, three in Telugu and two in the Bengali language. The interview recordings are available on https://nfai.gov.in/audio_interview.php While the audio plays, the English translations of the interviews are made available on the side. Wherever possible, the relevant photographs of the artists and posters of the film they worked in are also added. “As most of the interviews are four decades old, we decided to digitize them. We also took the help of the sound department of FTII to enhance the voice quality of the interviews,” said Prakash Magdum. He added, “Since most of these interviews are in various Indian languages, they were translated into English so that film lovers across the world who are interested in Indian cinema can take benefit of it. We believe that when the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Dadasaheb Phalke are coming to an end today, making this rich database available to film lovers would surely be a befitting tribute to the father of Indian cinema.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8k-minutes-of-veteran-film-artiste-interviews-available-on-nfai-website-101619794261797.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Ganesh mandals strive to keep children in the books||In order to preserve reading habits among children, a group of Ganesh mandals in the city have come together and decided to deliver 5,000 books on a door-to-door basis. The books have been divided into age group categories and a parent just needs to give a call to respective volunteers and the books will be delivered at home free of cost. Under the Jai Ganesh platform, volunteers from 16 mandals have started providing this service from Friday. “Due to the lockdown, most of the children are spending time on smart phones and parents are also stuck since books stores are closed. So we decided to provide this service which will help children to stay connected with story books, general knowledge books and informative books about the nation’s history and current affairs,” said Piyush Shah, one of the volunteers. According to age group, books have been divided into story books and drawing books for ages three to six, history books of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj for ages seven to 11, India’s freedom stories including autobiographies of some of the great leaders for ages 11 to 14. “A parent only needs to send the age of their ward and accordingly we will deliver a set of books at their place. Our aim is to divert children from the screen time. Staying glued to smartphones and television will kill their productivity at the young age,” said Shah. A Ganesh mandal will have three or four localities under their belt where volunteers will deliver books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ganesh-mandals-strive-to-keep-children-in-the-books-101619794188089.html
30-04-2021||Other||Police arrest four for attacking “gaurakshak” in Junnar||PUNE The Pune rural police have arrested four people for attacking a gaurakshak (cow protector) in Junnar on Thursday. Two accused are on the run.The arrested men have been identified as Khalid Gulam Gaus Bepari, Mohammad Khalid Bepari, Faizal Nisar Qureshi, and Yasir Nisar Qureshi, all resident of Ale in Junnar, according to police.The case was registered after a complaint was registered by Shivshankar Rajendra Swamy (27), a resident of Shivajinagar, Pune, and a member of an organisation called Akhil Bharatiya Krushi Gauseva Sangh.Swamy claimed to have been returning from a court hearing in Ahmednagar when he came across a tempo which he suspected was carrying bovine meat. He was accompanied by three friends, and they were all travelling in a four-wheeler. The four allegedly started following the tempo and found they were being followed by men on bikes.In his complaint, Swamy said, “These vehicles started following us. In Rajuri village, when our vehicle slowed down in front of a speed-breaker, they parked their vehicles to block our vehicle and six people who got off said “do not leave this Swamy today, kill him”. Four of them used a metal pipe and wooden rods to attack the glass on our car while the two others threw rocks at us.”A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 341, 336, 427, rioting and 135 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Alephata police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-arrest-four-for-attacking-gaurakshak-in-junnar-101619793708048.html
30-04-2021||Other||Dist admin monitoring movement of every oxygen tanker coming in to Pune||PUNE Though the positivity rate in Pune has decreased, the demand for medical oxygen is constantly increasing. Pune district has been allotted an additional oxygen quota from Jamnagar in Gujarat and Bellary in Karnataka, in addition to quotas from oxygen plants in Chakan. Ensuring timely arrival of oxygen tankers from Gujarat and Karnataka has become an additional task for the district administration. Currently, the demand for medical oxygen per day inPune district is 386.1 metric tonnes (MT). Pune Division’s total requirement of medical oxygen has reached 511.06 MT per day.“Oxygen demand has been increasing. As the oxygen supply has is coming from other states, we have to take care of the logistics. We are literally monitoring the movement of every oxygen tanker coming to Pune,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, collector, Pune.In January, the demand was for 67.0 MT per day in Pune district. “We are mulling an audit process and also asking hospitals to use medical oxygen judiciously. As the supply is limited, the demand has to be reduced. Hospitals are advised to use the step-down method,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune’s additional collector.The administration is also trying to step-up Pune’s capacity for oxygen production. Some plants which were closed are to be restarted. Also, building new oxygen plants at the main hospitals in the district has been proposed.Per-day oxygen demand in Pune division District-wise, all figures for last week of the monthPuneJanuary - 67.5 MTApril -386.1 MTSangliJanuary - 5.1 MTApril - 33.5 MTSataraJanuary - 3.2 MTApril - 31.1 MTSolapurJanuary - 6.8 MTApril - 44.2 MTKolhapurJanuary - 8 MTApril - 16 MT* Metric tonnes (MT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dist-admin-monitoring-movement-of-every-oxygen-tanker-coming-in-to-pune-101619793348092.html
30-04-2021||Other||Two minors apprehended for setting car on fire in Yerawada||PUNE Two minors have been apprehended by the Pune police for setting a woman’s car on fire in the early hours of Thursday.The boys were apprehended and produced in the Juvenile Justice Board on Friday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 38-year-old woman, who lives in the same locality as the minors.Her car was parked in an open ground located in Rajiv Gandhi nagar, Yerawada, according to her complaint. The car was set ablaze at around 3:45am on Thursday morning, the police said.The burnt car was a Swift Dzire and the damage caused was estimated to be around ₹3 lakh by the police.“The boys are teenagers who are known to be drug users who create ruckus in the area. Sometimes they fight among themselves and brawl. The complainant had told a local social worker to counsel them,” said sub -inspector Ravindrakumar Vanrangule of Yerawada police station, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 435 (mischief by fire or any explosive substance intending to cause property damage upwards of one hundred rupees); and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-minors-apprehended-for-setting-car-on-fire-in-yerawada-101619791607946.html
30-04-2021||Other||2 Nigerians held for cloning ATM card||PUNE: Two Nigerian nationals have been remanded to the custody of the Pune police’s cyber-crime cell on Friday, in a case of cloning of ATM cards. The police arrested the two men in the case after a man complained of having lost ₹1 lakh from his account without him conducting any transaction.The unauthorised transactions were done on three consecutive days at the same ATM in Kasarwadi, each between 6am and 8 am, according to the police.The two accused have been identified as Nnam Gabriel Chukwuebuka, who lives in Aundh, and was arrested on Thursday; while the other was identified as Bashir, alias Lucas William, alias Omoike Godson, who was staying in an Oyo facility in Rahatani, from where he was arrested on Friday.The police set a trap at the ATM on Thursday at 5:30am and arrested Chukwuebuka.After his arrest, Godson was found to have been earlier arrested by Pune cyber-crime cell in another case of card cloning. He is out on bail in that case.The two have been remanded to police custody until May 2, according to public prosecutor Kiran Bendbhar.The police have recovered four ATM cards from Chukwuebuka while they recovered 10 cards from Godson’s residence. Along with the cards, the police claim to have found a card reader, a software CD, and adhesive tapes in two colours.The two have been arrested in a case registered under Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 471, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c), and 66(d) of Information Technology Act at the cyber-police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-nigerians-held-for-cloning-atm-card-101619791307889.html
30-04-2021||Other||Chetan Tupe asks NCP’s state leadership to relieve him of city president’s post||PUNE Chetan Tupe, the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP), member of the legislative Assembly (MLA) from the Hadapsar constituency, wants to be relieved from the responsibility of Pune city president, a post her concurrently holds.He has written a letter to NCP state president Jayant Patil where he stated wanting more time to take care of his Hadapsar constituency, as the reason for wanting to step down.Tupe said, “I represent more than 0.5 million voters in my constituency, including farmers, slum dwellers, industrial labour, and residential townships. I don’t get enough time to tackle their problems as well as communicate with them. So, I have requested the party leaders to appoint a new city president and relieve me from the post.”Tupe was appointed as city president in August 2018. He was elected as MLA from Hadapsar constituency in October 2019. He is also a corporator in the PMC, representing Hadapasar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chetan-tupe-asks-ncp-s-state-leadership-to-relieve-him-of-city-president-s-post-101619790647838.html
30-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal announces partial lockdown amid Covid-19 surge, bans all gatherings||The West Bengal government on Friday imposed a partial lockdown amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in state. All shopping malls, beauty parlours, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas and swimming pools will remain closed in view of the Covid-19 curbs, a release issued by the government said. However, home delivery of items and online services will be allowed to function, it added.The curbs were imposed with immediate effect and will remain in place until further orders, the government said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageGatherings of all kinds, including those for social, cultural, academic or entertainment purposes will be banned, the release said, adding that markets will be open only from 7am to 10am and 3pm to 5pm on all days. Those places catering to essential services such as medical shops and grocery shops can remain open at times other than the specified time period, the release said. Anticipating a gathering on the day of counting of votes in the recently concluded assembly election, the government said all activities related to electoral counting processes and victory rallies will be held in accordance with the order issued in this regard by the Election Commission of India (ECI). Also Read: West Bengal adds record single-day Covid-19 deaths, 17,403 fresh cases"...while unnecessary congregation in the neighbourhoods of counting halls will also be discoutaged and restricted and will have to abide by the physical distancing norms and other Covid-appropriate behaviour. It has to be ensured that crowding/loitering near the counting venue is averted," the order read. West Bengal registered its highest single-day deaths of 89 people due to the virus on Thursday, pushing the toll to 11,248, according to the state health department. The Covid-19 tally topped the 8 lakh-mark to settle at 8,10,955 after 17,403 tested positive in the last 24 hours in the state, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-announces-partial-lockdown-amid-covid-19-surge-bans-all-gatherings-101619788710036.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||‘Over 700 staff on poll duty in UP lost battle to Covid-19’: Teachers’ body||Claiming that over 700 primary, upper primary school government teachers and other employees succumbed to Covid-19 after training and panchayat poll duty across the state since April 12, Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh has demanded that the counting of votes slated for May 2 should be deferred for now. The four-phase panchayat elections in the state were held between April 15 and April 29.In a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state election commission (SEC) on April 29, teachers’ association president Dinesh Chandra Sharma mentioned the names of all teachers who died after they contracted the infection when called for training and election duty.Minister of state (independent charge) for basic education, Satish Chandra Dwivedi was quick to react and said, “There’s no specific audit done by basic education department about the number of teachers’ death. It is wrong to say all those who were engaged in election duty died due to Covid. How do we know that teachers were not infected when they came for election duty? And how does anyone know that teachers, after returning from the election duty, got infected for some other reasons? It is also beyond any justification that teachers contracted infection during poll duty and succumbed to it.”“Government teachers alone were not doing election duty. There were people from other departments too. We don’t have any data on how teachers got infected and I don’t know how teachers’ association leader has prepared that list of 700 teachers and staff who succumbed to Covid,” the minister added. He further said if Sharma had written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it was up to the CM and the SEC to take a call on his demands.Sharma also claimed that in the last 2 to 3 weeks, he sent several letters to the chief minister and SEC to defer the election as several lives were lost. The teachers’ union leader said a maximum of 33 teachers died in Azamgarh district, 31 in Gorakhpur, 25 in Prayagraj and 20 each in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri districts. He said many of these lives could have been saved had the SEC taken note of his April 12 letter in which he pointed out that Covid protocol was not being followed during training.The issue drew a lot of attention after Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav took to Twitter on Thursday demanding compensation of ₹50 lakh each for those who lost their lives in panchayat polls.On Friday, Dwivedi criticised Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for her tweet on the issue. “You have a habit of deleting tweets on many occasions when they turn out to be wrong. You have done dirty politics on the basis of incorrect figures to scare people,” the minister tweeted.In a string of tweets, Dwivedi said, “The global pandemic has engulfed the life of every section of the society. Both PM Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath are leaving no stone unturned in fighting out the pandemic. Like every section, teachers are very important to us. We are committed to their safety.” The minister said it would be better if Priyanka Gandhi Vadra worried about Congress-ruled states like Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.Lucknow primary school teacher Ramesh Kumar Yadav, 28, was among those who died battling Covid-19. He was among the 69,000 teachers who had got the job when fresh recruitments of assistant teachers were made recently. The wait for the job had been a long over two years as the matter had reached court. “My brother passed away without getting his first salary,” said his eldest brother Suresh Kumar.Yadav was posted at primary school, Adampur, in Sultanpur in December last. As per his family, he contracted the infection during poll training and his condition worsened soon after election duty on April 19. Yadav had been eagerly looking forward to his first salary. He had plans to give a surprise gift to his wife, Nisha, who is inconsolable, as are his parents.On April 22, primary and secondary government teachers jointly carried out an online campaign on Twitter #PostponeUPElection to air their grievances against the panchayat polls, alleging that many of their fellow teachers contracted Covid infection during training and poll duty.With over 94K tweets, it was among the top trending hashtag as teachers from across the state participated in the campaign, urging the state government to call off the three-tier panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-700-staff-on-poll-duty-in-up-lost-battle-to-covid-19-teachers-body-101619788548468.html
30-04-2021||Pune||PMC to turn ten school buses into hearses||Due to the shortage of hearses, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be converting ten school buses into hearse vans amid a spike in Covid cases and deaths.The required changes will be made to the bus for its functioning as hearses, said, officials.Recently, PMC requested the regional transport office, and it has been decided that the buses which are non-functional for over a year due to the closure of schools, will be used for the purpose.As hearse vans are not available, in some cases, people are forced to carry dead bodies to crematoriums in their private vehicles. With ambulance charging more than regular rates, the civic body has decided to use private old school buses and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) school buses.“With the surge in death rate, many people are not able to get hearse vans on time or have to wait for a long time. If they hire an ambulance service, they have to shell out more money. It is important for PMC to have other options,” said an officer from the health department on the request of anonymity.“The buses will be used either as ambulances or hearses, as per requirement. The drivers union have also supported the cause. Last year many were not willing to come voluntarily, but this time all have agreed,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer.PMC will pay service charges to drivers and provide PPE kits.PMPML has already provided six “Pushpak Shavahinis” (hearses), which are taking bodies to crematoriums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-turn-ten-school-buses-into-hearses-101619786208331.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Pune mayor claims 25 ventilators received by Sassoon under PM-Cares fund lying unused||Mayor Muralidhar Mohol has alleged 25 ventilators given to Sassoon general hospital under PM-Cares fund eight months back are lying unused.Mohol said, a team from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) repaired the minor faults in the ventilators, and 21 out of 25 were made operational within eight days.“During the Covid review meeting, the dean of Sassoon hospital claimed that 25 ventilators which they received through the PM-Cares fund, are not operational. At least eight months back, Sassoon had received 25 ventilators, and PMC had received 35 ventilators. The 34 ventilators are operational in PMC hospitals. Why can’t Sassoon use them? Mohol said.“I went to Sassoon and brought them under PMC’s custody. Our team has repaired them. Eight of them have already been dispatched to ASI hospital run by PMC in Bibwewadi,” he said.The ventilators from Sassoon are kept in a facility on the premises of Naidu Hospital.Officials of Sassoon hospital, however, have refuted claims about ventilators lying unused. Dr Muralidhar Tambe, dean of Sassoon Hospital, said, “We welcome the efforts taken by the mayor in getting the ventilators repaired. We have also repaired them multiple times. Because of the heavy load of patients, there were repeated breakdowns with those ventilators, so we have to repair them multiple times.”According to Dr Tambe, initially, service engineers were afraid to come to Sassoon because of the fear of contracting Covid. “The spare parts were not easily available. We had extra ventilators which we put to use. Due to the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, we had an adequate number of new high-end ventilators in the past year. Hence, there was never a shortage of ventilators in Sassoon hospital,” he said.Currently, there are 684 beds allocated in Sassoon hospital only for Covid patients. Out of which 521 are oxygenated beds, 22 are ICU beds without a ventilator, and 102 are ICU beds with ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-mayor-claims-25-ventilators-received-by-sassoon-under-pm-cares-fund-lying-unused-101619786028304.html
30-04-2021||Other||Goa chief minister says no to lockdown, doctors call for extension of curbs||With Goa’s positivity rate going through the roof, crossing 50% on Thursday evening just as a weekend lockdown introduced by the Goa government comes into effect, doctors under the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have called on the Goa government to extend the lockdown-like guidelines for another two weeks or until the positivity rate comes down to around 10%, HT has learnt. “[The] IMA would be in favour of a similar lockdown for at least 15 days from Monday, May 3, 2021, or till the positivity rate comes down from the existing 50% to 10%. Healthcare will be able to manage with a lower positivity rate to decrease mortality,” a statement issued by the IMA state president Dr Vinayak Buvaji, said. The doctors have said such a move would decrease the tremendous workload on the already compromised health system to some extent at both private as well as government establishments. The IMA said that last year’s lockdown did not prove to be detrimental to normal living and was a “calculated” measure. At present, Goa has 20,898 active Covid-19 cases, while 1,146 people have died in the state after contracting the disease. The state has been recording more than 3,000 fresh cases each day for the last few days while more than two dozen people are succumbing to the disease daily. The Goa government announced a three-day lockdown over the weekend with an exception to all essentials services until Monday. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has however ruled out extending the lockdown for now. “I want to assure the people of the state that there will definitely not be an extension in the lockdown for now,” Sawant told the media on Friday. Migrant workers had begun to leave the state en masse after the announcement of the lockdown fearing a repeat of last year in which the harsh lockdown and lack of transport to their hometowns left many stranded and hungry. On Thursday evening, Goa recorded 3,019 fresh Covid cases of the 5,910 tests conducted, throwing up a positivity rate of 51% - the highest the state has recorded till date. The state’s Covid-19 facilities have already run out of beds leaving patients having to wait several hours before beds are made available. Hospital wards are having to deal with more patients than they have the capacity for with patients having to sleep on stretchers and chairs. The Goa Medical College, the state’s premier medical institute has converted its examination hall into a covid ward to help accommodate additional 150 beds. “Even on this day, there are beds available. People should not panic. We are augmenting facilities and in the next four days, another 400 oxygen beds will be made available including an ICU with 150 beds,” CM Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-chief-minister-says-no-to-lockdown-doctors-call-for-extension-of-curbs-101619784408212.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi nurses demand reserved beds for themselves, their families||Staff associations of several hospitals in the national Capital have demanded reserved beds for themselves and their family members, who test positive for Covid-19, as infections continue to multiply in Delhi.The All-India Government Nurses’ Federation on Thursday wrote to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital requesting the authorities to make a “firm policy” for admission of nurses and their family members, after the relatives of two nurses at the hospital died for the want of treatment.At least two nurses and a technician at Lok Nayak Hospital succumbed to the infection this week.According to the federation, over 250 nursing and technical staff members of RML Hospital have tested Covid-19 positive at their hospital in the past month. Similarly, the nursing staff at GTB Hospital said over 150 nurses and frontline workers have contracted Covid in the past few weeks.In a letter addressed to the RML Hospital medical superintendent Rana AK Singh, the federation on Thursday alleged that sick nurses and their immediate family members were being denied admissions.“You are requested to make a proper and firm policy for admission of nurses and their family members. Some separate space/floor should be allocated for this purpose. Their lives are also equally important to run the hospital in the future. We cannot afford to lose a single nurse in this battle with corona as there is already a shortage of nurses in the health care system. You are requested to look into the matter seriously and make necessary arrangements for nurses at the earliest,” GK Khurana, the secretary-general of the federation, said in his letter.Earlier on Tuesday, the Union ministry of health directed the three central government hospitals in Delhi - including RML and Safdarjung -- to ensure that health care workers who contract Covid-19 are provided immediate treatment.A member of the RML Nursing Union, who wished not to be named, said, “Although RML Hospital issued an order regarding prioritising staff’s treatment earlier, it has not been implemented yet. On Tuesday, a nurse, who is Covid positive, had to spend a night there to admit her mother who is also infected with the virus. She had to run from ward to ward looking for a bed for her mother, even as she herself grew weaker.”“The hospital should allot some separate space or floor for the staff members immediately,” she added.Despite repeated attempts, Singh did not respond to calls and texts sent for comment.On Wednesday, a nursing officer at GTB Hospital wrote to their medical superintendent raising the same concern. He alleged that an unwell nursing officer was not allowed to transfer to his ward despite a bed being available on Wednesday night and was asked to produce a letter from the chief medical officer (CMO). “We request you to prioritise health workers and their dependents for admission in our hospital... if health care workers are not allowed admissions, then why are we working as front-line warriors,” he said in the letter.Dr Anil Jain, the in-charge of all Covid-19 related management at GTB Hospital, did not respond to calls and texts seeking comment.Meanwhile, the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday issued an order clarifying that hospital staff will be admitted at their facility and no permission from the administration was necessary. “It is again clarified that all employees, doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, and health care workers of Lok Nayak Hospital, including their parents, must be admitted without any permission from the hospital administration or CMO or CCMO,” said medical director Suresh Kumar in the order. At least three nurses at Lok Nayak have succumbed to the infection in the past three weeks, hospital officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-nurses-demand-reserved-beds-for-themselves-their-families-101619783929002.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Defer byelections to Mandi LS, Fatehpur assembly seats: BJP||The Himachal Pradesh BJP will urge the Election Commission to defer the by-elections in the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Vidhan Sabha constituencies amid the Covid-19 pandemic. This was decided at the BJP legislature party meeting, presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, in Shimla on Thursday evening. Also read: Why don’t you buy 100% of Covid-19 vaccines: SC’s 10 questions to CentreThe byelection in Mandi was necessitated after sitting member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma was found dead at his official residence in Delhi on March 17. The Fatehpur assembly seat fell vacant after Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania died after a prolonged illness on February 12. All legislators agreed to the chief minister’s suggestion to send a proposal to the BJP high command and the Election Commission to postpone the byelections. “We would request to relax the constitutional binding of holding the elections within six months regarding which the ECI is empowered to take a decision,” Thakur said. Lockdown should be last resort: MLAs The chief minister also sought views of BJP MLAs on the Covid-19 situation in the state. The MLAs were unanimous that a lockdown should be the last resort as it would hit the economy. However, they said, the government may decide in this regard if the situation doesn’t improve. The MLAs suggested better coordination between the government and the party to deal with the pandemic. Some legislators suggested that the government should take the representatives of Beopar Mandals into confidence and regulate timings and curbs in bazaars. “Legislators should help in providing relief, including essential items, to people. They should help transport patients to hospitals and spread awareness to prevent the spread,” he said. The chief minister also took feedback on the ongoing vaccination drive in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defer-byelections-to-mandi-ls-fatehpur-assembly-seats-bjp-101619783268249.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hardline Sikh leaders felicitate ex-IG for probe into 2015 police firing cases||Hardline Sikh organisations on Friday honoured former Punjab Police inspector general Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh with a gold medal and siropa (robe of honour) outside Golden Temple for his role in investigating the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases of 2015 that left two Sikh protesters dead. Sikh preacher and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal, who played a key role in felicitating the former IPS officer, and representatives of Sikh organisations, including Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), United Akali Dal (UAD), Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), Shiromani Akali Dal-Delhi (Sarna faction), Sikh Youth Federation (Bhindranwala) and some Nihang organisations gathered in the verandah in front of the main entrance of the holiest Sikh shrine, to do the honours despite Covid-19 restrictions that don’t allow more than 20 people to assemble. Also read: Why don’t you buy 100% of Covid-19 vaccines: SC’s 10 questions to CentreAddressing the gathering, Daduwal said, “Being a fearless police officer, Kunwar Vijay investigated the case with honesty and impartiality. Unfortunately, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the report, giving respite to the accused, including senior police officials. Though the Sikhs have been deprived of justice with the quashing of the probe, they are happy over the role played by Kunwar Vijay. We wanted to honour him by calling a big Panthic gathering but it was possible due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. This honour is on behalf of all Sikh organisations.” Expressing gratitude, Kunwar Vijay said, “I did my best to bring the culprits to justice and did not bother about my job as it was a matter of the Guru’s sacrilege.” He had led the Punjab government-constituted special investigation team (SIT) but opted for voluntary retirement on April 11, two days after the high court quashed his report, directing the state government to reconstitute a new SIT without him on board. Other Sikh organisation leaders also praised his role in their speeches. They attacked Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal over the 2015 incidents. SAD (Democratic) leaders Bhai Mohkam Singh, Manjit Singh Bhoma, SAD(A) leader Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala, former MLA Ravinder Singh Brahmpura, UAD leader Gurdeep Singh Bathinda, Sikh Youth Federation Bhindranwala president Balwant Singh Gopala, Sarna group leader Harjot Singh Sandhu and former Golden Temple priest Bhai Balbir Singh, who denied Parkash Singh Badal a ‘siropa’ inside Golden Temple, were present on the occasion. Meanwhile, a group of Sikh activists also protested the honour of Kunwar Vijay, alleging that he had given the clean chit to police officers who played a role in the firing incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hardline-sikh-leaders-felicitate-ex-ig-for-probe-into-2015-police-firing-cases-101619782908067.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||UP records single-day 332 Covid-19 deaths; 34,626 more test positive||A record single-day 332 Covid-19 deaths were reported in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, pushing the fatality count in the state to 12,570, while the total number of cases mounted to 12,52,324 with 34,626 more people testing positive for the disease.A total of 32,494 people recovered from coronavirus in the past 24 hours. The active cases in the state now stand at 3,10,783So far, 9,28,971 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in the state, Additional Chief Secretary Amit Mohan Prasad told reportersMore than 2.44 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, which included over 1.08 lakh RTPCR tests, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to over 4.07 crore, the highest in the country, Prasad said.Among the active cases, 2.43 lakh are in home isolation, he said.About the need of a Chief Medical Officer’s (CMO) referral letter for getting admission in hospitals, Prasad that it was not required and a government order clarifying it has already been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-single-day-332-covid-19-deaths-34-626-more-test-positive-101619782236539.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Group Captain DP Apte (retd) , dies due to Covid in Pune||PUNE Group Captain (Retd) DP Apte, advisor and former pro-vice-chancellor of MIT World Peace University died due to Covid-related infection on Thursday.He was 67 and is survived by his wife, son, daughter and grandchildren.Apte, according to his colleagues, had distinguished service of 25 years as engineer-manager-leader in India Air Force (IAF). He retired from IAF in the year 2002 when he was commanding officer of the ‘Central servicing development organisation’ of IAF, one of the premier technology unit. Since 2003 he worked as a professor at various institutes of MIT Group.He served as the registrar of the university before being appointed as the pro-vice-chancellor until his retirement recently. Post-retirement he served as the advisor to MIT World Peace University. He authored about 15 books on various topics.Prof Dr Vishwanath D Karad, president, MIT World Peace University, founder and chief patron, MAEER’s MIT, Pune and Rahul V Karad, managing trustee and executive president, MAEER’s MIT and executive president, MIT World Peace University paid their tribute to Apte.Vishwanath Karad said, “He was my student. He had tremendous potential, knowledge and skill which he showcased at every stage of his life. He dedicatedly served his country and later played an important role in build the institution. His passing away has affected us deeply and we pay our truest tribute to him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/group-captain-dp-apte-retd-dies-due-to-covid-in-pune-101619782428288.html
30-04-2021||Other||Kerala HC takes up matter of robbery and assault on female train passenger||The Kerala High Court on Friday took up the matter relating to the attack on a Kerala woman travelling by train two days back. The court, which took the case suo motu, sent notices to the railways and state government, HT has learnt.According to officials, the 31-year-old woman boarded the Guruvayur-Punalur passenger train from Mulanthuruthy (Ernakulam district) on Wednesday morning. She told the police that in a hurry she boarded a coach which was completely empty. She suffered serious injuries jumping off the moving train to escape sexual assault and robbery. Some locals saw her jumping from the train and rushed her to the nearest hospital.“I dropped her at the railway station in the morning. She told us everything happened in just five minutes. Her condition is stable now,” said her husband, adding that she used to take the train regularly to travel to her workplace in Chengannur.The police have identified the assailant as Babu Kuttan, a serial offender who was released from jail a couple of months back. The woman told the police that shortly after she boarded the train a man came running and leapt into the compartment. While she was talking to her sister on her mobile phone, she noticed the man closing all doors of the compartment. She said the man came towards her, snatched her gold chain and threw her mobile phone out of the window.The woman said when she refused to part with her earrings and bangles, the assailant threatened her with a screwdriver and dragged her to the nearby bathroom. After the scuffle, she managed to open the door and tried to alight from the moving train. She said she clung to the door of the moving train for a while before losing the grip and fell on the tracks. She reportedly recognised the offender from the album of the history-sheeters. The latest incident has triggered outrage and raised questions on women safety in trains and other public transport systems. The state women commission has also registered a case. The railway protection force has registered a case under many sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 376 of the IPC (rape) and recovered her mobile phone later. The assailant escaped with her chain and wallet.Ten years ago, a similar incident took place on the Ernakulam-Shornur passenger train. A 23-year-old salesgirl, who was alone in the ladies compartment, was robbed and later raped by a vagabond named Govindachami. Thrown out of the moving train, the victim eventually succumbed to her injuries. Govindachami was sentenced to death by the trial court. The Supreme Court later commuted his sentence to life-term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-takes-up-matter-of-robbery-and-assault-on-female-train-passenger-101619781708121.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Meant for CSWs in Pune, Rs7.94 crore released by govt lands in different hands||PUNE Part of an amount of ₹7.94 crore, released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to commercial sex workers (CSW) in Pune, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, has been misappropriated. At least some of the funds have gone to the bank accounts of women who are not CSWs living in Annabhau Sathe Nagar, Tarawade vasti, Mohammadwadi. Meanwhile, some CSWs in Pune have been waiting for the funds now for almost one year. What appears to be a major goof-up, or a scam, only came to light after women from the vasti who received the money came forward to return it, as they are not, not have ever been, CSWs. On April 29, Nitin Pawar, president, Hamal Panchayat Samiti and Akhil Bharatiya Bahujan Sena, along with the NGO Saheli and the National Network of Sex Workers presented a statement to the district collector informing him of the misuse of the funds. According to Pawar, the women from Tarawade vasti were made to sign a consent form by members of an “unknown NGO”. “Since most of the women are illiterate, and working as waste pickers and maids, they simply signed the consent forms, gave copies of their Aadhar cards and bank passbooks, and paid an additional ₹200 for the service,” said Pawar. “Nine women received ₹15,000 for three months. The women are angry and want to return the money to the government as they are not sex workers. We have helped them lodge a police complaint,” said Tejasvi Sevekari, director, Saheli. As per the state government, an amount of ₹7.94 crore has been transferred to 5,296 bank accounts allegedly belonging to commercial sex workers in Pune. “On April 28, 2021, the government deposited an amount of ₹7.94 crore in 5,296 bank accounts of commercial sex workers who have been rescued from the flesh trade and who lost their livelihood, and have families and children, amidst the Covid-19 crisi,” confirmed Ashwini Kamble, Women and Child welfare officer, Pune district. The state released the money based on a Supreme Court order, dated September 21, 2020, that victims of the flesh trade be compensated by the administration with assistance like provision of foodgrains and cash. The court ruled that no documentary proof must be taken from victims while delivering the welfare measures and sops. VM, a sex worker and community leader in Pune, said, “We have been waiting for this money for almost a year and this money was meant for us. This is fraud. There is no transparency in the way things are done by the government.” Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh had constituted a committee to provide financial assistance to CSWs, with a welfare officer designated as its secretary. The committee visited the red-light areas, interacted with bonafide NGOs working there and deposited Rs5,000 per month in the accounts of rescued victims, and an additional ₹2,500 in the accounts of those who had children and families.  ₹11.26 crore was made available from the CM’s relief fund from October to December 2020. Deshmukh said that he had issued immediate orders for the financial assistance which took place in two phases. Manisha Edke is one of the 20 women who returned the money to the government. “I work as a maid and I would rather have my hard-earned money than government giveaways. They were meant for those working in the sex trade. My husband read the news on his mobile phone and we realised that the Rs15000 that we got were wrongly given to us. I would rather live with dignity and earn my money than take free funds from the government.” The group of women met Upper District Magistrate Jayashree Katare and handed her a statement about the incident. “It does not seem to be appropriate for hardworking women who empathise with their sisters without prejudice. It is also a step towards our self-esteem to be named in the list of women doing this business. So we are returning this money. It should be accepted and the names of these women in the scheme should be reduced from the beneficiary scheme. This grant, which is being given without any verification, should be thoroughly investigated,” said Nitin Waghmare. He demanded strict punishment for the culprits as they also lodged a complaint at Wanowrie Police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/meant-for-csws-in-pune-rs7-94-crore-released-by-govt-lands-in-different-hands-101619780880456.html
30-04-2021||Other||Bihar’s Darbhanga dist administration launches Covid bulletin app||The Darbhanga administration has launched a mobile application -- Covid Bulletin -- to provide information about patients in the Covid ward of Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).An initiative of Darbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagrajan SM, the application is available on google play store.The DM said Covid Bulletin App has been made available for the convenience of patients and their attendants. Now families can find out the medical condition of their Covid patients at DMCH. One needs to enter one’s registered mobile number to find out the status update of the patients admitted in the Covid ward. It shows the pulse, temperature, SP O2 level and also identifies the doctors on duty.An attendant outside a ward or those who are out of station can avail information about their patient with the help of the app. Besides, the app also enables district administration to monitor the total number of patients, and the serious ones among them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihars-darbhanga-dist-administration-launches-covid-bulletin-app-101619780447999.html
30-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh reports 12,762 Covid-19 cases, 95 fatalities||Madhya Pradesh reported 12,762 fresh Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths on Thursday, the state health department informed.The Covid tally in the state has reached 5,50,927, out of which 4,53,331 people have recovered from the disease.According to the health department, as many as 59,388 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate in the state is at 21.4 per cent.There are 4,92,276 active Covid-19 cases in the state. The death toll due to Covid-19 has mounted to 5,519.Out of 8,998 fresh Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, 1,789 new cases were reported in Indore, while 1,811 new cases were reported in Bhopal.Meanwhile, India once again recorded the highest single-day surge of Covid-19 infections, registering 3,79,257 new cases along with 3,645 deaths and 2,69,507 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Total active cases of the infection in India have now mounted to 30,84,814. The cumulative count of the Covid-19 has gone up to 1,83,76,524, while as many as 2,04,832 people have succumbed to the disease so far. A total of 1,50,86,878 people have recovered from the disease till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-reports-12-762-covid-19-cases-95-fatalities-101619778016292.html
30-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt announces special package for oxygen production plants||To prevent high number of casualties from Covid-19, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced a special package for the setting up of medical oxygen production plants with various incentives and facilities.According to the official release, the decision is aimed to overcome the medical oxygen shortage caused by the Covid-19 epidemic in the state.To get the advantage of the package, an investment of ₹1 crore will be required and the plant will have to generate oxygen by September 30, 2021."Under the package, these entrepreneurs will be exempted from the regulatory approvals and inspections for three years as per the provisions of the MSME Act, 2019," the release reads.The state government will also help in getting necessary approvals from the central government, and an early connection of electricity and water will be provided."Similarly, up to 25 percent of the expenditure on plant, machinery and other equipment (maximum ₹50 lakhs) will be given in two installments as a capital grant," it added.Earlier, Rajasthan government has made a special allocation to ensure that all those people who die of Covid-19 get respectable last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-announces-special-package-for-oxygen-production-plants-101619777222151.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||India's image 'tarnished' due to Centre's Covid 'mismanagement': Akhilesh Yadav||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday hit out at the Centre for the 'mismanagement' of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the country's image had been 'tarnished'.In a tweet, Yadav pointed out that international newspapers had been reporting about the increasing number of Covid-related deaths in the country."Because of the mismanagement of the BJP government, Covid-deaths are being reported in newspapers and magazines around the world and our country's global image has been tarnished," the SP leader tweeted in Hindi.He added, "People who lie publicly will now confiscate the property of those publications or impose sanctions on them."Uttar Pradesh is one of the states worst-hit by Covid-19 in the country. As per the Union health ministry, there are currently 3,09,237 active cases in the state and 8,96,477 recoveries and 12,238 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indias-image-tarnished-due-to-centre-s-covid-mismanagement-akhilesh-yadav-101619773537070.html
30-04-2021||Patna||Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh dies while undergoing Covid-19 treatment||Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh passed away at a hospital in Patna on Friday. He was undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the hospital.Singh was appointed as the chief secretary of Bihar on February 28, 2021, days after Janata Dal-United chief Nitish Kumar won the assembly elections in the state. He was a 1985-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and had replaced senior IAS officer Deepak Kumar.Social welfare minister Madan Sahni, additional chief secretary home Chaitanya Prasad and principal secretary finance S Siddarth are among the long list of leaders infected with the virus in Bihar.The state currently has 1,00,822 active cases of coronavirus and 2,480 people have died due to the disease so far, according to the state health bulletin.Meanwhile, India on Friday recorded 386,452 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 3498 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. With this, the total infection tally reached 1,87,62,976 and the death toll was pushed to 2,08,330.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-chief-secretary-arun-kumar-singh-dies-while-undergoing-covid-19-treatment-101619772896799.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G Anil Baijal tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has tested positive for Covid-19 and has isolated himself at his residence.“I have tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested. Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence,” the L-G said in a tweet.Also Read | TV news anchor Rohit Sardana succumbs to Covid-19The second wave of Covid-19 is raging in the Capital, leaving the national Capital’s healthcare system overburdened and people scrambling for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen support. Last week , chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had briefly isolated himself after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive.The national Capital has been recording over 25,000 cases for the past few days and a positivity rate of around 30℅. Experts have said that the positivity rate must be less than 5℅ in order to contain the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-anil-baijal-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619775407739.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt allows its hospitals to hire doctors, nurses, including retired staff||The Delhi government has allowed all its hospitals to hire doctors, nurses, and other staff, including those who have retired, to take care of critically ill patients as the city continues reporting a high number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.Nearly 24,000 cases have been reported on an average each day during the last seven days in Delhi. The city has just over 21,000 beds earmarked for the treatment of patients with the viral infection, of which nearly 20,000 beds are already occupied, as per the government’s Delhi Corona app.The government has allowed all heads of hospitals to hire retired specialists, consultants, dental or AYUSH practitioners, nurses and nursing orderlies at a fixed monthly honorarium for a period of six months. The salary will range from ₹140,000 for specialists to ₹20,250 for a nursing orderly, as per the order by the officer on special duty (health and family welfare) Ashish Chandra Verma.Also Read | 5 arrested for handing out fake Covid test reports in DelhiIn addition, the hospitals can also hire other working specialists, consultants, medical students, nurses, and security guards for a period of three months, as per their need. Any such staff will be paid ₹15,000 per shift for a consultant to ₹800 for a security guard, the second order said.With intensive care units in the city running full, the government has decided to set up 1,200 makeshift ICU beds just like the DRDO facility. “All ICU beds are full. The Central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] facility in Delhi Cantt, but all beds got filled in just three hours,” Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-allows-its-hospitals-to-hire-retired-staff-101619774927697.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Four cops injured as farmers break barricades during tractor march in Patiala||Four policemen were injured when farmers broke through barricades while taking out a tractor march to New Moti Bagh Palace, the residence of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in Patiala on Friday in protest against the land acquisition for the Delhi-Katra expressway project. The farmers, who did not observe the Covid-19 protocol of maintaining social distance or wearing masks, arrived in the city from different parts of the state and marched towards the chief minister’s residence. The heavy police deployment could not restrict the farmers as they broke barricades and blocked roads leading to Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. Also read: Will treat action against social media Covid appeals as ‘contempt of court’: SCFour policemen were injured when the farmers broke the barricades near the local Officers’ Colony. The district police spokesperson said, “Members of the Delhi-Katra Expressway Sangharsh Committee led by Harmanpreet Singh Jeji, Jagjeet Singh Galoli and others provoked the protesters to break barricades and attack police personnel. They tried to run over their tractor- trolleys on police officials, seriously injuring four police personnel.” The four police personnel were identified as Randhir Singh, Bhola Singh, Jasveer Singh and Gurmeet Kaur .They were admitted at the local Government Rajindra Hospital.Superintendent of police, city, Varun Sharma said the police were managing the law and order situation. “It is too early to say about any action against the protesters. We will surely act according to the law once we control the situation,” he said. The protesters want the state government to immediately stop the land acquisition process till the Centre resolves the issue of the farm laws against which farmers have been protesting on Delhi borders. They also demanded that the government revise the rates for land acquisition so that farmers get lucrative offers for selling their land. Struggle for better compensation Ramesh Dalal, the president of the Bharat Bhumi Bachao Sangharsh Committee, also reached the spot and joined protest. Harmanpreet Singh Jeji, the coordinator of the Delhi-Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said that the farmers have been protesting peacefully for the past five months, but the state government has not heeded to their demands. “The state government should stop playing in the hands of the Centre in acquiring land for the project,” he said. He said that the government had called the farmers for a meeting several times in which they were assured that the acquisition process will be stopped temporarily. “A discussion was also held on compensation, on which we were told that the competent authority will award handsome compensation per acre,” he said. The National Highway Authority of India had initially come up with a compensation of ₹9.67 lakh per acre, but later farmers were offered ₹18 lakh. However, after the state government implemented the multiplication factor for land acquisition, many farmers were offered ₹55 lakh More than 200 villages in Patiala, Sangrur, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot have already passed a resolution not to give their land for the project. In January, aiming to break the deadlock over the issue, the state government notified the new multiplication factor (with which market value is to be multiplied) under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, but the issue remains unresolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-of-farmers-take-out-tractor-march-choke-patiala-101619774867804.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||5 arrested for handing out fake Covid test reports in Delhi||Five people, including two lab technicians, and an application scientist working at a laboratory carrying out Covid-19 tests, have been arrested for allegedly giving fake test reports, the Delhi Police said on Friday.According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the alleged scamsters dished out at least 400 fake test results after beginning this fraud on April 23.The complainant belongs to a large family in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension. Forty-five members of this extended family gave their samples for Covid-19 testing, but each of them was given a false result, said the DCP.It began late this month when 44 members of this family got themselves tested by two technicians of this lab over a period of a few days. Some of them were given positive results, other negative, the DCP said, adding that the exact count of either results was yet to be ascertained.Also Read | Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, AAP MLA demands President’s rule in DelhiOne of the members of this family, Rishab Shukla, got a positive result on Monday. “But Shukla didn’t have any symptoms so he decided to get himself tested at another lab on Wednesday. This time his result arrived negative,” said the DCP.Shukla then decided to check with the first lab and visited their centre on Thursday to learn that his sample never reached them and was nowhere on their records.The police were eventually contacted.The police registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy at Malviya Nagar police station and probed the case to arrest five persons.According to the DCP, two lab technicians were taking the help of an application scientist of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre to prepare fake Covid reports and give them to the patients.They were allegedly using the letter pad of the lab to issue these fake reports.The other two persons arrested were “colleagues” of the application scientist, the DCP said.Responding on the development, Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said, “On being approached by few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge for an investigation of what seemed to be a fake report issue”.“On police investigations requested by us, five of our employees were identified to be a party to this crime without the knowledge of the lab management or lab head,” said Kohli.“We are not just disappointed but disgusted by this act of malice for a few rupees putting the lives of patients at risk. We’re in full compliance with the investigating authorities and support any and every action taken against them,” he said.“All our reports have a QR code which can be easily used to check the authenticity of reports. We reiterate our commitment to the service of the nation during this pandemic and assure testing with integrity and quality,” Kohli added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-arrested-for-handing-out-fake-covid-test-reports-in-delhi-101619774267886.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai daily Covid positivity rate hits single digit after 45 days||Mumbai’s daily Covid positivity rate has hit single digit on Friday after 45 days. According to the BMC officials, the city’s daily positivity rate reported was 9.94%.Positivity rate is the number of Covid-19 cases as a percentage of the total tests done in the city.According to preliminary figures released by the BMC on Friday, 43,525 tests were held in the city of which 4,328 samples tested positive, which means a positive rate is 9.94%. However, these are preliminary figures and are subject to change by evening when BMC releases daily figures after filtering out duplications in the data.The city’s positivity rate had come close to this figure last on March 13 when Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 9.48% after which went up to 15% around March 20.Also Read | Will start vaccination for 18+ only with 2.5 mn doses in hand: MaharashtraIn April, the city positivity rate reached up to 27%. The city’s highest-ever positivity rate was reported to be 27.94% on April 4. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,380,473 tests. The overall positivity rate is 11.9%.In the past few days, the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been on the decline. The highest number of cases reported in the city so far was 11,206 on April 4.By mid-April, Mumbai was reporting on an average 7,000-8,000 cases a day. On April 15, it reported 8,209 Covid-19 cases, which dropped to 5,867 cases on April 24. These further dropped to 3,840 on April 26.Commenting on the drop, BMC municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Around 44,00 have tested. Out of these, 85% cases are asymptomatic. Perhaps Mumbai is the only city in India with single digit positivity even with high testing.”Meanwhile, according to the health department data, Mumbai has 644,583 cases while its death toll is 13,036.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-daily-covid-positivity-rate-hits-single-digit-after-45-days-101619773187850.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, AAP MLA demands President's rule in Delhi||AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal on Friday demanded imposition of President's rule in Delhi in view of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases.The Matia Mahal MLA, who left the Congress and contested the Delhi Assembly polls last year on an AAP ticket, said neither him nor the government is able to offer any help to the people affected by the second wave of Covid-19.No immediate reaction was available from the Aam Aadmi Party on Iqbal's demand.WATCH: Why this AAP MLA is demanding President's rule in Delhi﻿"I feel embarrassed being an MLA since I cannot be of use to anyone, our government is unable to stand with the people. Despite being a six-time MLA, there is no one to listen to(me) and I cannot contact anyone," Iqbal said in a video message.He urged the Delhi High Court to impose the President's rule in the national capital with immediate effect for three months."Delhi is in a very bad situation, I request the Delhi High Court for imposition of President's rule in Delhi with immediate effect otherwise there will be dead bodies across the city," the AAP MLA said."I feel like crying, I have lost my sleep. People are desperate and unable to find medicines and oxygen. I cannot help even a friend who is in hospital without oxygen and medicines," Iqbal said.The national capital on Thursday had recorded 395 deaths due to coronavirus, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, and 24,235 cases with a positivity rate of 32.82 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the city health department.This was the eighth day in a row that Delhi had recorded over 300 deaths due to Covid-19.Iqbal said his demand for the President's rule was not against his party."It's not a matter of this or that party. People are dying due to Covid-19 and saving them should be the only priority," he told PTI.“If the Centre can accept help from other nations, then why can't there be President's rule or use of the Army to save people?" the MLA asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-aap-mla-demands-president-s-rule-in-delhi-101619767644899.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Vaccine drive for 18+ not to start in Delhi from May 1: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said Delhi will not launch its vaccine drive for those between 18-44 years from Saturday and urged people not visit any centres as of now as it may lead to a law and order situation and flouting of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the Delhi government will formally announce a date of launch for the mega vaccination drive. He said as on Friday, Delhi has no doses to vaccinate those between 18 years and 44 years. “The vaccines have not reached us till now. We are in touch with the manufacturers and the first batch of 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine is likely to arrive in a day or two. Hence, I request people not to throng vaccination centres. Once we receive the doses, I will formally announce the date of launch of the mega vaccination drive,” he said. The chief minister said that the Delhi government will procure 13.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines over the next three months. He said, of the 13.4 million doses, the Delhi government will procure 67,00,000 doses from Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme. The other half (67,00,000) of the doses will be procured from Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin. Also Read | Delhi’s fake remdesivir injection racket: Two more arrested in Uttarakhand“Our target is to vaccinate everyone in Delhi in three months. From our end, we have planned it all out in terms of increasing the number of centres and the support staff required. However, a lot also depends on whether the manufacturers are able to send us the doses in a timely manner without any delay. These 13.4 million doses will come over a period of three months and we have asked both the manufacturers for their schedules on supply of the demanded doses,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister once again urged everyone not to crowd vaccination centres from Friday. Senior government officials said neither government centres nor private centres are going to open vaccination for those between 18-44 from Saturday. SII is offering its doses at ₹150 for the Centre, ₹300 for state governments, and ₹600 for the private sector. Bharat Biotech is offering its vaccine for ₹150 per dose to the Centre, ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1,200 to private hospitals.Hospitals have been asked to return all remaining doses provided by the government — for the current vaccination drive meant for 45 and above — after Friday’s vaccination and purchase their own shots.However, private hospitals in Delhi said both vaccine manufacturers have given long waiting periods to facilities that tried to procure doses independently. The manufacturers have conveyed to these private hospitals that they would first meet the orders placed by state governments and then honour the orders placed by private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-drive-for-18-not-to-start-in-delhi-from-may-1-kejriwal-101619766948175.html
30-04-2021||Other||Couple found hanging after wife tests Covid positive in Odisha’s Nayagarh||A middle-aged woman was found hanging along with her husband at their home in Odisha’s Nayagarh district two days after she tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, police said. The husband’s Covid-19 report said he was Covid-19 negative as the couple was under home quarantine while their son is undergoing treatment for the disease at a hospital.“The couple’s son, who works in Puri, is under treatment at a hospital there after testing Covid positive. After the son tested positive, the couple gave their samples at the local community health centre for testing. Though both of them had Covid-like symptoms, only the woman’s sample tested positive,” said Jyoti Prakash Panda, a local police officer. Panda quoted their neighbours saying the couple was under great stress since their son was hospitalised. “As per local villagers, the couple was depressed after one of them tested positive. In rural areas, Covid is still considered a stigma.”A 66-year-old Covid-19 patient’s body was earlier last week abandoned for over 20 hours after villagers refused to help the family with his cremation in Odisha’s Bargarh district.Odisha on Friday reported its all-time highest single-day Covid count of 8,681 cases. The active cases in the state have now surged to 61,698, which is 50% more than the number during last year’s peak of 39,184 on September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-found-hanging-after-wife-tests-covid-positive-in-odisha-s-nayagarh-101619765327149.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||‘Don’t queue up outside Covid-19 vaccination centres tomorrow, stock will arrive in 1-2 days’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged people not to queue up outside Covid-19 vaccination centres in the national capital on Saturday when the third phase of the inoculation drive to cover all adults in the country is scheduled to start. "I request you to not queue up at the centres tomorrow. As soon as the vaccines come, we will make proper announcements. Only then people with appointments can start coming to the centres," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government has not received the vaccines against the coronavirus disease yet. "We are in constant touch with the company. We are hopeful that the vaccines will reach by tomorrow or the day after. They have assured us that 300,000 doses of Covishield are coming to us first, tomorrow or the day after," he added.He said the Delhi government has requested both companies to make available 67 lakh doses each in next three months. "Delhi government is ready to make payments for it. People of Delhi will be given free vaccines. We are making all efforts to see that people of Delhi are vaccinated in the next three months," Kejriwal added.More than 24.5 million people have registered themselves on the Co-WIN digital platform ahead of the Phase-3 of the Covid-19 vaccination for those above 18 years that is set to start from May 1, according to the Union health ministry. While more than 13.7 million people registered themselves on April 28, more than 10.4 million registered by the end of April 29.The government on Monday made the announcement after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a series of meetings over India's response to record daily surges in coronavirus disease cases. In the meetings, PM Modi stressed that vaccination was "the biggest weapon" in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and urged doctors to encourage more and more patients to get vaccinated.All adults can get Covid shots and states can buy doses directly from vaccine-makers in the "liberalised and accelerated Phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination", the government said. India began inoculating people in January using two anti-Covid-19 vaccines - Serum Institute of India's Covishield developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech's made-in-India Covaxin. So far, the government allowed vaccinations only for health workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years in a centrally-controlled process.Delhi reported 24,235 new Covid-19 cases and 395 deaths on Thursday with a positivity rate of 31.76%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-queue-up-outside-covid-19-vaccination-centres-tomorrow-stock-will-arrive-in-1-2-days-kejriwal-101619764012691.html
30-04-2021||Ranchi||Record 149 single-day deaths push Jharkhand's Covid-19 toll to 2,395||Jharkhand reported a record 149 Covid-19 deaths in a single day, pushing the toll to 2,395, while the tally climbed to 2,21,489 with 8,075 fresh cases, a health department official said on Friday.The state now has 54,816 active cases, following the recovery of 1,64,278 patients, he said.State capital Ranchi reported the maximum number of new fatalities at 46, followed by East Singhbhum (23), Koderma (11), Ramgarh and Dhanbad (9 each). The remaining deaths were recorded from several other districts.Former state BJP president Laxman Giluwa, who had tested positive for Covid-19 recently, died at a hospital in Jamshedpur on Thursday. He was 57.Of the fresh cases, 1,771 were registered in Ranchi, 852 in East Singhbhum, 582 in Hazaribagh and 478 in Lohardaga.The state conducted 70,757 sample tests for coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday received the first dose of the Covid vaccine and appealed to the people to get inoculated.He had said the state government would provide Covid- 19 vaccine to people above 18 years of age for free.Soren's statement came after the Centre announced a "liberalised'' policy making all above 18 years of age eligible to get inoculated from May 1 and allowing state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/record-149-single-day-deaths-push-jharkhand-s-covid-19-toll-to-2395-101619763488730.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Three rescued from burning house in Delhi’s Rajouri Garden||Firefighters rescued three members of a family in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden after they were trapped in their house that caught fire following a gas cylinder blast on Friday. It was not immediately clear if the three suffered any burn injuries.Also Read | Shanty fire kills couple, their four children in Delhi’s BijwasanDelhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call at 3.46am regarding the fire and a team of firefighters was rushed to the site with five fire trucks. “The fire was on the second floor flat of a building near Cambridge Foundation School. ...three persons were trapped...our firefighters safely rescued them. The fire was doused.” He added the three included a couple and their 16-year-old daughter.On Wednesday night, a couple and their four children, including a toddler, were charred to death in a shanty that caught fire in southwest Delhi’s Bijwasan. The victims appeared to be asleep when the fire broke out. It caused a cooking gas cylinder blast as the blaze spread to two other adjacent huts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-rescued-from-burning-house-in-delhi-s-rajouri-garden-101619762147123.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi may witness a partly cloudy sky today, says IMD||The National Capital is likely to witness a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that has also predicted that the maximum temperature to remain around 40 degrees Celsius (°C), providing some respite to people from heat as the city sizzled at 42.1°C on Thursday.The Met department has predicted the minimum temperature to be 23°C, nearly the same as recorded on Thursday by the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official weather market for the city. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature on Thursday was 23.2°C, one notch below normal and the maximum temperature was 42.1°C – three degrees above the normal for this time of the year.Also Read | Severe weather warning for Maharashtra, heavy rain likely in areas bordering KarnatakaMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 282, which is at the higher-end of the poor category. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 296, close to very poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the very poor category. Surface winds are moderate and south-southwesterly. Satellite fire data indicates effective fire counts have increased and touching 1,300 -- mainly wheat crop burning in Northern parts of India. Model trajectory and transport level wind directions are favourable for fire-related intrusion leading to deterioration of air quality in Delhi. Safar forecast that dust emissions from the dry arid region of Rajasthan are likely on April 30. Hence, AQI is likely to stay in the very poor to poor category for the next two days where external transport would be the dominating factor from two fronts. A marginal improvement in AQI is expecting by May 2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-much-change-in-delhi-temperatures-todayimd-101619752487108.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Govt to keep 20 MT oxygen as ‘buffer stock’ for emergency use||With the high demand and erratic supply of oxygen in the city, the Delhi government has decided to maintain a buffer stock of nearly 20 metric tonnes (MT) to help hospitals in distress, according to an order implementing a new oxygen quota for Delhi hospitals that came into force on Thursday midnight.“A reserve of 20MT on rotational basis will be maintained by the Govt of NCT of Delhi through the control centre to address emergent or critical situation at any hospital,” the order by a deputy secretary (health) read. This was one of the suggestions made by representatives of private hospitals in a meeting with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and representatives of oxygen suppliers on Monday.The order, which supersedes an April 26 order, says the total allocation of oxygen to hospitals treating patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been reduced marginally to provide oxygen for reserve, for non-Covid-19 services in hospitals, and because the oxygen suppliers are “realistically” providing less oxygen than the city’s quota.Of the daily quota of 490 MT medical oxygen allocated to Delhi by the Centre, suppliers said they could provide only 445 MT. Of this, 387 MT has been allocated to hospitals for Covid-19 services, 40 MT for non-Covid services, and 18 MT as reserve. As per the previous order, Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi needed 454 MT of medical oxygen. The entire supply was to be divided among them.“The quota for oxygen has been reduced; the allocation is based on the patient census in the hospital on April 24 — I had 240 Covid-19 patients in the hospital then, today I have 302. Where will I get the oxygen to manage the additional 60 patients,” said Dr SCL Gupta, medical director, Batra hospital.Dr Narin Sehgal, medical director of Sehgal Neo hospital, said, “My oxygen allocation was reduced from 1.5 MT to 1.1 MT in the revised order; I don’t know why. To be fair, however, I haven’t been calculating how much we have got against the quota but whatever we are getting isn’t enough. I am not blaming anyone. The situation is unprecedented.”The calculation for oxygen requirement is based on non-ICU patients needing 10 litres of oxygen per minute and those in the ICU needing 24 litres per minute.The Delhi government said it doesn’t even receive the entire 445 MT of oxygen on a daily basis. “We received 402 metric tonne of oxygen yesterday, and the day before that 408 metric tonne. We have been allocated the share of 480 metric ton on April 21st and 490 metric ton on April 25th, but it is hardly reaching us in that quantity. Presently, the allocation is done keeping in mind the number of ICU beds and non-ICU oxygen beds,” the government said in a statement.Meanwhile the Delhi government told the high court on Thursday that two more pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants will be operational in the city from Friday, adding that it needed nearly 1,000 MT of oxygen to augment intensive care unit beds needed to handle the rush of critical Covid patients.Delhi government counsel Rahul Mehtra made the submission before a high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli while giving a status report on the Centre’s plan to set up PSA oxygen units at different Delhi hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-keep-20-mt-oxygen-as-buffer-stock-for-emergency-use-101619736418582.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||‘Why are some states getting more O2 than they need, while Delhi gets less?’ Delhi HC asks Centre to respond||The Delhi high court on Thursday questioned the Centre for allocating more medical oxygen then asked for to certain states while not providing the quantity being sought by Delhi, which is facing acute shortage.“We are not saying that people in the other parts of the country should die. But if the demand of a particular state is ‘x’, then why did you give it ‘x+y’? Why don’t you give ‘y’ to Delhi?” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The Centre has allocated 490 MT medical oxygen to Delhi, which has been demanding 700 MT.With cases in the Capital rising, and most hospitals not adding beds or intensive car units because they do not have access to adequate oxygen, the Delhi government , separately, on Thursday urged the Central government to raise the national capital’s daily quota of medical oxygen from 490 MT to 976 MT and provide logistics support for the enhanced allocation.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, wrote to Union minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday stating that the national capital will require more medical oxygen as the government plans to add around 15,000 beds in the next 10 days.“The people and the Government of NCT of Delhi will be extremely grateful to the Government of India if it can kindly increase the allocation from the present 490 MT per day to 976 MT per day, preferably from nearby oxygen plants, reducing the turnaround time,” Sisodia wrote to Goyal, who is also the minister of commerce and industry and the minister of consumer affairs. He is also the railway ministerOn Thursday, the high court rejected the submission of Mehta that the present oxygen supply to Delhi was sufficient, and asked the Centre to respond on why other states were getting more oxygen or almost as much as they demanded.The bench clarified that it was by no means interested in securing more oxygen for Delhi than required, and that too at the cost of any state or Union territory.“We make it clear that by no means are we interested in securing for Delhi more than what’s required, and that too at a cost of any other state or Union territory. However, if submissions of Delhi or amicus were to be accepted, it would appear the central government needs to explain this, for which we are granting time. It goes without saying the aforesaid reflect arguments advanced by amicus and (lawyer Rahul Mehra) Delhi,” the court noted in its order.The question was posed after senior advocates Rajshekhar Rao, amicus curiae in the matter, and Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that as per the national allocation plan, Maharashtra demanded 1500 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day and was allocated 1661 MT; similarly, Madhya Pradesh demanded 445 MT and it was allocated 543 MT, and that the situation was similar for several other states.The discussion on the national allocation plan came about after Mehra told the court that Delhi’s demand of 700 MT is not being granted . He told the bench that the city was working to augment its bed capacity and would add 15,000 more beds to meet the surge in the cases in mid May predicted by experts; however, they do not have sufficient oxygen.“I will place it now and my instructions are from the top of the bureaucracy. They (Centre) are skirting the oxygen supply (issue). As a state government we are being put in the dock but the Centre has miserably failed the people of the country... Some responsibility should be fixed. Only paper orders have been passed. This is not oxygen in air, it’s oxygen in cylinders. Except giving sermons, the Centre has not done anything. There is complete apathy for the people of Delhi. We cannot be mute spectators just because they are the Centre,” Mehra argued.Solicitor General Mehta, justifying the allocation plan, said the Centre is making all possible efforts to augment the supply and claimed the current supply is sufficient to meet current needs. He said that oxygen has not reached Delhi because the Union territory has been facing difficulty in picking the allocated amount to them.He said that the national allocation plan should not be touched by the court because several factors have been taken into consideration while deciding. He also justified that Maharashtra has been given more oxygen because of the raging pandemic, while Madhya Pradesh’s population is three times that of the Capital..Maharashtra had 675,451 active cases as on Wednesday night, but Madhya Pradesh only 92,773, and Delhi over 100,000.“Suppose there is a huge, unprecedented surge tomorrow, which nobody can anticipate… I do not want to create panic… then the situation would be different. The Delhi government did demand 700 MT. For me, a Delhi citizen is as dear and important as a Kerala citizen. They did demand 700. Allocation is 480-490, the actual quantity coming to Delhi 335-340 which according to our assessment is sufficient,” Mehta submitted before the court.“Delhi is facing difficulty because it has not been able to pick up the allocated amount.. 90% of our time is going out firefighting for Delhi. There are transport and logistical issues,” he said. “No resources are unlimited and we are augmenting. There can be lapses but those could be rectified.”During the hearing, an agitated Mehta told a senior officer of the Centre, “You cut from MP and give it to Delhi. It would be at the cost of some lives in MP but let us do it for Delhi.”However, the bench objected to this and said, “Don’t give an impression as if we are asking something extra for Delhi. We don’t appreciate this. We are asking this on the basis of facts and figures. You can’t be emotional about it. You have to take this head on, you can’t duck it.”SG Mehta said that the Centre will file an affidavit on the court’s query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.“There are states which received less than what they had asked for. We have been rationalizing,” he said adding that hysteria should not be created and the situation is dynamic”. Earlier this week, Mehta said in court that Delhi was behaving like a “crybaby”.To this, the bench said the panic is because of lack of resources.“It’s not because of what judges or lawyers say; panic is on the ground. People are suffering but hospitals are not taking patients. We already had loss of lives in Delhi due to shortage of oxygen. It has fallen on you to resolve this. How you resolve is your problem,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.In his letter to Goyal, Sisodia said Delhi has been witnessing around 25,000 fresh COVID cases a day and about 10% of the patients require some form of hospitalisation, including oxygen support.Sisodia said that merely increasing oxygen allocation to Delhi will not do and that the Central government will also have to arrange transportation to bring the same to the national Capital. “It is also our humble request to provide transport infrastructure, including railways and tankers, for the additional allocation since Delhi is a non-industrial state and accordingly, does not have its own infrastructure,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-are-some-states-getting-more-o2-than-they-need-while-delhi-gets-less-delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-respond-101619736148014.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Fatalities hit yet another high as 395 die of Covid-19||The daily Covid-19 death toll in the Capital hit another high, with 395 more people dying of the infection on Thursday, as the fourth wave of the pandemic continues to sweep across the city with no respite in sight.The city has added over 300 deaths a day for eight days in a row. Delhi has also logged 2,579 deaths of the infection in the past seven days alone.So far, 15,772 people in the city have died of the viral infection since the first death was reported in March last year. The number of deaths reported each day has shot up from an average of 15 during the first week of April to 368 a day over the last seven days.Delhi also added 24,235 infections, Thursday’s health bulletin showed, as the Capital logged more than 20,000 new cases for the 12th straight day. The city has added over 459,000 infections so far in April alone.In comparison, Delhi added just over 382,000 cases between October 2020 and March this year.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – stood at 32.8% on Thursday, which means that around one in three people who get tested in the city are infected.“The fact that the positivity rate has been declining is a certain ray of hope for us. The highest was recorded at nearly 35% about four days back. We thought it might go beyond 40 and 45%. But it has halted at 35%, and is even dropping, like yesterday [Wednesday], when it was 31.76%,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press briefing on Thursday.The drop, however, has been marginal at best.Lok Nayak, GTB to start makeshift facilitiesMeanwhile, to accommodate more Covid-19 patients in health care facilities, the government ordered Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals to make arrangements for consumables and more staff, so that they can start setting up makeshift facilities.“What we are seeing is a result of lack of planning. The second wave was not anticipated. When it started, it was time to make a quick assessment. We should have expected the worst... We don’t have enough oxygen manufacturing facilities. In India we have 50 beds for every 100,000 people, which is among the lowest [in the world]. In terms of bed strength, we are ranked 155 out of 167 globally, as per a United Nations report. This puts us in company with the poorest of the poor. Delhi has 20 million people and even better prepared states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu are struggling,” said Dr Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fatalities-hit-yet-another-high-as-395-die-of-covid19-101619735782220.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Short of doses, Delhi to keep expanded jabs drive on hold||The Capital is unlikely to start the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination from Saturday because the state government hasn’t received its first order of jabs and private hospitals may get consignments weeks later, even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that Delhi will expand inoculation centres and finish immunising everyone in three months.Of the 13.4 million doses needed by the Capital, Delhi will get the first batch of 300,000 shots only by May 3 from Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme, senior officials aware of developments said.“We don’t have enough vaccines. We have requested for procurement of vaccines from the respective companies. Despite all preparations being made, availability of vaccines is a must for the inoculation to begin,” said Delhi health minister Satyender Jain.Last week, the Centre opened the immunisation drive to all adults and allowed states and private hospitals to procure directly from vaccine manufacturers. Experts said that quickly vaccinating all adults was crucial to fighting the devastating surge of infections.Registration for this phase began on Wednesday, but Delhi, like many states, signalled that vaccines may not be immediately available due to shortage of stocks and delay in deliveries.“We haven’t received the schedule from companies yet, which includes how many vials will reach on which dates,” Jain said. Delhi will administer the jabs free of cost.Delhi government divided the order for 13.4 million doses into three consignments — 300,000, 5,000,000 and 8,100,000 . So far, only the first batch has been ordered and the second is in the process of being ordered. As of now, both the orders are being prepared for SII, an official said.The situation, though, is hardly unique to the Capital. Doses required for adults below 45 are to be acquired directly by the state governments and private hospitals — which can buy up to 50% of a vaccine manufacturer’s stock — but this is yet to happen.Officials across states told HT that the doses would not be available by May 1, as did representatives of private hospitals. Only three of 16 state governments contacted by HT on Tuesday said they expected at least some doses to start arriving by the end of the first week of May. Most others said they expected deliveries only after mid-May.But Delhi’s chief minister expressed confidence that the government will be able to get the job done in three months.“Had a meeting with the officials on vaccination drive in Delhi. Prepared a plan to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 3 months. We will set up vaccination centres on a large scale. All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.There were back-to-back meetings on the issue on Thursday. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal asked the chief secretary to urgently submit a report on the preparedness for the roll-out of the vaccination programme for those 18 years and above and Kejriwal held a meeting to review arrangements made for opening more centres and having enough medical teams.With Centre, state governments, and private hospitals placing orders separately, the companies have announced multiple price bands.SII is offering its doses at ₹150 for the Centre, ₹300 for state governments, and ₹600 for the private sector. Bharat Biotech is offering its vaccine for ₹150 per dose to the Centre, ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1,200 to private hospitals.Hospitals have been asked to return all remaining doses provided by the government — for the current vaccination drive meant for 45 and above — after Friday’s vaccination and purchase their own shots.However, private hospitals in Delhi said both vaccine manufacturers have given long waiting periods to facilities that tried to procure doses independently.Sir Ganga Ram hospital said its order was refused by SII while Bharat Biotech said it will revert.“We have been receiving Covishield from the government and so we approached SII first. However, they said that they do not have the capacity to provide doses at the moment. Then, we placed an order for 51 lakh doses of Covaxin but they have also said they will get back to us. Both companies have to fulfil orders for the government first,” said Dr DS Rana, the hospital chairman.The hospital has doses that will last only till Friday and all leftover doses have to be given back to the central government.“If we do not have the vaccines, we cannot run a vaccination centre,” said Dr Rana.A doctor from the private Hamdard Institute of Medical Science hospital and medical college tweeted a response from SII that said the hospital had to wait for six months for the doses.“Due to the current obligation to meet the government’s existing requirements and to meet the additional demand emanating from state governments under liberated and accelerated vaccination, it is challenging to meet independently the requirement across from large number of Private hospitals. Therefore, we urge you to access the vaccine when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels, which will take about five – six months from now,” the tweet read.Dr Anoop Mishra, chairman of Fortis Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol said, “Companies have to give 50% of the vaccines doses to the Centre and are therefore unsure when they can give it to the private sector. So, we will have to halt the vaccination drive after April 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/short-of-doses-delhi-to-keep-expanded-jabs-drive-on-hold-101619735553374.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Police to create dedicated lane for emergency vehicles, hearse vans||To facilitate the speedier movement of oxygen tankers and emergency vehicles such as ambulances, hearse vans and those carrying oxygen cylinders within the city, as well as those coming from neighbouring states, the Delhi Police on Thursday asked all police stations to create dedicated lanes on roads, near police checkpoints.The directions were issued by the city police chief SN Shrivastava who also used his official Twitter handle to post the update and explain why the step was taken. These dedicated lanes are being created only near major vehicle checkpoints set up by police to verify motorists and prosecute those found violating the ongoing curfew (lockdown) orders.“All police stations in Delhi have been directed to dedicate a lane, on the extreme left of the road, for ambulances and other emergency vehicles, including oxygen tankers and those carrying cylinders (in emergency). This is being done to facilitate their smooth movement, even as lockdown violators are prosecuted on the (remaining) regular lanes,” Shrivastava, who also tweeted about the step along with an image of the dedicated lane around 2.30pm on Thursday.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) curfew guidelines, only exempted vehicles or those having valid movement e-passes are allowed to ply on Delhi roads. The new arrangement is in addition to the green corridor that the police are providing to oxygen tankers coming from other states or via airports.A senior police officer privy to the development said, on condition of anonymity, that the police chief’s direction came after he made a field visit on Wednesday, during which he saw firsthand the jams at several police checkpoints as motorists were stopped by police personnel to check their movement passes.Shrivastava and other officers observed that such jams may also be delaying the movement of emergency vehicles and oxygen tankers.“The chief later issued directions to all police stations in Delhi for creating a separate lane on the left side of the road near each checkpoint for such emergency vehicles and those that carry oxygen,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said the personnel deployed at checkpoints have been asked to put up large visible signage, demarking the dedicated lane, so that drivers of emergency vehicles and oxygen carrying vehicles can see them from a distance and accordingly move their vehicles into the dedicated lane.“The personnel present there will also signal the drivers to use the dedicated lanes to avoid any congestion at the picket,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-to-create-dedicated-lane-for-emergency-vehicles-hearse-vans-101619735118178.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||After 4 die of Covid-19, Tihar asks govt to allow release of inmates on parole||New Delhi: The death of four prisoners due to Covid-19 in the past three days has prompted Tihar Jail authorities to write to the Delhi government, requesting them to release some prisoners under “emergency parole” as one of the immediate measures to decongest the prison.While two prisoners died of the viral infection on Tuesday, two more succumbed to the disease on Thursday. HT had reported that with over 20,000 inmates currently lodged there, Tihar is at its most congested ever. It is almost double the official capacity of the prison, which has made social distancing and isolation a major problem.Delhi government officers, who wished not to be named, said they have received the jail’s proposal and were looking at different solutions to decongest the prison complex.Until April 6, the jail had only 19 infected prisoners. At that time, not a single jail staff had the disease. Currently, there are at least 261 Covid-19 positive inmates and 115 infected jail officers, underlining how fast the infection has spread throughout the jail in just 23 days.The Delhi high court also heard a petition on the issue on Wednesday and sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities. The petitioner demanded parole for prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.The two prisoners, who died on Thursday, were admitted at the GTB hospital. One of them Kamaljeet, 75, an inmate of jail 3 was admitted to GTB on April 21. The second, Kehkashan, 41, was admitted to the hospital on April 22.On Tuesday night, prisoner Mukesh Talwar, 61, had succumbed to the disease. Talwar, who was arrested in a rape case last month, was lodged in jail 7 and had tested positive on April 22. Hours before Talwar’s death, a 43-year-old prisoner Mohammed Anis, who was lodged in jail number 4, too had died of the disease at the DDU hospital.Last year, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole and bail to decongest the jail when the pandemic spread in March. They were directed to later on dates decided by a high-powered committee of the high court, which included members of the state government, courts and prison.With cases declining after the third wave of the infection in October-November, the Delhi high court in December ordered the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Until February, the prison population was less than 13,000. However, with over 6,000 inmates back in jail, the total number of inmates went beyond 20500, twice the jail’s capacity of 10026. Officials said it is the highest population of inmates in the jail till date.A mid-level prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “ The government should act fast and decide. During the first, second and third wave, the cases were under control in our jails. Two persons died in June and July, last year. In February, there was a time, when there was not a single case. It is scary today. Even prisoners, like Rajan(Chhota Rajan) who were in isolation have tested positive. Four inmates have died in three days.”Among the famous prisoners who are currently Covid-19 positive are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and former politician turned gangster Mohammed Shahabuddin. While Rajan has been admitted to AIIMS, Shahabuddin is under treatment at the DDU hospital. Student activist Umar Khalid, arrested for his alleged role in the Delhi riots, too, is in isolation after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-4-die-of-covid-19-tihar-asks-govt-to-allow-release-of-inmates-on-parole-101619734794079.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Two in Delhi arrested for selling fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders||Two men in west Delhi’s Dwarka were arrested for passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders and selling them to people, whose relatives have contracted Covid-19, said Delhi Police on Thursday.In one of the cheating cases, the patient for whom the equipment was procured died of Covid-19, read the complaint lodged by the victim’s acquaintance.Police could not immediately ascertain if the alleged cheating, or a possible delay in providing relief to the patient, had any direct bearing on the death. However, a relative of Narender, the 32-year-old patient who died, alleged that the delay in getting an oxygen cylinder led to his demise. “Had we not been cheated, my brother-in-law could have survived,” said the relative.Police said suspects Ashutosh Chauhan and Ayush were rendered jobless during the pandemic and passed off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders to make a quick buck. “They sold one such empty cylinder for ₹10,000,” said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Geeta Arora, a resident of Bindapur in West Delhi, was looking for an oxygen cylinder for her friend’s relative, who lived in Noida. “The relative, a patient of Covid-19, had breathing issues and low oxygen levels. Her family was unable to find her a hospital bed,” said Meena.After reaching out to many people for a cylinder, Arora finally got in touch with Chauhan and Ayush, who asked her to visit near Uttam Nagar metro station to collect the cylinder on Monday night.A red coloured cylinder was handed over to Arora in lieu of a payment of ₹10,000. The same night, Arora handed over the cylinder to the patient’s family in Noida.The cheating came to the fore when the patient’s family went to get the cylinder filled on Tuesday morning and realized that it was a fire extinguisher. When Arora asked the suspects to return the money, they refused.On Wednesday, Arora learnt that the patient, for whom the cylinder was purchased passed away, read her statement to the police.She again pursued the suspects. They allegedly called her near the metro station, but didn’t meet her, despite making her run around for two hours. She finally decided to lodge a complaint, based on which a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered at Uttam Nagar police station.The DCP said technical surveillance and local enquiry facilitated the arrest of the suspects, from whom they recovered four fire extinguishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-in-delhi-arrested-for-selling-fire-extinguishers-as-oxygen-cylinders-101619734417980.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Traders’ body writes to L-G, wants lockdown till May 15||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has written to the Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, demanding extension of lockdown in the national capital till May 15. Delhi is already under a lockdown till May 3, with only essential services and government offices allowed to function.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT, said, “Traders will be the worst affected due to extension of the lockdown, but the situation in Delhi is such that there is no other option. If lockdown is not extended after May 3, it will be difficult to break the chain. We have requested the L-G to extend the lockdown till May 15.”However, some other trader associations said the government should only extend the restrictions for a week, and ensure stricter enforcement of curbs.They said the curbs should be reviewed each week. They said if the lockdown was extended immediately till May 15, it will not only lead to losses for them but trigger panic among the migrant workers employed by them.Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association said: “The situation is such that extension of the lockdown is the need of the hour. But it should be done for a week and then reviewed. There should be strict enforcement of the lockdown norms. Even when markets open, there is a need to ensure that there is strict enforcement.”The Lajpat Nagar market association said traders were largely of the view that the lockdown should be extended for a week. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar mandal said, “Delhi is still reporting 20,000-plus cases daily. The positivity rate has not come down. The present situation is not conducive to reopen markets. Most traders feel that it should be extended, but we will take a final call this weekend.”Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry and convener of AAP’s traders’ wing, said,“Let the Delhi government take a call on it. We have been talking to traders and a large number of them are in favour of extending the lockdown. But if it is extended for 15 days at one go, it will result in panic among migrant workers who are employed in markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traders-body-writes-to-l-g-wants-lockdown-till-may-15-101619734001247.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||City sizzles at 42.1°C, light rain this weekend may bring mercury down||Delhi continued to sizzle for the second day on Thursday, recording a maximum temperature of 42.1 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Wednesday (April 28) was the hottest day of the year so far with the maximum temperature reaching 42.2 degrees.On Thursday, the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official weather marker for the city, registered 42.1 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 23.2°C.“After the light spell of rain on Saturday, there is another forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall on May 4 and May 5,” said an IMD official.In some parts of the city, the mercury nearly touched the 45 degree-mark on Thursday. At the Najafgarh observatory, the maximum temperature on Thursday was recorded at 44.5 degrees, five degrees above the normal.The maximum temperature at Palam was 43.2 degrees; and at Aya Nagar, it was 42.6°C, and the maximum temperature recorded at the Lodi Road weather station was 41.9°C.Certain parts of the national capital also got a dust storm on Thursday. The IMD has forecast similar conditions on Friday, and has predicted rain on May 4.Officials from the Met department said the mercury will hover above 40 degrees Celsius for the next two to three days, before light rain may bring relief from the heat.In 2017, Delhi recorded the highest temperature for April at 43.2 degrees. In 2019, the city registered 42.1 degrees Celsius.“From Saturday, there is a forecast of light rain accompanied by thunder and lightning. Temperatures are likely to start falling from Sunday. Next week, the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 37-38 degrees Celsius,” said another senior IMD official.Rain and thunderstorms have also been predicted for parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, and Rajasthan.“Heatwave conditions will persist only for a couple of days. It will be followed by intense thunderstorm activity. Bihar, Odisha, parts of West Bengal and the entire northeast India is likely to witness severe weather. Due to this intense easterly activity, there may be clouding and some thunderstorm activity over northwest India. In Delhi, the rainfall activity might be very intense,” said R K Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-sizzles-at-42-1-c-light-rain-this-weekend-may-bring-mercury-down-101619733714790.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Shanty fire kills couple, their four children in Delhi’s Bijwasan||A couple and their four children, including a toddler, were charred to death in a shanty that caught fire in south-west Delhi’s Bijwasan late on Wednesday night, police said.The victims appeared to be asleep when the fire broke out. It caused a cooking gas cylinder to burst, and the blaze spread to two other adjacent huts. The occupants of those shanties managed to escape in the nick of time, police said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, police said, but said it appeared to be an accident.Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), identified the couple as Kamlesh Kumar Singh, 37, and his wife Budhni (32). They lived in the hut in an agricultural field with their four children -- two daughters, 16 and 12, and two sons, six and three months old.The family, along with three others from the same village in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, lived in four huts in an agricultural field next to Valmiki Colony in Bijwasan. They cultivated fields they took on rent.“We all went to sleep around 10.30pm on Wednesday. Around midnight, I heard people screaming. I came out of my shanty, and found the hut next door on fire. At that moment, there was a cylinder blast that also set my hut on fire,” said Nawal Mahto, a neighbour.Mahto managed to evacuate the four members of his family, when his hut, and a third one that was unoccupied for the past fortnight, were burnt to ashes. “We had no time to salvage our belongings,” he said.The hut where the victims died was the first to be affected suffered the most damage. “Our huts are made of wood, plastic, and straw. That caused the fire to spread fast. It appears that Kamleshwar and his family could not open the metal chain they used to lock the door of the shanty,” said Nathuni Mahto, whose hut was the only one unaffected by the blaze.The position in which the charred bodies were found suggested that none of the six victims could make it even to the door of their hut. “The bodies of Singh and his older son were found next to their bed. The bodies of Budhni, her two daughters and younger son were found on a cot on which they usually slept,” said the DCP.Several half-burnt books were among the few identifiable items inside the hut. Neighbours said that Singh was keen his children got a proper education, and had enrolled three of them in a government school.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, said four fire tenders were rushed to the spot after they got a call at 12.30am.Singh’s elderly parents live in Muzaffarapur. “He sent some money to his parents every few months. Now, they’ll have to fend for themselves,” said Nawal Mahto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shanty-fire-kills-couple-their-four-children-in-delhi-s-bijwasan-101619733371931.html
30-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC seeks reply from centre, state over Covid-19 vaccine pricing||The Rajasthan High Court has sought responses from the central and state governments and vaccine manufacturers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech on a petition challenging differential pricing of the vaccine for the Centre and the state, saying such pricing would hamper national vaccination strategy.A division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice MK Vyas passed the order while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Mukesh Sharma.The petition questioned the difference in pricing for the Centre and the states. Both vaccine makers sold their doses to the Centre at ₹150 a shot. Subsequently, in Phase 3, where states have to procure vaccines from the makers, the companies announced a price of ₹400 per dose for states (Covishield; Serum Institute) and ₹600 a dose (Covaxin; Bharat Biotech). On Wednesday, SII reduced this to ₹300 a dose and on Thursday, Bharat Biotech, ₹400 a dose.The petitioner said the prices quoted by manufacturers are not just higher but extremely discriminatory and arbitrary. Rajasthan’s chief minister Ashok Gehlot has last week announced that the state Government shall bear the cost of vaccination of all those above the age of 18 years. Most other states have made similar announcements.The court has set May 12 as the next date of hearing.In another case, the Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to the Centre and the state government on alleged discrimination in the supply of medical oxygen and lifesaving injections to the state. The court will hear that matter on Friday.A division bench of Chief Justice Inderjit Mohanty and Justice Inderjit Singh, heard the petition filed by Advocate Poonam Chand Bhandari, and asked the Centre and the state to respond.“As compared to the other states, the supply of oxygen support system, liquid oxygen and lifesaving injections such as, Remdesivir for treatment of COVID-19 has been much less in Rajasthan.The requirement of liquid oxygen is 220 metric tonnes per day, however, the allocation by the Central Government is 205 metric tonnes per day. There is a short supply of Remdesivir injections also..,” claimed Bhandari’s petition..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-hc-seeks-reply-from-centre-state-over-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-101619731665528.html
30-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to float global tender for 40-50 million vaccine doses||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday decided to float global tenders to procure 40 to 50 million doses of Covid vaccines as states grappled with jab shortages and delivery uncertainties ahead of the third phase of the Covid-19 immunisation drive for all adults beginning May 1.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“The state government has decided to float global tenders for carrying the vaccination drive effectively. Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have been given orders of 50 lakh vaccine doses each,” Adityanath said in a statement.The state has already announced that it will administer the shots free of cost. Last week, Maharashtra had also announced that it would float a global tender for vaccines.“Such an arrangement should be made that the vaccines are not wasted. Only those who are to be vaccinated should be allowed entry in vaccination centres,” he said. Registration of beneficiaries for the third phase was launched on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-float-global-tender-for-40-50-million-vaccine-doses-101619731126519.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid depleting stock, HP asks Centre for more O2 cylinders||With Himachal Pradesh’s stock of oxygen cylinders rapidly running out amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the state government asked the Centre to provide immediate relief on Thursday. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, while reviewing the Covid situation in the state, said, “We have sufficient liquid oxygen. However, supply needs to be regulated. I have spoken to the Union health minister and have demanded 5,000 D type and 3,000 B type cylinders as we are experiencing a shortage in the state.” The CM also called a meeting of BJP legislators to take suggestions on restrictions to be imposed for containing the spread of the virus. In the wake of the sharp increase in Covid cases, the government has imposed a ban on community feasts (dham), which are traditionally organised during marriage celebrations. The number of people allowed to attend social gatherings has already been capped at 20. It was decided during the review meeting that all educational institutes and temples in the state will remain closed till May 10. Government offices will continue to function for five days a week at 50% attendance of Class 3 and 4 employees till May 10. Delay in test reports flagged The availability of Covid beds in the worst affected districts — Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan, Una and Sirmaur — was reviewed and the delay in receiving test reports flagged. Nowadays, Covid reports results are being sent after 72 hours and at times it has taken up to five days. Shortage of man power at the laboratory was being cited as one of the primary reasons for the delay.The government has constituted four committees to handle the Covid crisis — logistics committee headed by Arindam Chaudhary, managing director, HP State Electronic Development Corporation, which will also monitor availability of oxygen and plan for creation of additional bed capacity; Covid patients and ambulance management committee headed by Dr Rajesh Thakur, system security officer, National Health Mission (NHM) will ensure creation of triage space at all facilities, and facilitate inter-district movement of patients; corporate social responsibility coordination and contribution committee headed by Abid Hussain, director urban development will move corporate and corporate social responsibility (CSR) contributions to HP SDMA Covid-19 Fund and coordinate with all prospective donors and industrial associations.The media committee headed by Dr Nipun Jindal, managing director, NHM will disseminate up to-date data and to the media besides eliminating any information gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-depleting-stock-hp-asks-centre-for-more-o2-cylinders-101619730224948.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Doctors, hospitals stressed in J&K amid Covid surge||With the surge in Covid cases continuing across J&K, doctors are under stress with the number of patients seeking hospitalisation increasing by the day. The Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura, Kashmir’s most advanced tertiary-care hospital, has 260 dedicated beds for Covid patients. However, they already have 280 Covid patients at the hospital with the number of critically ill patients increasing by the day. “We have Covid 260 beds but there are already 280 patients in the hospital. We are facing some shortage of Remdesivir because there is shortage across the country,” SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan said.At Srinagar Chest Disease Hospital almost all beds are occupied. “If we get any more patients then it will be come difficult to attend to them,” said a senior doctor posted at the hospital. SKIMS Resident Doctors’ Association Aabid Maqbool said this year the percentage of young patients affected by Covid is more as compared to 2020. “This time, around 50% patients in our ward are young. Another difference is the infectivity. This year, the infectivity of the virus is more. Last year, if a person would get infected. he would at most infect one or two close family members but this year all members in families are getting infected. The fatality has not increased. Overall mortality in J&K is less in comparison to the rest of the country. However, the situation is worrisome.”“At SKIMS this year we have increased the strength of ventilators and oxygen points. And the pool of sick patients is also more, he said. At Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital (SMHS), Srinagar, the situation is no different.“In the first wave, patients would trickle in ones, twos and threes but this time the rise is exponential. The patients are coming in groups. The first lap of second wave was hard,” said Dr Mohsin Bin Mushtaq of SMHS Hospital. “Similarly, last time we would see just one or two young patients in a ward that were young but this time around 20% cases are young. Many patients without any co-morbidity have to be admitted because their oxygen saturation is not normal,” he said.SKIMS Medical College, Bemina, department of chest medicine head Dr Javaid Malik said, “We have around 15 Covid patients and their prognosis seems promising.” Last year, the hospital was designated as a Covid hospital. At Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SHMS) hospital, the biggest hospital associated with Government Medical College, almost all beds in six wards dedicated for Covid patients are full. “We have to wait for filling of oxygen cylinders for hours. Patients are unable to get some life-saving drugs due to shortage,” said a resident Khursheed Ahmad, whose brother in law was admitted in the hospital.At Sopore’s Covid Centre, attendants said doctors are not visiting patients. “My brother is admitted at Covid care centre of Sopore Hospital and his oxygen saturation drops to 50 sometimes and this ward is full of such patients . But for the last 24 hours not even a single doctor visited, “ said a resident Mudasir Bashir Shah. At Indoor Stadium Baramulla Covid centre in north Kashmir, which is being managed by the medical college in Baramulla, around 50 Covid patients are receiving treatment and almost 50 beds are still vacant.Some patients say despite prescriptions of Remdesivir, they were not being provided the same. “We have put messages on social media but still could not find the injection,” said Majeed Ahmad, whose cousin is admitted at the hospital.Doctors’ association Kashmir (DAK) president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan said there is also shortage of Tocilizumab drug that prevents Covid patients from dying. He said they have been able to save lives of many Covid-19 patients in Kashmir hospitals with early institution of the drug.“But, now the drug has run out of stock in valley hospitals putting lives of patients at risk. “We must ensure that every patient who needs the drug should be able to access it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doctors-hospitals-stressed-in-j-k-amid-covid-surge-101619730104827.html
30-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand puts Char Dham yatra on hold amid spike||Burnt by its experience with the Mahakumbh, and worried that the Char Dham yatra could end up being another super-spreader event, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday postponed the pilgrimage to four of the holiest Hindu shrines in the state, scheduled to start on May 14.The move comes even as a surging second wave of Covid-19 wave has pushed daily infections above the 350,000-mark daily in the country, with an active caseload of over 3 million overwhelming the health care system. The Uttarakhand government was widely criticised for its poor management of the Mahakumbh, with most Covid safety protocol being followed more in the breach than in the observance; the Centre too was criticised for allowing the event to go ahead.But the state seems to have woken up to the threat of Covid-19 now.“Even locals will not be allowed inside the shrines,” said chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat who, ahead of the Kumbh, spoke of how faith would overcome fear. “Only priests of the Char Dham shrines will perform rituals and worship. People will not be allowed to undertake the yatra [pilgrimage], given the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases.”Officials said the portals of the shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri will remain open during the pilgrimage season.Four senior seers died of Covid-19 after participating in Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar this month. Millions of devotees attended the mega fair from April 1, when the state had 2,236 active Covid-19 cases. The number of active cases rose to 45,383 on Wednesday.Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Mahamandleshwar (head) of Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, was on April 17 forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh amid the surge in the cases. The announcement came after a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who requested only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan (holy dip) in the Ganga at the mega fair on April 27.Ravinath Raman, the chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said a meeting was held on Thursday, where the decision to postpone the pilgrimage due to the Covid-19 situation was taken. “If later in the year, the situation improves, the yatra can be allowed with conditions and Covid curbs.”Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections that India faces. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country over 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds.Uttarakhand has been reporting its highest ever daily cases and Covid deaths for the past week. On Wednesday, the state reported 6,054 cases and 108 deaths, the highest in a day since March last year.Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri are collectively called Char Dham and millions visit them annually. The pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west. It then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east.The pilgrimage could not begin last year as per schedule on April 26 with the opening of portals of Yamunotri and Gangotri, the first two shrines that are opened after winter, because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread in March 2020.The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month. In September, the Uttarakhand government removed the condition of having negative Covid-19 reports for pilgrims to undertake the pilgrimage.Officials said the portals of the Yamunotri shrine will be opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15 on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya. Portals of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines will be opened on May 17 and May 18.Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the state, welcomed the decision to postpone the yatra. “Once the caseload, deaths, and positivity rate decline, we can consider restarting the yatra with suitable precautions. In the meantime, the government must provide financial support to the tourism and pilgrimage sector. Mass vaccination and urgent ramping up of public health infrastructure is the need of the hour.”Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni said the move to postpone the pilgrimage is a practical one. “The government should also think of taxi operators, dhaba and hotel owners, shopkeepers and others involved in the yatra whose livelihoods will be affected. The government should provide them some monetary help.”Manveer Singh Chauhan, the state media in charge of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party said the government is fully committed to fighting the pandemic with all possible resources. “With the present pandemic situation, the move was much needed. As far as the livelihood of those connected with the yatra is concerned, the government will soon announce some relief measures for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-puts-char-dham-yatra-on-hold-amid-spike-101619729450393.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Charges of heinous crime no hurdle in considering bail to minors: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the allegations of involvement in a heinous crime should not be an impediment in granting bail to a minor. The high court bench of Justice Sudip Ahluwalia observed that the primary reason for denying bail to a juvenile/child in conflict with the law is the possibility of their coming into contact, or being brought into association, with any known criminal. The bench observed, “There is nothing in Section 12(1) of the Juvenile Justice Act to indicate that entitlement of a juvenile for bail is to be curtailed simply because the offence for which they are charged with happens to be ‘henious’. The idea of justice would be defeated if such entitlement is disregarded simply because of the applicability of any henious offences in a given case when the legislation does not contemplate that such offences are to be treated in a different manner in Section 12(1) of the Juvenile Justice Act.” The bench set aside an order of an SBS Nagar court which had upheld the order of the district juvenile justice board, denying bail to a minor accused in a murder case registered in March last year. The trial court had observed that “there is danger to physical, mental and psychological safety of the minor” and it was better to keep him in the safe confines of a protection home. “If those who commit a heinous crime like murder are granted bail, the conscience of society will be shocked,” it had said. The HC said the reasoning given by the trial court in denying bail was not in consonance with the basic objective behind the special legislation contained in the Juvenile Justice Act, particularly when the minor is in confinement in the protection home for almost a year. The court also took note of submissions from the state government that two other accused, who are major now, are in custody and so there is little chance of the minor being exposed to their association if released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charges-of-heinous-crime-no-hurdle-in-considering-bail-to-minors-hc-101619728004679.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to stay preliminary probes against ex-Mumbai top cop||The Bombay high court on Thursday refused to stay preliminary probes against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and sought a response from the Maharashtra government on Singh’s fresh petition challenging the two inquiries initiated against him.In his petition, Singh also claimed that efforts were being made to thwart the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)-led investigation into his allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Mentioning the petition for urgent hearing before a bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale, Singh’s counsel and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said the plea challenged two orders passed by the state government on April 1, directing state director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to probe whether the former top cop had violated provisions of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968.Another order on April 20 asked Pandey to look into allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that Singh’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him (Dange) reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds on July 18 last year.Singh, in his plea, also claimed that during his meeting with Pandey on April 19, the latter “advised him” to withdraw his letter against Deshmukh which he had sent to the state government in March. The petitioner sought interim protection and a stay on the inquiries till further orders.The bench, however, refused to stay the two orders after additional public prosecuto Deepak Thakare informed the court that Singh had not been issued any summons or show-cause notice so far and hence, it was premature to stay the same. The court accepted the argument and in light of the urgency. posted the hearing for May 4.On March 25, Singh had approached the HC, seeking a CBI inquiry into the corruption charges against Deshmukh who allegedly ordered suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, ACP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal to collect protection money from restaurants and bars among other establishments to the tune of ₹100 crore per month.After hearing all sides over a period of ten days, the HC, on April 5, directed the CBI not to register an FIR but to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days. The CBI, after completing its enquiry, had registered an FIR against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-stay-preliminary-probes-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-101619727701713.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Congress’ Panna Lal Bhatia is new Pathankot mayor||Five-time Congress councillor Panna Lal Bhatia was elected the Pathankot mayor on Thursday. The party’s Vikram Mahajan was elected senior deputy mayor while the post of deputy mayor was bagged by Ajay Kumar. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu acted as election observer at the event held at a local government school. Bhatia, who faced a tough competition from two of the Congress councillors for the top post, is the second mayor of the city that was upgraded to municipal corporation in 2015. The state’s ruling party has won from 36 of the 50 wards this time. Ashu said, “Bhatia is a visionary leader who will pave the way for development of the city. His good terms with Pathankot MLA Amit Vij will help him resolve the city residents’ problems in a better manner.” Bhatia said, “I will perform my duties with utmost sincerity and integrity.” Jalandhar divisional commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra gave oath of office to the councillors. The 12 BJP councillors boycotted the swearing-in ceremony.However, Covid-19 norms were violated during the event. Though Ashu and some officials were seen wearing masks, others did not bother to follow the medical protocol. They did not maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-panna-lal-bhatia-is-new-pathankot-mayor-101619727712378.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Badal village event: Sukhbir booked, ex- MLA among 6 SAD leaders arrested for violating pandemic protocols||Police have booked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and arrested former party MLA Harpreet Singh Kotbhai and five others for organising a political event in violation of pandemic protocols at Badal village a day ago. Lambi SHO Chander Shekhar on Thursday said president of Students Organisation of India (SOI) Arshdeep Singh alias Robin Brar is among the arrested. “All accused have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” said the SHO, adding that they were later released on bail. “Sukhbir’s name also figures in the FIR. We are yet to arrest him and another SAD leader Bhim Waraich. Police are also trying to identify others who had violated restrictions,” said the SHO. The SAD president had held a large political gathering of youth activists at his residence in Muktsar. Brar, the newly appointed head of SOI, SAD’s student wing, had reached Sukhbir’s residence with his supporters. Even as the Punjab government has imposed a ban on all social, political and cultural events, more than 100 activists of SOI and SAD were present when Sukhbir addressed the gathering. Muktsar SSP spokesperson on Wednesday night had stated that an FIR had been lodged only against Brar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-village-event-sukhbir-booked-ex-mla-among-6-sad-leaders-arrested-for-violating-pandemic-protocols-101619727709260.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination makers likely to give Punjab delivery dates for 18+ today||The Punjab government is likely to get the schedule for the delivery of the anti-coronavirus shots ordered for vaccinating those aged above 18 by Friday. “No assurance has been given by the two vaccine manufactures about the delivery. But in a meeting through video conferencing, the Centre on Thursday assured the states that the manufactures will convey about the supply of doses tomorrow,” principal secretary (health and family welfare) Hussan Lal said. Lal said the date of starting the vaccination drive will depend on the schedule and the consequent delivery of doses. The states were also assured that the manufactures may start the supply in small batches for a few days depending on the volume of production, he added. The Punjab health department has made it clear that it will not be possible to start the campaign to vaccinate all above 18 years of age from May 1 as was announced by the central government because of shortage of doses. The state, last week, had booked an order of 30 lakh doses of Covishield with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). An order was also placed with Bharat Biotech for the supply of Covaxine vaccine, it is learnt. A health department official said currently the state is left with a stock of only less than 1 lakh doses and it will suffice for the next day only. “If the supplies remain dry like this, we won’t be able to vaccinate our 45-plus category population or even the frontline workers. In the days to come, we need more supplies for administering the second dose as well,” the official said. The state on Thursday is likely to administer 78,598 shots, including 19,892 second doses. “We could not conduct proper vaccinations at nearly 500 session sites of a total of 3,356 across Punjab because in the absence of supply,” said the official. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state has the capacity to administer 3 lakh doses a day provided there is enough supply from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-makers-likely-to-give-punjab-delivery-dates-for-18-today-101619727708173.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Virus claims 138 lives in Punjab, 6,812 new infections detected||The daily Covid-related death toll continued to be in three figures for third day in a row as 138 lives were lost in Punjab on Thursday, along with 6,812 fresh infections. This is the second highest casualties in a single day in the state with highest 142 deaths witnessed on Wednesday. As many as 472 people have lost their lives because of Covid-19 in the last four days in Punjab. According to government’s media bulletin, Bathinda witnessed maximum 21 deaths on Thursday, followed by 18 in Ludhiana, 14 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur, 11 in Patiala, eight in SAS Nagar, seven in Jalandhar, five each in Pathankot and Gurdaspur, four each in SBS Nagar, Faridkot, Muktsar and Tarn Taran, three in Ferozepur and two in Ropar. Among the new infections, maximum 1,350 cases were detected in Ludhiana, followed by 888 in SAS Nagar, 595 in Patiala, 502 in Jalandhar, 478 in Amritsar, 355 in Muktsar, 265 in Fazilka, 216 in Mansa, 201 in Gurdaspur, 142 in Kapurthala, 146 in Pathankot, 56 in SBS Nagar, 165 in Sangrur, 97 in Ferozepur, 146 in Ropar, 148 in Faridkot, 58 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 53 in Taran Taran, 97 in Moga and 55 in Barnala. As many as 5,059 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-claims-138-lives-in-punjab-6-812-new-infections-detected-101619726988261.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||No headway in Patiala jailbreak, SIT formed||Police have failed to make any headway in the escape by three prisoners from high security Patiala Central Jail even as a special investigation team (SIT) and six different teams have been formed to track and nab the accused. Also, a departmental probe has been initiated to find out under what circumstances the inmates escaped. Prisoners Inderjit Singh, Sher Singh and Jaspreet Singh had escaped from the jail on Tuesday night after punching a hole in the wall of the cell. Police released pictures of the escapees with an appeal to the public to share any information about them. Sources in the police said a CCTV camera footage shows the accused climbing over the outer wall of the jail by making a human tower standing on shoulders and then using a rope to descend on the other side. “I can’t disclose much, but the accused Inderjit, an ex-army trainer, was well versed with climbing and overcoming such obstacles. We have procured CCTV camera footage from the area and trying to find out who picked them from outside of jail,” said a source, while police are tightlipped. Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said an SIT has been formed and police across the country have been alerted. An FIR under sections 223, 224, 225, 225-A, 427, 120-B of the IPC, and 4 of Damage Public Property Act 1985, and 42 of Prison Act 1894 has been registered against the escapees at Tripuri police station. Meanwhile, the top jail authorities visited the spot on Thursday and did a security audit of the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-headway-in-patiala-jailbreak-sit-formed-101619726805333.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Now, all J&K districts to go under lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday announced a 60-hour lockdown in the remaining nine districts of the Union territory. The lockdown will come into effect at 7pm on Friday and will continue up to 7am on Monday, said administrative secretary Simrandeep Singh. Eleven of J&K’s 20 districts have already been placed under an 84-hour lockdown.In a bid to curb the increasing Covid cases in the UT, a weekend curfew will be imposed in Ladakh from Friday 9pm to Monday 5am, Leh deputy magistrate Shrikant Suse said on Thursday He said only certain categories will be allowed during the restricted period based on production of valid ID cards. These categories include government employees, judicial officers and staff, police, prison, home-guards, civil defence, officials/staff on duty at the airport, disaster management, electricity, water, sanitation, food and civil supplies, telecom service providers and employees on Covid-19 duties. Suse said essential and emergency services such as health and family welfare and all government and private medical establishments concerned, including hospitals, diagnostic centres, testing labs, clinics/pharmacies and medical oxygen suppliers will remain open during the weekend curfew. Medical emergencies, beneficiaries of Covid vaccination and Covid testing will be allowed on producing valid identification cards, including vaccine certificate and online registration IDs. Similarly, services of commercial and private establishments such as petrol pumps, LPG bottling plants, cold storages, ATMs, private security agencies will remain available. Armed and paramilitary movements will not be restricted and media persons will be allowed with valid ID cards. Public transport will be allowed only for the mentioned categories. People can apply for movement pass at https://leh.nic.in/epass/. The movement of passengers flying from or to Leh will be allowed after furnishing an air-ticket or boarding pass. Agricultural activities will be allowed in villages with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Leh district disaster management authority (DDMA) also said that all intra-district and inter-district transportation of perishable items, vegetables and fuel will be allowed after producing relevant proofs. He directed concerned departments, including police, transport, sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and executive magistrate (first class) to ensure strict enforcement of restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-all-j-k-districts-to-go-under-lockdown-101619726804002.html
30-04-2021||Other||Covid shadow over 400th anniv celebrations of 9th Sikh guru||Low-key celebrations to mark the 400th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of the ninth Sikh Master Guru Tegh Bahadur began in the city on Thursday, with the covid-19 surge a major dampener. An Akhand Path (48-hour uninterrupted recitation of the holy Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib) was inaugurated at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the birthplace of the guru, followed by the start of religious events at nearby Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has dropped the plan of organising a grand event in the open area of New Amritsar locality due to the pandemic. Events are being held symbolically. Some devotees participated in the bhog of Sehaj Paths at the Manji Sahib; other joined in virtually. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur participated in the bhog of Sehaj Paths and addressed the sangat, motivating people to connect with the ideology of Guru Sahib. “The centenary days are a golden opportunity to connect with our history and embrace the values of the faith,” she said.Bhai Rajdeep Singh offered prayers on the occasion while Giani Jagtar Singh, head granthi of Golden Temple recited the holy Hukamnama (decree). Covid-19 norms were flouted by almost all the attendees, with masks a rarity. The main event will be held on May 1, when the SGPC wants relaxation in curfew for devotees. “The sangat which wants to pay homage should not be stopped, one-day lockdown should be relaxed. A Nagar Kirtan will be carried out from the Akal Takht to Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal on April 30.” Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal has been illuminated and flower decoration has been done. Decorative gates and saffron flags have also been placed in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-shadow-over-400th-anniv-celebrations-of-9th-sikh-guru-101619726744545.html
30-04-2021||Other||Sangrur lawyers observe no work day to protest against Sunam SDM||The Bar Associations of Sunam, Sangrur, Moonak, Dhuri and Malerkotla observed a No Work Day on Thursday against what they claimed was the misbehaviour of Sunam sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) with lawyers. Members of the Sunam Bar association have been sitting on an indefinite protest outside the office of the SDM, Manjeet Kaur. Advocates have accused Kaur of delivering verdict in a case of Inteqal (land dealing) in the absence of one of the advocates, who had requested for the next date. They claim the SDM misbehaved with them, when they raised the issue with her.Sunam Bar Association chief GBS Chatha said that they had got a huge response from advocates associated with Bar Associations Sunam, Dhuri, Moonak, Sangrur and Malerkotla who passed a resolution of no work in all civil, revenue and labour courts. The Bar’s secretary Arshdeep Bhardwaj said, “The SDM did not consider the appeal of advocates amid the pandemic and delivered the verdict. She also disrespected us and we demand disciplinary action against the SDM.”SDM Manjeet Kaur said that the verdict was given according to the law and on merit. “The case has been pending since 2018. They sought undue favours and the case had been pending only due to lawyers’ non-cooperation,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-lawyers-observe-no-work-day-to-protest-against-sunam-sdm-101619726384525.html
30-04-2021||Other||Tarn Taran hooch tragedy accused granted bail||The court of additional sessions judge Kawaljit Singh on Wednesday granted bail to one of the accused in the state’s worst-ever hooch tragedy that claimed the lives of over 140 persons in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts over July and August last year. Gurbaksh Singh, of Sekhan Majra village in Mohali, was arrested by Tarn Taran police during investigation. Two other accused Anil Kumar and Amarjit Kaur are already out on bail. “During investigation, no recovery of any spurious liquor or illicit liquor or any other material used to distil illicit liquor or alcohol has been affected from the applicant to connect him with the contents of alleged secret information. As submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that co-accused Amarjit Kaur and Anil Kumar have been granted similar concession of regular bail and on the basis of parity also the applicant is entitled for the grant of concession of regular bail. No useful purpose would be served by keeping the applicant behind the bars for an indefinite period, as the trial is unlikely to conclude in the near future,” the judge noted.Applicant’s counsel Hira Singh Sandhu had told the court his client was falsely implicated in the case on the basis of a confessional statement of the co-accused. Of 140 deaths, 84 were reported in Tarn Taran city and its adjoining villages, while the other deaths were reported in Amritsar-rural and Batala’s villages. Separate cases were registered against nearly 100 accused in three districts. Two special investigation teams were formed to crack the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-hooch-tragedy-accused-granted-bail-101619725965895.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||In conflict zone, dentists battle virus with tech||It’s safety first as dentists of the tricity are pulling out all stops to ensure full protection for patients in these challenging Covid times. Working in the conflict zone for more than a year, these silent warriors in white have stepped up their guard to continue extending relief to those in need as the second wave surges. The dentists were treating only emergencies when the lockdown was imposed in March last year and they heeded to the call by the Indian Dental Association (IDA) to temporarily suspend all non-urgent treatment until the crisis blew over. Clinics reopened in compliance with the Covid-19 protocol issued on May 16, 2020. Almost a year on, our dental clinics are geared up with state-of-the-art protection procedure for a safe experience. Dr JS Batth, an endodontist, implantologist and cosmetic dentist, who runs a high-end clinic in Sector 5, Panchkula, says, “We have put up a protection shield that removes up to eight times more aerosols and viruses than traditional electrostatic sterilisation. An extra oral suction machine, a high-pressure plasma air purifier and a fumigator are just some of the features added in these challenging times.” His spic and span clinic that oozes calm is aimed at relaxing the patient before he/she is put through a virtual tour of the line of treatment. “Patients need reassurance, particularly in these trying times. The dentist’s job is not firefighting alone. It’s my responsibility to inform the patient when he/she is at the receptive best about what lies ahead.” Dr Batth, who has been practising for 25 years, says during pre-Covid times, he and his wife, Dr Harpreet Batth, who is a prosthodontist and principal at BRS Dental College, would work in two shifts but now they have restricted themselves to one shift as preparation and sanitisation take a lot of time. “We need to recondition the atmosphere. There can’t be any cross-contamination. Our stringent standards draw patients from other cities besides NRIs and it’s all by word of mouth,” he says. Tech to their advantage Dr Rahul Diwan, an orthodontist practising in Sector 19, Chandigarh, says despite the safety protocols, the second Covid-19 wave has led to a 60% dip in new cases. “I see a drop of another 10% in May. Patients are wary to undergo elective and cosmetic treatment. They are refraining till they get vaccinated. Most of my patients are between 18 and 35 years and vaccination opens up for them from May 1 so I see the situation improving after next month.” Dr Diwan, who is a consultant at a dozen clinics in the tricity, says that dentists see patients only on appointment after taking the travel history unless it’s an urgent matter. “The appointment is granted preferably after a video call so that we can assess if the patient really needs to visit the clinic. We get a fair idea simply by looking at the problem. Once an appointment is granted, we ensure the clinic is sanitised and there is no overlap of patients. Only the patient is allowed in and the relative or attendant waits outside. We send a link over the phone for digital payment,” he says. Calm and caution prescribed Dr Anupam Kakkar, who runs a clinic in Sector 12, Panchkula, recalls how patients were far more careful during the first wave. “There was a fear of the unknown back then, but this time they tend to be lax. So, we have had to up the guard further. We grant appointments only after a telephonic assessment,” he says. The dentists now don N-95/100 masks, goggles or faceshields, gowns or PPE kits to stay protected. They admit the footfall has fallen since pre-Covid times but see no reason to panic. Rather, they urge people to stay safe by following simple oral hygiene measures such as brushing after meals or at least twice a day, flossing and warm saline rinses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-conflict-zone-dentists-battle-virus-with-tech-101619725910699.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||84-hr lockdown not enough in J&K: Experts||With 11 Jammu and Kashmir districts going into an 84-hour lockdown on Thursday evening, medical experts and social workers said it is not enough to arrest the spread and have sought an extended lockdown. The decision to impose the lockdown was taken after at least 3,000 cases and 30 deaths were reported in the UT over the last two days. Citing the surge in cases since April, Dr Javid, a senior doctor at Government Medical College, said, “The lockdown should be imposed for at least a week for it to be effective as a lot of critically-ill patients are reporting to the hospital. Hopefully, the lockdown will help bring down infections.” Another doctor, at a reputed Covid hospital, said the lockdown could prove beneficial. “Imposition of a lockdown had worked last year. This time, too, the government should extend the lockdown, especially in high caseload districts.” Local journalist and activist Rifat Abdullah said, “If the Jammu and Kashmir government sincerely wishes to save the lives of those already affected with Covid or already hospitalised then a 15-day lockdown or curfew is a must.”  “I have seen the conditions of hospitals. Beds are increasingly being occupied and if the trend continues things may go out of hand. Sadly, despite watching people die, many people are still not following standard operating procedures,” Abdullah. Recently, some officials had also suggested a complete lockdown in high caseload areas. At present, there are dozens of micro zones in J&K. People lineup for curfew passesHours before the start of curfew many people could be seen lining up outside government offices for curfew passes. “Deluge of calls/messages & deputations at office for Curfew passes even before a #Lockdown comes into force from 7:00 pm today. I appeal everyone again to pl stay indoors. Ensuring Essential services is my duty. Leave that to me. Let’s #BreakTheChain #StriveForSafeSrinagar, (sic)” tweeted Aijaz Asad, deputy commissioner, Srinagar.The Jammu and Kashmir Police have assured hassle-free movement of doctors and essential staff during the lockdown. “During lockdown, all police units have been directed to facilitate hassle-free movement of doctors, health workers and essential services,” said Kashmir inspector general Vijay Kumar.Immediate action needed to contain spread: TarigamiCPI (M) general secretary Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami has asked the J&K government to take immediate steps to contain Covid deaths and infections. The former legislator said, “The healthcare system across the country and in J&K seems to be on the edge due to a massive increase in the number of patients following the second wave of Covid. A large number of patients are coming to hospital due to which there is shortage of beds, intensive care units (ICUs) and other essential medicines such as Remdesivir in different hospitals across J&K.” He also flagged the need to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply in hospitals and the need to keep outpatient departments open. He said that stepping up vaccinations will not affect the rise of the second wave, but will definitely save many lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/84hr-lockdown-not-enough-in-j-k-experts-101619725909666.html
30-04-2021||Other||Mumbai’s coastal road project: 330 metres of tunnelling completed, says civic body||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed 330 metres of tunnelling work of the underwater twin tunnels, connecting the 9.98-km Princess Street Flyover with Worli, which are a crucial part of the coastal road project.The first 100 metres of the tunnelling was completed by BMC in the first week of March.The overall tunnelling work is expected to take 18 months and BMC has set a deadline of June 2022 for the completion of the work.The two tube twin tunnels will start run below Girgaum Chowpatty and come out at Priyadarshani park. According to BMC officials, the twin tunnels are being built using the cut-the-cover construction method, wherein the actual tunnel would be only 1.9km, but after including the entire entry and exit portions, its length would run up to 3.4km.In a statement issued on Thursday, BMC said that for the first time that single-pillar technology will be used. This process of building three test columns has started on the beach near Worli and further construction of these columns is expected to be completed by the end of July.Civic officials said that the coastal road is being built on 176 single pillars using a mono-pile system, wherein a single solid column is constructed from bottom to top, instead of a group pile, wherein there are four pillars under each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-coastal-road-project-330-metres-of-tunnelling-completed-says-civic-body-101619725904907.html
30-04-2021||Other||Don’t want hospitals to become potential lakshagrihas, says Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday chided the state government and civic authorities over the recent fire incidents in hospitals and said that compliances should be undertaken in an expeditious manner. HC said that it did not want hospitals to turn into potential “lakshagriha (house of lacquer)” of the epic Mahabharata and that the safety of patients was of paramount importance. “We do not want these hospitals to be potential jatugriha [lakshagriha]. These hospitals [which met with fire incidents] are all jatugrihas. This is not the way people should lose their lives,” HC observed. In Mahabharata, the jatugriha (Lakshagrih) was a house made of wax, through which Kauravas attempted to eliminate Pandavas during their exile period. HC took a serious cognisance of the various fire incidents and accidents that took place in the past month across Maharashtra, including the recent one at Mumbra in Thane district where at least four patients admitted in the intensive care unit of a private hospital died after a major fire broke out on Wednesday. The court, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging improper Covid-19 management in the state, asked advocate general of Maharashtra if the government can consider a total lockdown like last year for 15 days to contain the virus spread and if citizens could be indoors unless the absolute need to go out. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Sneha Marjadi alleging mismanagement in treatment during the second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, sought directions pertaining to shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen supply among other prayers. Hinting that it would be constrained to widen the scope of the PIL, the bench said, “You [civic authorities] have to conduct a fire audit of all hospitals and seek compliance earliest. If patients are being admitted in hospitals, their lives should be saved there.” Questioning how permissions were granted to hospitals which compromised with stipulated norms, the court held that wherever there are indoor patients, their safety is of paramount importance. The bench noted that the patients were already going through agony and pain when hospitalised, without checking on whether the hospital is safe or not. “We understand these are special times and everything is put to test. We have to leave our work aside and look into basic compliances. We do not want any fire incidents now.” Appearing on behalf of BMC, senior advocate Anil Sakhare informed the court that the civic authority had already initiated action pertaining to fire audit and compliances and would be in a position to give data and respond to the queries of the court in the next hearing. While referring to the Nagpur incident, wherein an octogenarian offered his hospital bed to a younger man saying that he had lived his life and the young man needed to live, chief justice Datta said, “We salute the senior citizen for his sacrifice. If the authorities had woken up earlier, both lives could have been saved.” The bench did not mince words when it came to the citizens flouting safety norms while the Covid-19 restrictions were in place and said that the authorities could not always be blamed for the situation and referred to the incident wherein a district magistrate had to stop a marriage. “We do not appreciate the way in which the DM conducted himself but the fact remains that the citizens are not abiding and hence such action was necessitated,” said the bench adding that such an approach by the citizens contributed to the further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. “If we as citizens fail, what is going to happen? You want to have marriages, festivals etc without following norms? Are we waiting for the third wave? First we do not care about basic things [protocols] and then we hunt for oxygen and medicines. This is the current state,” noted chief justice Datta. Thereafter, the bench asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to “advise” the government to consider at least a 15-day total lockdown. “We are not passing any mandamus, but please advise the government. At least for 15 days, if people stay indoors unless there is absolute need to come out, we may expect better results,” said the bench. The court while asking the government to ensure Remdesivir injections were sufficiently supplied to private hospitals, sought responses from the authorities and posted further hearing to May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-want-hospitals-to-become-potential-lakshagrihas-says-bombay-hc-101619725723959.html
30-04-2021||Other||DRI seizes cocaine worth ₹13.35 crore from 2 foreign nationals at Mumbai airport||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence’s (DRI) zonal officers have arrested two Tanzanian nationals from Mumbai city airport for allegedly smuggling cocaine by concealing the contraband in their body. A total 2.2kg of cocaine, stuffed in 101 capsules, worth ₹13.35 crore has been seized from them under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. DRI on Thursday said that based on specific inputs on April 22, the accused – Mtwanzi Carlos Adam and Rashid Paul Sayula – travelling from Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, to Mumbai via Addis Ababa, were apprehended. DRI had intelligence that they were carrying some narcotics substances in their body. Hence, DRI officers secured permission from the court for the medical examination of the two suspects and admitted them to the state-run Sir JJ Hospital. The doctors found about the presence of some foreign objects in their stomach during the X-ray screening of the suspects. During interrogation, Adam and Sayula admitted to have swallowed 54 and 97 capsules, respectively, before embarking on the flight to Mumbai. Both were placed under arrest on Thursday, as they were at the hospital till Wednesday. A city court on Thursday remanded them to judicial custody. A DRI officer said that the investigation so far has confirmed that the drug syndicate is also smuggling the narcotics through mules who conceal the contraband in their body and travel to India on medical visa. “This is the third such case of smuggling of narcotics detected by DRI Mumbai in the past six months wherein a medical visa facility has been abused by foreign nationals of African countries,” said a senior DRI officer. DRI further stated that while demand for cocaine has continued during the pandemic – as it is a drug of choice for the elite – its availability has reduced due to international travel curbs, thereby making smuggling by concealing in body a more lucrative option. Hence, this seizure of cocaine during the current lockdown is significant. DRI Mumbai had made record seizures of narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances amid the pandemic in 2020 and this year and seized drugs like heroin, cocaine, mephedrone, ephedrine and ketamine, worth ₹646 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dri-seizes-cocaine-worth-13-35-crore-from-2-foreign-nationals-at-mumbai-airport-101619725603795.html
30-04-2021||Other||Thane Police to probe cop’s plaint against Param Bir Singh||The first information report (FIR) registered by Akola police against former Mumbai police commissioner and Maharashtra home guards commandant general Param Bir Singh, three deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and 29 others has been transferred to Thane police on Thursday. The FIR has been filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by an inspector from Akola. Singh did not respond to calls and messages.Police sources said the case would now be investigated by an assistant commissioner of police.The complainant, BR Ghadge, posted at Akola city police control room, belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. He has alleged that as he had refused to follow Singh’s illegal orders to benefit some accused in a criminal case, Singh conspired with others and registered three extortion and a corruption case between August 23 and September 3, 2015, against him. Ghadge claimed that the accused policemen falsely implicated him in these cases to harass him.“The then commissioner, in an unruly manner, intentionally deprived me from the post of senior inspector (in-charge) of Bazar Peth police station out of grudge and appointed officers way junior to him on the post. This was also against the August 19, 2015, order of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Commission, Worli,” Ghadge had stated in an earlier complaint to police.“I was placed under suspension by Singh from August 23, 2015, to November 28, 2018, as a breach of my fundamental rights,” said Ghadge, who in the past had made 13 complaints regarding the alleged injustice on him.Other than Singh, those who are made accused in the case include 15 police officers who were posted at Thane when Singh was the commissioner of police at Thane between 2015 and 2018. They face 27 sections under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act and Civil Rights Protection Act.The FIR (of which HT has a copy) mainly revolves around a 2013 criminal case against the then Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation officials for allegedly giving extra floor space index to builders in the names of deceased people. Ghadge had alleged that while probing this scam, he had made 26 people, including three former municipal commissioners of KDMC and other senior civic officials and builders, an accused. However, Singh had asked him to drop the names of the senior civic officials.Singh had called Ghadge and his staff to his office on April 15, 2015, and ordered him to remove the names of 22 civic officials named in the case and instructed him to send a report to KDMC recommending departmental action against them, Ghadge alleged.However, Ghadge had refused to oblige and informed Singh that he, in due consultation and supervision of the then joint commissioner of Thane Police VV Laxminarayan, had applied appropriate sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, as the accused were involved in criminal misconduct.Ghadge claimed that Laxminarayan had also approved his investigation and invocation of sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act against the officials.Later, only four accused were charge sheeted in the case, while names of remaining 22 officials were dropped, he said.Earlier, Ghadge had written a 14-page complaint against Singh and others on April 20 to chief minister Uddhav Thackerey, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, director general of state police Sanjay Pandey and DG anti-corruption bureau, alleging that while serving as commissioner of Thane Police, Singh indulged in several illegal and corrupt acts and made crores of rupees.In the letter, he had claimed that Singh gave orders to police officers to extricate some influential people from criminal cases registered against them, allegedly in return for huge sums of money.Recently, Singh was removed as Mumbai Police commissioner for “mishandling” of the Antilia explosives case and the murder of Mansukh Hiran, the man in possession of the vehicle in which the explosives were found outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen around a week before it was found with the explosives in late February. Hiran was subsequently found dead.Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze has been named as the main accused in both cases by the National Investigation Agency. After his removal as commissioner, Singh wrote a letter to CM, alleging that the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort money from dance bars, bars and restaurants and hookah parlours in the city.Singh had also approached courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, after which Deshmukh was compelled to resign. CBI had subsequently, on April 21, registered a regular case against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-police-to-probe-cop-s-plaint-against-param-bir-singh-101619725423955.html
30-04-2021||Other||CBI files closure report in 46 of 71 cases against gangster Chhota Rajan||Five-and-half years after his deportation to India, a special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court on April 22 acquitted underworld don Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje alias Chhota Rajan in the two-decade-old Hanif Kadawala murder case. Kadawala, an accused in the March 1993 Mumbai bombings case, had allegedly helped Sanjay Dutt hide an AK-47 rifle that was delivered to the actor. Kadawala was also accused to have transported weapons to Mumbai on the instructions of Tiger Menon, the prime conspirator in the blasts case, which were meant to be used for the bombings. Kadawala was shot dead on February 7, 2001, in his office. The special court acquitted the gangster after the investigating officer of the case revealed that one of the accused in the case, Yusuf Bachkana, who acquitted in 2004, had claimed that Kadawala was killed at the instance of his elder brother Farooq. The Kadawala murder case was Rajan’s sixth trial concluded so far after his extradition. The gangster has so far been also convicted in three other cases, including journalist J Dey’s murder case, in which he has been sentenced to life imprisonment. On March 16, a special MCOCA court had convicted Rajan and six members of his gang for firing at bookie-turned-builder Ajay Gosaliya in 2013. The same day, special judge AT Wankhede sentenced Rajan, his financer Kaushik Rajgaur, sharpshooter Satish Kalia, as well as Sunilkumar alias Piyush Tiwari, Vilas Singh, Arvind Shinde and Prakash Nikak – who executed the plan – to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment. The court also imposed fine of ₹5 lakh on each of them. Rajan has so far been convicted in four cases, which includes the murder of journalist J Dey, cases of firing at builders BR Shetty and Ajay Gosalia. In Dey’s murder case, Rajan has been sentenced to life imprisonment. Rajan has been, however, acquitted in fisherman John Pareira’s murder case. It was one of the oldest cases against the gangster, which was decided by the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in June 2018. On February 21, 1983, a murder case was registered with the Santacruz police station after John Pareira, 35, was stabbed at Juhu beach, allegedly over disputes on smuggling business. After Rajan was deported from Bali in November 2015, the Centre, with the consent of the Maharashtra government, issued a notification transferring all cases against him to CBI. Mumbai Police had listed 71 cases against Rajan which were transferred to CBI on November 21, 2015. Of the 71 cases, CBI has already filed closure report in 46 cases before the respective special MCOCA and magistrate courts set up to try the gangster. “We have closed several old cases where it was not possible to trace witnesses and collect further evidence. We had no material. It was not possible to obtain primary evidence like the call data records of the accused involved in the crime and others connected in such old cases,” said advocate Pradeep Gharat, who is appointed as the special public prosecutor to conduct trials in cases against Rajan. Gharat said most of the cases of extortion, which were transferred to magistrate courts, had also been closed for want of evidence. “In most of these cases, complainants have either died or are not traceable. Further, the officers could not get any key evidence to put up before the court,” Gharat added. Rajan’s lawyer Tushar Khandare, however said, “Rajan was never involved in the cases in which the agency has filed closure report. In many of these cases, his name was misused and the crimes were committed without his knowledge. As he was not in India, the agencies could never verify his role. It was only after extradition, facts became evident, and it was found that he was not involved.” The cases which are closed are mostly old cases of gang rivalry and murders of businessmen who refused to give in to Rajan’s demands. In one such case, businessman Sham Sunder Raj was shot on July 3, 1995, in his office. He was seriously injured and died later. In another case, two unidentified shooters fired bullets at Ashok Krishna Shetty, a cousin of Karianna Shetty, the owner of the Ashoka Hotel, on May 27, 1993. In another case, Chembur resident Bala Kotian was shot dead on October 7, 1998, in was primarily a case of gang war. Similarly, a case registered in 1997 for conspiring to kill senior journalist Baljeet Parmar has also been closed. The prosecution claimed that they could not trace witnesses in the case. Among the pending cases, Rajan is facing trial in the murder cases of hotelier Jaya Shetty, union leader Datta Samant and builder Majid Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-files-closure-report-in-46-of-71-cases-against-gangster-chhota-rajan-101619725304920.html
30-04-2021||Other||Pantry suspended in 4 trains to check covid spread||Passengers of special trains, including Delhi-bound Amritsar Shatabdi and Rajdhani and two others need to carry their own food, as the railways has suspended pantry in four trains in view of the surge in covid cases. The pantry served eatables, bottled water and beverages. Packed snacks, food and bottled water would be available at some platforms. The trains in which the pantry has been suspended are Amritsar Shatabdi (Amritsar-New Delhi), Vande Bharat (Katra-New Delhi), Shri Shakti Special (Katra-New Delhi) and Jammu Rajdhani (Jammu Tawi-New Delhi). Starting May 1, the railways has also cancelled Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi (train number 02013 and 02014) due to low occupancy.Arvinder Singh, a Ludhiana-based trader, said, “For the sake of children and elderly, the railways should provide cold water and packed snacks in trains. Alighting on platforms could invite infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pantry-suspended-in-4-trains-to-check-covid-spread-101619725304458.html
30-04-2021||Other||IIT-Bombay alumna seek action against professor of Kharagpur campus||A group of alumna members of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Thursday have urged the director of IIT-Kharagpur (IIT-KGP) to take action against a professor who was allegedly seen verbally abusing a preparatory class for students belonging to the scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) categories and those with physical disabilities in a video.In a letter to IIT-KGP’s director Virendra Kumar Tewari, alumni said the video, that had emerged four days ago, has “horrified” them. They demanded that Tewari take immediate action against the violation of classroom ethics, create a safe space for students to place their grievances and attend to them on an urgent basis with immediate action. Despite repeated attempts, Tewari remained unavailable for a comment. Videos of Seema Singh, an associate professor from IIT-KGP’s humanities and social sciences department emerged on social media on Sunday where she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at students reportedly attending online preparatory classes meant for students from SC, ST categories and those with physical disabilities. The recordings, which are under the institute’s review, were posted anonymously on IIT-KGP’s confessions page, an informal group of students on social media.The 25 IIT-B alumna include Anupama Krishnamurthy (class of 1988), researcher at French Institute Pondicherry; Shaibani Azam (class of 1986), professor at Jamia Millia University; Enakshi Bhattacharya (class of 1980), professor at IIT-Madras; Deepti Pradhan (class of 1986); associate director of research at Yale University and Chayanika Shah (class of 1986), retired lecturer, KJ Somaiya College of Science and Commerce.“We were students at a time when the gender ratio in IIT-B was less than 5%. As minority students on campus, we have experienced many sexist comments from teachers and recognise today how their actions and statements made an adverse impact on our learning environment. We, hence, speak from some personal experience of discrimination at IIT-campuses. We were even then aware of the ways in which those who came from marginalised caste backgrounds, were not English speaking, or were from smaller towns were discriminated against,” wrote the group.The women had also participated in a strike in 1980 when four students had raised their voice against IIT-B’s order cancelling their admissions on the grounds that they had a backlog in courses and were not able to cope with the undergraduate programme. The unprecedented strike had forced the institute to a grinding halt for almost 40 days.“Some of us are now a part of the academia, while a few of us have seen how discrimination at institutes works. We are also seeing a surge in the number of cases of discrimination coming out. This reminds us of our experience as a minority on campus. Since 1980, we have been reiterating that it not enough for institutes to just bring in students from diverse backgrounds. There’s a need to make them feel safe and supported,” said Shah.Institutions are not fit to look after diverse students in their present state, Shah added. “While a complete overhaul of the education system is ideal, there are things institutes can do immediately. They must set up anti-discrimination cells, train teachers on how to treat diversity and reduce the emphasis on [academic] performance,” she said. Meanwhile, the videos, which are viral on social media, have sparked an outrage across campuses. While Singh has apologised to students for her behaviour in an email, many student and alumni bodies across campuses have started online petitions demanding action against her and the creation of an SC/ ST cell at IITs. The Science Education Group (SEG), a students’ forum at IIT-KGP, issued a statement on Wednesday: “There have also been previous unverified reports that state her [Seema’s] brazen and abusive behaviour with students. She has an alleged history of doing these things. One thing that can be concluded from all this is that primarily this is systematic power abuse, which often goes under the carpet and secondarily, underlines the casteist behaviour of the system…” Meanwhile on Tuesday, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes issued letters to the institute, Union education ministry, West Bengal’s government and director general of police, informing them that the commission will investigate the matter. “The commission has taken a suo-motu cognisance of the use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks made by professor Seema Singh while taking a class of SC/ ST students… Her remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community,” the commission wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitbombay-alumna-seek-action-against-professor-of-kharagpur-campus-101619725123889.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Second wave: Passengers allege airlines refuse to help even when they test positive for Covid||As the country grapples with the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 and citizens choose to stay indoors, those who had booked flights are facing issues around cancellations and ticket refunds. To add to the misery, passengers testing positive for Covid-19 before their travel date are not being exempted from cancellation charges. Social media pages of a majority of the airlines are filled with complaints by disgruntled passengers as they ask for a refund either because they do not want to travel due to safety reasons or are forced to be home as they are getting treated for Covid-19 or due to their destination city announcing lockdown.Divya Mehta, a Delhi resident whose family tested positive, said that of the total ₹47,000 that they spent in booking their tickets, SpiceJet has charged them ₹30,000 as cancellation fees. Mehta said, “We were booked to fly from Delhi to Goa on April 30, but our family is currently fighting against Covid. My uncle lost his battle to the virus and my aunt is critical. How can we even step out of our homes in such a situation? We are paying heavy daily hospital charges, and our ticket refund amount means a lot to us at the moment.”According to Mehta, she has approached the airline multiple times via emails only to get their automated response. “I even tweeted our positive RT-PCR reports as proof, but the airline has not bothered to solve the issue. All they do is ask me to share details.”SpiceJet did not comment on the matter.Similar situation has been faced by other passengers too. A tweet to IndiGo by a passenger, Raman Jaiswal, read, “Hi @paytm @IndiGo6E I have a flight on 19th May..due to pandemic we can’t travel. As I wish to cancel the flight, I am getting only ₹553 refund. Kindly help me out.” While responding to Jaiswal, IndiGo’s tweet read, “Sir, we are monitoring the situation closely. As of now, we are not offering any waivers. Upon changes or cancellation, necessary charges will be applicable.”Saurabh Jain, a Chartered Accountant from Malad, was told that his RT-PCR test reports and his wife’s blood test reports were not good proofs for being medically unfit. Jain, who was to travel to Jaipur via a GoAir flight on April 25, wrote to the airline first on April 19 and then after his wife’s blood reports were out.“Due to rise in cases, RT-PCR tests are on waiting, and hence we did not get an appointment for my wife before a week. Hence, we went for blood tests to check if she too had been infected along with me. The blood reports made it clear that she was positive and that is when I wrote to the airline for the second time, attaching both our reports. However, the airline’s response to my email was that our reports weren’t enough to prove that we were Covid positive,” Jain said.He added, “I am shocked at the apathy of these airlines to people like us who are fighting against the virus and have to go through such harassment. I joined Twitter only to get a response from them as they stopped replying to me for three days. It’s a shame that people have to approach the airlines in social media in order to get them talking to us. What about those who cannot access or who do not know to operate social media accounts?” GoAir did not comment on this matter. Another passenger said she had to face refund issues. Panvel resident Nasreen Dada, who was to fly with her two children on Sunday, had to approach her personal contacts and pressure the airline to get her money back. She had booked a ticket for GoAir’s G8 330 which is the only non-stop flight between Mumbai and Kannur. Not only did the flight get cancelled three consecutive times, the airline also asked passengers to cancel the ticket from their end and refused to refund them.“I wanted to travel with my kids to see my mother who is alone in Kannur, but the airline has been cancelling the flight since Sunday. Hence we decided to ask them to cancel our tickets and refund. However, we could only get our money back only when we approached a few resourceful people and also by fighting with the airline for it.” When contacted, GoAir spokesperson said, “There have been flight cancellations on the domestic route which were connecting flights to the onward travel to Dubai and Sharjah as part of the travel embargo to Dubai and Sharjah. GoAir regrets any convenience caused to our esteemed customers.” Passengers said airlines should encourage people wanting to stay home at times when the country is seeing the fastest spread of Covid-19 virus, instead they are only trying to take advantage of the situation.GoAir, however, has been cancelling flights on other sectors too. According to the complaints on the airline’s Twitter account, it cancelled flights that included ones from Ahmedabad to Varanasi, Pune to Kolkata, Pune to Ahmedabad, Delhi to Varanasi among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-wave-passengers-allege-airlines-refuse-to-help-even-when-they-test-positive-for-covid-101619725063852.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Will start vaccination for 18+ only with 2.5 mn doses in hand: Maharashtra||Concerned over the availability of required quota, the Maharashtra government has decided to not roll out the vaccination drive for the third phase for the 18-44 age group, unless they have 2.5 million doses in hand. Considering the scenario of meagre supply of vaccines from two domestic manufacturers (Covishield and Covaxin), the state has also started talks with other manufacturers, namely Johnson and Johnson and Zydus Cadilla for import of vaccines. The government is also likely to open vaccination for the 18-44 age group in a staggered manner, allowing vaccination of the 26-44 age group first.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held meetings with key ministers and officials on Thursday to chalk out a plan for the roll-out of the third phase of the drive.The Thackeray government, in its cabinet meeting held on Wednesday, decided on free vaccination for all in the 18-44 age group.The government is, however, concerned about the availability of the desired stock even by the end of May.“The makers of home-grown Covaxin and Covishield have assured us the supply, but there is no clarity on the timeline. The Serum Institute of India has taken a purchase order for three lakh (300,000) doses, but it has not clarified by when they will be able to deliver the stock. We may start accumulating the stock we get from these two makers, but the roll-out would be only after we have at least 2.5 million doses in hand,” said an official privy to the developments.Also read | Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-Aug“We have reached out to all makers from various countries, enquiring about the availability of vaccines and the price. We had a video-conference with the Indian executives of J&J for the procurement of their vaccine, but they have informed us their jab will be available only in August. Zydus Cadilla’s vaccine too is expected to be available by August. The talks for the Sputnik V are on at chief minister’s level. We have established contacts with almost all vaccine companies in our bid for speedy procurement,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Tope said that Pfizer’s jab will be available for ₹1500, while Chinese vaccines are available at ₹750.The state has almost arrived at the decision of opening the third phase for the age group of 26-44 years and comorbid people in the younger age group in the first leg. The decision is expected to be taken in the meeting of core committee of senior ministers in the next couple of days.“It is clear that the CM wants to avoid the hardships people are going through currently owing to non-availability of doses. It will not only lead to criticism, but also chaos among the working class,” the official quoted above said.Tope said the state has targeted a procurement of 120 million doses of the vaccine to complete the drive in record time.“We are ready to pay the vaccine manufacturers immediately, but they are not able to make the doses available. We have requested them to make the vaccines available on priority and apprise us of the schedule,” said Tope.The minister said the state expects positive response from global players to the expression of interest floated by them for medical equipment and drugs.“We expect the response to our expression for 25,000 metric tonnes of oxygen, 4,000 oxygen concentrators, 250 PSA plants and 20 liquid oxygen storage tanks by Monday. Besides, we have directed our district administrations to complete setting up of oxygen plants at the earliest. There is a prediction of the third wave of virus by July-August, for which the district administrations have been instructed to be prepared. Of the 125 PSA plants of oxygen generators planned at district level, most are expected to come up in the next 10 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-start-vaccination-for-18-age-group-only-with-2-5-mn-doses-in-hand-maharashtra-101619725004830.html
30-04-2021||Other||HC asks local bodies dept to probe hijacking of Barnala MC polls||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed Punjab principal secretary, local government, to conduct an inquiry into allegations of hijacking of the elections of president and vice-president of municipal committee (MC), Barnala, within two weeks. The court acted on the plea of 18 municipal councillors led by Paramjit Singh. The division bench of justice Ajay Tewari has also directed the petitioners to appear before the principal secretary on May 5 for presenting their case.It was alleged in the plea that the election for the post of president and vice-president was conducted by SDM Varjit Singh Walia, by show of hands. Two petitioners, Paramjit Singh and Parkash Kaur, were elected as president and vice-president respectively, with overwhelming majority, while rival candidates, namely Gurjeet Singh and Narinder Kumar were defeated.The SDM, at this stage, got signatures of all councillors, including an ex-officio member (sitting MLA) in a new register, for the purpose of writing down the proceedings of the election. Immediately thereafter, Kewal Singh Dhillon, halqa in-charge of the Congress, arrived and entered into the library hall of MC, and asked the SDM to get elections conducted once again. The SDM acted as per directions of Dhillon, and despite strong protests from petitioners, held the election once again, but the result was same, it was claimed. The petitioners have claimed that the SDM, in conspiracy with Dhillon, Gurjeet Singh and Narinder Kumar declared them as elected for the post of president and vice-president respectively, adding that they protested before the media, which had assembled outside. They complained to a number of authorities, including secretary, local government; director, local government, and the deputy commissioner, seeking an inquiry into the matter. Ignoring all complaints, however, a notification was issued naming Gurjeet Singh as president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-local-bodies-dept-to-probe-hijacking-of-barnala-mc-polls-101619724884366.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 4 sloth bears, leopard drown in Chandrapur district||Four sloth bears were found dead at the bottom of a well in Chandrapur district, in the buffer zone of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve, on Thursday morning. The victims include one male and one female adult, and two cubs. Forest department officials suspected that the animals had drowned after falling into the well — which was not cased with vertical walls — by accident.Praveen NR, chief conservator of forests (Chandrapur) confirmed the development and said, “The autopsy results are not available yet, but the animals likely fell into the well inadvertently, perhaps when it was dark. The incident happened outside the tiger reserve area in Chandrapur forest division in Vadholi village.” He also added that the animals were not missing any body parts, ruling out any indication of poaching.Meanwhile, a six-year-old female leopard was also found dead at the bottom of a well in Pune district’s Junnar taluka on Wednesday morning. The animal was also found wrapped in a large plastic bag, eliciting scepticism as to whether its death had been staged. Autopsy results showed the animal had drowned, with water entering its lungs through the nose and mouth. Department officials said that there were no signs of poaching.“The animal was found near Dangarwadi village in Junnar taluka. A sugarcane farmer saw the animal and alerted us. The well in which the leopard drowned is surrounded by cane fields on three sides, but the crops have been harvested and the area is now being used to graze livestock. It’s possible that the leopard was looking for prey in the area,” said Manisha Kale, round forest officer, Narayangaon.Anish Andheria, chief executive officer of the Wildlife Conservation Trust, said, “Signs of drowning do not necessarily rule out other causes of death, for example poisoning. It is highly unlikely that the leopard got entangled in a plastic bag before or after drowning, but prima facie the incident merits further investigation on the part of the forest department. Theoretically, an unconscious animal (poisoned but alive) can be put in a bag and dumped in a well. A histopathology report of the organs and relevant body tissue can easily rule out poisoning. Another possibility is a road accident. A seriously injured animal can be dumped in the well to pass it off as a drowning case”.Forest department officials, however, said they have concluded the death to be due to drowning only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-4-sloth-bears-leopard-drown-to-death-101619724703724.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Return SSC exam fees, say teachers and parents||After the state education department cancelled the Class 10 (SSC) exams this year, teachers and parents are demanding that the state board returns exam fees of over 17 lakh students who were set to write exams.Every year, the board charges ₹415 from regular students as exam fees against costs incurred in conducting and supervising exams and assessing answer sheets. “This year, the board will not incur charges such as stationery costs for printing papers, supervision allowances to teachers and paper assessment charges to examiners and moderators. Thus, these fees need to be returned,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice president of the Teachers Democratic Front.With nearly 17 lakh students appearing for the SSC exams every year, the board collects nearly ₹70 crore in exam fees. Dinkar Patil, chairman of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said a decision is still awaited. He however added that “the board has already incurred most of the expenditure, barring the expenses concerning paper checking.”On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government due to the rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant lockdown. Students will be marked based on internal assessments and the education department is still devising a formula for the evaluation of these students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-return-ssc-exam-fees-say-teachers-and-parents-101619724704321.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-Aug||Even as the second wave is yet to recede, Maharashtra is likely to be hit by a third wave by July and August, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday, citing the epidemiologists consulted by the government. He asked the state administration to be prepared for the third wave by ramping up the infrastructure, saying he didn’t want to see a repeat of the current scenario.The CM called a meeting of divisional commissioners and district collectors to take stock of the Covid situation on Thursday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We will have to become self-sufficient, especially in oxygen supply. The CM said he did not want to hear any reason for shortage of oxygen supply then.”The prediction is based on advice given by the members of the state task force comprising experts from the medical field. They have made the prediction based on the study of patterns of Covid waves in various countries. According to the experts, a drop in daily cases is likely to start by May-end, but by July-end or the first week of August, cases will start rising again which will be the third wave in the state, said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 66,159 daily infections pushing the count to 4,539,553. The tally of active cases reduced to 670,301 as 68,537 recoveries reported in the past 24 hours. The state saw 771 deaths, taking the toll to 67,985. Pune had 130, highest number of deaths across the state, with 94 fatalities in the city and 36 from its rural areas.Also read | Maharashtra logs 66,159 Covid-19 cases, 771 deaths; 68,537 recover“We want the local administration to be at an oxygen surplus by July. For this, orders for setting up 125 PSA (Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) technology) plants have been issued and in the next 10 days, their installation will begin across the state. District collectors have been directed to procure 5 to 10 LPM oxygen concentrators in proportion to 25% of the total active patients in their respective district, so that all mild and serious patients will be able to get regular oxygen supply in any case,” the health minister said.Each tehsil should be having an oxygen generation plant, liquid oxygen storage tanks and oxygen concentrators as well, he added.Officials said that the epidemiologists are of the view that the situation is coming under control because of the lockdown has been imposed and daily cases may start going down from next month. “In the next two months, the situation will come under control but as soon as all the restrictions are lifted it is believed that the third wave will again hit the state,” said a senior official privy to the development. “The situation has come under control to some extent owing to the strict restrictions but we have to be cautious and start planning for the third wave,” the CM said in the meeting. He also asked to ensure adequate supply of medicines for the third wave.As part of the preparations, Tope said that tele-ICU facilities will be developed for tertiary treatment of patients in all two-tier cities, where there is no major government hospital or medical college. High-resolution cameras will be installed with the beds of each patient so their condition can be monitored by expert doctors in major cities. He has also directed fire audit, structural audit and oxygen supply to be conducted. District collectors have been directed to ensure hospitals are conducting these audits well in time.As the number of daily cases is yet to decline, a steep rise is recorded in Covid-19 casualties in Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the state reported close to 1000 (985) fatalities, which is highest in a day, since the outbreak in March last year. In this month alone, 12,439 deaths have been recorded, which is also highest ever in a month so far.If compared with the last two months, the toll in March was 2,495 casualties whereas in February, when a second wave hit the state, 1,072 deaths were reported. The death rate of this month has increased to 0.70% in this month (between April 1-27) from 0.38% last month, according to an analysis by the state health department. It was presented before the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor on the Covid-19 and former director general of health services said, they are experiencing an unusual behavior of the virus which is contributing to the toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-be-ready-third-covid-19-wave-may-hit-by-july-aug-says-cm-101619724583774.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t choke our hospitals, says Chandigarh adviser on outsider influx||UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday appealed to Chandigarh residents not to “choke” the city’s health infrastructure by “inviting friends and relatives from outside”.Amid an unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh is witnessing an influx of patients from the region and from even as far as Bihar. With New Delhi and its adjoining cities the worst hit and grappling with bed and oxygen shortage, hospitals in the city, particularly private ones, are receiving dozens of requests from there for admitting patients. At present, around 25 patients from Delhi NCR are admitted in city hospitals.During a media interaction on Tuesday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had claimed that the majority of beds in Chandigarh hospitals were occupied by people from other states. Data shared by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Wednesday confirmed that only 30% patients at its dedicated Covid-19 hospital were from the city, while Punjab accounted for the bulk.On Thursday, Parida said: “Please do not choke our hospital infrastructure by inviting friends and relatives from outside, needing indoor Covid treatment. Our hospital beds are almost full.”‘We politely refuse non-serious patients’A senior doctor at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, wishing not to be named, said: “One day we received five patients from Delhi, who were admitted at the Sector-48 hospital. To date, 12 patients from that region have come. Though we are not encouraging them, we cannot refuse a patient who needs treatment. There are verbal orders from the administration to politely refuse admission in case the patients are not serious.”At the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, which has seen cumulative 17 admissions since March last year, currently there are 11 persons from Delhi admitted at the institute.“Patients land up in the emergency block of the hospital and there is no scope for us to refuse them on the grounds of empathy, but with our resources getting exhausted, we are also helpless,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.The small private hospitals that can cater upto 20-30 patients say that dozens of calls were being received daily, requesting for oxygen beds and ventilators. However, due to full occupancy, they were not able to accommodate, they added.“Though our first priority is accomodating people from Chandigarh, if we receive patients who require intensive intervention, we have no option but to refuse them,” said Dr Sanjay Bansal of Eden Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-choke-our-hospitals-says-chandigarh-adviser-on-outsider-influx-101619724524956.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to entertain PIL seeking uniform pricing for Covid vaccines||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday refused to entertain public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the central government to apply uniform pricing of ₹150 for Covid vaccines by taking over all the stocks being manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech.The HC said that as the Supreme Court was seized of matters which had national implications, it would not hear the current PIL and directed the petitioners to approach the SC. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a suo motu PIL related to the spread of Covid among jail inmates and jail staff, was informed that vaccination in jails had been stopped due to shortage. Advocate Vivek Shukla appearing on behalf of the petitioners, city-based lawyer Fayzan Khan and three law students, sought to intervene and informed the court that his PIL was on the issue of difference in the rate of the vaccine being charged by the manufacturers and should be heard. The petitioners contended that the differential pricing of the vaccines for Centre, state and private hospitals was discriminatory and pharma companies were milking the fear psychosis of increased death rate due to Covid– 19 and sought directions to the central government to acquire the entire supply and control the vaccine price. They also contended that the pharmaceutical companies were engaged in “organised loot” and the HC should intervene to protect “national public health” and ensure that the fundamental right to equality and life under the Constitution is “not left to the mercy of pharmaceutical companies”.After advocate Shukla mentioned the PIL for urgent hearing, on Thursday morning, the HC said, “The Supreme Court (which is hearing suo motu PIL on Covid management) has said that issues having pan-India effect will be dealt with by it. Vaccine pricing is a phenomenon applicable all over India and therefore we are not entertaining it (PIL) as SC has fairly covered it.”The bench suggested the petitioners should move to the Apex court for relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-entertain-pil-seeking-uniform-pricing-for-covid-vaccines-101619724523797.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Start UG medical classes for next academic year, says MUHS||Amid constant delays that has plagued the undergraduate (UG) medical education system in the state, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has informed all affiliated colleges to not waste time any further. In a circular released late on Wednesday, the university has asked all colleges to start conducting academic activities from the next academic year, even though final exams for the second and third-year batches are yet to be conducted for the current academic year. “It is notified that all colleges continue academic activities by optimum utilisation of various learning resources available so that there is no academic loss to students and their syllabus is completed,” states MUHS circular. It further stated that attendance of students will be maintained by colleges as per guidelines previously released circulars by the university.The dean and principals of colleges have been directed to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols while conducting academic activities. “Teaching schedule of the next academic year should continue uninterrupted, as these students are carried over to the next academic year, irrespective of the exam results,” said the MUHS circular, signed by the registrar.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second and third-year MBBS exams were postponed three times this year due to surge in Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. As per the state government, these exams will now be conducted in the first week of June. However, holding off classes for the next academic year until exams are completed will leave students with very little academic time for the next year.“While second-year batches begin in the month of June, third and fourth-year MBBS batches start their academic year in January itself. This year, since exams kept getting delayed, several colleges have already started taking lectures for the next academic year online,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of an MBBS student. He added that select few colleges are also conducting physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-start-ug-medical-classes-for-next-academic-year-says-muhs-101619724463712.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks details of doctors, paramedics available in jails||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked Maharashtra prison authorities to provide details of availability of qualified medical staff and health workers in prison hospitals after it was informed of deaths of prisoners and jail staff in the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. The query was prompted after the court was informed that the Taloja Central prison had only three Ayurvedic doctors inside the jail hospital. The court further sought to know from the Centre and state as to whether having Aadhaar card was mandatory requirement for prisoners to be eligible for vaccination and also took note of suggestions by People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) to ask the state level high-power committee (HPC) to convene a meeting and decide on relaxing its guidelines further to decongest jails. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) instituted after taking cognisance of a news report that the number of Covid positive cases among prisoners and jail staff had gone up from 47 to 200 in a month during the second wave, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that various measures had been initiated to safeguard prison inmates. He submitted that only 244 prisoners and 170 jail staff were currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 from among the 35,000 prisoners across all jails in the state. He further submitted that school and hostel premises that had been requisitioned earlier for setting up temporary prisons were taken over again to decongest jails. He added that around 64,000 repeated and random Covid-19 tests were conducted in prisons, as a result of which there were only three deaths from among the 35,124 jail inmates and staff in the last month. The bench also asked the state about whether the jails had qualified doctors and medical staff stipulated by the Prison Rules, 2015 after it was informed that Taloja jail and hospital was being looked after by three Ayurveda doctors. The HC held that it was a serious issue and required to be attended to urgently. Senior advocate Mihir Desai for human rights’ body PUCL informed the court that after May 2020 the HPC had not convened, and hence the court should direct it to meet at the earliest to review the Covid-19 situation in prisons and current population of inmates to further decide on release of prisoners to decongest jails. With regards the Aadhaar card being mandatory for vaccination of prisoners, Prof Vijay Raghavan, member NGO Prayas and Centre for Criminology and Justice, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), informed the court that it was creating a huge problem for inmates and hence the bench should pass appropriate orders. The court then asked the Centre and state to respond, as the same was an important policy issue which would have pan-India ramifications. The court then observed that Aadhaar card was important for identifying persons being administered the vaccination and for maintaining a nationwide database of vaccinations, hence if non availability of Aadhaar was an issue, registration camps should be held in prisons so that all eligible prisoners get a card and also get vaccinated. Seeking responses from the authorities, HC posted further hearing to May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-details-of-doctors-paramedics-available-in-jails-101619724403729.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||T20 Mumbai tournament postponed amid rise in Covid-19 cases||A day after Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) nod to host T20 Mumbai, the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) on Thursday has decided to postpone the league owing to the spike in the Covid-19 cases in the country. Milind Narvekar, the chairman of the T20 Mumbai governing council and a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, took the decision to postpone the league in consultation with MCA president Vijay Patil. “In the view of the current situation, president Vijay Patil and I, in my capacity as the chairman, have taken the decision to not conduct the T20 Mumbai League till further notice. This is our way to reduce load on the state machinery and also making sure everyone is safe,” said Narvekar, who is also one of the secretaries of Shiv Sena. He added: “I spoke to Vijay Patil and he supported my decision, which is a right one, looking at the current circumstances.” Later, MCA issued a statement regarding deferring the third edition of the tournament. “In the view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country and keeping in mind the safety and interest of all the stakeholders involved, the Mumbai Cricket Association has decided to defer the conduct of third edition of the T20 Mumbai League till further notice,” read the statement which was signed by Narvekar and Patil. On Wednesday, BCCI had bent its own rule to allow four associations to organise their respective T20 leagues after IPL concludes. According to BCCI’s rules, local T20 tournaments cannot be held 15 days before or after IPL, and also between September 15 and end of February, as BCCI’s domestic tournaments are held during this period. In an email to the state associations, BCCI interim chief executive officer (CEO) Hemang Amin stated: “Your request for organising the tournament falls within the 15-day period after the IPL 2021. The issue was discussed at the apex council meeting of the BCCI and after some deliberations it was decided that owing to the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, the BCCI is giving permission to organise the tournament within the 15-day period after the completion of IPL 2021.” The mail added: “The BCCI is pleased to grant you approval to organise the tournament for the year 2021. You are instructed to adhere to the advisory and guidelines issued by BCCI in this regard. We reiterate that this is a one-time permission provided due to the pandemic situation and is not the norm,” the BCCI official wrote. Besides the MCA, the other associations who have been given permission are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Saurashtra. The Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) schedule was released later in the day. The tournament will be held from June 4 to July 4. MCA had applied for permission long ago, when the Covid-19 situation was under control in the city. According to sources, MCA was planning to start the tournament by June 4, provided the Covid-19 situation in the city was under control. The plan was to follow the bio-secure bubble protocols that were in place during the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Vijay Hazare Trophy and IPL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/t20-mumbai-tournament-postponed-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101619724343707.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Country will have to adopt Maharashtra model to fight Covid: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the country will have to adopt ‘Maharashtra model’ to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The Sena MP said the people in the country are not getting guidance from those in power. He further said that chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has been demanding that the Prime Minister (PM) notify the pandemic as a natural calamity — the line now adopted by the Supreme Court.The Sena leader said that though attempts were made to defame the state for its handling of Covid-19, the Maharashtra model will have to be adopted by all. “People are in a state of panic and shock, they do not know what is happening; they are not given proper guidance. The manner in which the Maharashtra government and its administration is working, the country will have to follow the Maharashtra model. You tried hard to defame Maharashtra [over handling Covid-19] but if there is a place where the best work is taking place in the times of Covid-19, it is in Maharashtra,” Raut said. Earlier this month, CM Thackeray wrote to PM Narendra Modi that the Centre should declare it a natural calamity so that the state can access funds from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Raut said the situation in the country is dreadful and there is no guidance from the top [Centre], while the Thackeray government is steering the situation well.Raut said that Thackeray was the first to demand that the pandemic be called a natural calamity. “Today even the courts are backing it. Looking at the situation today, it is a national calamity. We are indebted to the Supreme Court, but chief minister has been telling this to the PM and home minister to declare it a natural calamity,” he said. “The courts and the Supreme Court have now become active [on Covid]. It seems like Covid-19 has reached their homes and courts. I consider the concern of the courts legitimate. The manner in which the courts are now active, it will definitely help the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/country-will-have-to-adopt-maharashtra-model-to-fight-covid-sanjay-raut-101619724283651.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||8 ventilators gathering dust at Mohali civil hospital||At a time when a Covid patient died while waiting for an ICU bed at a private hospital in Mohali on Wednesday, eight ventilators are lying unused at the civil hospital in Phase 6 for the past eight months.Reason: There is no infrastructure or staff to operate them. The district, which has emerged as a medical hub, has around 30 private hospitals with 256 ICU beds. None of the nine government facilities offers one, even as the Mohali assembly constituency is represented by the Punjab health minister.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali said: “We bought eight ventilators a few months back, but don’t have the infrastructure and manpower to make them functional.” The hospital needs permanent anaesthetic personnel besides other facilities, for which a request has been made to the health department, she said. The civil hospital has recently been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility with 100 oxygen beds. Among other government hospitals in the district, only the Dhakoli civil hospital is attending to Covid-19 patients, and critical cases are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, which is also stretched to the limit. “Though Rajindra Hospital is full, we are increasing its capacity,” said Dr GB Singh, director health, Punjab. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “We will be soon making the medical college in Mohali operational with all the facilities. We are trying to have some ICU beds in government hospitals too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-ventilators-gathering-dust-at-mohali-civil-hospital-101619724224293.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Tendulkar donates ₹1 crore to procure oxygen concentrators||Legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has donated ₹1 crore to procure oxygen concentrators for Covid-19 patients in the country as it battles a severe second wave of the pandemic. “His donation of ₹1 crore to Mission Oxygen in its endeavour to procure and provide life-saving oxygen concentrators to hospitals across the nation in this time of need is incredibly heart-warming,” read a statement from Mission Oxygen, a fund-raising initiative by entrepreneurs based in Delhi-NCR for importing oxygen concentrator machines and donating them to hospitals in need. Tendulkar took to Twitter to praise the initiative. “The second wave of Covid has put our healthcare system under immense pressure. Providing oxygen for the large number of serious Covid patients is the need of the hour. It is heartening to see how people are rising to the occasion. A group of 250 young entrepreneurs have launched Mission Oxygen to raise funds for importing oxygen concentrators and donating them to hospitals across the country,” the cricketer posted. “I’ve helped by contributing to the cause and hope that their effort soon reaches out to many more hospitals across India. Today, we have to stand together behind everyone that is working hard to fight this pandemic,” he added.Tendulkar has also pledged to donate plasma once he is eligible. He tested positive for Covid-19 on March 27 and was hospitalised on April 2 as a precautionary measure. Last March, he had contributed ₹25 lakh each to Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in the fight against Covid-19. IPL franchises Rajasthan Royals and Delhi Capitals also contributed ₹7.5 crore and ₹1.5 crore, respectively, to the fight against the pandemic. Kolkata Knight Riders pacer Pat Cummins has donated USD 50,000 to purchase oxygen supplies for Indian hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-tendulkar-donates-1-crore-to-procure-oxygen-concentrators-101619724163612.html
30-04-2021||Other||GRP find 450 Covid-positive passengers on outstation trains to Mumbai in 15 days||The government railway police (GRP), while screening travellers from other states entering the city, have found at least 450 Covid-19 cases among passengers in the past 15 days. These passengers have been transferred to the Covid care centres for treatment. GRP commissioner Quaiser Khalid said passengers alighting from trains coming from Kerala, Rajasthan, Goa, Delhi and the National Capital Region are being screened for their temperature and a Covid-19 test is being conducted at the railway stations. He added that each day, they have found at least 30 Covid-19 patients on outstation trains entering Mumbai. “Once a Covid-19 patient is found, we immediately transfer the passenger to a Covid care centre and call all the passengers who were in the patient’s bogie to get themselves tested,” said Khalid. Meanwhile, with the recent lockdown again creating panic among migrant labourers, resulting in crowding at railway stations across the city to go back to their native states, the railway police force and the state government have taken a host of measures to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed without creating a chaos like last year. According to Khalid, unlike last year, they are well-prepared to handle the crowds and making sure that the migrant labourers do not create a ruckus. Khalid said they have taken a few measures to accommodate all at migrants at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Bandra and Thane stations. Khalid said no one was being allowed inside the railway platforms without a ticket. The RPF and GRP personnel are posted on all the entry and exit points of railway stations to ensure that ticketless travellers do not enter the premises and crowd the platforms, and thereby increase the chance of transmitting the virus. Khalid said valid ticket holders are allowed on platforms only two hours before the train arrival to reduce the crowd in railway premises and to facilitate social distancing. GRP has converted several parking areas outside long-distance train stations into waiting areas for traveling migrants and to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grp-find-450-covid-positive-passengers-on-outstation-trains-to-mumbai-in-15-days-101619724164218.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: False claims of oxygen sufficiency, Remdesivir diverted in Nandurbar, alleges BJP MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament from Nandurbar Dr Heena Gavit has alleged that district administration had diverted Remdesivir injections to an organisation related to Shiv Sena’s local leader Chandrakant Raghuvanshi. She has also said that the district administration made false claims of its self-sufficiency related to oxygen in the district.“District collector had claimed that the district had become self-sufficient after they installed oxygen plants in the district recently. However, in reality, the plants in Navapur and Taloda plants have not yet been commissioned. Even half of its required oxygen is not generated in the district as yet,” Dr Gavit said.She also accused that the district administration diverted 1,000 Remdesivir injections to Rotary Welfare Centre, the organisation associated with Sena leader Chandrakant Raghuvanshi. She said that the injections were sold by the organisation illegally as such a sale has been banned.Raghvanshi, however, has termed the allegations politically motivated and said to have levelled out of political one-upmanship. “The welfare centre is empanelled by the state government and injections were sold at ₹550, when its price in the open market was much high. The sale by private establishments was banned on April 16, while our procurement from the government machinery was done on April 6. The allegations are politically motivated as the district collector did not accept a few of her proposals recently,” he said.District collector Rajendra Bharud did not respond to calls and messages.An officer from the collectorate said, “We have commissioned four plants at Shahada and Nandurbar with the capacity of 60 litres per minute, two plants in Taloda and Navapur will soon be commissioned. We have indeed been procuring oxygen from outside, but we will soon be self-sufficient once all plants are commissioned. We never claimed that we have already been generating the oxygen we require. But the new plants under construction were planned after the outbreak of the second wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrafalse-claims-of-oxygen-sufficiency-remdesivir-diverted-in-nandurbar-alleges-bjp-mp-101619724103696.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||NMC directs all medical colleges to set up PSA oxygen units in 6 months||In view of hospitals across the country struggling with oxygen shortage amid rising Covid-19 cases, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has made draft amendments to their existing rules, making it compulsory for medical college hospitals to set up pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen units in their campuses. As per the latest circular released by NMC, the arrangements have to be made within the next six months. Addressed to all affiliated medical institutions in the country, NMC revealed that this move was being introduced through a draft amendment made to the Minimum Requirements for Annual MBBS Admissions Regulations. “Central oxygen and suction points shall include provision of piped oxygen supply to all patients in critical care from liquid oxygen tanks installed in appropriate place in the hospital complex,” stated the circular released on April 28. It further stated that all medical college hospitals should have a dedicated PSA technology-based oxygen supply in addition to supply from liquid oxygen tanks, which is to be installed and made operational within six months.The move comes days after the Central government recently asked respective state governments to make captive oxygen a norm in medical colleges in the future. At present, Maharashtra has more than 60 medical colleges offering undergraduate medical programmes.“Most medical colleges in the state already have an oxygen generation unit on campus and we are now going to make sure that all colleges install the PSA technology for future needs,” said TP Lahane, director of the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). “This is a move made by NMC to ensure infrastructural upgradation of medical colleges. Basic facilities are anyway available in most medical colleges, but encouraging them to adopt better technology is the need of the hour,” said Dr Avinash Supe, former dean and director of KEM Hospital. Supe, who is at present in-charge of Covid-death committee in the state, added, “Over the past few years, the apex body has tried to encourage colleges to be better equipped. With the current scenario, when oxygen shortage is plaguing the system, the aim is to make sure hospitals are better prepared for the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmc-directs-all-medical-colleges-to-set-up-psa-oxygen-units-in-6-months-101619724104230.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s test positivity rate is coming down. What does it mean?||Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 test positivity rate – the percentage of tests that are positive, or TPR – has been on a steady decline, data shows. From 30% on April 4, when the city recorded the highest single-day surge of 11,206 cases, the test positivity rate came down to 10.79% on April 29, with cases dropping to 4174. This is not an isolated case. The city’s TPR for the previous six days was respectively 12.69%, 13.19%, 13.68%, 13.75%, 14.87% and 17.26%. What does this mean for the city that was once the epicentre of the Covid pandemic in India, and was one of the worst affected cities in the second wave that began in the second week of February and peaked two months later? Simply put, TPR rises when most of the people who are getting tested are positive, and declines when most samples tested return negative. But this rate, experts say, has to be correlated to the number of tests. Trends across the pandemic show that when tests declined, the TPR went up. Mumbai was no different in the first wave that peaked in September 2020. The city averaged 11,175 tests per day that month, and the city’s TPR was almost 20%. In April, though, the number of tests has averaged more than 40,000 per day, with TPR consistently declining from the second week onwards.“A declining TPR is a good sign for Mumbai,” said Sandeep Juneja, dean of the school of technology and computer science at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai. “The positivity rate goes down when the city has fewer people with Covid symptoms seeking tests. To put it simply, it means that the number of infections within the community is coming down, which is a healthy sign. It would be ideal for the TPR to drop below 5% as was the case in late January and early February.” According to Juneja, in August-September last year, Mumbai’s TPR was around 20%. “At that time, the city was carrying out only about 10,000 to 15,000 tests each day. In comparison, the number of tests has increased to nearly 40,000 now,” he said. From 30% on Sunday, April 4, the positivity rate fell to 25% the next Sunday on April 11. It further dropped to 23% on April 18 and to 19% on April 25. The state implemented curfew-like restrictions on April 14, and it announced stricter curbs on the movement of citizens on April 21. Civic officials said that before these restrictions came into place, they were widely testing people at crowded areas such as beaches, malls, gardens, etc. “Since the restrictions came into place, we are carrying out targeted testing of people who have symptoms, or those who have a train or air travel scheduled,” said a civic official. “If you see the testing figures, the numbers have not fallen drastically. At this point, the reduced TPR indicates that the infection is being controlled,” she said, adding that the government will consider easing the restrictions when the rate falls below 5%. An expert insight published by the US-based Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in August 2020 has stated that “one threshold for the percent positive being “too high” is 5%”. It said that the World Health Organization recommended in May 2020 that the percent positive remain below 5% for at least two weeks before governments consider reopening. Experts say that TPR is a more reliable indicator to ascertain whether new infections are reducing. “But interpreting it is complex,” said Dr. Om Shrivastav, member of the Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “It can be well interpreted if there is consistently the same number of tests in the same geographical area or community,” he said. According to city-based infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, the lockdown-like restrictions have played a crucial role in Mumbai’s declining positivity rate. “At the same time, people have also become more cautious, and there is definitely a change in behaviour in terms of masking, physical distancing, etc,” she said, adding that the state should not rush into easing the restrictions and instead use the time to vaccinate as many people as possible and scale up health infrastructure. “We must not forget that there can always be a third wave,” said Dr Singhal. Does Covid-19 vaccination have a role to play in the declining test positivity rate? “It’s too premature to link them both,” said Dr. C Pramesh, director of the Tata Memorial Hospital who has been keenly tracking the Covid-19 trajectory. “Compared to our population, the number of vaccinations is still low and this immediate reduction in the test positivity rate cannot be attributed to it,” he said. Until April 28, Mumbai had administered over 2.4 million vaccine doses, but only around 460,000 were fully vaccinated with two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-test-positivity-rate-is-coming-down-what-does-it-mean-101619724043663.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown till May 15||Maharashtra government on Thursday formally announced the extension of lockdown for a fortnight after May 1. The state, on April 21, had restricted movement of people till May 1, but with around 60,000 Covid-19 cases being recorded daily, it extended the lockdown till May 15.On Wednesday, the state cabinet had in-principle decided to extend the lockdown. State health minister Rajesh Tope had said that all cabinet ministers had unanimously told the chief minister that the restrictions be extended by 15 days.An order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said that the state is “continued to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19, and therefore it is “imperative to continue emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of the virus”. It said, “The government finds it is necessary to continue the enforcement of the current restrictions throughout the state beyond 7am on May 1, 2021, till 7am on May 15, 2021, to break the chain of transmission effectively.”During the lockdown, the restrictions that were imposed from April 22 will continue. These restrictions include reduced attendance in government and exempted category offices to 15%, local train travel has been restricted to the essential sector and stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district and city travel. This would mean, people still can’t step out unless for medical reasons or to buy essential commodities (between 7am and 11am) or if they are working in the essential sector. Health experts said that the decision was anticipated as the state is yet to bring down the daily Covid-19 cases. Though, some cities including Mumbai, Pune have seen some dip in cases. Maharashtra in the last two weeks has seen a minor decrease in cases, but it could be a fluctuation and not a trend, said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state on Covid.According to data, a week after Maharashtra announced a lockdown from April 22, the weekly growth of Covid-19 infections has seen a dip. Between April 15 and April 21, the state recorded 387,972 cases, which came down to 378,554 between April 22 and April 28.Over the last few days, the state’s daily cases are hovering around 62,000 and 66,000. Salunkhe further said that the state could continue to see similar daily figures for another week. “The decrease in cases in some pockets could be fluctuation. Maharashtra will see similar figures for another seven days or so before we see some decrease. The restrictions on people’s movement will gradually show impact in this week and the next,” he said. Salunkhe, however, refused to comment on the state government projections for when the state will go past the second wave. “In the last wave, we have had a bad experience with these mathematical models. Nobody can fully predict the extent, but the state has geared up well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-may-15-101619723983700.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 19 Oxygen Express trains kept on standby||The Railways has kept 19 freight trains on standby at different locations for transportation of oxygen, if needed, to Maharashtra, officials said on Thursday. The trains will be used if the Maharashtra government wants to ferry liquid oxygen from any location outside the state. Nineteen Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) freight trains with a capacity to attach 32 flat wagons, on which tankers can be loaded, are standby. Of these, two trains are at standby at Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai, seven trains at Nagpur railway station and 10 at Pune railway station. Railways are operating oxygen express as per the demand from the state government. Both the Central and Western Railway have operated one Oxygen Express each carrying nearly 149 tonnes of medical oxygen to Maharashtra. “We have kept RORO on standby and will be operating it as the state government demands for it. We have not yet received requirements for operation of another Oxygen Express yet. The flat wagons will be deployed as we get demand from the state government,” said a senior railway official. Ten tankers carrying oxygen were sent to Maharashtra from Gujarat and Visakhapatnam. RORO service movement on Central Railway is challenging due to the ghat section and takes time as trains with the oxygen tankers cannot be transported from the ghat section. The route of the train is decided after evaluating the ghat areas, road overbridges (RoB), tunnels, curves, platform canopies and over-head equipment (OHE).The first Oxygen Express departed from Kalamboli railway yard to steel plant in Visakhapatnam on April 19 and reached Maharashtra on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-19-oxygen-express-trains-kept-on-standby-101619723923644.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay converts existing nitrogen plant into oxygen generator||At a time when there’s a shortage of medical oxygen supply in the country for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), has set up a demonstration unit to convert nitrogen generators, which are found in all parts of India, into oxygen generators by fine-tuning the existing nitrogen plant set up. The oxygen generated by this plant at IIT-B lab was tested and found to be 93-96% pure and at 3.5 atmospheric pressure. Nitrogen generation plants, which take in air from the atmosphere and separate oxygen and nitrogen to give out liquid nitrogen, can be found in various industries such as oil and gas, food and beverages. Nitrogen is dry in nature and is used commonly for purging and cleaning of oil and gas tankers. Milind Atrey, institute chair professor, department of mechanical engineering, IIT-B, along with Tata Consulting Engineers Limited (TCE), demonstrated a proof of concept of quickly converting nitrogen plants into oxygen plants. Nitrogen plants work on pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology, where air from the atmosphere is sucked in, filtered of impurities and nitrogen is extracted. Oxygen, which is a by-product, is released back into the atmosphere. A nitrogen plant has four components — a compressor to control the pressure of the air sucked in, an air vessel for filtering out impurities, PSU units where the separation takes place, and a buffer vessel into which this separated nitrogen is passed and stored. Atrey and the team from TCE propose to switch the filter used for nitrogen extraction in the PSA unit with one that can extract oxygen instead. “In nitrogen plants, the pressure of the air is controlled and then it is cleaned of impurities such as water vapours, oil, carbon dioxide and hydrocarbons. After this step, the purified air goes into the PSA chamber which is fitted with carbon molecular sieves or filters that can separate nitrogen and oxygen. We are proposing that the sieves be replaced with ones that can separate oxygen instead,” said Atrey, a specialist in cryogenic engineering and dean, research and development at IIT-B. The team replaced the carbon molecular sieves with zeolite molecular sieves in the PSA Nitrogen plant in the Refrigeration and Cryogenics Laboratory of the institute. Zeolite molecular sieves are used for separating oxygen from the air. By controlling the flow rates of the containers, the researchers were able to convert the nitrogen plant into an oxygen generating plant. Spantech Engineers, a city-based company that deals with PSA Nitrogen and Oxygen plant production, partnered on this pilot project and installed the required plant components as a skid at IIT-B for evaluation. The pilot project was aimed at finding quick and easy solutions to the severe oxygen shortage in medical facilities across the country. Amit Sharma, managing director of TCE, said, “This pilot displays how an innovative solution for emergency oxygen generation using existing infrastructure can help the country tide over the current crisis.” “It took us about three days to do the conversion. It is a simple process and can be done quickly within a few days. Nitrogen plants across the country can use this technique to convert their plants into oxygen plants,” said Atrey. Announced on Thursday morning, the pilot study has gained the attention of many policymakers. “We have received interest from many government officials, not only in Maharashtra but from across the country, on how this can be scaled up and implemented in existing nitrogen plants. We are currently streamlining our processes to help existing plants in adopting this model,” Atrey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-converts-existing-nitrogen-plant-into-oxygen-generator-101619723864256.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 4,174 cases, 82 deaths on Thursday, toll crosses 13,000||Mumbai on Thursday reported 4,174 Covid-19 cases and 82 deaths, taking the tally to 644,583. The toll due to Covid-19 crossed 13,000 on Thursday, totalling 13,036 deaths. There are now 67,255 active Covid-19 cases in the city. Active cases in the city have decreased by 20% in the last fortnight. On April 15, Mumbai had 84,753 active Covid-19 in the city. On Wednesday, Mumbai conducted 38,848 Cvid-19 tests, which resulted in Thursday’s number of cases, and the positivity rate for the day is 10,7%, down from around 18% reported in mid-April. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,380,473 tests. The overall positivity rate is 11.9%. Positivity rate is the number of Covid-19 cases as a per cent of the total tests done in the city. In the past few days, the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been on a decline. The highest number of cases reported in the city so far were 11,206 cases on April 4. By mid-April, Mumbai was reporting on 7000-8000 cases a day. On April 15, Mumbai reported 8,209 covid-19 cases, which dropped to 5,867 cases on April 24. These further dropped to 3,840 cases on April 26. Owing to fewer cases by the day, the number of vacant hospital beds in Mumbai have also gradually increased. On Thursday morning, Mumbai had 5,549 out of 21,769 hospital beds vacant, of which 1,480 were vacant oxygen beds, 73 vacant ICU beds, and 20 vacant ventilator beds. On the contrary, on April 15, Mumbai had 3,736 vacant beds out of 20,044 total beds, 853 oxygen beds were vacant, 40 ICU beds were vacant, and 14 ventilator beds were vacant. However, deaths due to Covid-19 have been increasing per day. The daily case fatality rate on Thursday was 1.9%, and the overall case fatality rate in the city is 2%. Mumbai reported 78 deaths on Wednesday, 59 on Tuesday, 71 on Monday. Death in the city per day was in single digits only last month. The doubling rate in Mumbai is 79 days, and the growth rate of cases is 0.86%. There are 115 containment zones in the city which are slums and chawls. Around 1,101 residential buildings are presently sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-4-174-cases-82-deaths-on-thursday-toll-crosses-13000-101619723863671.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur doesn’t get Remdesivir: Bombay HC seeks details on distribution||Even with more than 78,000 active Covid cases, Nagpur district did not receive any Remdesivir on Wednesday while, Jalna, state health minister Rajesh Tope’s home district, received 30,000 vials of the antiviral drug. The district has 7,800 active cases. These figures were presented before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday, following which the bench directed the nodal officer to place on record district-wise allocation of Remdesivir and the formula adopted to determine the entitlement of each district. “In case he finds that more number of vials than what should have been sent to a particular district have been sent, the nodal officer shall withdraw the same from that district proportionately and send them to the districts which have been unjustly and unequally deprived of these vials, and this would include Nagpur as well,” the HC said while seeking compliance by Friday afternoon. A division bench consisting justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid mismanagement, asked the nodal officer (Food and Drugs Administration joint commissioner Ganesh Rokde) to place on record corrective action and effective steps taken to remove this step-motherly treatment. The Centre had allotted 269,000 Remdesivir vials for Maharashtra for April 21-30 and the quota was enhanced to 435,000 on April 24. Considering active cases, Nagpur district should have received 49,177 vials during the period, but got only a fraction of it, pointed out amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar, and Indian Medical Association’s counsel Advocate Bhanudas Kulkarni. Meanwhile, Jalna district received 30,000 vials of Remdesivir from one or two pharmaceutical companies, they said. On couple of days including April 28 Nagpur district received no vials making situation quite precarious, informed advocate Tushar Mandlekar. When the state, through in-charge government pleader Ketaki Joshi, sought some time to furnish the detailed affidavit pursuant to last order, the HC sought to know whether any district-wise allotment order was passed by the nodal officer to ensure fair and equitable distribution of Remdesivir. The state said the nodal officer has not passed any such order and added that there was no need for the same, promising to justify this position on Friday. The court then asked the state and the nodal officer to explain how Remdesivir was being distributed, and list backlog of vials from Pharmaceutical companies and steps taken pursuant to allotment of quota by the central committee to procure the quantity from seven pharmaceutical companies by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-doesn-t-get-remdesivir-bombay-hc-seeks-details-on-distribution-101619723743620.html
30-04-2021||Other||NIIFT admission: Last date to submit online applications is May 28||Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) here has invited applications for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses being offered at its centres in Ludhiana, Mohali and Jalandhar.The last date for submission of online applications is May 28.The courses include BSc fashion design knits, BSc fashion design, BSc textile design, MSc in garment manufacturing technology; MSc fashion marketing and management and MDes fashion and textiles.The interested candidates can download the prospectus by visiting the official website www.niiftindia.com and apply online through http://applyadmission.net/NIIFTMOHALI2021.Admission to the UG programmes will be done through online entrance examination and interview, scheduled to be held on June 16 and 17. There is direct admission for BSc fashion design at NIIFT Jalandhar for eligible candidates without entrance test. However, admission to all PG courses at NIIFT Mohali will be on the basis of merit of the requisite qualifying exams.Upon successful completion of the course, students can start their own enterprises, in the textile, fashion and apparel sector, apart from getting placements as design consultants, fashion designers, merchandisers, sourcing and product managers and fashion photographers and stylists etc.NIIFT was established by the Punjab government’s industries and commerce department in 1995 and got affiliated to Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, in 2013.Ludhiana, apart from being a significant textile cluster, is at its fruition in the production of hosiery, knitwear and readymade garments. NIIFT, in August 2008, achieved another milestone, by opening a new centre at Ludhiana for providing the industry with trained professionals in the fashion business. Ever since, NIIFT Ludhiana has emerged as a premier institute by imparting knowledge on par with international standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/niift-admission-last-date-to-submit-online-applications-is-may-28-101619723451598.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||23 more patients succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has been breaking all records in the recent days, there was a slight dip in the number of cases and deaths in the tricity on Thursday.At 23, though the number of fatalities stood remained 20+ for the third consecutive day, it was 20% less than the peak of 29 hit on Wednesday.In terms of infection, the tricity recorded 2,000+ cases for the sixth time in the past eight days. At 2,096, the number was 3% less than 2,159 reported on Wednesday and 5% lower than the peak of 2,201 recorded last Friday.However, the daily positivity rate in Chandigarh and Mohali remained constant at 21% and 19%, respectively, while it saw a slight dip in Panchkula, recorded at 15%, down from 24% the previous day. This figure denotes the number of people testing positive for every 100 of them sampled in past 24 hours.Mohali still the worst hitMohali district, which is the worst hit in the tricity, reported 888 cases and eight deaths on Thursday. Its cases had peaked at 931 a week back, while a record 12 deaths were logged on Wednesday. As many as 45,713 people have tested positive so far, of whom 36,263 (79%) have recovered and 587 have died. The number of active cases stands at 8,863, highest since the pandemic.Chandigarh, too, reported eight deaths, a day after recording an all-time high of 11. Among those dead was a 45-year-old woman while others were senior citizens.With 801 fresh cases, the UT’s tally has climbed to 41,923. Manimajra reported as many as 43 cases, and 27 surfaced at the PGIMER campus.While 34,806 (84%) patients have recovered, 465 have died, leaving a record 6,652 active cases.Panchkula broke the record of single-day fatalities for the second consecutive day, as seven people died of the contagion, up from six on Wednesday. It also took the district’s death toll to 201. Two men, aged 31 and 43, are among those dead.Meanwhile, with 407 new cases, down from a record 520 on Wednesday, the total has climbed to 20,719. While 17,964 (87%) patients have been cured, 2,554 are still hospitalised or in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-more-patients-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-101619723444186.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for 18+ likely to get delayed in Chandigarh||The Covid vaccination programme in Chandigarh for the 18-plus age group is unlikely to begin on May 1 due to the unavailability of vaccines, officials said. UT had sought permission from the Centre to allow administering the available doses to the new group for which confirmation is awaited. Meanwhile, there is no clarity on when UT will receive doses from the vaccine manufacturers. Chandigarh administration has placed the order for 1 lakh doses for the new age group.This leaves Chandigarh with no immediate supply to roll out the drive even though registrations have opened, creating confusion among the people looking forward to taking the jab.UT adviser Manoj Parida said starting the drive from May 1 may not be possible due to current constraints of vaccine unavailability. “But, as soon as we find the way out regarding the availability of vaccines, either through our purchase or Centre’s confirmation, we will roll out the programme. I have written to the Centre to allow Chandigarh to use the vaccines from the existing stock,” Parida said. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said there is no stock for the new age group due to which the spots are not opened on the CoWIN platform.“We have placed an order and as soon we receive the supply, the vaccines will be provided. So far, there are less chances that there will be a roll out from May 1,” he added.Chandigarh has so far received 2,90,930 doses of vaccines out of which, 2,03,082 have been used, including the 3.46% wastage, leaving around 87,000 unutilized doses. According to CoWIN portal, as many as 2,01,806 doses have been administered. Of the beneficiaries, 1,55,589 have taken the first dose and 46,217 have taken both the shots. This leaves Chandigarh with around 1.55 lakh people to be administered with the second dose.Private hospitals in Chandigarh have said that they are not opening booking slots for new group due to confusion over the availability of vaccines. Till now, the UT administration has provided vaccines to them, but this time there is no assurance regarding the supply for new age group included in the drive. While even a few private hospitals directly tried to purchase the doses from the Serum Institute of India, the vaccine manufacturer in a communication told them that to procure the same from state authorities due to huge demand from the Centre. “We haven’t received any communication from the UT health authorities on how to proceed. There re no standard procedures on how will we get supplies and what should be our capacity. Even though we are receiving many calls for bookings, we are not doing so as there is no clarity,” said Dr Neeraj Kumar, managing director of Chaitanya Hospital. BJP: Give free vaccines to people in 18-44 bracketThe Bharatiya Janata Party, Chandigarh, has demanded that the vaccination of people in 18 to 44 age group should be done free of cost in the city. City BJP chief Arun Sood in a letter to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has asked free vaccination on the pattern of Punjab and Haryana. He said that on Wednesday, a resolution was also passed in the BJP-ruled MC House that the administration should also use the amount of ₹27 crore collected as Covid cess. “If the administration decides to vaccinate free of cost, this will provide a great relief to the people of Chandigarh,” Sood said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-drive-for-18-likely-to-get-delayed-in-chandigarh-101619723264020.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||PU seeks permission from 7 Punjab districts for senate polls||Panjab University has sought permission from seven district administrations of Punjab where polling booths are to be set up for May 3 (Monday) polls.The polling for the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges is scheduled to be held on Monday. The university has written to seven district administrations seeking permission for gathering of more than 10 people at the polling booths. The varsity has also requested the administrations to facilitate the movement of polling parties from Chandigarh to respective polling stations on May 2 and their return on May 3.The communication has been sent to Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Muktsar, Moga and Nawanshahr. The contestants of both the constituencies have been informed about the development. For both the constituencies, 28 polling booths each will be set up.According to Covid-19 guidelines issued by Punjab government earlier this month, prior approval of the district administration is needed for all gatherings of more than 10 persons.According to the communication issued by the varsity to contestants on Thursday, the election scheduled on Monday will be subject to the approval of district administrations from Punjab.The university has already deferred the election of six members for PU senate from faculties’ constituencies to May 19, which was earlier scheduled to be held on April 26.Who are the candidatesTen candidates from both the constituencies are in fray, which have over 800 eligible voters. Three members are elected to PU senate from the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges, for which there are five candidates, including Neetu Ohri, principal, Guru Nanak College of Education, Malerkotla Road, Ludhiana and Sandeep Kataria, principal, Saint Sahara College of Education, Ferozepur Road, Muktsar.The other three candidates are Sarabjit Kaur, principal, Guru Ram Dass BEd College, Jalalabad (W), Fazilka; Savita Kansal, principal, Brahmrishi Yoga Training College, Sector 19 A, Chandigarh and Tarlok Bandhu, principal, Khalsa College of Education, Muktsar.For the election of three members to PU senate from the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges, the candidates include Gurmit Singh, who is an assistant professor at Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Ludhiana and Neeru Malik, assistant professor, Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36-B, Chandigarh, among others.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of Panjab University in which 47 members are elected from various constituencies. The four-year term of senate ended on October 31 last year. While the elections were scheduled to start in August last year, these were postponed twice by V-C Raj Kumar due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-seeks-permission-from-7-punjab-districts-for-senate-polls-101619723144557.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula earmarks 6 more sites for last rites of Covid victims||As Panchkula ran out of space to cremate its dead amid the spiralling Covid fatalities, the authorities have increased the number of sites dedicated to cremating such bodies to seven.Last week, the crematorium in Sector 20, which also houses a gas-based facility, was earmarked for the same purpose. For the first time, the crematorium was full on Wednesday, while Thursday saw 13 cremations.Panchkula municipal commissioner RK Singh ordered to designate the cremation ground in Sector 28, burial ground in Sector 28, cremation ground in Ramgarh, crematoriums in Rambagh, Kalka and burial grounds in Majra Mehtab and Himshikha for the cremation of bodies of Covid victims.“We have 14 plots, which means 14 bodies can be cremated here in a day. Today, there were 32 bodies,” a worker at Sector-20 crematorium said.He said that the death toll has spiked in the last few weeks. “Last year, the weekly figure used to stand at one or two, but now, there is no counting. We have bodies on a waiting list. I have never seen such a scenario in last two decades.”As per the data, Sector-20 crematorium handled at least 179 bodies in April. Of these, 73 were of Panchkula residents, who succumbed to Covid. The number mentioned in the media bulletin shared by the health department is far less – 47. The gap in the figures existed in March as well, when the department claimed five people died due to Covid, whereas crematorium showed 15 deaths.Overwhelming scenes at sitesBy noon on Thursday, a municipal staffer had cremated six bodies. “Eight more will be cremated here today, and then I will go to the cremation ground in Sector 28.”The staff member, who has three workers to help him, said he has requested for two more teams for the task as the number of bodies has increased manifold.Families, meanwhile, could be seen scrambling to arrange items to perform the last rites of their loved ones. As an ambulance with four more bodies reached the Sector-20 crematorium later in the day, one of the workers asked a family to hurry up as more bodies were lined up.Kin of the dead were also left disappointed when their request of collecting the remains the next day was not met. As per the official, they can’t handle such requests as they have to make arrangements for the cremations about the take place the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-earmarks-6-more-sites-for-last-rites-of-covid-victims-101619723089791.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Food grains for midday meals gathering dust at Ludhiana govt schools||With all educational institutes in Punjab told to stay closed till April 30 amid the surge in Covid cases, government schools in the district are awaiting orders from the state education department to disburse food grains to students that were meant for cooking midday meals.Sacks of rice and wheat are lying in rooms and midday meal kitchens of 1,527 government schools in the district. School heads stated that the food grains must be given to the students soon, as may get damaged if they are stored for a long period of time.As per sources, 8,174.94 metric tonnes (MT) of food grains were delivered to schools across the state by Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP), in mid-March. Out of this, 1,206 MT was sent to Ludhiana, after which the schools were closed down.At Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, more than 50 bags of wheat and rice are stored in two rooms. The school has around 1,887 students in Classes 1 to 8.A government Primary school, which has a strength of 100 students, has three quintals each of rice and wheat stored in the mid-day meal kitchen.School authorities said they have received the cooking cost of the meals from the state education department, which has been transferred in the accounts of the students. Many students do not have bank accounts and they have been given cheques.The school head of a primary school, requesting anonymity, said, “We have 500 students in the school studying in Classes 1 to 5 and we have 30 quintals each of rice and wheat lying in the midday meal kitchen. The food grains will get damaged as they have been stored for the last one month.”Sanjeev Thapar, principal of GMSSS, PAU, said, “We have transferred the cooking cost to the bank accounts of students and till mid-March, cooks had been preparing meals daily. After the schools got closed, we received no instructions from the higher authorities to hand over the food grains to students. Last year, we made packets of grains and gave it to students.”Prabcharan Singh, general manager of the state MDM cell, Mohali, said, “We have received no orders from the Union government to get packets of food grains delivered to the childrens’ homes like last year. Once we receive it, we will direct school heads to do the needful. The cooking cost has been transferred to the bank accounts of thebeneficiaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/food-grains-for-midday-meals-gathering-dust-at-ludhiana-govt-schools-101619723088623.html
30-04-2021||Other||Another Oxygen Express arrives in UP with 75K litres of LMO||One more Oxygen Express train arrived in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday evening with around 75,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). This was the fifth such train to reach the state. It transported five oxygen tankers each of 15,000 capacity from Bokaro, Jharkhand.Besides, the railways rushed another oxygen express train to Bokaro to fetch an additional 30,000 litres of oxygen for UP.Railway officials said all the tankers onboard the train that arrived on Thursday were brought to Charbagh Railway Station. Officials engaged in the train operation said the tankers left for the gas stations in Lucknow and the neighbouring districts soon after the tankers de-boarded at the station.The UP government initiated the move to use trains after the state witnessed a sudden rise in the demand for oxygen needed for Covid patients. So far, railways has transported more than 1.65 lakh litres of oxygen from Bokaro to UP in order to meet the demand in the districts here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-oxygen-express-arrives-in-up-with-75k-litres-of-lmo-101619722906600.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid patient jumps to death from 4th floor room at PGIMER||A 42-year-old patient committed suicide by jumping off the fourth floor of a building at the PGIMER on Thursday. A resident of Sector 17, Panchkula, he was admitted to the Chandigarh hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on April 11 and was at present undergoing treatment for post-Covid fungal pneumonia.“The patient was adequately treated and shifted to a private ward on Wednesday. On Thursday, he jumped out of the window of his room around 12:05pm,” stated a PGIMER release, adding that he was also on treatment for anxiety at the psychiatry department. In August last year, too, a 62-year-old Covid patient had committed suicide by jumping off the fifth floor at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-patient-jumps-to-death-from-4th-floor-room-at-pgimer-101619722906142.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Burglary of artefacts at PAU: Ludhiana police return to museum for fresh probe||After no headway was made in the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) museum burglary case for a week, Ludhiana joint police commissioner Deepak Pareek and his team on Thursday visited the site for a fresh probe.On the night intervening April 17 and 18, burglars had decamped with as many as 141 rare artefacts of 39 different types from PAU’s Museum of Social History and Rural Life of Punjab. However, a complaint regarding the same was filed two days later on April 21.During the visit, the police team questioned the staff and the lone security guard that was deployed at the museum when the theft had come to light. The cops also quizzed the PAU authorities about its “poor” security measures and absence of CCTV cameras at the museum.Joint police chief Pareek said that the investigation was being carried out with all seriousness. “There have been lapses on the part of the security of the museum. However, police are taking necessary action and efforts are on to nab the thieves,” he said.The theft had taken place when the varsity was closed for outsiders and entry was allowed only from one point, Gate Number 4. PAU officials had found out about the theft on April 19 when the varsity reopened. They, however, waited for two days before filing a complaint on April 21.On April 26, police had apprehended a youth, who was said to be the son of a Class 4 employee working at the varsity. They had recovered two brass plates from him, but the university authorities said the recovered articles did not belong to the museum.According to university officials, the stolen items were antique and some of these were centuries-old artwork depicting life in rural Punjab. These included bells, brass utensils, traditional jewellery, such as Rani haar (necklace), earrings, anklets and phulkari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglary-of-artefacts-at-pau-ludhiana-police-return-to-museum-for-fresh-probe-101619722904960.html
30-04-2021||Other||22-year-old woman ends life in Ludhiana, live-in partner booked for abetment||A native of Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, has been booked for abetment to suicide after his 22-year-old live-in partner hanged herself to death at her rented accommodation in Gobindgarh, Focal Point. The accused, Chand Babu, was booked on the complaint of the woman’s mother, who lives in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh. The complainant said her eldest daughter had moved to Ludhiana five years ago for work. She was employed at a factory and was in a live-in relationship with Chand Babu for the past four years.“A few days ago my daughter called me over the phone to share that Babu had broken off with her. He had left for Uttar Pradesh and was not answering her phone calls. She was upset and said she will kill herself if Babu did not return,” the woman said.On April 26, she came to know that her daughter had ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her rented house, following which she rushed to Ludhiana.Inspector Davinder Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Focal Point police station, said they had booked Babu under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code and despatched a police team to Gonda to arrest him.The victim is survived by her mother and two younger sisters. Her husband had deserted them after the birth of their third daughter, the victim’s mother said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yearold-woman-ends-life-in-ludhiana-live-in-partner-booked-for-abetment-101619722544106.html
30-04-2021||Other||50 people, 20k calls a day: Inside the remdesivir war room in B’luru||Bengaluru:A 50-member team handles around 15,000 to 20,000 calls per day at the war room set up in Bengaluru to streamline the distribution of remdesivir in the state, amid the high demand for the antiviral injections. The war room was set up on April 21 after complaints regarding shortage and black marketing of oxygen and remdesivir began pouring in from across the state. Even though relatives of Covid-19 patients and hospitals continue to highlight shortage of injections, officials at the war room say differently.A senior doctor supervising the war room, on condition of anonymity, said the large volume of calls is coming from the private sector. “There are three ways of getting remdesivir. First, it is given to patients admitted in private hospitals; second, patients admitted in private hospitals taken over by the government; and third through the prescription of private hospital or a doctor,” explained the official.He said the total demand for remdesivir in government hospitals and private hospital beds taken over by the government is around 5,000-6,000 vials a day. “These beds cover at least 85% of the state’s demand, as per our calculations, since most Covid-19 cases come through the government agencies that control 80% of hospital beds. While the demand from the government-run agencies is around 5,000 to 6,000, in the private sector, which is around 15% of the demand, we get up to 20,000 calls per day,” he added.While acknowledging that there is a shortage of the medicine, the doctor in-charge pointed to setting in of fear psychosis. “We need to understand that remdesivir is not a lifesaving drug. It should be administered to those who are in the moderate category. Remdesivir is an antiviral drug and works by interrupting the production of the virus and helps by preventing the virus from multiplying. But because of the increase in the number of cases or perhaps for ‘not taking a chance’, clinics and private hospitals have been prescribing the injection for most patients,” he added.On the lower demand in government hospitals, he said the doctors at the hospitals are prescribing remdesivir only to those who will benefit from the injection. He added that since the injection has been prescribed for cases that do not require it, the demand was high.The war room in-charge also said that a website was in the works to have a transparent distribution of remdesivir. He said that the website will contain details of patients who have been given the injections and details of the medical conditions.Private hospitals, however, allege that despite setting up of the war room, the supply of the injection is not adequate. An administrator of a private hospital in Bengaluru said they were only getting 30-50 doses, even though their requirement is for 100 doses. “More importantly, many calls to the helpline go unanswered,” he added.Dr HM Prasanna, president, PHANA, said that while all Covid-19 patients referred to by BBMP to private hospitals were getting the antiviral drug, supply to private hospitals remained inadequate. “We are not using the injection on all patients. We are clearly demarking them for those with moderate symptoms so that viral load reduces in these patients. But war room doesn’t find important to provide private hospitals with enough doses,” he said.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar, on Monday, said the state has ordered 70,000 vials of remdesivir injection, of which 20,000 had arrived while the remaining would be supplied in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-people-20k-calls-a-day-inside-the-remdesivir-war-room-in-bluru-101619722303533.html
30-04-2021||Other||Used masks in garbage pose threat to waste collectors||Bengaluru: As Covid-19 cases continue to surge at unprecedented rate in Bengaluru, waste collectors live under constant threat of getting infected as residents in the city dispose of used masks and other medical wastes without segregating them from regular household waste. Waste collectors, employed with various dry waste management centres of the civic body, who have to comb through tonnes of dry waste to recycling centres, claim they find at least 1,000-2,000 used masks every day. Besides demanding better protective gear, these frontline workers in Bengaluru also appealed to residents to segregate waste at home and dispose of medical waste separately. On Thursday morning, segregation work was in full swing at the waste segregation centre in Bengaluru’s JP Nagar. “Our job is to go through the waste and find items that can be recycled…While segregating waste, we come across lots of used facemasks,” said Srinivas, a waste segregator at the centre. Geetha, another segregator at the centre, said that even though they wear gloves and masks, but given the spike in Covid-19 cases across the city, they fear for their health. “We hear a lot of things. The virus in the second wave is much more powerful and spread faster. We also hear that wearing just one mask is not enough. So, there is a fear,” she said. Mansoor, the supervisor of the centre, said that compared to the first wave, the number of masks in waste they collect has not increased. “Maybe people are using more reusable masks compared to disposable ones. But people are still not segregating. Ever since the pandemic started, we have been appealing to people to put medical waste in a separate cover,” he said. Mansoor added that with more people getting treatment at home, the medical waste coming from the house pose a bigger threat to those working at the segregation centres. “It (medical waste) should be wrapped in paper. People should now segregate three kinds of waste – wet waste, dry waste, and sanitary waste; and masks should be thrown in sanitary waste,” Mansoor said. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, pourakarmikas (civic workers) in Bengaluru staged a protest, demanding protective gears like masks and gloves. They alleged that for the past nine months, they have not been issued any masks or gloves. In a letter to the commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), BBMP Civic Workers’ Union demanded gloves, sanitiser and shoes for workers. “We are working in these times without facilities. We also humans, just like you,” said Rathna, a civic worker, in a statement to the media. “We have been working for many years and despite the Covid (pandemic), we continue to work. But we haven’t received any of the facilities that we should have. The last time we got masks and gloves was last year. We have been asking for three weeks but we still haven’t been given masks and gloves,” she added. They also demanded that transportation facilities should be provided to them since a lockdown is in effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/used-masks-in-garbage-pose-threat-to-waste-collectors-101619722243487.html
30-04-2021||Other||HC asks civic body to take 300 oxygen beds from Southwestern railway||Bengaluru: The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to take over 300 oxygen beds from the Southwestern Railway in Bengaluru to cater to the requirement for fighting Covid-19 in the state. The court also directed officials of the Southwestern Railway and the armed forces to meet senior officials of the state government in order to ensure that beds are available for Covid-19 patients in the state. The court also asked the state government to immediately write to the Centre, requesting an increase in allocation of remdesivir and oxygen. It also directed the central government to immediately take a decision on the request since there is a spike in the number of cases in the state.“We direct the central government to consider the request of the state govt to increase oxygen allocation. We direct the Centre to take immediate decision on the same. We direct the state to submit a representation to the concerned authority of the Centre setting out the projected requirement of oxygen for seven days from tomorrow,” said the bench led by Chief Justice AS Oka. The HC also asked the Centre to increase the cap on the supply of remdesivir. “We direct the state to place on record criteria laid down to restrict the supply of Remdesivir to private hospitals. We direct the state government to estimate the number of Remdesivir vials required in private hospitals as well 50% reserved beds and submit it to the central government accordingly,” the bench said. The HC also asked the state and BBMP to place on record the steps taken to estimate beds for the near future and increase the capacity of all hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcasks-civic-body-to-take-300-oxygen-beds-from-southwestern-railway-101619722184129.html
30-04-2021||Other||K’taka ministers to donate 1-yr salary for Covid relief||BengaluruAs Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru are battling the surging coronavirus cases in the second wave of the pandemic, state’s cabinet ministers have decided to donate a year’s salary each for Covid-19 relief work in the state.R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister, on Thursday said, “All of us ministers in Karnataka have decided to donate one year of our salary for Covid relief work.”It has come at a time when Karnataka is currently under lockdown-like restrictions, which have added to the acute fund-crunch in the state to fight the raging pandemic, which is expected to peak in the first week of May.“Chief Minister advised to donate one year salary of ministers and one month salary of legislators,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office on Thursday.Bengaluru has over 237,518 active Covid-19 cases as the city reported 19,637 new infections on Thursday, including 143 fatalities, according to government data.Karnataka clocked 35,024 new cases on Thursday with 270 fatalities, taking its active case count to 349,496 and death toll to 15,306.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday held a meeting with all senior officials of districts, other than Bengaluru, and directed that appropriate measures be taken to contain the surge in their respective regions.“All hospitals should conduct audit of oxygen and remdisivir vials. Chief Minister directed to ensure judicious usage of oxygenated beds, ventilators and remdisivir, which should be given only to the needy,” the CMO said in a statement.Ashok said that around ₹266 crore was released to districts other than Bengaluru to pay salaries and buy any equipment required to tackle the Covid situation.While Bengaluru remains the most impacted region in the state, and one of the worst hit in India, the situation continues to deteriorate in other parts of Karnataka.On Thursday, there were 1,129 new infections in Bengaluru Rural, 1,175 in Dakshina Kannada, 939 in Mandya, 957 in Kalaburagi, 1,219 in Mysuru and 1,195 in Tumakuru, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. Haveri, about 332 km from Bengaluru, reported the lowest number of cases with 111, data shows.Karnataka has imposed lockdown-like restrictions for 14 days, scheduled to end on May 12 as a last-ditch attempt to bring down the surge and pressure on the already inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the state.“Even after the 14-day curfew, people’s movement has not come down. The corona chain has to be cut and if it does not happen… then we might have to extend it for a few more days,” Ashok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-ministers-to-donate-1-yr-salary-for-covid-relief-101619722183451.html
30-04-2021||Bangalore||Follow ‘syndromic approach’ to admit Covid patients: Govt||The Karnataka government on Thursday issued a circular directing hospitals to adopt a syndromic approach to admit Covid-19 patients amid increasing instances of false negative tests reports. “Syndromic approach should be complied with strictly for hospital admission and treatment of cases, to prevent further damage in the larger interest of public health,” Jawaid Akthar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, said in the circular, dated 28 April but released on Thursday.The order comes at a time when a large number of false negative Covid-19 test reports have resulted in denial of admission in hospitals. “Considering the increasing number of false negative reports being witnessed in both RT-PCR & RAT testing methods, it has been decided to follow a Syndromic Approach and issue Patient Numbers for hospitalisation and treatment of such cases based on the authorization of doctors,” Karnataka health, family welfare and medical education minister K Sudhakar said in a statement on Thursday.“This will help Covid-19 infected persons to get timely admission and treatment, especially those who seek treatment in government hospitals and private hospitals through SAST reference,” Sudhakar added. Bengaluru has over 237,518 active Covid-19 cases as the city reported 19,637 new infections on Thursday, including 143 fatalities, according to government data.Karnataka clocked 35,024 new cases on Thursday with 270 fatalities, taking its active case count to 349,496 and death toll to 15,306.The existing rules mandate that infected persons have a patient ID issued by district authorities or the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and Covid-19 positive certificates to get a hospital bed. However, after the latest directive, hospitals will have to admit patients showing Covid-19 symptoms. However, experts believe the denial of admission in hospitals is related to shortage of beds in Bengaluru. Of the total 12,739 beds allocated under government or BBMP quota in all private and public hospitals, only 3,246 remain vacant as of Thursday, according to data from the city’s civic administration.There are just 55 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and those with ventilators remaining in the city out of the available 909, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/follow-syndromic-approach-to-admit-covid-patients-govt-101619722123477.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh moves HC against Maharashtra’s enquiry orders||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has filed a fresh petition in the Bombay high court (HC), complaining about efforts to thwart the CBI probe into allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and also challenging the decision of the state government to entrust enquiries against him to director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey. The HC will hear the petition on May 4. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi mentioned the petition for urgent hearing before a bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale and informed that the petition was challenging the April 1 and April 20 orders of the state government, directing DGP Pandey to inquire whether Singh had violated provisions of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968 and to look into allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that Singh’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds. The petition also sought interim reliefs in view of his April 19 representation made to CBI in which he has alleged a criminal conspiracy and malicious attempt to thwart the preliminary inquiry ordered by the HC on April 5 to CBI to investigate into the allegations of corruption made by Singh against Deshmukh. The petition has sought a stay on the inquiry based on the April 1 and 20 order of the state till the petition is not heard and decided. After hearing the submissions, the bench refused to stay the two orders when the additional public prosecutor informed the court that Singh had not been issued any summons or show-cause notice as yet pursuant to the two orders and hence it was premature to stay the same. The court accepted the argument and in light of the urgency. posted hearing of the petition to May 4. On March 25, Param Bir Singh had approached the HC through a public interest litigation, seeking an inquiry into the corruption charges by former home minister Anil Deshmukh who had ordered police officers to collect protection money from restaurants and bar and other establishments to the tune of Rs100 crore per month. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had called police officers Sachin Vaze, SCP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal to his residence and told them to collect the said amount every month. Singh had alleged that though he was the Mumbai Police commissioner, Deshmukh had bypassed him and had directed his officers to commit cognisable offences. In light of these submissions Singh had sought an independent inquiry by CBI or any other agency into the allegations made by him against Deshmukh. After hearing all sides over a period of ten days, the HC had passed an order on April 5, directing the CBI not to register an FIR, but to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days. Thereafter it was left to the discretion of the director, CBI to decide on further course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-moves-hc-against-maharashtra-s-enquiry-orders-101619721703419.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dowry harassment: Ludhiana woman sets herself on fire; husband, his mother booked||Police are hunting for an engineer and his mother after his wife set herself on fire due to dowry harassment in Mohalla Begoana, Dehlon, on April 26.The 32-year-old woman, a BSc nursing graduate, suffered 70% burns and is fighting for her life at a city hospital, the police said.In her statement to the Dehlon police, the woman said she got married three months ago, and since then, her husband and mother-in-law had been mentally and physically harassing her to bring more dowry.Troubled by their behaviour, she set herself on fire on April 26. Hearing her cries, her neighbours rushed her to a hospital, while her husband and his mother fled the spot.“The woman is critical. Her husband and mother-in-law have been booked under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. They will be arrested soon,” said ASI Bikramjit Singh, who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dowry-harassment-ludhiana-woman-sets-herself-on-fire-husband-his-mother-booked-101619721644214.html
30-04-2021||Other||Kin of Sterlite victims protest SC, govt nods to reopen plant||Families of the 13 protestors, who were killed in the police firing during the anti-Sterlite demonstrations in 2018, on Thursday staged a protestoutside Thoothukudi district collector’s office against the Supreme Court and Tamil Nadu government’s decision to reopen the Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant for production of medical oxygen production.While black flags sprung up across houses, locals wore black badges to mark their protest as the top court and government allowed the plant, which was shut and sealed in 2018, to resume operations, at a time when there is a shortage of critical supplies amid the second Covid-19 wave in the country.Among the protesters on Thursday was M Jayakumar, who lost his younger brother M Selvakumar on the 100th day of the May 2018 demonstration when police opened fire on the agitators.“The 13 lives lost should be the last in this case. We do not want any more confrontations and deaths,” Jayakumar, who escaped the police firing that day, said.“We are the people who fought for our right to breathe clean air. The company, which made us choke, is using the pandemic(as an excuse) to open their oxygen plant. It seems suspicious to us. Our fear is that they will take this to their advantage to reopen the copper plant.”Vedantahas been accused of various irregularities in following environmental norms, leading to several public health issues due to production of toxins such as arsenic and sulphur oxides.The people in the district have been protesting ever since the company was constructed in 1994 and production was started in 1997. Two oxygen plants were commissioned in 1998 and 2004.On Tuesday, a Supreme court bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud said that the oxygen production unit will function on a stand-alone basis, and that Vedanta will not be allowed to access the copper and power plants in the precinct.Following the top court order, the company said it was working with experts on the logistics to dispatch oxygen to critical Covid areas and would reactivate the oxygen plant with the support of the community and employees.When contacted, Vedanta said they were awaiting necessary approvals based on the court order. “We await the formation of the oversight committee as directed by the Supreme Court and its recommendations and look forward to restoration of power to the plant in order to commence the necessary steps towards critical oxygen production,”the company said in a statement.As the protests grew on Thursday, district collector Senthil Raj tried to explain to the locals why it was important to manufacture more oxygen as the country amid the Covid surge. Raj said the production could also prove to be useful to the people of Thoothukudi in case of a shortage in the district.“Even if we are in need of oxygen due to Covid-19, isn’t it the government’s responsibility to ensure there is ample oxygen supply?” Jayakumar said. “There are so many other industries which can manufacture oxygen. Why depend on an operator which is shut?”As a precautionary measure, security was tightened in the district after protests erupted in areas such as Pandaarampatti and Puthu Theruon Wednesday. Police registered a case against 49 people under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987, for staging a protest.“The state government is firm in its decision in keeping the copper plant closed,” district collector Raj said. “There is no need for suspicion or fear. The permission granted is only for the oxygen plant to meet unprecedented demand for medical grade oxygen and has nothing to do with the main case. If the demand comes down after three months, the oxygen plant will be stopped and the premises will be sealed again.”Vedanta’s plea to reopen its factory and resume operations is pending in the Supreme Court. While its plea to reopen the plan was rejected by the Madras high court in August 2020, the top court had also rejected its plea to reopen the plan for a trial run in December and January.Last week, Vedanta Limited moved the top court for an urgent hearing, saying that it could produce 1,000 tonnes of oxygen if the plant was allowed to reopen and help by supplying free oxygen across the country.While the Tamil Nadu government opposed it on the grounds that it may become a law and order issue, the top court reminded the state of the growing demand for oxygen in several parts of the country. Following this, the collector conducted a public hearing in which a majority opposed the re-opening of the plant.On April 26, the government convened an all-party meeting which unanimously passed a resolution to allow the plant to temporarily re-open for the sole purpose of oxygen production. The resolution also said that the electricity would be provided by the government.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M K Stalin assured to shut the plant after the oxygen demands are met if his government came to power on May 2 (election results day).Some activists, who were against the re-opening, had agreed for the state to take over the plant but the Tamil Nadu government order did not make any such mention.Vedanta, however, submitted an affidavit in the apex court, saying that the oxygen plant must be operated by its own team under possible supervision of a central government’s expert body.On the same day, the state told the Madras High Court that the plant has a production capacity of 1,050 MTs but only 35 tonnes can be used for medical purposes. Representing the state, advocate general Vijay Narayan said what is required is liquid oxygen with at least 99.4% purity for medical use while industrial oxygen is only 92% -93% pure. The state submitted that Sterlite also has to install compression and bottling plants to convert gaseous oxygen to liquid oxygen, a process that will take a minimum of six months.The top court also ordered the appointment of a committee to supervise the functioning and decide on the number of personnel allowed to run the unit. The committee would include Thoothukudi district collector, superintendent of police among other government officials, a district environmental engineer and two experts to be nominated by those aggrieved by pollution from Vedanta’s copper smelter.Vedanta informed the court that the production could start in 10 days once other logistical requirements were fulfilled and the capacity could go up to 200 metric tonne (MT) per day.The court said it understands the concerns of the local community, “...but we are looking at the national crisis where people are dying for the want of oxygen...we will have to balance everything.”Though Tamil Nadu wanted to be prioritised for oxygen use, the court directed Vedanta to supply the gas to the Centre’s pool for an equitable distribution across the country. “Nation stands together in this moment. At present, Tamil Nadu’s oxygen demands are met. In case of any future need, they can approach us for changes in the order,” it said, adding that the order is applicable till July 31.At present, Tamil Nadu uses around 350 MTs of oxygen for Covid-19 treatment.“It is likely to touch 400 MTs if active cases shoot up,” said P Umanath, director, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) which procures drugs, medical equipment and augments oxygen supply for the state.The state has an oxygen production capacity of 400 MT and a storage capacity of 1,167 MT. Senior officials said the empowered group’s allotment of 220 MT for Tamil Nadu is incorrect and that chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the Centre to immediately cancel oxygen diversion from the state to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana which comparatively had fewer active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kin-of-sterlite-victims-protest-sc-govt-nods-to-reopen-plant-101619721583489.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid-19 vaccination drive for 45+ suspended for 3 days over shortage of vials||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said vaccination for the 18-44 age group will not start on May 1, but only after adequate stock of vaccine doses is available. The ongoing vaccination drive for those above 45 years will be suspended for three days till May 2 due to shortage of vials. The civic body also appealed to citizens above 45 years of age not to crowd at vaccination centres, fearing they would get crowded after May 1 as the two groups will have different arrangements for vaccination.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Also, the Maharashtra government on Thursday formally announced the extension of its lockdown for a fortnight after May 1. The state on April 21 had put strict restrictions on the movement of people till May 1, but with Covid-19 cases remaining upwards of 60,000 daily, it extended the lockdown till May 15.According to BMC officials, the stock that they will have in their hand after vaccination on Friday will not be enough to keep the vaccination drive running through the weekend.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We have decided to suspend the vaccination drive in Mumbai for three days between April 30 and May 2. We may hardly have around 10,000 vaccine doses in our stock after Thursday. However, if we receive around 100,000 vaccine doses, we might restart the vaccination drive in the city.”Kakani added, “With this, the vaccination drive that was going to start for the age group between 18 to 44 years is also postponed. For this age group, the drive will start only when we have sufficient stock.”According to BMC officials, the stock of vaccine coming from the Central government will only be used for the age group of above 45 years, while the stock that will come from the state government will be used for the 18 to 44 years age group’s vaccination drive. As of now, there is no word from the state government when this stock will arrive since the supply is not available from vaccine manufacturers for the time being.Further, the BMC added that all proposed 227 vaccination centres for vaccination of citizens above the age of 18 years will be operational by mid-May. The BMC also appealed to citizens above the age of 45 to not crowd at vaccination centres, stating that no citizen will be deprived of the vaccine. Significantly, it has also appealed the citizens to wear double masks, while going to vaccination centres. The advisory was issued after huge crowds were reported across vaccination centres in the city on Thursday at government and civic body-run vaccination centres. The vaccination drive was to get operational only by noon on Thursday, however, citizens had started reaching vaccination centres by as early as 6am. This resulted in huge queues and crowding outside several vaccination centres in the city. The BMC said, “Citizens in the age group of 45 years and above should not have the misconception that they will not get the vaccine as vaccination has started in the age group of 18 to 44 years. Even if the scope of vaccination is increased, priority will be given to citizens aged 45 years and above.”The statement also added that from now on, those above 45 years of age will be vaccinated only they are registered on the Co-win portal.Vijay Gangan, 79, along with wife and sister had to wait in line for five hours to be administered the Covid-19 vaccine at Mahim maternity home on Thursday. Gangan said he was determined to take his first dose of vaccine any how on Thursday and was ready to be in queue till evening if needed. “On two previous occasions despite scheduling my appointment, I was sent back from the hospitals citing shortage of vaccines. Hence today I decided to come directly to the hospital,” said Gangan. Gangan and his family members stood in line from 7am and his turn came from 12 noon. Similar is the case of Lekha Salunke, 55, who was waiting in line at KEM Hospital from 9am onwards for her second dose of vaccine. “The private hospital where I took the first dose has no stock from the last one week. The situation will only deteriorate after May 1 when citizens over 18 years will also be added in the vaccination list,” said Salunke.Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, took to Twitter on Thursday saying, “All senior citizens in #Mumbai r kindly requested nt 2 crowd or stand in long queues @ #vaccination centres.Vaccine is in short supply just for now & so nt available @ all places in enough quantity. But be rest assured that all 45+ years citizens wil eventually get vaccinated. Even when the new drive for the 18-44 year age group starts, the centres available now will continue to remain active for 45+ years citizens.”Currently, there are 136 vaccination centres, of which 63 are government and civic centres, and in the coming days the BMC plans to make additional 227 vaccination centres operational. These centres will vaccinate all above 18 years of age for free, but in the operational 63 vaccination centres citizens only above 45 years of age will be vaccinated.According to BMC officials, they are also in the process of recruiting additional staff for the proposed 227 vaccination centres in the city. Devidas Kshirsagar, deputy municipal commissioner, BMC’s health department, said, “We are in the process of making arrangements for having 227 vaccination centres in the city. It will require three things broadly when it comes to conducting successful vaccination. This includes cold storage, health infrastructure for attending beneficiaries that might report adverse effect post immunisation followed by having sufficient nurses and doctors.” Kshirsagar added, “Every ward officer is in the process of recruiting nurses, doctors and required contractual staff. We will need around 2,000 contractual staff for running these 227 vaccination centres. We should be in a position by having all of these 227 centres operational by mid-May and after that vaccination will also start as and when doses are made available to us.”The 227 vaccination centres are proposed to be opened up in each 227 electoral wards utilising community halls, health posts and party halls. These centres will be used for vaccination and post vaccination observation, and in case of any adverse effect, the BMC will tie up with nearby nursing homes and hospitals where the citizen will be rushed to in case of any adverse effect post vaccination.For the age group for 18 to 44 years, the vaccination will only be on the basis of appointments. While the vaccine administration will be free at government and civic run centres, one will also have an option to get vaccinated by paying at private hospitals. Simultaneously, the BMC officials said they are also in touch with indigenous manufacturers directly and trying to get vaccine doses directly for the city. A BMC official not wishing to be named said, “We cannot directly procure vaccines for international manufacturers, and hence are in touch with domestic manufacturers to explore a possibility of getting any doses directly.”According to BMC officials, for now the doses that are received from the central government will only be used for 45 and above age groups. Once the fresh stock procured by the state government starts coming in, vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group will start. The city will have three vaccine cold storage facilities at Dadar, Kanjurmarg and Andheri. Meanwhile, on Thursday 28,782 citizens were vaccinated,. Overall, 2,428,626 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-for-45-in-mumbai-suspended-for-3-days-101619721523490.html
30-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana man accused of raping his step-daughter shoots himself||Facing trial for raping his 14-year-old step-daughter, a farmer fatally shot himself in the chest with a countrymade pistol at Samrala’s Ghulal village on Thursday morning. Arrested in March 2020, the deceased was bailed out from jail just five days ago. “He was arrested for raping his teenaged step-daughter on the complaint of his wife. After spending one year in jail, he got bail on April 25,” said inspector Kulwant Singh Dhillon, station house officer, Samrala police station.After his release, he returned to live with his wife and children. On Thursday morning, while they were asleep, he shot himself in the chest using a countrymade pistol. The bullet pierced through his back, killing him on the spot, the SHO said.His wife informed the village sarpanch four hours after the incident, following which the police were alerted. The SHO said they had ruled out the woman’s involvement and were investigating where he procured the weapon.His wife told the police that she had married the farmer six years ago after her divorce. Apart from the teenaged daughter from her first marriage, she had two daughters, aged five and three, with him.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the woman’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-accused-of-raping-his-step-daughter-shoots-himself-101619721164168.html
30-04-2021||Ranchi||‘State likely to begin vaccination of 18+ only after May 15’||Strap: Vaccine manufacturing companies expressed inability to provide vaccines before May 15, claims health minister Banna GuptaThe much awaited inoculation drive covering people aged between 18-44 years amid the ongoing deadly second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was likely to begin in state after May 15 when the vaccines arrive, officials said on Thursday. The upcoming phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was scheduled to start on May 1.State health minister Banna Gupta claimed that the two vaccine manufacturing companies in the country expressed inability to provide vaccines before May 15, as the Centre already placed an advance booking of 12 crore doses with them. “The (vaccine manufacturing) companies said they will have to deliver the Centre’s order by May 15. They said there was no chance of providing vaccines to Jharkhand before May 15, and that they will consider our order in the last week of May,” the health minister said.The Centre has approved two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, produced by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, respectively.However, Gupta claimed that the state was all set to start the drive from May 1. “We have done all required preparations to administer shots for free to citizens aged between 18-44 years from May 1. As many as 2,229 vaccination centres are also ready. A purchase order of 25 lakh doses for each the vaccines has also been placed. I will request the Centre to make sure that Jharkhand gets vaccines in time so that we can start the drive at the earliest,” he said.The state has identified 1.57 crore people between the age group of 18 and 44 for the upcoming phase, the health minister said.The Centre has allocated ₹35,000 crore for vaccination in the Union budget for 2020-21, said Gupta, questioning the central government’s decision of giving states the responsibility of purchasing the vaccines on their own for this phase. “If we consider the price of a dose, which is fixed at ₹300 for the state governments, with an estimated 118 crore citizens of the country to take the shot under this phase, it will cost around ₹35,400 crore. So, I will like to know from the Centre that when it has already allocated ₹35,000 crore in the Union budget, why are states forced to purchase the vaccines,” he said.“The Centre gives the slogan of one nation, one Constitution. Then, why three tariffs have been fixed for one vaccine. Despite all this, we are ready to purchase the vaccines from our pocket. But, companies are not ready provide them in time,” Gupta said.He said they have around 2.5 lakh doses in stock left for vaccinating people above 45 years of age.The state till April 28 inoculated 26,08,781 beneficiaries, comprising health care workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW) and citizens above the age of 45 with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. As many as 4,53,926 were also given the second dose till April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-likely-to-begin-vaccination-of-18-only-after-may-15-101619712102919.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Sport psychologists the MVPs in current Covid climate||India is in the midst of a sports crisis with the Indian Premier League (IPL) being severely criticised for being played as the second Covid wave devastates the country. 2020 and 2021 have been some of the most challenging years in modern human society. With the entire world still in the throes of a pandemic, sports were often asked to take a backburner to the more important and basic functional elements of each country’s society. Even more unique was the fact that the pandemic first started in a year where the Summer Olympics were planned as the marquee event of the sporting community. In fact, there have only been three times in history where the Olympics have been cancelled or postponed, and none of these have occurred since World War II. The uncertainty of the current global sporting climate has led us to understand and appreciate sports and the unity that sports can bring even among various boundaries more than ever. Highly competitive athletes are always able to train with an end-goal and performance in mind, depending on their sport. For example, a sprinter may be training with an eye on the Summer Olympics or World Championships, a football player may train for the UEFA Champions League or the World Cup, a basketball player preparing for the NBA season, NBA Finals or the Olympics. Due to the pandemic, however, this was the first time for many modern athletes that their preparations were interrupted due to uncertainty over whether their sports would even continue. Due to this uncertainty, the role of sport psychologists has been magnified more than at any point ever before. The major part of a sport psychologist’s role has involved teaching athletes to adapt to the “new normal” in a society that is overrun by the pandemic. Changing athletes’ perspective and teaching them strategies to be more resilient and adaptable is a critical part of the psychologist job description throughout the last 18 months. Since athlete performance is heavily influenced by mindset, a psychologist may seek to have the athlete view uncertain circumstances as an opportunity for growth to learn to be more resilient. In sports performance, the mental approach, lifestyle and stability of an individual is crucial to their success. Harnessing all these factors to work together, even in a pandemic, requires a great support network. For an individual athlete playing a sport, the range of emotional trauma experienced from having their entire livelihood taken away from them is not too dissimilar to the emotions experienced by the vast majority of society. In this time, we can appreciate the stability and unity that sports contribute towards providing our modern society. As every individual’s life has been heavily impacted, it is crucial to recognise the parallels between those playing sport and contributing to the entertainment and this sense of stability and unity in our society. There can be an argument made that many athletes have had their careers cut short and taken away from them overnight, due to the very finite lifespan an athlete faces. It is important to recognise a universal truth regardless of one’s profession, we are all susceptible and vulnerable to the full spectrum of human emotion and that nobody can truly encounter the challenges of life without a well-built support system around them. Work pressure and non-disclosure agreements have cut short my contribution to this space. This is my final piece... for now. However, basketball fans and players, keep your eyes on the NBA, it is one of the sporting lights in our dark Covid world of today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-sport-psychologists-the-mvps-in-current-covid-climate-101619709042696.html
