12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paper-strip virus test to be out soon: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said his Ministry would soon roll out the FELUDA paper-strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis. This has been developed by the CSIR-IGIB and approved by the Drug Controller General of India for a commercial launch. The test showed 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity. “This compares favourably to the ICMR’s current acceptation criteria of RT-PCR kit of at least 95% sensitivity and at least 99% specificity,” Dr. Vardhan said, adding, however, that “an exact date on the availability cannot be specified yet”. Various factors Speaking about the COVID-19 vaccine, the Minister, in his weekly social media interaction Sunday Samvaad, said it was anticipated that supplies would initially be available in limited quantities. “In a huge country like India, it is critical to prioritise vaccine delivery based on factors such as risk of exposure, co-morbidity among various population groups, the mortality rate.” He said India was looking at the availability of several types of vaccines, of which some may be suitable for a particular age group, while the others may not be. Categorically denying rumours about the government prioritising the young and the working class for the vaccine for economic reasons, Dr. Vardhan said, “The prioritisation of groups for COVID-19 vaccine shall be based on two key considerations: occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality.” On the issue of emergency-use authorisation of vaccines, he said it was being deliberated at present, and “adequate safety and efficacy data is required for approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will depend on the data generated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paper-strip-virus-test-to-be-out-soon-vardhan/article32830214.ece
12 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Heavy rain causes loss of lives||Heavy rain that lashed parts of Kalyana Karnataka region on Saturday night and Sunday morning has caused loss of lives and damaged standing crops apart from throwing life out of gear. Two youths in Shahabad town of Kalaburagi district were washed away in a stream and a farmer at Govinakoppa village in Bagalakot district was washed away in the Malaprabha. As per information available, Vishwanath (14) and Purnachandra Jayi (15) were washed away in an overflowing stream near Shahabad on Sunday when they attempted to cross it. Hearing the tragedy, the villagers rushed to the spot and retrieved the bodies. A case was registered at Shahabad Police Station. Due to heavy rain that lashed the region on Saturday, rivers, their tributaries, streams and rivulets are in spate in Kalaburagi district. Low-lying areas in Kalaburagi city were flooded for hours. According to India Meteorological Department, rainfall recorded till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday in the district was 20.4 mm against a normal rainfall of 4 mm. Among taluks, Aland recorded the highest rainfall with 32 mm followed by Chincholli with 28 mm, Chittapur 24 mm and Jewargi with 14 mm. Among towns, Khajuri in Aland taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 36 mm. In Bagalkot Venkanagouda Saligoudar (40) of Konnur village slipped into the Malaprabha as he was trying to cross it. Tahsildar Suhas Ingale said that a search is on for the body. Water gushed into houses in Hungund town in Bagalkot district. Residents of Hoogar Layout, Omshanti Nagar, Babu Jagajivanram Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar and some houses behind the bus stand had to flush out water from their houses. The underpass at the Amaravati Circle was submerged after heavy rain, cutting off connection between Gattiganur, Binjawadagi and surrounding villages with Amaravati. Water entered the Hanuman temple in Tulasigeri village near Bagalkot and some devotees set up pumpsets to flush out water. The tank at Kelavadi was nearly full and farmers are worried that it would overflow and enter their fields. Crops were damaged in some villages in Bagalkot and Hungund taluks, officers said.  Water entered the Hanuman temple in Tulasigeri village near Bagalkot and some devotees set up pumpsets to flush out water. The tank at Kelavadi was nearly full and farmers are worried that it would overflow and enter their fields. Crops were damaged in some villages in Bagalkot and Hungund taluks, officers said. It rained heavily in Hukkeri town and surrounding villages by Sunday evening. A car was washed away from near the Hukkeri Bus Stand. The police said that it was resting a kilometre away. In Ballari As many as nine houses in different villages in Sandur taluk, Ballari district, were damaged in the rain. Two buffaloes at Sovenahalli were killed. As per information provided by the administration, Harapanahalli received 49.2 mm rainfall followed by Sandur with 44 mm, Kottur 43 mm, Kudligi 16.7 mm and Hagaribommanahalli with 15.8 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-causes-loss-of-lives/article32830334.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s COVID-19 deaths cross 1,000||The State on Sunday reported 9,347 fresh cases of COVID-19 when 61,629 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case load to 2,89,202 cases. Test positivity rate remains high at 15%. The State also registered the highest number recoveries in a single day when 8,924 patients were discharged from hospitals. The total recoveries being 1,91,798 till date, the number of patients undergoing treatment at present in hospitals is 96,316. Of these, 658 are critically ill and being treated in ICUs, while 176 patients have been put on ventilator support. The death toll has crossed the 1,000 mark and now stands at 1,003, with 25 more deaths added to the official list on Sunday. Five of these deaths were reported from Malappuram, four from Alappuzha, three each from Thrissur and Kollam and two each from Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Kannur and Kottayam. Almost 98% of the new cases – 9,146 out of the new 9,347 cases – reported are locally acquired infections, including 821 cases wherein the source of infection remains untraceable. The number of health-care workers affected among this number is 105. Malappuram district reported the maximum number of cases at 1,451, Ernakulam 1,228, Kozhikode 1,219, Thrissur 960, Thiruvananthapuram 797, Kollam 712, Palakkad 640, Alappuzha 619, Kottayam 417, Kannur 413, Pathanamthitta 378, Kasaragod 242, Wayanad 148 and Idukki 123.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-covid-19-deaths-cross-1000/article32830381.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Swapna’s statement to ED galvanises Opposition||The Congress and the BJP have seized on a statement given by gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to target Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and force his resignation on the charge of abetting economic offenders. United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan said on Sunday that the Opposition activists would stage protests at 420 centres across the State on Monday to spotlight Mr. Vijayan's ‘support’ for gold smugglers.He demanded the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel for his alleged link to the international racket. BJP State secretary K. Surendran said Swapna's deposition was an indictment of Mr. Vijayan. The BJP would intensify its protest for Mr. Vijayan's exit. Swapna had contentiously claimed that Mr. Vijayan knew her personally and she had met him "5 to 6 times" along with former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister M. Sivasankar. She also stated Mr. Vijayan was aware of her "controversial" appointment to the State-run Space Park project. The Congress and the BJP have sought to weaponise Swapna's averments against Mr. Vijayan. It also seemed not lost on the Opposition parties that Mr. Sivasankar was scheduled to appear before the Customs in Kochi on Tuesday amidst intense speculation that the agency might arrest him. They have sought to use the relentless media coverage of his questioning to put the government on the back foot. The meandering investigations into the gold smuggling case gave the impression that the probes were edging closer to higher-ups in government each passing day. The CPI(M) has said the Congress and the BJP had put on a spin on Swapna's statement to target the administration and eclipse its achievements ahead of the local body elections. It felt that a section of the media had amplified the Opposition's propaganda war against the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swapnas-statement-to-ed-galvanises-opposition/article32830382.ece
12 October 2020||Chennai,||CBI removes Hathras FIR from website||Just hours after posting an FIR and a press statement on taking over the investigation into the Hathras gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) removed the same from its website. The CBI formally took over the case after the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) issued a notification authorising the agency to investigate the case, and registered an FIR early on Sunday under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 376 (D) (gang-rape), and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The Anti-Corruption Branch of the CBI’s Ghaziabad unit mentioned “rape, attempt to murder, gang rape and murder (other)” as suspected offences in the case. Though the FIR and a press release were published on the agency’s website, the FIR was later removed. Late in the afternoon, a fresh release was posted, stating that the agency had registered a case “against an accused and taken over the investigation of the case, earlier registered vide CC no-136/2020 at Police Station Chandpa, District-Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) on a complaint. The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government and further from Government of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-removes-hathras-fir-from-website/article32830212.ece
12 October 2020||Kolkata,||Uncertainty over resumption of classes in West Bengal||Despite the Union Ministry of Education allowing gradual reopening of educational institutions across the country, State-run schools in West Bengal are unsure about the resumption of physical classes. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said her administration will think about reopening educational institutions after Kali Puja on November 15 “depending on the COVID-19 situation”. Education Minister Partha Chatterjee had said schools cannot be reopened till the pandemic situation improves as the safety of children is the priority. West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education president Mahua Das said on Sunday any decision on the reopening of the schools will be taken by the administration and instructions communicated by the School Education Department. “No preparation has yet been taken by the council,” Ms. Das said on Sunday. A senior official of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education said nothing has been finalised yet and no guideline or standard operating procedure has been issued on the seating arrangement, physical distancing and other measures. “The situation is still fluid. We will wait for the decision of the Chief Minister and the Education Minister on reopening of schools,” he said. The principal of Hindu School Subhrojit Dutta said, “None of us know when the situation will normalise. Schools with large buildings like ours can enforce the COVID- 19 guidelines if allowed to reopen after a month or so but what about the hundreds of smaller schools? ,” he said. Jadavpur Vidyapith headmaster Parimal Bhattacharya said they were conducting online lessons for Class X and XII students but that is “not enough”. Students and their guardians also are apprehensive about their safety after the resumption of classes. Debopriyo Ghosh, father of a Class XII student is worried about his daughter’s academic schedule. “I don’t know when the school will reopen or exams will be held and whether the curriculum will be completed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uncertainty-over-resumption-of-classes-in-west-bengal/article32830407.ece
12 October 2020||KALABURAGI/BELAGAVI,||Four washed away as rains lash NK||Four persons were washed away in heavy rains that lashed parts of Kalyana Karnataka and Bombay Karnataka regions on Saturday night and Sunday morning. Standing crops were lost and life was thrown out of gear. Two youths at Shahbad town in Kalaburagi district, a youth at Maski in Raichur district, and a farmer at Govinakoppa village in Bagalakot district were washed away in streams and in Malaprabha river. As per information, Vishwanath, 14, and Purnachandra Jayi, 15, were washed away on Sunday when they attempted to cross a stream. Upon learning of the tragedy, villagers rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies. A case was registered at Shahbad police station. Rivers, tributaries, streams and rivulets were in spate in Kalaburagi district. Low-lying areas in Kalaburagi city were flooded. Channabasava, a resident of Maski, was washed away in a stream on Sunday morning. As per information provided by villagers, the youth and his friend Jaleel got stranded when the water level in the stream suddenly rose. While Jaleel was rescued, Channabasava was washed away. In the third incident, Venakanagouda Saligoudar, 40, of Konnur village slipped into Malaprabha river when he was trying to cross it. Search for his body was on. Water gushed inside houses in Hungund town in Bagalkot district. Water entered Hanuman temple at Tulasigeri village near Bagalkot and some devotees set up pump sets to flush out the water. The tank at Kelavadi was nearly full, and farmers were worried that it would overflow and enter their fields. Crops were damaged in some villages in Bagalkot and Hungund taluks, officials said. It rained heavily in Hukkeri town and surrounding villages. A car was washed away near Hukkeri bus stand. As many as nine houses in different villages in Sandur taluk of Ballari district were damaged in the rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-washed-away-as-rains-lash-nk/article32830685.ece
12 October 2020||Mumbai,||Metro car shed moved to to Kanjurmarg||Fulfilling one of its promises in the Shiv Sena election manifesto, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced the shifting of the Metro car shed from the Aarey forest area in the western suburbs to a government plot in Kanjurmarg in the eastern suburbs at “zero cost”. “We all are aware of the Metro car shed construction issues at Aarey. They were raised even before the Assembly elections last year. I was not the Chief Minister then but was heading the party contesting the elections, and we opposed the plan at that time,” Mr. Thackeray said in a webcast. “The car shed will now be moved to Kanjurmarg. So questions will arise as to who will bear these costs. Let me make this clear today. The State government has allotted the land for Metro for “zero rupees”,” he said. The Chief Minister said the move to build the car shed at Aarey had seen a lot of protests, agitations, cutting of trees at night, and charges filed against protesters. “The Cabinet has decided to drop all charges filed against the protesters striving to protect the environment,” he added. Mr. Thackeray said the building which has come up in the Aarey site will be utilised for some other public purpose. “About Rs. 100 crore expenditure was incurred for the purpose and it won’t go waste,” he said. Nearly 800 acres in Aarey has been declared as forest area, making it the first extensive forest blossoming within city limits anywhere in the world, the CM said. “The State government has ensured that the rights of the tribal communities, stable owners and other stakeholders in the area are protected,” he said. In another move likely to benefit Mumbaikars, Mr. Thackeray announced that Metro 3 and Metro 6 lines will be joined, facilitating direct connectivity of the eastern suburbs with south Mumbai. The 33.5 km fully underground Metro-3 line, being constructed by Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd., runs from Colaba in south Mumbai to Seepz in the western suburbs. The 14.47 km Metro 6 runs from Lokhandwala to Kanjurmarg. At the peak of protests by environment activists, students and residents over construction of the car shed in Aarey, the proposed site was cleared with the cutting of trees in the dead of the night. The Shiv Sena, which was then an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led ruling alliance in the State under Devendra Fadnavis, was vocal in its opposition to the construction. Cases had been filed against several green activists, political workers and students who were detained for opposing the government action. While Mr. Fadnavis remained undeterred, the Sena had promised to stop construction of the car shed if it came to power. One of the first decisions of Mr. Thackeray, on being sworn in as head of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government last year, was to stop work on the car shed. The government also appointed a committee to study feasibility of the project. Unfortunate, says Fadnavis Mr. Fadnavis termed the decision unfortunate and one taken to satisfy the ruling party’s ego. “This decision will increase the cost of the project by at least Rs. 4,000 crore. This cost escalation is assessed by the committee appointed by this government,” he said. Since the site in Kanjurmarg is a marshy land, it will require at least two years to stabilise it,” he added, claiming all the previous tenders will have to be scraped and a new process will have to be followed now. “This means that the Metro project, which would have been in the service of Mumbaikars just next year, has now been postponed indefinitely,” said the ex-CM. ‘Win for both’ The move has been welcomed by environmental activists who thanked the MVA government. “The blackmail of Aarey or Metro has finally ended. It’s a win for both Aarey and Metro today. We thank the government, especially CM and Environment Minister for the decision,” said Stalin D. one of the green activists who had been fighting against the car shed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-car-shed-moved-to-to-kanjurmarg/article32830839.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||High alert as heavy rain forecast in State||The State government has sounded high alert to the public and official machinery in the wake of forecast of heavy to very heavy rain in the next two days due to deep depression in Bay of Bengal. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to be in regular touch with Collectors, Superintendents of Police and Police Commissioners to take up relief as and when the situation took a serious turn. Mr. Somesh Kumar, in turn alerted the officers, quoting met department’s warning about massive flooding and waterlogging in low-lying areas. Falling of trees and electric poles can happen leading to disruption of normal activity. Reservoirs, tanks and streams could overflow causing inundation of low-lying areas. Low-level causeways could dip in water flow, posing threat to traffic and public. Traffic and pedestrian movement on the causeways should be prohibited. Earlier, the met department issued a release that “heavy to very heavy rain was very likely to occur at isolated places” in the erstwhile districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning was very likely at isolated places over Telangana. Meanwhile, rain led to the collapse of a portion of an old house at Hussaini Alam in the old city which resulted in the killing of two young women, including a teenager. Hussaini Alam inspector Ramesh Kotwal said that the incident took place at around 12 noon when the victims were in the house. “Soon, they were rescued and rushed to nearby hospitals, where the two women Farah Begum (24) and Anees Begum (18) died while undergoing treatment,” he said. The injured are Haji Mohammed Khan (54), Parveen Begum (42), Azmath Khan (28), Master Hussain Khan (one-year-and-six-months) and Hussain Khan (four months). The GHMC authorities demolished the remaining portions of the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-alert-as-heavy-rain-forecast-in-state/article32830755.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports 5,210 new COVID-19 cases, 30 deaths||The State reported 5,210 new COVID-19 infections and 30 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. During the period, 5,509 patients recovered, taking the total recoveries to 7,03,207. The new cases pushed the tally to 7,55,727 and the death toll to 6,224. Recovery rate The recovery rate, for the first time, reached 93.05%. Only 6.13% cases, or 46,295 of the total cases reported so far, are active. The death rate continued to stay at 0.83%. Also, for the first time in more than three months, the daily positivity rate of the tests came down to 6.90% as 75,517 samples were tested. The overall positivity rate of the 65,69,616 samples tested so far remained at 11.50%. West Godavari reported the highest number of new cases and Chittoor and East Godavari followed it with more than 700 new cases each. Prakasam reported the highest number of new deaths. The district-wise new cases and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (786 & 1), Chittoor (713 & 4), East Godavari (701 & 3), Krishna (462 & 2), Guntur (431 & 3), Kadapa (418 & 3), Prakasam (362 & 8), Anantapur (311 & 2), Nellore (288), Srikakulam (212 & 1), Visakhapatnam (190 & 3), Kurnool (175), and Vizianagaram (161). The overall tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,06,043), West Godavari (75,000), Chittoor (70,322), Anantapur (60,947), Guntur (59,842), Kurnool (58,105), Nellore (56,678), Prakasam (54,388), Visakhapatnam (52,516), Kadapa (48,019), Srikakulam (41,698), Vizianagaram (37,324) and Krishna (31,950).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-5210-new-covid-19-cases-30-deaths/article32830207.ece
12 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,||One-day Collector bats for women staff||Sixteen-year-old M. Sravani was a bundle of nerves when it was announced that she would be the Collector of Anantapur district for a day. However, the senior Intermediate student of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) at Garladinne village, daughter of a farm labourer, did not blink an eye when the media persons gathered around her and sought to know what she would like to do, being the ‘one-day’ Collector, after her name was picked though a draw of lots at the District Collectorate on Sunday Morning. “We have forgotten to care for the animals and keep our surroundings clean. It is time we did something about it. And I would like to ensure all the dropouts are back in school,” announced Ms. Sravani loud and clear after taking the chair in the Collector’s chamber, in the presence of the district officials and representatives of NGOs and the Collector himself. She told the media that she aspired to become a teacher. ‘Balike Bhavishyathu’ Several girl students were chosen for different posts such as Joint Collector and Municipal Commissioner for a day as part of the ‘Balike Bhavishyathu’ (girl child is the future) programme launched by Collector Gandham Chandrudu, marking the International Day of the Girl Child. The programme was aimed at creating awareness on the rights of adolescent girls in the society. Ms. Sravani also signed a file, sanctioning a compensation of Rs. 25,000 to a woman victim of an SC/ST atrocity case. She read the entire file before signing on the dotted lines. She also signed another file pertaining to the decision that no woman employee would be contacted for official work between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/girl-students-at-the-helm-for-a-day/article32830210.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Five persons arrested in Sullia murder case||The Sullia Police on Sunday arrested five persons said to be involved in the October 8 murder in Sullia of Sampath Kumar (40), an accused in the murder of Kodagu district BJP secretary Balachandra Kalagi. A special team of the district police was tipped off about the accused leaving from Munglipade near Kukke Subrahmanya in a car. The team intercepted the vehicle in Bisle Ghat and arrested the accused persons. Two arrested persons are aged 35 and the others are aged 26, 27 and 32. Four accused persons are from Kallagundi Sampaje village, while the accused aged 32 is from Jalsoor village. The names of the accused have not been given as their test identification parade has to be held by an Executive Magistrate, the police said in a press note. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmiprasad said that the arrested persons, who worked for Balachandra Kalagi, had a grudge against Sampath Kumar for the latter’s alleged involvement in Kalagi’s murder. There were also differences between supporters of Kalagi and Sampath Kumar over sand mining in which the two groups were involved. On October 8, four persons attacked Sampath Kumar soon after he got into his car near his house in Kallagundi of Sampaje on October 8. They shot at him and attacked him with machetes. As he tried to flee, the accused chased him and shot at him once more before assaulting him with the machetes again. Sampath Kumar died on the spot, while his neighbour Thimappa, who tried to intervene, was injured. Sampath Kumar was among the three accused arrested in connection with the murder of Balachandra Kalagi in Madikeri in March last year. He had been released on bail few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-persons-arrested-in-sullia-murder-case/article32830820.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Citizens’ panel to probe north-east Delhi riots||A citizens’ committee, including former Supreme Court and High Court judges, has been constituted to inquire into the February communal riots in Delhi. The committee will inquire into the role of the State machinery in restoring order and the part played by certain sections of the media to fan the flames through fake news before and after the violence that broke out following protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The ‘Citizens Committee on the Delhi Riots of February 2020: Context, Events and Aftermath’ will include former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan Lokur; former Delhi High Court Chief Justice and Law Commission of India chairperson Justice A.P. Shah; Justice R.S. Sodhi, former judge of the Delhi High Court; Justice Anjana Prakash, former judge of the Patna High Court; G.K. Pillai, former Union Home Secretary; and Meeran Chadha Borwankar, former Director-General, Bureau of Police Research and Development, Government of India. The committee will file its report in three months. It was formed on the invitation of the Constitutional Conduct Group, comprising distinguished former civil servants who want an impartial probe into the events which led to the communal riots in the national capital. “Considering the horrific nature of the riots in north-east Delhi in February 2020, the scale of violence, the loss of lives and the resulting communal divide between communities, we felt that an expert body should carry out a thorough examination of what transpired before, during and after the riots. This has become even more necessary as the investigation by the Delhi Police has evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times,” a statement from the Group on Sunday said. The work of the committee would create a “contemporary record of acts of omission and commission around the riots, and their aftermath.” All persons who engage with the committee would be accorded dignity and respect. Their communication would be kept confidential. Queries can be addressed to ccgenquiry10@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/citizens-panel-to-probe-north-east-delhi-riots/article32830531.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||K-RIDE to rope in pvt. investors to build suburban rail stations||Taking a clue from Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited (K –RIDE) will rope in private companies to build suburban railway stations in the city. The agency, which has been tasked with the implementation of the 148-km rail network, has floated a tender to select a consultancy to study land and station development. Officials are hoping that of the 57 stations, private investors will come forward to develop more than 30 as they are in ‘ideal’ locations. “Once the consultancy comes out with a report, further steps will be taken on private investments. The private party will share revenue with the K-RIDE generated from commercial activities,” an official said. Alternative financing models adopted by BMRCL have received a positive response. For instance, under innovative financing, the BMRCL has entered into MoUs with companies and real estate developers to fund metro stations along the ORR-Airport and R V Road to Bommasandra metro lines. In addition to real estate development, K –RIDE is also planning to rope in private investors to not only invest in train coaches but also operate and maintain them. On its part, it will provide system support. Last week, the Union Cabinet had reportedly cleared and approved the rail project for Bengaluru, though no formal announcement has been made as the poll code is in place. In the Union Budget 2020-21, the Centre announced that it would provide 20% of equity and facilitate external assistance up to 60% of the project cost. However, much to the disappointment of citizens who have been actively campaigning for the project, only a token amount of Rs. 1 crore was allocated in the pink book. The suburban rail project is estimated to cost Rs. 15,767 crore excluding the investment on train coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/k-ride-to-rope-in-pvt-investors-to-build-suburban-rail-stations/article32830688.ece
12 October 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir tourism takes baby steps to normalcy||The tide is finally turning for Kashmir’s beleaguered tourism industry, a key contributor to the Union Territory’s economy, which has witnessed a 13-month hiatus due to the double whammy of the revocation of special status last year followed by the COVID-19 pandemic this year. The silver lining has come with the UT winning the bid to host the 50th annual Skal International Asia Area (SIAA) congress in 2021 against four other cities. Skål International is a an organisation of tourism leaders around the world, promoting global tourism and friendship. The congress is likely to be held between April 8 and 11 next year at Srinagar’s Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC). “Kashmir has witnessed the darkest phase in the tourism sector ever. The August 5 decision last year kept tourists away due to the official bar for many, many months. The COVID-19 pandemic only prolonged the grim period, resulting in highest ever job losses of around 75,000. The SIAA congress has come as a good omen,” Nasir Shah, secretary of Skal Club of Srinagar, told The Hindu . “The Skal is a Spain-based tourism body with 15,000 members and 150 chapters across the world. Kashmir won the bid against four top cities of Europe and Asia. This event will pave way for international tourism players to visit Kashmir and give a fillip to international tourist footfall,” Mr. Shah said. Mr. Shah, whose group has already started preparations for the event, said the J&K administration needs to further streamline COVID 19-related measures to ensure hassle free movement. With the pandemic situation improving, domestic tourists have also started planning their visits to Kashmir. In the last week of September, the Kashmir Valley hosted the biggest group of 70 doctors from Delhi in 13 months at the Royal Hilton hotel. “We can't stop the cycle of life. A group of doctors decided to come to Kashmir to bring positivity in our team, after spending months inside their homes. We chose Pahalgam for being the country’s best hill station,” said Dr. Archana, a doctor from the group. According to official figures, the Kashmir Valley has 40,753 rooms in around 1,500 hotels. “The occupancy has been around 1% in the last one year,” an official said. From an income of Rs. 6.69 crore from tourism in 2018, revenue plummeted to just around Rs. 45 lakh in the past two years, an official said. Buoyed by the growing tourist footfalls, the J&K Cable Car Corporation on Saturday restarted Asia’s highest cable car, Gondola, in north Kashmir’s ski attraction Gulmarg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kashmir-tourism-takes-baby-steps-to-normalcy/article32830217.ece
12 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Metro car shed at Aarey to be shifted||Fulfilling one of its promises in the Shiv Sena poll manifesto, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced the shifting of the metro car shed from Aarey forest area in the western suburbs to a government plot in Kanjurmarg in the eastern suburbs at “zero cost”. “We are all aware of the metro car shed construction issues at Aarey. They were raised even before the Assembly election last year. We opposed the plan at that time,” Mr. Thackeray said. “The car shed will now be moved to Kanjurmarg. The State government has allotted the land for metro for zero rupees,” he said. The CM said the move to build the car shed at Aarey had seen a lot of stirs by green activists, and charges filed against protesters. “The Cabinet has decided to drop all charges against protesters striving to protect the environment,” he said. The building that has come up in Aarey will be utilised for public purpose. he said, adding: “About Rs. 100 crore was spent and it will not go to waste. Nearly 800 acres in Aarey has been declared as forest area, making it the first extensive forest blossoming within city limits, the CM said, adding: “The State government has ensured that the rights of the tribal communities, stable owners and other stakeholders in the area are protected.” The move has been welcomed by environmental activists. “It is a win for both Aarey and the metro,” said Stalin D. one of the leading green activists fighting against the construction. The Opposition BJP, however, said the CM’s claims were misleading. “The land in Kanjurmarg is under litigation. The expert panel had recommended Aarey land for the project,” said BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-car-shed-at-aarey-to-be-shifted/article32830532.ece
12 October 2020||kolkata,||Highest single day spike of 3,612 cases in Bengal||In its highest single day spike, West Bengal on Sunday recorded 3,612 COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 2,94,806. The State alsorecorded 59 deaths taking the fatalities to 5,622. While the active cases in the State rose to 30,236, the discharge rate marginally declined to 87.84%. The percentage of positive cases, out of samples tested, remained at 7.98% with 42,611 samples tested in the past 24 hours. Total samples tested in West Bengal stands at 36.93 lakh. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 bed occupancy rate stands at 37.40%. Of the 59 deaths, Kolkata accounted for 16 deaths taking the toll in the city to 1,877. North 24 Parganas recorded 18 deaths taking the toll in the district to 1,265. Of the 3,612 fresh cases, Kolkata recorded 757 taking the total infections in the city to 64,443. North 24 Parganas accounted for 774 cases, taking the total tally in the district to 59,362.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-spike-of-3612-cases-in-bengal/article32830406.ece
12 October 2020||Mumbai,||Cannot go easy on the virus now, says Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the State government “cannot go easy on virus now” and is moving cautiously on restarting trains, and opening gyms and temples. “Restarting locals will be a huge step. Most people want to travel by train and it’s a huge necessity. However, the crowds it creates is more worrying at this moment. We are empathetic to people’s concerns and will soon reach a decision on this,” he said in his address to the State on Sunday. “Not only do we feel responsible for our citizens, but we also care for them deeply. Therefore, we are taking steps to restart cautiously and slowly. Restaurants are now operational. We are working towards restarting gyms after carefully thinking of the threats at hand.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cannot-go-easy-on-the-virus-now-says-uddhav/article32830841.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Stamp duty, registration fees collection up in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s revenue from stamp duty and registration fees was Rs. 1,064.62 crore in September this year, a tad higher than Rs. 1,056.17 crore in the same month last year. This is the second straight month of positive growth since the lockdown was imposed to curb COVID-19 in mid-March, indicating a rebound in the demand for property. In August this year, the revenue from stamp duty and registration fees rose to Rs. 792.65 crore from Rs. 786.84 crore in the same period last year, according to the data from the Department of Registration. In April this year, the revenue from stamp duty and registration fees had tanked almost 97% to Rs. 23.61 crore from Rs. 761.81 crore in April 2019, amid the total lockdown. The declining trend continued in May, June and July. The revenue growth from stamp duty and registration fees is the proxy to real estate demand. A senior official said the property demand had come back strongly in August and September. “There was a pent-up demand amid the complete lockdown in April and May, which brought activities to a stand still. With the number of relaxations allowed and more number of auspicious days, the revenue has been positive in August and September [when the e-pass system for inter-district travel was scrapped],” officials of the Department of Registration said. The number of documents registered increased to 2,98,956 in September this year from 2,38,978 in the same period last year. In August this year, the number of documents registered rose to 2,17,070 from 2,00,649 in the same period last year. Sanjay Chugh, city head-Chennai, Anarock Property Consultants, said the reduction in interest rates for home loans and incentives offered by builders had helped to revive the property demand. “The pent-up demand is getting reflected now. With interest rates being lower and incentives from some quality builders in the market, it may be the right time to buy a house,” he said. Sridharan, chairman of CREDAI, Tamil Nadu, said the demand had come back strongly. “The lockdown relaxations, especially the opening up on Sundays, have increased site visits. People who were waiting on the sidelines are now actively considering buying a house, and the inquiries have gone up significantly,” he said. But he called for a reduction in the registration fee and stamp duty, which is at 11%. CREDAI has made a representation to Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam (who holds the Housing portfolio) to bring down the registration fee and stamp duty to 6%, without any further change in the guideline value, which has already been reduced by 33%. Mr. Sridharan pointed out that the reduction in the stamp duty had a positive impact in Maharashtra. “The reduction in the stamp duty will boost home-buying, as the benefit directly goes to the consumers. This will improve the volume of registration, which in turn will increase revenue to the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stamp-duty-registration-fees-collection-up-in-tn/article32830234.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Depression in the Bay may intensify today||The well-marked low-pressure area concentrated into a depression and lay at 330 km south-east of Visakhapatnam, 370 km east southeast of Kakinada and 400 km east southeast of Narsapur by Sunday evening. It is likely to intensify into a deep depression in the next 24 hours and move west-northwestwards and cross north A.P. coast between Narsapur and Visakhapatnam on October 12 night, according to a the Cyclone Warning Centre here. Under its influence, light to moderate rain, or thundershowers, is likely at most places in coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema till October 13. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places in Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari, Krishna, Kurnool and Kadapa districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/depression-in-the-bay-may-intensify-today/article32830208.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||PM slams Opposition for ‘supporting’ middlemen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday attacked the Opposition for advocating the interests of middlemen and peddling “lies” about his government’s efforts to introduce lasting reforms in agriculture and rural development. He was speaking at a programme to launch the distribution of property cards under the ‘SVAMITVA’ (ownership) scheme via videoconferene. The scheme uses drone and satellite technology to map physical assets in rural areas and aims at digitisation of property records, easing the way for village dwellers to access institutionalised credit against property. The Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh were also present via video link during the programme. Stating that government had done more for villages and their residents in the past six years than what was done in six decades before that, Mr. Modi referred to a number of projects, including opening of bank accounts, building of toilets and houses, cooking gas scheme and electrification. “Many people don’t want villages, poor, farmers and labourers to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant),” he said, adding that his government’s measures to empower them, including by directly transferring to farmers and others, had hit the Opposition hard by cutting off their source of illegitimate earning. Without naming the Opposition, he said it was upset not for the farmers but for itself as it was for long strengthened by the power of middlemen, brokers and commission agents. The Congress and the BJP’s own former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal have been opposing the farm laws enacted by the government last month. Parliament had passed The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the monsoon session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-slams-opposition-for-supporting-middlemen/article32830215.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Police played peacemaker in COVID wards||In a report compiled by the Bureau of Police Research and Development, the Maharashtra police have cited an incident in Malegaon in April, where the police had to persuade doctors to treat all patients equally as “doctors feared that treating patients from Muslim areas could infect their hospitals”. To publish the report, “Indian police response to COVID-19 crisis”, the department sought contributions from State police and Central armed police forces. The Supreme Court is hearing a petition that certain sections of the media were spreading bigotry in relation to the Tablighi Jamaat held in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-played-peacemaker-in-covid-wards/article32830842.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-for-action/article32830205.ece
12 October 2020||new delhi,||‘No curbs on religious gatherings till Oct. 31’||Restrictions on religious gatherings have been lifted till October 31, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said on Sunday. Keeping in mind the upcoming festive season, a maximum of 200 people will now be allowed to attend a religious congregation, which will have to adhere to all COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-curbs-on-religious-gatherings-till-oct-31/article32830529.ece
12 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Another BJP leader held in Assam paper leak case||A second BJP leader was on Sunday arrested in connection with the leaking of question papers for the recruitment of 597 sub-inspectors. The police have so far arrested 46 people, including a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police, for alleged involvement in the case and recovered more than Rs. 5.35 crore from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-bjp-leader-held-in-assam-paper-leak-case/article32830533.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 positivity rate rises after two months||The COVID-19 positivity rate in Bengaluru is on the rise again. According to data provided by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike war room, the positivity rate from October 1 to 10 is 14.53%. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive for every hundred tests conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-positivity-rate-rises-after-two-months/article32830687.ece
12 October 2020||new delhi,||‘No curbs on religious gatherings till Oct. 31’||Restrictions on religious gatherings have been lifted till October 31, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said on Sunday. Keeping in mind the upcoming festive season, a maximum of 200 people will now be allowed to attend a religious congregation, which will have to adhere to all COVID-19 safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-curbs-on-religious-gatherings-till-oct-31/article32830742.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three killed, one injured in road accident||Three men were killed and one injured after their car hit a tractor loaded with iron rods in Moti Nagar on Sunday. An FIR has been lodged and the bodies have been shifted to DDU Hospital for autopsy. Rajesh Sharma, 32, Tarun Gupta, 42, and Charandeep Singh, 38, were declared brought dead, while Parveen Singh, 38, is hospitalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-killed-one-injured-in-road-accident/article32830743.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Fall in fish catch leaves sector gasping||A month after deep sea fishing began in the coastal belt, the fisheries sector is gasping for breath with heavy reduction in marine catch. Though many workers have returned to work in fishing boats, catch is yet to pick up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fall-in-fish-catch-leaves-sector-gasping/article32830822.ece
12 October 2020||BELAGAVI,||The Indian connection to Nobel in Chemistry||This year’s Nobel prize in Chemistry has an Indian connection. Samarth Kulkarni, Chief Executive Officer of CRISPR Therapeutics Research Centre, founded by Emmanuelle Charpentier, hails from Belagavi. This was revealed after a tweet from Dr. Kulkarni was shared widely among Belagavi residents with congratulatory messages and tags about his schooling in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-indian-connection-to-nobel-in-chemistry/article32830336.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,||Dasara: CM discusses precautions to be taken||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a meeting with senior officials on the precautions to be taken against the spread of COVID-19 during Dasara celebrations in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dasara-cm-discusses-precautions-to-be-taken/article32830496.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,||Property tax: MCC to go after habitual defaulters||In a new drive, localities whose residents are known to be defaulting on property tax payment for years now, will be targeted and forced to remit the amount to the Mysuru City Corporation which is facing a severe cash crunch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/property-tax-mcc-to-go-after-habitual-defaulters/article32830497.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Kasarkod, Padubidri beaches get eco-label||Two beaches in the State are among the eight in the country that have bagged the coveted eco-label ‘Blue Flag’ from the international agency Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark. The two are Kasarkod beach near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada and Padubidri beach near Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kasarkod-padubidri-beaches-get-eco-label/article32830498.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Over 6 lakh people have recovered in T.N.||With the first phase of the Assembly election in Bihar barely two weeks away, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated that he would implement the sequel to his ambitious Saat Nishchay (seven resolves) programme to make the State self-reliant. Meanwhile, the BJP, which started its campaign on Sunday from Gaya, released a list of 30 star campaigners and 46 candidates for the second phase of the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-6-lakh-people-have-recovered-in-tn/article32830231.ece
12 October 2020||CUDDALORE,||Fiat to all BDOs in Cuddalore district||A second Bharatiya Janata Party leader was on Sunday arrested in connection with the leaking of question papers for the recruitment of 597 unarmed sub-inspectors. The police has so far arrested 46 people, including a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police for alleged involvement in the case and recovered more than Rs. 5.35 crore from them. A senior police officer investigating the case said BJP leader Jintu Nath was arrested from the Jamuguri area of northern Assam’s Sonitpur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fiat-to-all-bdos-in-cuddalore-district/article32830232.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,||AIADMK govt. engaged in corruption: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin has alleged that the AIADMK government is engaged in large-scale corruption, and has warned that those involved would be brought to justice when his party comes to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-govt-engaged-in-corruption-stalin/article32830233.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s test positivity rate stays high at 15%||Kerala reported 9,347 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, testing 61,629 samples. The test positivity rate was 15%. The COVID-19 toll in the State touched 1,003, with 25 more deaths added to the official list on Sunday. Five deaths were reported from Malappuram, four from Alapuzha, three each from Thrissur and Kollam and two each from Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Kannur and Kottayam. Almost 98% of new cases – 9,146 out of the new 9,347 cases – were locally acquired infections, including 821 where the source was not traced. Also, 105 healthcare workers were infected. Malappuram reported the maximum number of cases at 1,451, Ernakulam 1,228, Kozhikode 1,219, Thrissur 960, Thiruvananthapuram 797, Kollam 712, Palakkad 640, Alapuzha 619, Kottayam 417, Kannur 413, Pathanamthitta 378, Kasaragod 242, Wayanad 148 and Idukki 123. Karnataka recorded 9,523 fresh cases on Sunday. Of the new cases, 4,623 were from Bengaluru. There were 75 more fatalities from infection, taking the total number of deaths across Karnataka to 9,966. The Department of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday recorded the positivity rate for the day and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR), at 9.53 % and 0.79 % respectively. A total of 99,923 tests were conducted, including 38,731 rapid antigen tests. Staying in the 5,000s band, Andhra Pradesh reported 5,210 new infections and 30 deaths on Sunday. Official data put active cases at 6.13%. For the first time in over three months, the daily positivity rate of tests came down to 6.9% as 75,517 samples were tested. It was 11.5% so far. The new cases and deaths by district were as follows: West Godavari (786 & 1), Chittoor (713 & 4), East Godavari (701 & 3), Krishna (462 & 2), Guntur (431 & 3), Kadapa (418 & 3), Prakasam (362 & 8), Anantapur (311 & 2), Nellore (288), Srikakulam (212 & 1), Visakhapatnam (190 & 3), Kurnool (175), and Vizianagaram (161). West Godavari’s infection tally touched 75,000. With 5,015 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 infection in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, the State’s tally rose to 6,56,385. As on date, 44,095 persons were undergoing treatment for the infection. At the same time, 5,005 persons were discharged from various health facilities in the last 24 hours taking the number of those who had returned home after treatment to 6,02,038. The State also recorded another 65 deaths, bringing the tally of those who died of infection till date to 10,252, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralas-test-positivity-rate-stays-high-at-15/article32830158.ece
12 October 2020||Patna,||Nitish unveils poll promises||With the first phase of the Assembly election in Bihar barely two weeks away, Janata Dal (United) (JD-U) president and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated that he would implement the sequel to his ambitious Saat Nishchay (seven resolves) programme to make the State self-reliant. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which started its campaign on Sunday from Gaya, released the list of the party’s 30 star campaigners and 46 candidates for the second phase of the election. “ Saat Nischay Part 2 is in continuation of the earlier set of promises made to the public during the ongoing National Democratic Alliance regime,” Mr. Kumar tweeted on Sunday. Chirag Paswan of the Lok Janshakti Party, a former ally of the JD(U), had taken issue with Mr. Kumar over his flagship programme. He said, “The programme is not of NDA rule but was a carry-forward from the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) government,” of which the JD(U) had been a member. Speaking to The Hindu in private, some BJP leaders voiced discomfort over Mr. Kumar’s announcement on Saat Nischay Part 2 “without taking consent of alliance partners”. Areas of development Meanwhile, Mr. Kumar’s tweet on Sunday listed the areas of development which will be included in the development programme’s sequel. “Creating a centre of excellence for promoting quality of training in ITI and polytechnic institutions, setting up district-wise mega-skill centres for giving job-oriented training, tool rooms and training centres in each division and a new department for skill development and entrepreneurship will also be set up,” stated one of the promises. The Chief Minister said the “government will also provide 50% grants, up to a maximum of Rs. 3 lakh, for setting up a new business and on loans of up to Rs. 7 lakh, grants of 7% will be given by the government.” Girls completing Class 12 exams will be given Rs. 25,000 each, and those completing their graduation Rs. 50,000, he said. BJP president J.P. Nadda kicked off the party’s campaign from Gaya. Attacking the Congress, he said, “The Nitish Kumar government took care of the people of Bihar amid the COVID-19 pandemic, it is important that the leadership of the State is secured with him.” At a public meeting, Mr. Nadda listed the achievements of the NDA governments at the Centre and the State in the past six years. “Leadership of India is secure in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and it is also important that the leadership of Bihar is secure with Nitish Kumar,” he said. The BJP’s list of 30 star campaigners includes Mr. Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. JD(U) sources told The Hindu that joint campaigns of Mr. Modi and Mr. Kumar would be held, but dates have not been fixed yet. The BJP released a list of 46 party candidates for the second phase of election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-unveils-poll-promises/article32830171.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sanitisers, soaps can do damage: experts||Health experts at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) here have warned that the increased use of antibiotics and the widespread use of hand sanitisers and antimicrobial soaps, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, can worsen the situation of antimicrobial resistance. At a webinar on “Antibiotic resistance: renewed fight” earlier this week, Rama Chaudhry, Head, Department of Microbiology, AIIMS, said antibiotic-resistant organisms had become rigidly established in the environment with many infections failing to respond to antimicrobials. Major challenge “Antibiotic resistance is one of the biggest challenges of modern medicine. This antimicrobial resistance (AMR) mounts problems beyond the geographical as well as species barriers and can transmit from animals to humans. AMR needs to be addressed in totality by all sectors, including healthcare, veterinary and agricultural domains. This is where one health approach comes into place,” she said in the webinar jointly organised by AIIMS and the American Society for Microbiology. Experts said the pandemic had jolted the entire world with its reach and scale and had impacted local-level health facilities. “We are seeing more hospitalisation due to COVID-related complications with all our resources being focused primarily on dealing with it, while many other important health issues such as AMR and other health programmes have taken a back seat,” she said. Over 60 lakh recoveries The Health Ministry on Sunday noted that the recoveries have crossed the milestone of 60 lakh (60,77,976). “In the last 24 hours, 89,154 recoveries have been registered. For the last eight consecutive days, new deaths recorded are less than 1,000. 918 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. The active cases stand at 8,67,496. They have sustained on the downslide and are less than 8 lakh since the last three days,” the Ministry said. It said the five top States (Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu) have the highest case load (61% of the active cases) and are also contributing more than half (54.3%) of the recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanitisers-soaps-can-do-damage-experts/article32830174.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||School closure may cost India dear||The extended closure of schools amid the COVID-19 pandemic could dent India’s future earnings by anywhere between $420 billion and $600 billion, as depleted learning levels of students will translate into poorer productivity going forward, the World Bank has said. Warning that as many as 5.5 million students could drop out of schools across South Asia, the bank has said dropouts, combined with substantial learning losses for those who remain enrolled in schools, would cost South Asia as much as $622 billion in future earnings and gross domestic product. This figure could climb further to $880 billion, as per a more pessimistic scenario envisaged by the bank on the lifetime impact of school closures on the productivity of this generation of students. Far-reaching impact South Asian governments spend only $400 billion a year on primary and secondary education, so the total loss in economic output would be substantially higher, the bank highlighted. “While the regional loss is largely driven by India, all countries will lose substantial shares of their GDP … The average child in South Asia may lose $4,400 in lifetime earnings once having entered the labour market, equivalent to 5% of total earnings,” the World Bank said in its latest South Asia report titled “Beaten or broken: Informality and COVID-19”. The report has flagged “far-reaching consequences” of lockdowns, apart from the obvious damage to businesses, consumption patterns and imposed social hardship on poor and vulnerable households, especially urban migrants and informal workers. Massive losses “Education came to a standstill and efforts to teach children during school closures proved challenging. The estimated costs of the school closures in terms of learning and earning losses are substantial … They have kept 391 million students out of school in primary and secondary education, further complicating efforts to resolve the learning crisis,” it said. Remote learning tough “Children have been out of school for approximately five months. Being out of school for that long means that children not only stop learning new things, they also forget some of what they have learned,” the bank said. It added that engaging children through remote learning programmes had been difficult, despite most governments’ best efforts to mitigate the impact of school closures. The projected learning loss for the region is 0.5 years of learning-adjusted years of schooling at present, and this will already lead to substantial future earning losses, the bank estimated. Labour productivity will also take a greater hit from COVID-19 than most previous natural disasters, not just due to the disruptions in training and education. “First, the increased integration of the global economy will amplify the adverse impact of COVID-19. Second, contagion prevention and physical distancing may render some activities, for example the hospitality sector, unviable unless they are radically transformed, which will take time. Even in less directly affected sectors such as manufacturing, banking and business, severe capacity underutilisation lowers total factor productivity while restrictions to stem the spread of the pandemic remain in place. Finally, disruptions to training, schooling and other education in the event of severe income losses, even once restrictions are lifted, will also lower human capital and labour productivity over the long term,” the report concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/school-closure-may-cost-india-dear/article32830182.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Saudi returnees stake claim to severance pay||Jayadev (name changed) had 25 years of experience behind him when the construction company he was working for in Saudi Arabia laid him off following the COVID-19 pandemic. Though it was an unexpected blow, he had hoped that the end-of-service benefits, as per the Saudi labour laws, would be a substantial amount, enabling him to rebuild life back home. But now, months after returning home, there is no sign of the severance pay coming in. He, along with many others, is knocking on all doors to get the money owed to them for their long years of service. The issue of repatriated workers not getting benefits came to light when the Lawyers Beyond Borders (LBB) filed a writ petition in the Kerala High Court earlier this year. Several workers began contacting the LBB. Quite a few complaints were from the employees of Nasser S. Al-Hajri Corporation (NSH). A total of 286 workers from here sent in complaints, of which 188 were from Kerala, 39 from Bihar, 38 from Tamil Nadu, 17 from Uttar Pradesh, and four from Odisha. What the law states “I worked there for 14 years. The day before our return flight, they said we would have to sign in several forms if we wanted our passport and ticket. They told us that the entire severance pay would be credited to us. Nothing has reached us yet,” says Rajan (name changed), an employee. According to Article 84 of the Saudi Labour Law, “upon the end of the work relation, the employer shall pay the worker an end-of-service award of a half-month wage for each of the first five years and a one-month wage for each of the following years.” A worker is entitled to the package upon completion of a year’s service. Some employees have filed police complaints. LBB India has submitted memorandums to the Chief Ministers of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Indian missions abroad maintain a panel of lawyers to provide legal aid. Workers who have exited the country without registering a labour case can give power of attorney to the mission to pursue the case. The Saudi law stipulates that the labour claims have to be made within one year of end of service,” says K.R. Subhash Chandran, convener, LBB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/saudi-returnees-stake-claim-to-severance-pay/article32830451.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. demands resignation of Karnataka Chief Minister||Demanding a time-bound judicial inquiry into an alleged housing scam where Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s family members are said to be involved, the Congress on Sunday asked for the resignation of the Chief Minister. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here, Congress MP and spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi alleged that the BJP government in Karnataka is “engulfed in the clutches of corruption with dented, tainted leaders ruling the roost”. Mr. Singhvi questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda over the reported allegations of corruption and kickbacks against the son, son-in-law, and grandson of Mr. Yediyurappa in a Rs. 662-crore construction of apartments/housing project in Bengaluru. The Congress spokesperson said documents available in the “public domain” showed the nature of transactions. He cited a purported communication between a close relative of Mr. Yediyurappa and another person referring to a bribe paid by a contractor to a top Bengaluru Development Authority official. Mr. Singhvi claimed that an additional bribe was sought and paid through shell companies in Kolkata. “If the Chief Minister has the slightest sense of shame, he must resign or be sacked,” he said. “The most remarkable and virtually admitted allegations of unabashed corruption and we don’t even find a criminal investigation ... Appoint a sitting Supreme Court [judge] or a sitting Chief Justice of a High Court as an inquirer for two months,” he added. Earlier, when Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah made the allegations against the Chief Minister in the Karnataka Assembly last month, Mr. Yediyurappa dismissed them as “baseless” and challenged the Opposition leader to prove the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-demands-resignation-of-karnataka-chief-minister/article32830155.ece
12 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Congress to probe ‘assault’ charge by U.P. woman worker||The Congress on Sunday launched an internal inquiry after a woman party member was allegedly manhandled during an event in Deoria district in Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) after she opposed the nomination of a leader as the party candidate in the upcoming Assembly byelection. Tara Yadav alleged that the person nominated by the Congress, Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi, was accused of rape. However, Congress sources said there were no formal charges against him and Ms. Yadav was unhappy over being denied a ticket. The ruckus at the local Congress office was caught on camera. In the video, which was circulated widely on social media platforms, Ms. Yadav was seen confronting Congress secretary Sachin Naik during an event on Saturday. She then allegedly throws a bouquet at him, following which, others present in the hall push and shove Ms. Yadav, while some charge at her. A couple of them also hit her amid the chaos. Ms. Yadav tries to retaliate before others step in to escort her out of the hall. ‘Hurts party’s image’ Ms. Yadav later told presspersons that she was confronting Mr. Naik over the choice of the candidate for the Deoria seat when she was attacked. “You have given ticket to a rapist. This hurts the Congress’s image in public. You could give it to someone else whose character is clean. As soon as I had said this, somebody there pushed me from behind and started assaulting me,” Ms. Yadav told presspersons. She also said that she received bruises and cuts on her lip, ear and back. Talking to a news channel, Ms. Yadav said that while the top leadership of the Congress, including general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, were “seeking justice for the daughter of Hathras”, the local leadership in Deoria had handed ticket to a “rapist”. Congress leaders Deen Dayal Yadav and Ajay Kumar Sainthwar were expelled from the party for “indiscipline” during the meeting, said Kaushal Kumar Tripathi, secretary, U.P. Congress. “The incident is a political conspiracy to defame the Congress,” he said. A three-member committee was formed by Congress State president Ajay Kumar Lallu to investigate the incident. The committee would submit its report to Mr. Lallu in three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-to-probe-assault-charge-by-up-woman-worker/article32830165.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Committee of citizens to probe Delhi communal riots||A citizens’ committee, including former Supreme Court and High Court judges, has been constituted to inquire into the February communal riots in Delhi. The committee will inquire into the role of the State machinery in restoring order and the part played by certain sections of the media to fan the flames through fake news before and after the violence that broke out following protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The ‘Citizens Committee on the Delhi Riots of February 2020: Context, Events and Aftermath’ will include former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan Lokur; former Delhi High Court Chief Justice and Law Commission of India chairperson Justice A.P. Shah; Justice R.S. Sodhi, former judge of the Delhi High Court; Justice Anjana Prakash, former judge of the Patna High Court; G.K. Pillai, former Union Home Secretary; and Meeran Chadha Borwankar, former Director-General, Bureau of Police Research and Development, Government of India. The committee will file its report in three months. It was formed on the invitation of the Constitutional Conduct Group, comprising distinguished former civil servants who want an impartial probe into the events which led to the communal riots in the National Capital. “Considering the horrific nature of the riots in North-East Delhi in February 2020, the scale of violence, the loss of lives and the resulting communal divide between communities, we felt that an expert body should carry out a thorough examination of what transpired before, during and after the riots. This has become even more necessary as the investigation by the Delhi Police has evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times,” a statement from the Group on Sunday said. The work of the committee would create a “contemporary record of acts of omission and commission around the riots, and their aftermath.” All persons who engage with the committee would be accorded dignity and respect. Their communication would be kept confidential. Queries can be addressed to ccgenquiry10@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citizens-committee-to-probe-delhi-communal-riots/article32830176.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||At 15, RTI Act crippled by huge backlog||Fifteen years after the Right to Information (RTI) Act came into force, more than 2.2 lakh cases are pending at the Central and State Information Commissions, which are the final courts of appeal under the transparency law. The increasing backlog is exacerbated by the fact that most commissions are functioning at a reduced capacity, including the Central Information Commission (CIC), which has been headless since August. A report card brought out by the Satark Nagrik Sangathan and the Centre for Equity Studies to mark the anniversary on Monday found that Maharashtra had the highest number of pending appeals, with over 59,000 cases, followed by Uttar Pradesh (47,923) and the CIC (35,653). Defunct for months At the current rate of disposal, the Odisha commission would take more than seven years to dispose of all pending complaints, while the CIC would take more than two years, the report said. Odisha is functioning with just four commissioners, while Rajasthan has only three. Jharkhand and Tripura have no commissioners at all, and have been defunct for months. The CIC has no chief, and only five commissioners. Under the law, every commission should have a chief and up to 10 commissioners. The analysis also found that government officials face hardly any punishment for violating the law. Analysing data from 16 commissions in 2019-20, the report found that penalties were imposed in only 2.2% of cases that were disposed of, despite previous analysis showing a rate of about 59% violations which should have triggered the process of penalty imposition. ‘Culture of impunity’ “Non-imposition of penalties in deserving cases by commissions sends a signal to public authorities that violating the law will not invite any serious consequences. This destroys the basic framework of incentives built into the RTI law and promotes a culture of impunity,” said the report. Out of almost 90,000 cases disposed of by the 16 commissions between April 2019 and July 2020, show-cause notices were issued in more than 15,700, and penalties imposed in 1,995. Gujarat accounted for more than 9,000 show-cause notices, but only 163 penalties. Overall, fines imposed amounted to Rs. 2.53 crore. Crucial role “The need to scrutinise the functioning of information commissions now is perhaps greater than ever before, given the unprecedented crisis gripping the nation due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” the report said. “If the poor and marginalised affected by the public health emergency are to have any hope of obtaining the benefits of government schemes, they must have access to relevant information,” the report noted. “At a time when incentives for secrecy are great, and the scope for discretionary actions wide, the role of information commissions is crucial to ensure that people can obtain information on healthcare facilities, social security programs and delivery of essential goods and services meant for those in distress,” the report underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-15-rti-act-crippled-by-huge-backlog/article32830178.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||When the police played peacemaker in COVID clinics||In a report compiled by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), the Maharashtra police have cited an incident in Malegaon in April where the police had to persuade doctors to treat all patients equally as the “doctors feared that treating patients from Muslim areas could infect their hospitals”. The BPR&D, the police think tank of the Union Home Ministry, has published a report, “Indian police response to COVID-19 crisis”, where it sought contributions from the State police and the Central armed police forces (CAPF). The Supreme Court is currently hearing a petition which has said that certain sections of the print and electronic media were spreading bigotry and communal hatred in relation to the Tablighi Jamaat conference held in the Nizamuddin Markaz area in March. The petition said the “unfortunate incident of the Tablighi Jamaat was used to demonise and blame the entire Muslim community”. On March 28, the Ministry wrote to all States that around 2,000 Tablighis from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand and other countries who entered India on tourist visa appeared to be “potential carriers” of COVID-19. ‘Clinics were shut’ In the BPR&D report, Superintendent of Police, Malegaon, Sunil D. Kadasne said his knowledge of languages such as Hindi, Marathi, Urdu, Arabic, English and Madari Jaban (a local dialect of Malegaon) helped him establish a bridge between the people and the administration. He said that after he took charge in May, a “silent communal divide” was seen with Hindu patients being treated in Mahatma Gandhi Vidya Mandir and Muslim patients in Badi Malegaon High School. He said Unani doctors were recruited as there was a shortage of allopathic doctors and there was prejudice in the mind of Muslim patients that Hindu doctors were not treating them. “Clinics were closed as the IMA [Indian Medical Association] and doctors feared that admitting COVID-positive patients from Muslim areas would infect their hospitals,” he said, adding that he persuaded the doctors to treat all patients with zeal and compassion, irrespective of religion. The Chandigarh police said that after the news of spread of COVID infection during religious congregation held in New Delhi came to the fore, “participants of the congregation residing in Chandigarh were identified and subjected to health protocol”. It said that due to personal connect of the police with Muslim religious leaders, the latter decided not to visit mosques and cemeteries to observe Shab-e-Baraat on April 9 and 10. Influx of migrants The Bihar police said an influx of huge number of Bihari migrants from other States created unique problems for Bihar but despite severe resource constraints, the police rose to the occasion. The report mentioned that till August 21, 76,768 police and CAPF personnel tested positive and 401 personnel died. The highest number of personnel who were infected and died was reported in Maharashtra — 12,760 were infected and 129 died. A countrywide lockdown was first imposed on March 24 and was extended subsequently till June. From June, phase-wise opening of various sectors was allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-the-police-played-peacemaker-in-covid-wards/article32830180.ece
12 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||A library that takes books to neo-literates’ doorstep||Eighty-year-old Clara of Mararikulam South in Alappuzha is all smiles after reading a few lines from a poem by Kunjunni Mash delivered to her from the Nava Saksharatha Library (library for the neo-literate). The octogenarian is undergoing seventh standard equivalency course conducted by the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority (KSLMA). Apart from imbibing limited lessons from study material, neo-literates like Clara can now enrich their knowledge of history and culture by reading short stories, novels, poems and so on. Dist. panchayat initiative Thanks to a programme launched by the Alappuzha district panchayat, which aims at improving reading skills and fostering the culture of reading among the neo-literates and learners. As part of the initial phase of the programme, the district panchayat has bought 2,000 books and set up a ‘Nava Saksharatha Library’ at Njanapeedam Library, Kattoor.  A first The books are delivered at the doorstep of the neo-literates and learners of various programmes of the KSLMA. According to the district panchayat authorities, it is the first-of-its-kind initiative in the State. G. Venugopal, president, Alappuzha district panchayat, says the doorstep delivery of books will introduce hundreds of neo-literates into the world of reading without even travelling to get a book of their choice, especially during the COVID-19 times. “We are implementing this programme with the support of KSLMA to inculcate the culture of reading among neo-literates and those undergoing various equivalency courses and other programmes. It will provide people with the joyous experience of reading. Normally, elderly people are reluctant to go to libraries. Here, preraks and instructors of the KSLMA will reach out to the learners with books every week,” Mr. Venugopal says. Reviews too Besides reading books, the learners also need to review the books they read. “Neo-literates have fragile levels of literacy. Apart from textbooks, reading books such as stories will sharpen their reading skills. It will provide them with a whole new experience, which they have not experienced until now,” says an official. Books from the Nava Saksharatha Library will be delivered in Mararikulam South, Mannancherry, Aryad and Muhamma grama panchayats under the Aryad block. There are more than 700 learners there. District panchayat officials say such libraries will be opened in other blocks in the district in a phased manner. It was launched by Mr. Venugopal the other day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-library-that-takes-books-to-neo-literates-doorstep/article32830338.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Red alert for coastal Karnataka||A red alert has been issued to coastal Karnataka, which only recently recovered from heavy rain that pounded the districts in the second half of September. Some districts such as Udupi bore the brunt of flooding as a result of extremely heavy rainfall. Red alert for the region has been issued for October 13. Yellow alert — warning of heavy rainfall — has been issued for October 12, 14, and 16. Parts of north-interior and south-interior Karnataka have also been issued orange warning, which is very heavy rainfall. These include Bagalkot, Belagavi, Raichur, Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, and Shivamogga. The State had received 27% excess rainfall during June to September, which is the monsoon period, which was higher than last year’s southwest monsoon’s average rainfall for the period — 23%. Meanwhile, a 28-year-old man was washed away in a stream near Maski in Raichur district. Fire and Emergency Services personnel, however, succeeded in rescuing another man Jaleel, 58.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-alert-for-coastal-karnataka/article32830147.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Faster, premium trains to have only AC coaches soon||Trains running on identified routes at 130 kmph or above will soon have only air-conditioned coaches as part of the Railways’ plans to upgrade the network, an official said on Sunday. Stressing that the fares would be affordable, Ministry spokesperson D.J. Narain clarified that it should not be misconstrued that all non-AC coaches would be converted into AC coaches. Currently on most routes, speed of mail and express trains has a ceiling of 110 kmph. Premium trains such as Rajdhanis, Shatabdis and Durontos are allowed to operate at 120 kmph on significant parts of the Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals. The rakes for such trains are fit to operate at 130 kmph or above, officials said. “AC coaches have become a technical necessity wherever the speed is going to be above 130 kmph. The Railways is working on a massive plan to upgrade the network to high-speed potential,” Mr. Narain said. The tracks on the Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals are being upgraded to cater to 130 kmph to 160 kmph. The non-AC sleeper coaches would be replaced by AC coaches only for such trains. “Non-AC coaches will continue to run in other trains,” Mr. Narain said. “It will be ensured that while the price of tickets of modified AC coaches remains very affordable, the conveniences increase manifold and there is substantial reduction in travel time.” A prototype of such an AC coach is being manufactured at the Rail Coach Factory at Kapurthala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faster-premium-trains-to-have-only-ac-coaches-soon/article32830172.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Hathras victim’s kin to appear before HC||The family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh, will appear before the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. The court will record the version of the victim’s family in the case. It had on October 1 asked the woman’s parents to come to apprise it of their version of the incident. The hearing is likely to be held in person. The court had ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for the family’s travel. The case is listed for hearing before a Division Bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy at 2.15 p.m. The High Court had directed the district judge to ensure that the victim’s family members appear before it on Monday. It has also summoned Additional Chief Secretary, Home, the Director-General of Police, Additional Director-General, Law and Order, the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police, Hathras, to furnish the status report of the investigation. “The district judge, who has been appointed nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim’s family members before the High Court, is in touch with it as to when the case is listed. The family will move accordingly. The family is in Hathras as of now,” Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal said on Sunday. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras have been installed at the victim’s house to ensure the safety of the family members, according to the police. Mr. Jaiswal said a register of visitors is being maintained by policemen deployed at the entrance of the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hathras-victims-family-to-appear-before-hc/article32830169.ece
12 October 2020||Mumbai,||Two top Republic TV officials questioned in TRP racket case||Republic TV on Sunday said it will not succumb to any efforts to curtail editorial freedom, after its CEO and COO were questioned by the Mumbai police in connection with a Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation investigation. The two senior officials of the private channel appeared before the police on Sunday, an official said. “If there is an attempt to use state machinery to scrutinise the sources of an independent media network and bring back an Emergency-style editorial control into the media, we will stand strongly against it,” Republic TV said. The police had issued summons to Republic TV’s chief executive officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani and two chief operating officers (COO). Mr. Khanchandani and COO Harsh Bhandari, who appeared before the police on Sunday, were questioned for nine and five hours, respectively, the police said. They also recorded the statement of Ghanshyam Singh, a senior member of the channel’s distribution team. From other channels Two employees of Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi channels were also summoned by the crime branch of the Mumbai police. In a statement, Republic Media Network said it won’t “give in to any endeavours” to curtail editorial freedom. It also alleged that the Mumbai police seemed to be turning freedom of the press “upside down and we stand firmly against any such attempts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-top-republic-tv-officials-questioned-in-trp-racket-case/article32830683.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad/Medak,||Trump fan dies of cardiac arrest||An ardent fan of US President Donald J. Trump died of a massive cardiac arrest at Toopran in Medak district on Sunday. Bussa Krishna (32), a native of Konne village in Bacchannapet mandal of Jangaon district, was worried over Trump’s health as soon as he heard the US President tested COVID positive. Four years ago, Krishna turned his modest house in the village into a shrine for Mr. Trump. He installed a life-size statue of Mr. Trump and started worshipping it, after the former appeared in his ‘early morning’ dream. “Every year on June 14 (Trump’s birthday), Krishna used to perform special poojas and Annadanam in his temple. He used to distribute fruits, sweets and chocolates as well,” a villager told The Hindu . Krishna, a small-time businessman, lost his wife during child birth. Recently, he went to Toopran, which is his maternal grandmother’s house. Ever since Mr. Trump tested positive, Krishna went into depression and was not eating and sleeping properly. Despite his family members counselling him that there was nothing to worry about the President and he would recover soon, he did not change. “He was not having food or proper sleep,” Krishna’s uncle B. Ashok said. He said that the ‘superfan’ spent about Rs. 14 lakh to construct the temple and another Rs. 80,000 to see Mr. Trump in Ahmedabad during his India visit in February. “His only dream was to meet Trump, but he left the world without fulfilling it,” another villager said. Though villagers used to make fun of him for building the Trump temple, Krishna never took their comments seriously and worshipped and admired the President as his god. On several occasions, he had arguments with villagers and made a point that like others pray to Lord Rama, Krishna and Shiva, he offered his prayers to the President of a superpower. The devotee, popular as ‘Trump Krishna’ always used to carry Mr. Trump’s photograph in his bag, and wore a ‘Trump T-shirt’. Last video Days before his death, Krishna released an ‘emotional video’ in which he stated he was praying to other gods for the good health of the American President. “He (Mr. Trump) is my god and I love him so much. He must recover very soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ardent-trump-fan-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/article32830758.ece
12 October 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,||CWC advises for pre-depletion of Krishna Basin dams in TS, AP||The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued an advisory to several reservoirs in the Krishna Basin in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for pre-depletion of water with the forecast of heavy inflow following intense rainfall in the catchment areas. Accordingly, the authorities of Srisailam dam resumed release of water through the spillway by lifting two crest gates for 10-foot height each to allow about 56,000 cusecs of water. In addition, another 27,000 cusecs of water was also being let into the river after power generation in the right bank power house of Andhra Pradesh.  Discharge stopped The spillway discharge at Srisailam was stopped in the early hours of October 6 after the inflows depleted. The reservoir was getting nearly 73,000 cusecs of inflows from Krishna, Tungabhadra and Handri rivers as of Sunday night (8 p.m.). “The CWC issued an advisory for Narayanpur, Jurala, Srisailam, Musi and Pulichintala projects and also for Prakasam Barrage to take up necessary pre-depletion “in order to flooding in the downstream”, irrigation authorities said. Rains forecast Heavy to very heavy rainfall is forecast for north interior Karnataka, Telangana and AP for the next four days and the intensity of rainfall in the catchment areas is expected to get good inflows into the dams starting from Monday, the CWC indicated. Water storage in all the dams is being maintained at full reservoir level or little below the FRL for the last few days although spillway discharge of flood has been stopped in the early hours of October 4 at Nagarjunasagar and on the night of October 4 at Jurala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/water-released-from-krishna-basin-dams/article32830757.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,||‘Blue Flag’ tag for Kasarkod, Padubidri beaches||Two beaches in the State are among the eight in the country that have bagged the coveted eco-label ‘Blue Flag’ from the international agency Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark. The two are Kasarkod beach near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada and Padubidri beach near Udupi. Earlier, the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had embarked upon a programme for ‘Blue Flag’ certification for select 13 beaches in the country. According to the Ministry, a ‘Blue Flag’ beach is an eco-tourism model to provide tourists clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities/amenities, safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. The certification is awarded by the Denmark-based agency based on 33 stringent criteria in four major heads that is environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation and safety and services in the beaches. A communiqué from Arvind Nautiyal, National Project Director, Society for Integrated Coastal Management (SICOM) under the Ministry to the district administrations of Uttara Kannada and Udupi said on Sunday that the International Jury of the Denmark agency “would like to award the Blue Flag to the very first eight beaches in India”. Kasarkod and Padubidri beaches have grey water treatment plants, solid waste management plants, disabled-friendly equipment to enable them to enter seawater, seating arrangements, clean drinking water, washroom, changing room, bathing facility, disabled-friendly and general toilets, parking facilities, solar power plant, solar lighting, and the like. K. Harish Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Uttara Kannada, who heads the District Tourism Development Committee, told The Hindu that the certification has prompted the Uttara Kannada administration to develop more beaches. “We have identified three more beaches to develop on the lines of Kasarkod beach,” he said adding that two year’s effort had gone into developing this beach. Purushottam S., Deputy Director, Tourism, Uttara Kannada, said that a 750-m-long safe swimming zone has been created in Kasarkod, which is 2.5-km long. There is facility for sun bath, the beach has a gym, children’s play area, a watch tower. The government has spent about Rs. 8 crore to develop the beach in the past two years. Chandrashekar Naik, in-charge Assistant Director (Tourism) and Deputy Director, Agriculture, Udupi, said that 500-m stretch of Padubidri beach had been developed at a cost of Rs. 10.68 crore over the past two years. The beach has a 200-m-long safe swimming zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blue-flag-tag-for-kasarkod-padubidri-beaches/article32830143.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trouble knocking on Tripura CM’s door?||Seven Tripura BJP MLAs in New Delhi have been awaiting an audience with the national leadership since Saturday, with mid-term trouble knocking on Chief Minister (CM) Biplab Deb’s door. One BJP MLA from the State told The Hindu that he and six other MLAs are in Delhi to share some issues with regard to Mr. Deb with national president J.P. Nadda, who is in Bihar. “We have no issues with the party but feel that Chief Minister Biplab Deb is not delivering on the promises made to the people of Tripura who had elected the BJP with great hopes. We are halfway through the term of this government and nowhere close to the promises made. I and several others left the Congress party to join the BJP as it was the only way to overthrow the CPI(M) government. We feel that the disappointment with the government needs to be addressed,” he said. The team is being led by Sudip Roy Barman, MLA, and includes Ashish Saha, Ashish Das, Diwan Chandra Rankhal, Burb Mohan Tripura, Parimal Deb Burman and Sushanta Chowdhury. Most of these MLAs had moved to the BJP just before the polls. Sources close to Mr. Deb said Mr. Choudhary and others were resentful at their place within the government rather than any genuine grievance against the government. But dissident MLAs, also considered close to BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar, assert that they are not without support. Sources in the BJP say the lack of a general secretary in charge of Tripura, after the exit of Ram Madhav from the national team, is telling on the handling of the State. While sources said general secretary in charge of the organisation, B.L. Santosh, had met the group, he did not give them any assurance of a change in leadership. BJP State president Manik Saha said that the team was not acting according to the discipline required to be a member of a political party. “These issues needn’t be aired in public and need to be told within the party forum. I, as president, have not been informed about their trip to Delhi. I’m observing these events and will act soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trouble-knocking-on-tripura-cms-door/article32830163.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Congress announces panels for Bihar poll||The Congress on Sunday announced several key committees for the upcoming Bihar Assembly election, with party general secretary Randeep Surjewala as the chairperson of the Election Management and Coordination Committee. While senior leader Mohan Prakash has been made the convener of this panel, the 14-member election management and coordination panel includes senior leaders Tariq Anwar, Shatrughan Sinha, Meira Kumar, Kirti Azad, Shakeel Ahmed and Sanjay Nirupam. Party president Sonia Gandhi also approved the setting up of the publicity, media coordination, public meeting and logistics, legal and office management committees, a statement said. Spokesperson Pawan Khera will be heading the media coordination committee for the polls, with Prem Chand Mishra as the convener. Subodh Kumar and Karya Mishra will be the convener and the co-convener of the publicity committee. Varun Chopra has been named chairman of the legal committee and Brajesh Kumar Munan convener of the public meeting and logistics committee. The party’s office management committee includes senior State leaders Kaukab Quadri and Ashok Kumar. The party is contesting 70 of the 243 Assembly seats in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Left parties. The three-phase polls will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7 and the counting of votes will be on November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-announces-panels-for-bihar-poll/article32830167.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Sriramulu may lose Health portfolio||In a sudden development, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday is learnt to have decided to allocate Health and Family Welfare portfolio, now handled by B. Sriramulu, to K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office have confirmed the development, saying that it had been decided that Dr. Sudhakar handle both Medical Education and Health portfolios while Mr. Sriramulu would continue to look after Backward Classes Welfare. The decision was made after Dr. Sudhakar met Mr. Yediyurappa on Sunday to discuss the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the State. The sources said the meeting was to discuss strategies ahead of the Dasara vacations when it was expected that the virus-spread would surge. Mr. Sriramulu, who is currently travelling, was not part of the meeting or the decision process, the sources added. “It was felt that it would be better to keep the Health and Medical Education portfolios together to help contain the virus. Mr. Sriramulu has been intimated about the decision. A notification in this respect will come either on Sunday night or Monday,” the sources said. Opposition attack While the Opposition has been slamming the government over the poor handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Yediyurappa earlier in March had handed over all COVID-19 related matters to Dr. Sudhakar while Mr. Sriramulu continued as Health and Family Welfare Minister, minus COVID-19 matters. This move had been prompted after an alleged lack of coordination between Dr. Sudhakar and Mr. Sriramulu. Meanwhile, sources close to Mr. Sriramulu said that though they had heard about the change in portfolio it had not yet been communicated officially. “He is travelling outside Karnataka currently. All that we know [about the issue] is through the media,” they said. The Chief Minister is said to be considering the possibility of providing the Social Welfare portfolio, which is presently being held by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, to Mr. Sriramulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sriramulu-to-be-stripped-of-health/article32830332.ece
12 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||Security beefed up in Srinagar after unknown blogger posts ‘hit list’||Security was beefed up at Srinagar’s Press Enclave, which houses offices of newspapers and TV channels, days after a “hit list” was uploaded online by an unknown blogger, suspected to be supported by the armed groups in Kashmir. A police officer told The Hindu that a number of additional closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras have been installed at all entry and exit points of the Press Enclave “to monitor movement of any armed men”.  Probe on The number of security personnel and mobile bunkers manning the area has also been increased. “A list of political, media persons, public figures and also posts of Lashkar-i-Islam were uploaded with the intention to create fear psychosis among individuals,” the police said. The police said an investigation is under way against the unknown blogger for uploading a list of 29 persons, including journalists, editors and activists working with local, and national dailies and TV channels. FIR lodged A police officer said the Kothibagh police station on October 3 lodged a First Information Report (FIR) after the “hit list” went viral online against a wordpress blogger, kashmirfight.com. A joint statement issued by the media, including the Kashmir Editors Guild, J&K Editors Forum, Kashmir Press Association, Kashmir Press Club, Kashmir Working Journalists Association, Kashmir National Television Journalist Association etc., noted with regret what they described as “"vilification of individuals representing the institution of media”. It said Kashmir media stands united “to defeat the ill designs of such elements”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-beefed-up-in-srinagar-after-unknown-blogger-posts-hit-list/article32830745.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Parties turn to social media to reach voters||The byelections to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar, scheduled for November 3, could see political parties ramp up their social media presence to reach out to voters amid the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic. With social distancing and restrictions on forming groups in place, the parties are also cautious about their leaders contracting the virus over the next 20 days as election fever rises. WhatsApp is being seen as a preferred platform to reach out to voters at the booth level, and all the three parties are looking at using this medium to reach out through booth-level volunteers. Facebook and Twitter, though, will be used by the parties to reach out to the more savvy voters and with a larger message. In the mostly rural Sira constituency, Facebook is being seen as not of much help, while in R.R. Nagar it could help the parties connect to a bigger urban audience. “These elections will definitely pose a challenge to the parties involved in electioneering during the pandemic. We are going to use more of social media, especially WhatsApp, to reach out to voters. WhatsApp groups have been formed at the booth level, and party messages will be pushed into these groups, which in turn will forward these messages to the voters,” said BJP spokesman N. Ravikumar. “We can reach the voters directly through WhatsApp and almost instantly. At least about 50% of our canvassing will be done through WhatAapp, while the traditional house-to-house campaigning will also be there,” he said. JD(S) strategy The Janata Dal (S), which is traditionally seen as a “not-so tech-savvy” party, is also using WhatsApp to reach out to the maximum number of voters, and has even trained some of its WhatsApp administrators on the kinds of messages to be forwarded to those outside the party’s voter base. “We have told them strictly to forward those messages that speak about the performance and achievements of the JD(S) and not to criticise other parties or leaders. We are also pushing such messages ofH.D. Kumaraswamy’s achievements,” said JD(S) social media coordinator Naveen C. Gowda. On the matter of preferring the platform of WhatsApp, he said, “We have seen that most people who are on Facebook are thosewho are fans or followers of a particular leader or party. Approaching through Facebook will be limited,” he said. The Congress is learnt to have ramped up its social media team after the oath-taking ceremony of D.K. Shivakumar as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president saw an overall imprint of about 1.4 crore across social media platforms. “This is also his first election and he has realised the importance of reaching out to voters through online platforms. Booth-level workers are now part of this social media outreach, and Zoom meetings have become common to strategise with the local leaders,” a Congress source said.  WhatsApp groups have been formed at the booth level, and party messages will be pushed into these groups, which in turn willforward these messages to voters N. Ravikumar,BJP spokesman   We have seen that most people who are on Facebook are those who are fans or followers of a particular leader or party. Approaching through Facebook will be limited Naveen C. Gowda, JD(S) social media coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bypolls-parties-turn-to-social-media-to-reach-out-to-voters/article32830365.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,||Special Bench to monitor trial against MLAs: HC||A special Bench of the Kerala High Court headed by the Chief Justice will monitor the progress of the trial of cases involving legislators. Steps for the urgent listing of 12 cases pending before the High Court will also be undertaken at the appropriate Benches, the High Court has informed the Supreme Court. The courts considering cases against law-makers, both present and former, would strive to complete the trial within one year. In the State, 324 such cases are pending in various courts. The principal sessions court and a magistrate court trying such cases in each district would be designated as special courts for the purpose, according to an action plan submitted by the High Court to the Supreme Court recently. Sole special court Currently, the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate’s Court, Ernakulam, is the only special court in the State exclusively trying cases against MPs and MLAs. As many as 298 such cases are pending before the magistrate courts in the State with Thiruvananthapuram topping the list (89 cases). How cases are placed Three cases tried by sessions courts were stayed by the High Court. Six cases were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act against the law-makers. One case was pending before the CBI court. Directions will be issued to expedite the proceedings and complete the trial by adhering to the apex court guidelines, the High Court submitted. In Thiruvananthapuram, one Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court and two Judicial First Class Magistrate Courts may be designated as special courts considering the pendency of cases. A minimum tenure of two years would be sufficient to clear the pendency of cases. It has been estimated that each sessions judge can dispose of 15 cases a year and each magistrate, 50 cases a year. ‘Not of a serious nature’ Barring the cases before the Vigilance and CBI courts, all other pending cases involved offences punishable under the Indian Penal Code. The cases pending in the magistrate courts were not of a serious nature, it was submitted. Recently, a Judicial Magistrate Court in Thiruvananthapuram had refused permission to withdraw the prosecution in a case booked against a few legislators for the ruckus created in the State Assembly during the term of the previous government.  324 cases against law-makers pending in various courts in State Courts trying such cases in each district will be designated as special courts Pending cases could be cleared in two years, submits HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-bench-to-monitor-trial-against-mlas-hc/article32830140.ece
12 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Maoists strike terror, kill TRS activist at his home||Maoists struck terror in the Agency mandal of Venkatapuram in the tribal-dominated Mulugu district by killing an activist of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Maduri Bheemeshwara Rao, 48, at his house in Bodhapuram village, about 19 km away from the mandal headquarters town, late on Saturday night. The gruesome murder of Bheemeshwara Rao, who runs a fertilizer/pesticide shop in the village, sparked fears of renewed Maoist attacks on “soft targets” in Telangana’s Agency areas spanning along the thickly forested and volatile inter-State border with Chhattisgarh. The incident comes a week after the top brass of the State police held a high-level meeting in Venkatapuram with their counterparts in Chhattisgarh and the CRPF last Sunday to chart out a comprehensive strategy to stem Maoist activities along the restive Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. Sources said six Maoists descended on the house of Bheemeshwara Rao just before midnight and knocked on his door identifying themselves as residents of a neighbouring village in need of money to go to a hospital. When Rao refused to open the door, they broke open the entrance door and barged into his house. His wife Kumari pleaded with them to leave him, but he was dragged out of the house by one of the rebels. Then they stabbed him with a sharp-edged knife inflicting grievous multiple injuries on his body. As a neighbour raised an alarm, they fled leaving a letter at the spot. Rao succumbed to the stab wounds on the way to hospital a short while later. He is survived by his wife and three children. Rebels leave a letter The police recovered a knife, three unused bullets and a letter left behind by the ultras at the scene. In the letter bearing the name of CPI (Maoist) Venkatapuram-Wajedu committee, the rebels alleged that Bheemeshwara Rao was fleecing the people of surrounding villages by selling fertilizer at exorbitant prices and implicating youth in false cases by using his clout in the ruling party locally. The rebels warned the local leaders of the TRS and the BJP to quit their posts. Meanwhile, Mulugu Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said Maoists nursed a grudge against Bheemeshwara Rao for refusing to give them party funds. “Maoists are obstructing development in tribal areas, depriving tribal people of the benefits of welfare schemes and killing innocent people by branding them as police informers,” the SP said in a statement. Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed at the house of the deceased as his wife Kumari cried despondently in front of the body of her husband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoists-kill-trs-activist-in-telangana-district/article32830145.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||CBI removes Hathras FIR from website||The case was originally registered as an attempt to murder a Dalit at the Chandpa police station in Hathras on September 14. Neither the complaint nor the first FIR had made any mention of rape or gang-rape. After the 19-year-old victim succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital on September 29, triggering national outrage, political parties, activists and others called for an in-depth investigation into the ghastly crime. The issue took a twist when the Department of Forensic Medicine of the Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College & Hospital said there were no signs suggestive of vaginal/anal intercourse. But the report said there was evidence of assault with injuries on the body which was cremated by the police on the night of September 29 allegedly without the consent of the aggrieved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-removes-hathras-fir-from-website/article32830148.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Paper-strip virus test to be out soon: Vardhan||Categorically denying rumours about the government prioritising the young and the working class for the vaccine for economic reasons, Dr. Vardhan said, “The prioritisation of groups shall be based on two key considerations: occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality.” On the issue of emergency-use authorisation of vaccines, he said it was being deliberated at present, and “adequate safety and efficacy data is required for approval... Further course of action will depend on the data generated”. The Minister informed that the COVID-19 vaccines currently in trial in India are two-dose and three-dose vaccines. The vaccine by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech requires two doses, while the Cadila Healthcare vaccine requires three. For other vaccines in pre-clinical stages, the dosing is being tested, he said. On the need to include other novel candidates as COVID vaccine, Dr. Vardhan said, “Considering the large population size of India, one vaccine or vaccine manufacturer will not be able to fulfil the requirements of vaccinating the whole country. Therefore, we are open to assessing the feasibility of introducing several COVID-19 vaccines in the country.” On re-infection, the Minister said though there are sporadic reports of re-infection surfacing in various States, careful analysis of the ICMR database reveals that many of these cases have actually been misclassified as re-infections. He added that it is very important to differentiate mislabelled re-infection from actual re-infection. “Actual re-infection would mean a fully recovered person getting infected by a freshly introduced virus in his/her body, belonging to the same or different strain. ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of re-infected cases,” he said. The central government had so far, in the first phase, released Rs. 3,000 crore to States and UTs to battle the pandemic. “Almost all, except three States/UTs, have utilised the complete grant given to them. Maharashtra has only used 42.5% of the grant, followed by Chandigarh at 47.8% and Delhi at 75.4%,” he said. Responding to criticism surrounding the efficacy of AYUSH formulations in the treatment of COVID-19, Dr. Vardhan said, “Guduchi, Ashwagandha, Guduchi & Pippali combination and AYUSH 64 have a substantial number of studies which prove their immuno-modulatory, anti-viral, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory properties. These interventions have also shown a good binding affinity with COVID-19 virus in in-silico studies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paper-strip-virus-test-to-be-out-soon-vardhan/article32830152.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||PM slams Opposition for ‘supporting’ middlemen||Stating that government had done more for villages and their residents in the past six years than what was done in six decades before that, Mr. Modi referred to a number of projects, including opening of bank accounts, building of toilets and houses, cooking gas scheme and electrification. “Rural India was left to fend for itself by those who ruled the country earlier. I cannot do that,” he said. “Many people don’t want villages, poor, farmers and labourers to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant),” he said, adding that his government’s measures to empower them, including by directly transferring to farmers and others, had hit the Opposition hard by cutting off their source of illegitimate earning. Without naming the Opposition, he said it was upset not for the farmers but for itself as it was for long strengthened by the power of middlemen, brokers and commission agents. The Congress and the BJP’s own former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal have been opposing the farm laws enacted by the government last month. Parliament had passed The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the monsoon session. “Those who looted the country are being recognised by people. That is why they are indulging in opposition, bad-mouthing (government) and using foul language. They are not bothered about the poor, villages or the country... They want to stop the development march of the country,” Mr. Modi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-slams-opposition-for-supporting-middlemen/article32830153.ece
12 October 2020||AHMEDABAD,||BJP fields five ex-Cong. MLAs for Gujarat bypolls||Five former Congress legislators, who defected to the BJP earlier this year during the Rajya Sabha polls, are among the seven candidates the BJP has named for eight byelections scheduled for next month. The BJP is yet to announce its candidate for the Limbadi seat. A total of eight Congress legislators had resigned from the party as well as their membership from the Legislative Assembly to join the BJP, necessitating the byelections in their respective constituencies. The five leaders who defected from the Congress and have now been fielded by the BJP are: J.V. Kakadia from Dhari, Brijesh Merja from Morbi, Jitu Chaudhary from the tribal-reserved seat Kaprada, Akshay Patel from Karajan and Pradhyumansinh Jadeja from Abdasa. From another tribal-reserved seat, Dangs, the BJP has fielded its ex-legislator Vijay Patel instead of Congress defector Mangal Gavit, while from SC-reserved Gadhada, former Minister Atmaram Parmar has been fielded instead of former Congress MLA Pravin Maru. In Limbadi, the party is likely to field former Minister Kiritsinh Rana, but Congress defector Somabhai Patel has said that he would contest the polls irrespective of whether the BJP fields him or not. Cong. screens names Meanwhile, State Congress leaders, along with All India Congress Committee in-charge of the State, Rajeev Satav, held a review meeting to screen potential candidates. Party leaders have reportedly prepared a panel of three to four potential candidates for each seat, and names will be finalised after deliberations with local leaders. Both parties have appointed seat-wise observers and in-charge leaders.  The elections for two other vacant seats of Dwarka and Morva Hadaf have not been announced as matters related to them are pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-fields-five-ex-cong-mlas-for-gujarat-bypolls/article32830161.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hathras victim ‘no one’ to Uttar Pradesh CM, police, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the State police were denying that the 19-year-old victim in the Hathras gang rape and murder case had been raped as she was “no one” to them. Mr. Gandhi was responding to a news report about the Uttar Pradesh police denying that the victim had been raped. He tweeted: “The shameful truth is many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and Tribals to be human. The CM & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE.” The Dalit woman was allegedly sexually assaulted by four men in her village last month. She succumbed to her injuries two weeks later at a hospital in Delhi. Following a national outrage over the manner in which the State police and the local administration had cremated her without the consent of her family, top Congress leaders, including Mr. Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, visited Hathras on October 3. Terming the Yogi Adityanath government as insensitive and anti-Dalit, the Congress has been demanding a judicial inquiry into the incident. “According to the family of the victim, the district Magistrate meted out the worst treatment to them. So, who is protecting him? He should be dismissed without any delay and his role should be investigated. When the family is demanding a judicial inquiry, why is the Special Investigation Team probing and that too after a CBI inquiry was announced,” asked Ms. Vadra on Twitter last week after meeting the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hathras-victim-no-one-to-uttar-pradesh-cm-police-says-rahul/article32830168.ece
12 October 2020||Dhanbad,||JMM leader, wife found murdered at home||Senior JMM leader Shankar Rawani and his wife were found murdered at their residence in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district early on Sunday, the police said. Prima facie it seems that Rawani, 50, and Balika Devi were shot and then stabbed to death at their home in the Bhowra area, Dhanbad City Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar said. An empty cartridge of 9 mm pistol and a knife were recovered from the room, he said. According to the SP, neighbours found out about the murder and informed the police, following which he, along with Sindri DSP S.K. Sinha and other officers, reached the spot and found the two bodies lying in a pool of blood. Sniffer dogs have been deployed at the scene of crime, and a hunt has been launched to nab the killer, Mr. Kumar said, adding that the murder could be a fallout of old enmity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jmm-leader-wife-found-murdered-at-home/article32830744.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Kurubas’ campaign to seek ST tag||In a bid to exert pressure on both the State and Union governments to accord Scheduled Tribe (ST) tag to the Kuruba community, a congregation of religious heads and Kuruba leaders from all parties on Sunday resolved to intensify the fight for ST tag for Kurubas by announcing a road map for the movement that includes a padayatra, taking a delegation to Delhi, and a massive rally over the next few months. While it was decided that regional conventions would be held in Belagavi, Mysuru, Bengaluru, and Kalaburagi on various dates from November 2020 to January 2021, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa will lead a delegation to Delhi to meet the central leaders. The four seers of the Kuruba community will launch a padayatra from Kaginele on January 15, 2021, and it will culminate in Bengaluru on February 7, where a massive rally will be organised, Kaginele Seer Sri Niranjananada Swami announced. “The struggle will continue till Kurubas get ST tag. Despite a demand for ST tag since 1935, it has so far not bore fruit. I will fight by approaching Home Minister Amit Shah and other Union Ministers to secure the ST tag,” Mr. Eshwarappa, who is spearheading the current movement, said at the event at Palace Grounds here. Meanwhile, MLC N. Nagaraj (MTB), who was among the 17 Congress and JD(S) legislators who resigned to cause the fall of the H.D. Kumaraswamy government last year, said it was because of the sacrifice of Kuruba legislators, including him, A.H. Vishwanath, Byrathi Basavaraj, and R. Shankar, that the BJP government could be formed and B.S. Yediyurappa could become Chief Minister. “Because of the sacrifice, the demand for ST tag of Kurubas should be considered,” he said. Deputy leader of JD(S) Legislature Party Bandeppa Kashempur said that the Gonds, Jenu Kuruba, and Kadu Kurubas were getting the ST tag in a few districts, while the larger Kuruba population in the State had been denied this. There is no political agenda behind this demand, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kuruba-leaders-prepare-road-map-for-campaign-to-seek-st-tag/article32830362.ece
12 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to look into COVID-19 deaths again||After doubts were cast over the actual number of COVID-19 deaths, the Odisha government has constituted district-level committees to review the issue. Odisha has so far reported 1,022 deaths accounting for 0.95% of the national toll. Its case load is 2,52,239. The government claims that the fatality rate at 0.405% is one of the lowest in the country. Over the last few weeks, relatives of the deceased have been expressing dissatisfaction on social media over under-reporting of deaths. Some had even video-recorded cremation at designated pandemic crematoria in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack to show that the number was more than that put out daily by the Health and Family Welfare department. While the district-level information pointed out that the toll had already crossed 20 in Nuapada, the State dashboard showed only one death there. Over 25 persons died in Kalahandi, but the State-level information showed 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-to-look-into-covid-19-deaths-again/article32830183.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pedal for peace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pedal-for-peace/article32830160.ece
12 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Jungle raj in Cong.-ruled Rajasthan also’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Sunday said that like in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Uttar Pradesh, a ‘jungle-raj’ also prevailed in Congress-ruled Rajasthan. She said that like in Uttar Pradesh, all kinds of crimes, especially murder of innocent people and atrocities against Dalits and women, were at a peak in Rajasthan. But instead of tightening their grip on the government, Congress leaders in Rajasthan were silent, said Ms. Mayawati. “From this it appears that all the victims they (Congress leadership) have met in U.P., was only politics for votes and nothing else. People should stay cautious of such dramatics, this is the BSP's advice,” the former U.P. Chief Minister said. Ms. Mayawati’s tweets are a fresh attack by her against the Congress top leadership which recently visited the family of the Dalit victim in Hathras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jungle-raj-in-cong-ruled-rajasthan-also/article32830166.ece
12 October 2020||Kolkata,||Turban incident being distorted: WB||Describing the scuffle which saw the turban of Sikh man fall down as an isolated case, West Bengal Home Department on Sunday said, “One political party is giving it a communal colour”. “One political party is giving communal colour to the subject in narrow partisan interest in a manner that Bengal does not believe in. Policing was done as per law, but highest respect for the Sikh panth and ways from GOWB is affirmed,” the State Home Department tweeted. Referring to the October 7 incident, when the scuffle happened between Balwinder Singh and West Bengal Police, during the BJP’s march to the State Secretariat the Home Department said the incident is “being twisted out of context, being distorted, and being given communal colours in fractious and partisan interest.” ‘In harmony’ “Our Sikh brothers and sisters live here in West Bengal in perfect peace and harmony, in happiness and tranquility, with respect from all of us for their faith and practices,” it added. The West Bengal police had on Friday said that the “Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer”. The police had said Balwinder Singh was carrying a firearm. Videos of a firearm recovered from him during the rally were also aired by local television channels. The 43-year-old worked as security detail for a local BJP leader and was arrested on Thursday after the recovery of the firearm. A number of BJP leaders have raised the issue tweeting visuals of the scuffle on social media accusing the police of using force. DSGMC meets Governor Meanwhile, a delegation Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee met West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar over the issue during the day. “Delegation led by President Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee @mssirsa Manindar Singh Sirsa submitted a representation regarding disgracing @MamataOfficial a Sikh’s Dastar (headgear) that is grave insult to entire Sikh Community and demanded justice for Balwinder Singh.” Governor Dhankhar tweeted. The Trinamool Congress leadership reacted sharply to the tweet, accusing Mr. Dhankar of trying to create a “communal divide” over the incident. State’s Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said that in the “garb of discharging constitutional duties, the Governor is operating as a party functionary”. Trinamool reacts “We from the Trinamool Congress condemn the role of the BJP and Governor in this incident,” he said referring to the turban incident. Meanwhile, a delegation of BJP leaders led by Mukul Roy met the Governor demanding a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation in the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/turban-incident-a-one-off-case-wb-police/article32830408.ece
12 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Help cane farmers, MP urges Modi||Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to step in to ensure that arrears due to the sugarcane farmers in Punjab are paid in a timely manner. Pointing out that in Punjab, the outstanding payment stood at Rs. 306.59 crore, as on July 7, 2020, Mr. Bajwa, in a letter to the Prime Minister, said 72% of the total sugar cane crushed had been purchased by the private sugar mills in Punjab and about 28% by the cooperative mills.  Long wait “The mills are bound to make cane payments within 14 days of purchase of cane, according to the Sugarcane Control Order, 1966, and the Sugarcane Purchase and Supply Regulation Act, 1957. Otherwise they will have to make payments along with interest. But it is a matter of great concern that farmers have to beg and wait for years to be paid their dues.” Urging the Prime Minister to look into the matter, Mr. Bajwa suggested that mill operators with unpaid dues for a year or more be banned from operating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/help-cane-farmers-mp-urges-modi/article32830184.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. makes a U-turn, Dasara holidays declared||A day after it temporarily suspended its Vidyagama scheme, the government on Sunday did a U-turn on cancelling midterm Dasara holidays for students in schools following the State board syllabus. This includes government, aided, and private schools. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that schools would remain closed and no classes would be held from October 12 to October 30. The rising number of COVID-19 cases across the State is one of the reasons for this decision. ‘Health in mind’ In a statement, the Chief Minister said: “Through the media I have come to know that teachers are contracting COVID-19 infection. Keeping in mind the health of teachers and students, I have directed officials to declare mid-term holidays for schools from October 12 to October 30 ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-makes-a-u-turn-dasara-holidays-declared/article32830136.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Elusive male panther caught||A male panther, which has kept the forest officials on tenterhooks and residents in fear by making the semi-urban environs of Himayatsagar reservoir its home, has been successfully trapped on Saturday night. The cat has been prowling the Rajendranagar area for the last five months, making occasional appearances and leaving its trail behind. In May this year, there was a commotion following its appearance under the Katedan bridge, from where it had escaped into a private farm in Shamshabad. On being pursued by the Forest officials and the police, it disappeared from there. A fortnight later, its image was caught in a CCTV camera of the Greyhounds training centre in Rajendranagar limits, while the feline was crossing into the Gaganpahad forest area. While the villagers around Himayatsagar have been vouching occasional panther sightings later too, foresters have not confirmed it. Several cages set up with bait went futile. Cage and bait On Friday, upon receiving information about killing of two calves in a private land at Premavathipet village of Rajendranagar, officials rushed to the spot and confirmed the pug marks of the panther. They arranged two cage traps using the carcasses of the very kills as baits, and installed 10 camera traps too at the location by Saturday evening. On Sunday morning, they checked the location to find the panther growling inside one of the two trap cages. The animal has since been shifted to the Nehru Zoological Park, where it is being treated for minor bruises incurred during its attempt to escape from the metal cage, officials informed. The six-year-old panther will be kept under observation for two days, after which it will be released into the wild, they informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elusive-male-panther-caught/article32830138.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,||IAC theft: second accused get bail||The NIA Special Court here has granted bail to Daya Ram, the second accused in the theft of computer parts of Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) being built in Kochi. The prosecution case was that the accused stole a few electronic equipment attached to the multi-function consoles in the IAC, a warship under construction at Cochin Shipyard Limited, during July to September of 2019. Sumit Kumar Singh, the first accused, opened the console in 5Q Ring of the IAC and studied about the hardware available in it and took away the critical components such as 256 GB solid state drives, processors and 4GB RAM from the console for monitory gain, according to prosecution. The counsel for the accused submitted that the petitioners were ready to confess their mistakes, if any. The counsel submitted that the court should consider the young age, backward social circumstances and lack of knowledge regarding the seriousness of the crime they might have committed. Allowing the plea of the second accused, the court noted that most of the offensive acts were done by the first accused, though there were sufficient grounds to believe that the second accused also aided the first one indirectly in the act of theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iac-theft-second-accused-get-bail/article32830141.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Tourist destinations, except beaches, to open today||Enabling the revival of the tourism industry, all tourist destinations in the State, except beaches, will be opened to visitors and domestic tourists from Monday after remaining closed for over six months owing to restrictions to contain COVID-19. Advancing the plan to open up the sector in a staggered manner by three days in the wake of the arrival of visitors to Wayanad and other places, the government has allowed visitors and domestic tourists to the hill stations, adventure tourism centres, Ayurveda centres, and backwater destinations. Houseboats, safari, and speed boats will also be available for tourists from Monday. The government has issued orders for the two-phase opening up of the tourism sector adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Beach destinations will be opened only in Phase II, beginning on November 1. All domestic tourists will have to register onwww.covid19jagratha. kerala.nic.inand will have to follow the COVID-19 protocols. Those showing symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection should not travel to the State. Domestic tourists will have to wear masks, ensure physical distancing of two metres, and use sanitisers. Domestic tourists coming to the State for trips lasting up to seven days need not undergo quarantine. Those planning for holidaying in the State for more than seven days should come with a COVID-19-negative certificate or undergo a test immediately on reaching the State. Revival of industry Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran said on Sunday that the decision to open up the sector had been taken to alleviate the misery faced by the stakeholders, in line with the steps taken by other States. Besides, tourism was assessed to be what was needed for the revival of the industry. The Deputy Director and Secretaries of the District Tourism Promotion Councils have been asked to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed at destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tourist-destinations-except-beaches-to-open-today/article32830150.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sabarimala: virtual queue portal opens||The virtual queue portal for booking darshan at Sabarimala opened for the public on Sunday. Devotees aspiring to visit the temple should register themselves on the portal. The temple is opening for five days from October 16 for puja for the Malayalam month of Thulam. Only 250 persons will be allowed to visit the temple daily. Devotees will be allowed on a first-come, first-served basis. The government has banned bathing in the Pampa. It would install temporary showers for pilgrims instead. Pilgrims could arrive at Nilackal through the Erumeli or Vadasserikara route. The police have closed the other routes. As per COVID protocol The COVID-19 protocol would apply to pilgrims, staff and security personnel. COVID-19-negative certificate is mandatory, and pilgrims should take the test 48 hours before reaching Pampa. Those arriving without the certificate will have to undergo a test at the base camp at Nilackal. Health centres en route to Pampa are also equipped to conduct the COVID-19 test. Pilgrims from other States will have to register on covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in. for reaching the temple. Devotees in the BPL category should carry Ayushman Bharat card for a free test and medical care. State Police Chief Loknath Behera reviewed the security arrangements. The government has posted K. Radhakrishnan as Special Officer, Sabarimala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-virtual-queue-portal-opens/article32830151.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 6 lakh have recovered so far in T.N.||With 5,015 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s tally rose to 6,56,385 cases. The State currently has 44,095 persons undergoing treatment. In the last 24 hours, as many as 5,005 persons were discharged from various healthcare facilities. This took the number of those who returned home after treatment to 6,02,038. The State also recorded 65 more deaths, taking the toll to 10,252, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. In Chennai district, 1,250 more persons were diagnosed with the infection, while 1,070 were discharged. The district also recorded 19 deaths, taking the toll to 3,415. At present, 13,751 persons are undergoing treatment either at healthcare facilities or at home. In the neighbouring Chengalpattu district, 258 more people tested positive for the infection. Kancheepuram reported 158 fresh cases. Tiruvallur reported 198 fresh cases and seven deaths. Western districts More cases were detected in the western districts of Coimbatore, Salem, Namakkal, Erode and the Nilgiris. Coimbatore, with 389 fresh cases, and Salem, with 294 cases, led the table, followed by Erode, which reported 163 cases. In Namakkal, 159 fresh cases were identified. The Nilgiris reported 128 fresh cases. Among those whose deaths were recorded on Sunday were two persons who had no co-morbid conditions, whereas 63 others had a pre-existing condition that led to complications. A 57-year-old man from Salem, who was admitted to a private hospital there on September 24 with complaints of fever for five days, cough for two days and breathing difficulty for four days, died on Saturday evening. The result of the Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test returned positive on October 8. Doctors recorded acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia as the causes of his death. A 90-year-old man from Kanniyakumari, who had multiple complications including diabetes, coronary artery disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was admitted to the medical college hospital at Asaripallam on October 8. He tested positive the next day. He died on Saturday owing to respiratory failure.  In Chennai district, 1,250 more persons were diagnosed with the infection, while 1,070 were discharged after treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-6-lakh-have-recovered-so-far-in-tn/article32830258.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘MSP should have been part of new laws’||Had Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intentions been genuine, the Centre would have ensured that a provision on the continuation of minimum support price was mentioned in the farm Acts, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said on Sunday. He was speaking at a rally organised by the party in Tiruvannamalai to protest against the Acts.  ‘No legal validity’ Mr. Alagiri criticised the BJP-led government for the manner in which the Bills were passed in Parliament, and for failing to consult the States. “Mr. Modi is saying that minimum support price is there and will continue. It is not mentioned in the Acts. Without something being written in legislation, it has no legal validity...,” he said. A number of Congress MPs, MLAs, TNCC working presidents and other leaders took part at the rally. Under the new laws, the concept of MSP would get abolished, Mr. Alagiri said. Farmers would be bound by the rates fixed by corporates, and they would end up doing contract-farming. Small and marginal farmers would be the worst affected. “Mr. Modi has destroyed public enterprises. Now he is bent on destroying India’s agriculture,” he said. Former Union Minister P. Chidambaram, who addressed the rally through video-conference, said 94% of the farmers sold their produce outside ‘mandis’ and only 6% were selling through Agricultural Produce Market Committees. The laws had made the life of a farmer more difficult. “Mr. Modi says this system will do away with brokers. This system will only bring in more brokers on behalf of the corporates,” he said. AICC secretary in charge of T.N. Sirivella Prasad asked why the government issued an ordinance and passed the Bills in a hurry when no association of farmers sought any change in farm trade. “The Tamil Nadu government is betraying the people by supporting these Acts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msp-should-have-been-part-of-new-laws-says-tncc-president/article32830729.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||University of Madras facing an acute resource crunch||With 56% of faculty positions lying vacant, University of Madras (UoM) is facing an acute shortage in terms of human resources and potential decline in academic and research activities. Data available with The Hindu showed that at least seven departments did not have a single full-time faculty member and 14 departments had more than 70% of their sanctioned posts vacant. The shortage is acutely felt in the three Centres of Advanced Study (CAS) in Mathematics, Botany, Crystallography and Biophysics, which receive additional grants from the University Grants Commission (UGC), and are at risk of losing them without the minimum required faculty strength and research output. Moreover, an analysis of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) data for the university showed that 50% of the roughly 80 professors are in the age group of 56 and above. “If the vacancies are not filled in the near future, majority of the departments will not have a single Professor with retirements expected in the coming years,” a senior faculty member said. The last recruitment happened six years ago, but faced some allegations of irregularities. G. Shanmugam, former Head of CAS in Crystallography and Biophysics and former university syndicate member, said the risk of losing CAS recognition by UGC was real. “We already lost it for the Department of Philosophy in the past,” he said. The Ramanujan Institute for Advanced Study in Mathematics, one of the CAS, has a sanctioned strength of five professors, five associate professors, and 11 assistant professors. However, it presently has only seven assistant professors and not a single professor or associate professor. The CAS in Botany with a sanctioned strength of 22 faculty members now has one professor and five assistant professors. Stating the department needed a minimum strength of six to maintain the CAS status, Mr. Shanmugam pointed out that N. Mathivanan, the professor and head of the department, is now holding the post of Registrar (in-charge) as well. Similarly, the CAS in Crystallography and Biophysics had eight faculty members, which included a professor and seven assistant professors, against the sanctioned strength of 18. “The three CAS in the university had many stalwarts in the yesteryears. Now, many departments are not even able to fully utilise their research grants,” Mr. Shanmugam pointed out. The head of one of the departments, said many departments with research potential were not able to apply for CAS status due to lack of minimum number of faculty. “When a university does not have adequate faculty members, it is not doing justice to its students,” he said. In a competitive environment with rankings and accreditations, the university would not be able to maintain its status if it did not have competent faculty, who formed the core of the university system, he added. Pointing out that over 50% of the non-teaching staff positions were also vacant, a Syndicate member said the financial crisis faced by the university had to be tackled with a long-term, sustainable solution. “A key reason for not recruiting is the deep financial crisis with the university not in a position to even honour its commitments to pensioners. However, without enough faculty we are also losing out on grants from the UGC and the State,” he said. Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri, who took charge in August, said he was studying the issue to explore possible options to address it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-of-madras-facing-an-acute-resource-crunch/article32830288.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro may offer 30% fare discount to attract more passengers||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) is likely to offer 30% discount in fares, sources said. If implemented, the minimum fare will be reduced to Rs. 7 as against Rs. 10 and the maximum Rs. 42 as against Rs. 60. The rate of discount was arrived at after a plan was chalked out recently to see which pricing would help commuters. But it is not clear how long the discount would be offered. “This plan will be presented to a committee and the possible implications arising out of this decision, both positive and negative, will be explained. Once the panel approves it, the plan will be implemented at the earliest,” another source said. But in the past, the committee has not rejected such proposals. The primary reason for considering the discount was to draw more commuters. From 1.20 lakh a day in February this year, the number of commuters plummeted to 25,000 a day after the lockdown was lifted. “The idea is to bring the ridership close to pre-COVID-19 levels. When you give discount and get people accustomed to travelling in this system, many may like the comfort and continue to stick to it even after it is withdrawn. But to achieve this, it may take time,” an official said. CMRL has experimented with reducing fares for a limited period. For instance, as a trial measure in May 2017 for a week, it had offered 40% discount and during this period the number of travellers rose by a significant 67%. But after it was withdrawn, the patronage fell by 15%. Similarly in October last year, a 50% discount in fares on Sunday and public holiday made a difference to occupancy rate and nearly 35% more passengers used the system after this plan came into effect. Easier option Why discounts instead of reducing fares? “This is because fare reduction is a long and difficult process. It has to be cleared by the top government authorities and if at all it is done, it may be a prolonged struggle to increase them again. We saw this happen with Delhi Metro. Hence, we have been offering discount over a period instead of slashing fares,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-may-offer-30-fare-discount/article32830326.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Most flyers check-in online, use kiosks at airport to collect boarding passes||Over 50% of air passengers have been opting for web check-in and using kiosks to reduce contact with employees at the airport these past few months after the COVID-19 outbreak. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said, “The practice has become the norm now. A majority of passengers own a smartphone and are conscious to avoid any contact with employees. So they finish their web check-in at home or office and get e-boarding passes. Otherwise, some just collect the passes at kiosks outside the airport terminal. This saves a lot of time for them and also reduces congestion,” an official said. Only those who carry a check-in baggage have to necessarily stand in queue for the security scan. However, a baggage tag was no longer used, and passengers instead received an identification number by SMS, officials said. “Of course, there are passengers who do not own a smartphone nor have the facility for web check-ins. They are assisted at the entry points by airline staff to fill up self-declaration forms for COVID-19 and then issued boarding passes. Some also go to the counter inside the terminal for the passes,” he added. The number of passengers now ranges between 12,000 and 14,000 a day with an increase during the weekends and a mild dip during the middle of the week. “But it has certainly gotten better with time and we hope it will touch 18,000-20,000 a day when the number of flights operated goes up to 200-250 a day. Currently, 130-140 flights are operated per day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-flyers-check-in-online-use-kiosks-at-airport-to-collect-boarding-passes/article32830930.ece
12 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police operation on to resolve cases of missing two-wheelers||The Chennai City Police have launched an operation to resolve all pending cases of missing two-wheelers. The personnel fanned across the city to check for abandoned vehicles on roadsides and in parking lots such as bus depots and railway stations. On the orders of City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Deputy Commissioners have been asked to expedite the investigation on complaints related to missing/stolen vehicles and trace them. In the T. Nagar police district, over 200 vehicles were reported as missing this year and cases were booked on complaints received from the original owners. Four special teams were constituted under sub-inspectors to trace the vehicles. Special instructions have been given to talk to complainants to ascertain whether the vehicle was really stolen or if there were other issues. They were also asked to check if any CCTV camera footage was available at the place the vehicle was stolen from. A police officer said, “Our special teams fanned out to various places such as CMBT, parking lots in Metro stations, Tambaram railway stations and other residential areas. We have collected details of abandoned/ unclaimed vehicles numbering over 250 from 10 places across the city. We checked those details with the data on stolen vehicles available on the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & System(CCTNS) portal. Over 70 match alerts have been generated and we informed the police stations concerned.” Of 70 vehicles, 20 were matched using details provided by the complainants in Mambalam, K.K. Nagar, Poonamallee, Guindy and other police stations. They will be returned to the original owner after routine investigation, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-operation-on-to-resolve-cases-of-missing-two-wheelers/article32830725.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Corrupt’ AIADMK government will be brought to justice, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin has alleged that the current AIADMK government is engaged in large-scale corruption, and has warned that those involved would be brought to justice when his party comes to power. “People did not vote for Edappadi K. Palaniswami to become Chief Minister. He was made Chief Minister because of the demise of Jayalalithaa. Now, he is saving that post by acting as a proxy to the BJP government at the Centre,” he said, addressing party cadre via videoconference at Mupperum Vizha, organised by the party’s Tiruvallur (south) unit. The AIADMK leaders know very well that they can’t come back to power, so they are trying to swindle whatever they can, Mr. Stalin alleged. He said former Chief Minister Karunanidhi had turned Tamil Nadu into a third top industrial destination in the country, while it ranked number 14 now in the ease of business ranking. But the Chief Minister was boasting about the State attracting investments, Mr. Stalin noted. He also alleged that the Chief Minister had compromised the State’s autonomy on the GST compensation issue and pushed the State into a huge debt trap. The Chief Minister had also failed in effectively tackling the spread of COVID-19, with the number of cases increasing, Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Palaniswami called himself a proud farmer, but was taking measures which were against them, he alleged.  Mr. Palaniswami calls himself a proud farmer, but is taking measures which are against them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corrupt-aiadmk-government-will-be-brought-to-justice-says-stalin/article32830255.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenders invited for setting up of several fish landing centres||The Fisheries Department has called for tenders for several fish landing centres, including a common one for Pudhupattinam and Uyyalikuppam in Kancheepuram district, at a cost of Rs. 15.76 crore. Helen Nagar in Kanniyakumari will get a landing centre at a cost of Rs. 13.40 crore and Rajakkamangalam village in the same district will get one for Rs. 13.15 crore. Tenders have also been floated for a facility at Rosema Nagar in Ramanathapuram, which would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 9.46 crore and one in Thalanguda in Cuddalore district for Rs. 12.37 crore. These projects are expected to be completed in 12-18 months of commencement and would help prevent sea erosion at these locations, explained a source in the department. Major problem Selvam, a fisherman of Cuddalore, said that as in any other coastal locality, sea erosion was a major problem in his district. “What is perhaps needed is a larger study to safeguard the coastline. The sea was some 5 km away from our village, it has now inched closer and is only a kilometre from here,” he said. Study needed K. Bharathi of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said that though the landing centres were a welcome move, a wholesome study of erosion, sea level increase and the coastline was a must. “A long term plan must be drawn up to ensure a safe future for the coastal communities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tenders-invited-for-fish-landing-centres/article32830307.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children take to music, dance and art online||Theatre sessions through an app? Or how about meeting for an online book club session? With children having settled into an online class routine through their schools over the last few months, extracurricular activities aren’t far behind. When the lockdown to curb COVID-19 started in March, Crea-Shakti was working with children for theatre in around 70 schools across south India, says founder and chief mentor Dushyanth Gunashekar. “This number almost instantaneously reduced as schools themselves were grappling with how to begin classes online. For the last two years, we had been working on our drama-based learning app, Crea Play, which then began to evolve from being an app focussed on content for multidisciplinary learners,” he said. Crea Play now has daily live classes, which use theatre to improve creativity, communication, writing and acting. Mr. Gunasekar says around 4,000 students have signed up. For teachers, taking art classes online has meant they have had to take another look at their curriculum to tailor it to the virtual medium and schedule classes in such a way that students don’t feel burdened. “Several children have online classes at school throughout the week and it became important for me to ensure that they don’t feel overworked when they attend my piano class,” says Shameer Mohamed, a piano instructor from the city. Tvarita, a city-based performing arts centre, has seen more parents sign their children up for dance classes during the last six months, which the organisation has been conducting online. “Parents are trying to keep kids at home engaged and online dance classes are perfect for that,” say Tvarita co-founders T.M. Sridevi and Deepthi Ravichandran. For schools that have a full calendar during a regular academic year with regard to extracurricular activities, the focus is not just on hosting these classes online but also on events to encourage more participation. Students from SEED Academy had their first virtual book club session a week ago. “We’ve had sessions in the past and decided to take them online for children above the age of 8. The kids were thrilled to have an opportunity to read and discuss a book,” says Vani Sastri, co-founder and managing director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-take-to-music-dance-and-art-online/article32830717.ece
12 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door survey workers complain of salary dues||A section of workers engaged in door-to-door surveys, carrying out checks on temperature and oxygen levels, among other parameters, has complained of not being paid their salaries in the last few months. The workers, appointed for COVID-19 prevention measures in some divisions of the city, complained that the Greater Chennai Corporation was delaying payments. These workers have been at the forefront of the city’s pandemic control programme and have been crucial in implementing prevention and early detection strategies, ensuring that everyone gets quality care. ‘Two types of workers’ A senior official of the Chennai Corporation said that there were two types of workers appointed as part of the COVID-19 prevention measures. While the sector health workers were appointed by zonal officials, outreach workers or volunteers were engaged by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) for working in containment zones and engaging in other COVID-19-related duties. The civic body tied-up with the NGOs and payments were made from the headquarters, the official said. The sector health workers, similar to those engaged under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM), were recruited by the 15 zonal officers and paid monthly consolidated salaries. Around 10,000 sector health workers were appointed for the house visits, to check temperatures, oxygen levels and other health-related issues. S. Ramesh, a sector health worker in the Kodambakkam zone, said that salaries were paid promptly by their zonal office, by the first week of the month. But he rued that several outreach workers, recruited by NGOs in his zone, had not received salaries for some months now. A senior civic official of the south zone said: “Several complaints of non-payment of salaries to outreach workers have been received, but we cannot take any steps against the NGOs. The civic body has not renewed contracts with the NGOs since September 30.” Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that severe action would be taken against NGOs who have not paid salaries to the outreach workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-covid-19-survey-workers-wait-for-their-salaries/article32830723.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A short film with a nonagenarian actor amid COVID-19 curbs||The COVID-19 pandemic has presented filmmakers with a fresh set of challenges — from not being able to shoot at all to more guarded shooting after the relaxation of the lockdown. But some of the work shot during the pandemic, including the Fahadh Fazil-starrer C U Soon , have shown that good movies are still possible. For first-time filmmaker Krishnakumar Balasubramanian (KK), several changes had to be made to the original plan, including a limit on the number of people on set and tailoring of his short film’s script so that a majority of the scenes could be shot indoors. He said making a short film amid the restrictions imposed to curb the pandemic was an immense learning experience. After hearing about the ‘My RODE Reel’ short film festival that attracts entries from across the world, the theatre and film actor, who is also the artistic director of The Little Theatre, decided to make a short film. KK’s short film Can you hear me features his grandmother-in-law Supriya Cheriyan, a 95-year-old actor from the city, and Nirmal Shekar, essaying the main roles. “Didu, as we call her, has always told us that being a part of a film was a dream of hers, and this short film presented the perfect opportunity,” he said. This, however, meant they had to be more cautious during the three-day filming period. “All of us — cast and crew — got tested before we began shooting. The number of crew members was restricted — for instance, the cinematographer planned how to shoot keeping in mind the equipment we would need to use. Many of us, including me, doubled up as assistants,” he said. Mrs. Cheriyan said: “I initially thought I might not be able to act but I tried my best and it all slowly came together.” The film is available on YouTube: https://youtu.be/fRgQkcHeLd4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-short-film-with-a-nonagenarian-actor-amid-covid-19-curbs/article32830262.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Increase reservations for Scheduled Castes to 21% in T.N., says VCK leader||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi general secretary D. Ravikumar on Sunday said reservations for the Scheduled Castes should be increased to 21% in Tamil Nadu. Outdated system Speaking at a panel discussion on the completion of 100 years since the former depressed classes were called Adi Dravidars, Mr. Ravikumar said the 18% reservations for Scheduled Castes were fixed based on the 1971 census. “Political reservation (reserved seats in MLA, MP categories and local bodies) was increased by 1% after delimitation, based on 2001 census. But, in employment and education, the reservations have not been increased. But after the 10% reservation was given for EWS, the upper limit does not hold true,” said Mr. Ravikumar. He urged political parties to support the demand in the interest of social justice as the community has been denied appropriate reservation for almost 50 years. He also demanded that the State form the State Scheduled Caste Commission and said that steps should be taken to retrieve Panchami lands.  After 10% reservation has been given for EWS, the upper limit does not hold true  D. RavikumarGeneral secretary,VCK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-reservations-for-scheduled-castes-to-21-in-tn-says-vck-leader/article32830727.ece
12 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation opens evening fever camps||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Sunday launched evening fever camps in various parts of the city, as part of its COVID-19 prevention activities. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the evening fever camps would help those unable to visit the camps in the morning. He said the evening camps would be reorganised based on local needs. They would be held in areas with poor attendance in morning camps. The civic body on Sunday organised 29 camps, comprising two in each of the 14 zones, with just one in Tiruvottiyur. More than 1,100 persons participated in the camps, with the average number of attendees being around 40. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan had said on Friday that the civic body, in association with the Health Department, would organise evening fever camps to ramp up testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-opens-evening-fever-camps/article32830721.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 1 cr. seized in Tiruvallur||The Arampakkam police in Tiruvallur district seized red sander logs worth Rs. 1 crore while they were being smuggled from Andhra Pradesh in the early hours of Sunday. The police also arrested a 32-year-old driver, a native of Andhra Pradesh. Following a tip-off, the police mounted surveillance over the movement of vehicles in the area starting Saturday night, and conducted intensive checks on the national highway. At 3 a.m., they attempted to stop a SUV. As the car sped away, the team gave chase and intercepted it. A search of vehicle unearthed 1 tonne of red sanders logs. They arrested the driver, Rawan Babai, and seized the logs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-1-cr-seized-in-tiruvallur/article32830329.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 held for theft in Triplicane||The Anna Square police on Sunday arrested two painters on charges of stealing Rs. 50 lakh from a businessman’s house in Triplicane. The police said Arun Balaji, a businessman, lodged a complaint a that on Friday that Rs. 50 lakh had gone missing from the steel cupboard while he was away. Two painters, Ilango, 37, and Manikandan, 30, of CIT Nagar, did painting at the house two months ago. They admitted to the crime during interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-held-for-theft-in-triplicane/article32830719.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Punish those responsible for panchayat incident’||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan demanded that strong action be taken against those responsible for forcing Dalit panchayat president Rajeshwari Saravana Kumar to sit on the floor during meetings. “This type of incidents keep happening in Tamil Nadu. It is very saddening. Whoever has indulged in crimes like this must be punished very severely. Incidents where people like Ms. Rajeshwari, who have been democratically elected by people looking beyond their castes to undertake public service, must not be tolerated any more,” Mr. Murugan said in a statement. He demanded that the Tamil Nadu government handle such incidents in a stringent manner and ensure that the practice does not recur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/punish-those-who-made-dalit-panchayat-president-sit-on-floor/article32830328.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Retract order on age limits for teachers’||DMK president M.K. Stalin has urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to take back an order issued by the School Education Department, reducing the upper-age limit for the direct recruitment of teachers, from 57 to 40 for the open category and from 57 to 45 for reserved categories. In a tweet, he said the move would affect job opportunities and destroy school education. Mr. Stalin also noted that about 10 lakh people had registered at employment exchanges, and were waiting for a job opportunity. The move would hurt their future, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retract-order-on-age-limits-for-teachers/article32830730.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for many robberies||The M.K.B. Nagar Police on Sunday arrested a man who came out on bail recently and committed several robberies in Vyasarpadi, Kodungaiyur, and M.K.B. Nagar. According to the police, S. Srinivasan, 56, of M.K.B. Nagar is a cashier at a petrol bunk. On Saturday, a customer asked him to fill petrol in his vehicle. Since he said the bunk was closed, the person attacked him with a knife, snatched his mobile phone, and fled the scene. Similar robberies were reported from Vyasarpadi, Sharma Nagar, MKB Nagar, Kodungaiyur, Tondiarpet High Road, Otteri and Villivakkam on the same night. The police investigation showed that one person had committed the robberies and arrested Karan alias Karadi Arun, 23, of Vyasarpadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-many-robberies/article32830713.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK forms poll manifesto committee||The DMK on Sunday announced an eight-member committee to prepare the party’s election manifesto for the Assembly election next year. According to a statement from DMK general secretary Duraimurugan, the committee includes DMK parliamentary party leader and treasurer T.R. Baalu and MPs A. Raja, T.K.S. Elangovan, Tiruchi N. Siva and Kanimozhi. It also includes deputy general secretaries Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan and Anthiyur Selvaraj, and professor A. Ramaswamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-forms-poll-manifesto-committee/article32830252.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK alliance will fail, say Ministers||State Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar and Information and Publicity Minister Kadambur Raju on Sunday said that the alliance led by the DMK will not remain intact. These comments have been made after the DMK alliance partners, VCK and MDMK, have said that they wanted to contest on an independent symbol even as there are rumours that the DMK wants some of its alliance partners to contest in ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. Speaking in Kovilpatti, Mr. Raju said that AIADMK honours its alliance partners and pointed out that it had honoured the agreement with PMK despite the party having lost the Lok Sabha elections and allotted a Rajya Sabha seat to it. “AIADMK honours the word given to its alliance partners unlike the DMK. Therefore, you will see the developments closer to the formation of alliances. DMK alliance partners are ready to come over to our side and it will happen,” he said. Mr. Udhayakumar said the DMK was an “authoritarian party”. “They claim to follow healthy politics but DMK doesn’t prefer exchange of ideas. There could soon be an earthquake [in their alliance],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-alliance-will-fail-say-ministers/article32830253.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four die in accident near Chennai||Four persons died and two were injured on Sunday morning when the car by which they were travelling from Puducherry and a goods carrier collided on East Coast Road near Kalpakkam. The police said Senthil, 53,of Saram in Puducherry, accompanied by his friend Murthy, 60, and his relatives were heading towards the city in a car from Puducherry to attend a function. Six people were travelling in the car. At 7 a.m, a goods carrier which came in the opposite direction rammed their car at Kunnathur. Senthil, Murugan, 40, and driver Jayabalan, 45, were crushed to death on the spot while three others — Murthy, Sundaravadanan, 52, and Suba, 40, were trapped in the mangled vehicle. In the impact of the accident, the front portion of both the vehicles got crushed. Mamallapuram police rescued the three from the mangled remains of the car and rushed them to the Government General Hospital, Chengalpattu. Murthy died while Sundaravadanan and Suba are in critical condition. The accident disrupted traffic on East Coast Road for a brief period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-two-injured-in-lorry-car-collision/article32830265.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 1 cr. seized||Arampakkam police in Tiruvallur district on Sunday seized red sanders logs worth Rs. 1 crore in the early hours of Sunday. A 32-year-old driver from Andhra Pradesh has been arrested in this connection. Following a tip off, the police in the area were alerted on Saturday night. They conducted intensive vehicle checks on the national highway leading to the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-1-cr-seized/article32830718.ece
12 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees further decline in positivity rate||Coimbatore district has registered a further decline in the positivity rate of COVID-19. Health Department officials said on Sunday that the district's positivity rate stood at 7.5 % as against 9 % - 9.5 % a week ago. However, according to the Health Department, people should exercise caution and continue to follow safety guidelines in public places, public transportation facilities and workplaces among others. The daily case load has also decreased in the district which was less than 400 for the third consecutive day on Sunday, they pointed out. As per their current estimation, the case load is expected to decline further. “People should strictly follow the standard safety guidelines such as wearing mask and maintaining physical distancing in public places. Though COVID-19 case load in Tamil Nadu has seen a decline, the numbers remain high in neighbouring States such as Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. With inter-State travel restrictions relaxed, people should continue to exercise caution. People aged above 60 and those with co-morbidities should be more careful,” said a senior Health official to The Hindu. The official added that early testing, upon sensing the symptoms of the COVID-19, was very important for early detection of the disease. This would help early initiation of Government protocol-based treatment. The Health Department, district administration and the Coimbatore Municipal Corporation are also concerned about further possible spread of the disease through public transportation facilities and from busy places such as markets and bus stands. Officials said that the civic body has set up swab sample collection centres at selected bus stands considering this risk factor. Urban areas of the Coimbatore district continue to dominate the daily case load. As per the estimation by the Health Department, 70 % of the new cases were from urban areas of the district that fall within the limits of the Coimbatore Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-further-decline-in-positivity-rate/article32830322.ece
12 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 pandemic hits college admissions in Coimbatore||Self-financing arts and science colleges in Coimbatore have approached the Bharathiar University seeking an extension of the deadline to admit students to graduate programmes. The reason that the colleges have sought extension of the October 10 deadline is that they have been unable to fill seats, says a college secretary and adds that the demand is keeping open the admissions till the month end. The colleges are citing the Madras University, which has October 30 as the deadline. The reason for the colleges finding it difficult to fill seats is the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on Plus Two result, admission process and the need for maintenance of physical distance and avoiding travel. The restriction on travel means parents who accompany prospective students are unable to visit campus, interact with the faculty and have a look at hostel if they want one. And, when parents are forced to do all this online, they think it is better to admit students to a nearby institution, the secretary explains. Echoing similar thoughts, a principal of a government-aided college says her college has not got the usual number of inquiries that it gets from parents from Madurai, Theni, and Ramanathapuram districts who want to admit their children in Coimbatore. As a consequence, there has been a reduction from over 10 applications for a seat to five. Another impact of the COVID-19 induced travel restriction is that parents from rural areas who usually prefer to meet face to face with faculty have their doubts cleared and seek suggestion on the right course for their children are unable to do so and feel uncomfortable doing the same over phone. Helpline This is not withstanding the fact that the colleges have helpline on phone, social media platforms, etc. A principal of a well-known self-financing college says even those colleges that are over 30 years old have taken a hit as only seats in popular courses like commerce and computer science are filled. Seats in physics and mathematics have taken a hit. A reason for this is the sudden announcement of Plus Two result, forcing colleges to make last-minute arrangements for online admission. As for colleges that are dependent on students from other districts in the State and Kerala, the problem is that they have been unable to engage agents or open admission offices, given the travel restriction that the governments imposed and the need for e-pass for travel. This has resulted in at least 20 – 30% seats remaining vacant. Another college secretary says the opening of government colleges in Thondamuthur, Mettupalayam and Valparai has also had an impact. If the Bharathiar University extends the deadline, the colleges hope to at least 10 to 20 seats more, he adds. Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj says that the colleges are finding it difficult to fill seats and have asked for extension is true. The University will take a call on extension of admission deadline soon, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-pandemic-hits-college-admissions/article32830289.ece
12 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Private ambulance driver helps couple take newborn to CMCH||A private ambulance driver on Saturday offered free ride to a migrant worker to take his critically ill newborn from Government Hospital, Annur, to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). A. Chiranjeevi of Annur, the private ambulance driver, said that the couple from Odisha approached him at Annur GH saying they wanted to rush the baby to CMCH. They told him that 108 ambulance might come late. “I initially told them the charge for the trip. But seeing that the baby was ill, I offered them a free ride,” he said. The ambulance left the GH at 12.45 p.m. and reached CMCH at 1.12 p.m. Mr. Chiranjeevi had also informed the police control room due to which the traffic signals were kept open accordingly. Though the private ambulance driver managed to take the four-day-old male baby from Annur GH to CMCH covering 30 km in 27 minutes with the help of the police, the newborn died without responding to treatment late on Saturday. It died around 11 p.m. S. Selvamuthukumar, GVK EMRI's programme manager for Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Tiruppur, said that the baby’s parent had called 108 control room but he cut the call, reportedly in a state of panic, stating that he would call again. The parent then approached the private ambulance. Mr. Selvamuthukumar said that the baby was born at Nambiyampalaym primary health centre in Tiruppur district on October 7. It was shifted to the neonatal ICU of the Tiruppur Medical College Hospital after delivery due to complications of umbilical cord having wrapped around the baby's neck in the womb. “The mother and baby were reported missing from the neonatal ICU after three days. They reportedly went home and took the baby to Annur GH on Saturday after its condition deteriorated,” said Mr. Selvamuthukumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-ambulance-driver-helps-couple-take-newborn-to-cmch/article32830312.ece
12 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Delay in issuance of PDS smart cards troubles beneficiaries||The number of persons awaiting public distribution system (PDS) smart card and those who had applied for duplicate cards in the district has almost touched 4,000. Sources in the district supply office said on condition of anonymity that the administration was yet to issue cards since January-February for both categories – those who had applied for new and duplicate card. Though the imposition of lockdown was cited as a reason for the delay in the smart card distribution, there were other reasons as well, the sources said and pointed to the delay in getting the printer toner from the office of the Commissioner, Civil Supplies, to print the smart cards to underscore their point. The sources said that a recent change in the software to print addresses with more characters has also been cited as one of the reasons. This has forced the data entry operators to randomly cut parts of the addresses to accommodate the address in the smart card. The other reason for the delay in the smart cards reaching the applicants was that the latter were unaware the change the State government had brought in to get duplicate cards – that the applicants would have to pay Rs. 20 towards a card. The sources said the applicants, even if they had applied online for duplicate card, would have go to the taluk office concerned to pay the smart card fee. From the taluk offices across the district, the officials concerned send to the district supply office the list of applicants who had paid the fee so that the latter could print smart cards. And once the taluk offices get the smart cards the applicants would have to go once more to collect the cards. Coimbatore Consumer Cause Secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said the administrative issues had made it difficult to get smart cards, particularly for those applying for duplicate cards. The State government should take steps to decentralise the purchase of printer toners to avoid delay in printing and disbursing smart cards. Second, it should restrict the number of characters in the address columns so that the applicants typed the correct address and it was not left to data entry operators to randomly cut portions of address. This was more important as ration card served as an important address proof document. Third, the government should introduce a system where applicants paid online the fee for getting duplicate cards. Besides, it could also add postage charges so that the smart cards reached the applicant’s door step. Mr. Kathirmathiyon also wanted the district administration to represent the issues to the State government. The District Collector could not be reached for his comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-issuance-of-pds-smart-cards-troubles-beneficiaries/article32830734.ece
12 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed and one injured after the two-wheeler they travelled collided head-on with a pick-up van near Alandurai, in Coimbatore district, on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Babu (20) and Karthik (19) from Kavundampalayam. Anand (19), who travelled in the same vehicle, suffered injuries. Police said the three were going to Poondi when the pick-up van that was heading to Coimbatore collided with it. The police booked K. Sanmugavel (37) of Sivagangai district, the driver of the pick-up van.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article32830311.ece
12 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Consignment sent to Singapore||ABT Group, that produces Mirakle drink, shipped a consignment to Singapore, getting into the export market. The group has, in the last six months, sold four lakh packets of 200 ml each in the domestic markets. It plans to appoint 200 to 300 agents in Tamil Nadu and gradually expand its presence across the country, according to Manickam Mahalingam, Chairman and Managing Director of ABT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consignment-sent-to-singapore/article32830318.ece
12 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Drive-through COVID-19 testing centre opened||Royal Care Super Speciality Hospital, Neelambur, opened a drive-through COVID-19 testing centre. District Collector K. Rajamani launched the facility which offers RT-PCR testing as per ICMR guidelines and norms of the State government, said a release. Hospital’s chairman K. Madeswaran said that the screening facility was launched in line with the district administration’s effort to increase the screening infrastructure to deal with the pandemic. People, who come to the drive-through facility, do not have to enter the hospital or get down from vehicle. The facility will also offer group testing, said the release. People can leave the facility soon after giving the swab sample and the result of the test will be delivered to the patient in electronic format.       The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will conduct grievance redressal meeting through webinar for its members, trade unions and employers on October 12. Titled Nidhi Aapke Nikat , the meet will be held at the Regional Office in Dr. Balasundaram Road, according to a press release.     The Office of the Principal Commissioner of CGST and Central Excise will conduct a Pension Adalat on November 27 at the Office of the Principal Commissioner of GST on Race Course road. Grievances should be sent in the prescribed format to the Chief Accounts officer, Office of the Principal Commissioner of GST, 6/7, ATD Street, Race Course Road, Coimbatore. The grievances should reach the office before October 23 and “Pension Adalat” should be mentioned on the cover. Grievances involving legal issues or policy matters will not be taken up. ] The prescribed format is available onhttp://cenexkovai.tn.nic.in, according to a press release.     ABT Group, that produces Mirakle drink, recently shipped a consignment to Singapore, getting into the export market. The group has, in the last six months, sold four lakh packets of 200 ml each in the domestic markets. The company is in talks with ASEAN countries for supply of Mirakle and is exploring opportunities in the US market too, according to Manickam Mahalingam, Chairman and Managing Director of ABT. The group also plans to appoint 200 to 300 agents in Tamil Nadu and gradually expand its presence across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-through-covid-19-testing-centre-opened/article32830741.ece
12 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||84 cases in Cuddalore||Eighty-four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Sunday. With this, the district’s tally touched 21,659. The COVID-19 toll touched 249 with the death of two persons on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/84-cases-in-cuddalore/article32830883.ece
12 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Block development officers told to identify panchayats facing caste issues||A day after a panchayat secretary and a ward member attached to the Therku Thittai panchayat in Mel Bhuvanagiri block were arrested after it came to light that Rajeshwari Saravana Kumar, the panchayat president, was forced to sit on the floor during meetings, the district administration has now directed all block development officers (BDOs) to identify panchayats having caste issues or other forms of dispute. Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri said that BDOs of all 14 blocks in the district had been asked to prepare a list of such panchayats. If required, the administration would install closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) in such panchayats to monitor the meetings, he said. Mr. Sakhamuri said the administration would soon be organising a training programme for panchayat presidents and ward members, in all the 683 village panchayats in the district, to prevent such incidents. Meanwhile, the police have formed a special team to nab the panchayat vice-president, Mohan Raj, who is at large. Stalin slams incident DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday strongly condemned the incident of the Dalit panchayat president, Ms. Rajeshwari, being forced to sit on the floor during panchayat meetings. “The image of a representative elected by the people, through a democratic process, being made to sit on the floor is a shame for those involved in public life. All those guilty must be punished,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the incident was an insult to the Tamil soil, known for social justice, and urged the ruling AIADMK government to ensure that such incidents do not happen again. He said his party would support and was firm on the participation of members from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in leadership roles.  The image of a representative elected by the people being made to sit on the floor is a shame for those involved in public life M.K. Stalin DMK president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/block-development-officers-told-to-identify-panchayats-facing-caste-issues/article32830251.ece
12 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Quilt vendor set on fire in Krishnagiri||A street vendor was set on fire by unidentified persons near the TANSI unit here on Sunday following a quarrel. According to the police, Kadhar Basha sold quilts from a roadside shop. On Sunday, four persons bargained with Mr. Basha to reduce the price of a quilt they wanted to buy. The quarrel intensified, and the customers left the place failing to agree on a price. They returned and allegedly set Mr. Basha on fire before fleeing. Passersby rescued him. He was later referred to the Dharmapuri Government Hospital. The Krishnagiri police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quilt-vendor-set-on-fire-in-krishnagiri/article32830731.ece
12 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Street vendor set on fire over quarrel on rates||A street vendor was set on fire by unidentified persons near TANSI unit here on Sunday following a quarrel over prices quoted for a product. According to the police, Kadhar Basha sells quilts from his road side shop near TANSI here. On Sunday, four persons visited his shop and bargained with Kadhar Basha to reduce the price of a quilt they wanted to buy. The quarrel is said to have intensified and the customers left the place, after failing to agree on a price. According to the police, they returned with a can of petrol and allegedly set Kadhar Basha on fire, and escaped from the spot. Those passing by rescued him and he was sent Krishnagiri government hospital and was later referred to Dharmapuri government hospital. Krishnagiri police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendor-set-on-fire-over-quarrel-on-rates/article32830314.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||City police dispose of 351 petitions at camps||Madurai City police on Sunday disposed of 351 petitions and community service register-issue complaints at special petition enquiry camps held at various places across the city. Out of about 500 pending petitions, 351 were disposed of. “This initiiative was taken to clear backlog of petitions submitted to the Commissioner of Police and Deputy Commissioners of Police and at police stations,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad said. “On working days, the officials are busy with various types of works. Besides, often when petitioners are asked to come to police station to conduct enquiry on their petitions, they find it difficult to come as they are busy with their work. Sometimes, the petition enquiry could not be conducted as the opposite party fails to turn up,” he said. Stating that since Sunday being a holiday, all police officials - right from Inspector of Police, Sub-Inspector of Police and Special SIs - were present. The camps were conducted in marriage halls across the city so that there will be ample space for providing seating arrangements even while ensuring social distancing due to the COVID-19 threat. Most of the petitions pertained to domestic issues, discord between neighbours and money transactions. “In those cases where the complainant and the opposite party agree for a mutual settlement, the police allow them to withdraw their petitions after giving them advice. But, if the complainant insisted on filing first information report, the police officials register the case,” Mr. Shiva Prasad. He said this initiative would be repeated at periodical intervals to win over the confidence of the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-dispose-of-351-petitions-at-camps/article32830816.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 scare keeps kolu doll shoppers away form Vilachery||A week ahead of Navarathri festival, Vilachery, a village located on the southern fringes of the city, used to be bustling as a large number of customers shop for kolu dolls here. But, this Sunday, the whole of Vilachery wore a deserted look as there were hardly few customers there, mainly because of the COVID-19 pandemic. This has financially affected the artisans who make kolu dolls for a living. This small village is home to about 200 families of artisans who have been making clay, plaster of paris and papier-mache dolls for so many decades. P.K. Arumugam, an artisan, says till date they have sold only 30% of what they usually sell every year. “Every year, people inquire about new models of dolls that have been made for the Navaratri festival. But this year no such inquiries had been made and the footfall of shoppers has drastically reduced,” he says. The doll makers say only a limited number of dolls were made this year as all production activities remained suspended for around four months during the initial months of lockdown. “But even this limited number of dolls remain unsold. Due to uncertainty over sale, I have stopped painting the dolls,” says A. Kalairani, another artisan. People are still scared to come out and buy kolu dolls, says Gundha Devi, a doll seller. “Even regular customers have shied away as they say they are going to invite home only a few guests due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” she says. The closure of educational institutions and restrictions in place at temples are also a reason for lower sales of dolls, says S. Girija, another seller. “Most of the traders, who used to buy dolls in bulk from us and sell it to the shops, have also not placed any orders this year,” she says. The pandemic has also robbed the buying capacity of people, according to the seller. The poor sales has financially affected those of us who have borrowed heavily for making the dolls, says Ms. Devi. “All the artisans make a livelihood by selling dolls for Vinayaka Chathurthi, Navarathri and Christmas. The sales during Vinayaka Chathurthi was extremely poor and the sales have not picked up for Navarathri too. This will only force many artisans to look for other jobs by next year,” she says. But not all are unhappy. P. Hari Krishnan, a seller, says sales in his shop was marginally better as he took orders through messaging platforms and sent the parcels by courier to the customers.  Why is it so? 200 families of artisans make clay, plaster of paris and papier-mache dolls  Closure of educational institutions and restrictions at temples have also affected sales  The pandemic has also robbed the buying capacity of people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-scare-keeps-kolu-doll-business-dull/article32830299.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life at aluminium vessel manufacturing unit||A 33-year-old man, Balamurugan, ended his life by placing his head under a pressing machinery at an aluminium vessel manufacturing unit in Chintamani here on Sunday. Police said the man, a relative of unit owner Sivakumar, had gone there on Sunday, a holiday. Balamurugan had opened the door of the unit with the key kept with him and had placed his head under the pressing machinery after switching it on and his head was crushed. Four workers, who were staying in the upstairs of the unit, noticed the machinery running behind closed doors when they came down late in the evening. They managed to open it and found Balamurugan lying dead. “The entire incident has been captured by the closed circuit television camera network,” Avaniapuram Inspector of Police G. Pethuraj said. The deceased had left a note in which he claimed that the owner had not given him salary. The Avaniapuram police have registered a case are investigating into the incident. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-at-vessel-making-unit/article32830267.ece
12 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stay GO on studying demand for grouping, de-listing communities’||A petition has been filed in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking an interim stay on a Government Order issued by Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department in March 2019, appointing a committee to study and report on the demand to de-list six communities, including Pallars, and exclude them from the Presidential Order by grouping them as ‘Devendrakula Vellar’. In his petition, M. Amarnath of Lalgudi said certain political parties claiming to be representatives of Pallar community made a strange request to the State government to alter the Presidential Order and to de-list Pallar, Kudumban, Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan, Pannadi and Kalladi sub-sects from the Presidential Order and declare them Scheduled communities. Acting on the request, the State government issued the GO, appointing the committee to study the demand. However, the move of the State was unconstitutional since Article 341 read with Article 162 of the Constitution clearly prohibited the State from exercising its executive power to alter or consider a plea for exclusion of the listed entries in the Presidential Order. It was also a settled canon of constitutional jurisprudence that no person, who was entitled to a constitutional right or benefit, had the competence to waive or give away the benefit or status voluntarily, the petitioner said. The GO sought to entrench into the exclusive legislative field occupied by Parliament and as such the action of the State was in violation of the federal system of constitutional governance, the petitioner argued. The case will come up for hearing on Monday when the State will file its reply.  Political parties have made a strange request to alter the Presidential Order Petitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-go-on-studying-demand-for-grouping-de-listing-communities/article32830266.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Olive Ridley turtle rescued, let into sea in Ramanathapuram||The Forest Department officials in Ramanathapuram district safely rescued an adult Olive Ridley turtle that was caught in a fishing net and released it into the Palk Bay at Panaikulam seashore on Sunday. Ramanathapuram Forest Range Officer S. Sathish said that a Forest Department personnel rushed to the spot on Sunday after the local fishermen informed the officials that an Olive Ridley turtle was caught in a fishing net. The adult turtle weighed around 35 kg, he added. Nesting “Usually, the nesting season for Olive Ridley turtles starts by December. The mating of these turtles happen two months prior to the nesting. So, it is common to find turtles within one km from the shore during this time of the year. It is because of this reason that turtles often get entangled in the fishing net during this period,” he added. But, it is important to safely rescue the turtles from the fishing nets without injuring them. “Sometimes, fishermen tend to cut the turtle’s flippers in order to save the fishing net. Animal for meat Earlier, people used to kill the animal for its meat. But through repeated awareness given to the fishermen, such instances rarely happen in the area nowadays,” he added. A.S. Marimuthu, Wildlife Warden, Ramanathapuram, said that the contact number of Forest Department officials were shared with the local residents and fishermen. “The locals, especially the youth, are showing more interest in informing the officials whenever an Olive Ridley turtle is found in the region. Because of the cooperation of the fishermen, we have been rescuing more number of Olive Ridley turtles nowadays,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/olive-ridley-turtle-rescued-let-into-sea-in-ramanathapuram/article32830269.ece
12 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai needs an urban forest like Guindy park’||In order to restore and protect the green cover in Madurai, a city or urban forest similar to that of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai and Guindy National Park in Chennai should be set up in the city, said ornithologist T. Badri Narayan. Vellimalai in Madurai is one area where such a project can be set up, he said at a webinar on ‘Restoration of natural heritage of Madurai’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Young Indians, its wing, here on Saturday. Dr. Badri Narayan said that if the native trees were to be protected, they should be identified first. A board with the name of the species should be placed to show the identityof the tree. People who take care of native trees should be honoured and encouraged to continue the practice, he said. Law as in other States A law on tree preservation should be enacted in Tamil Nadu on the lines of the one in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, he said. N. Karthikeyan Parkavithai, a researcher on native plants in Sangam literature, also stressed that native trees should be protected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-needs-an-urban-forest-like-guindy-park/article32830811.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special drive on against violation of road rules||Transport officials have been conducting a special drive against violators of road safety rules since October 1. A press release said the drive was carried out under the guidance of A. Ravichandran, Joint Transport Commissioner (Madurai zone), and jointly conducted by N. Karthikeyan, Regional Transport Officer (Enforcement) and K. Prabhu, Motor Vehicle Inspector. The aim was to create awareness of road safety practices and to prevent accidents. A total of 130 vehicles were inspected. Two omni buses, which did not pay taxes to the government, were detained and asked to pay taxes for Rs. 1.4 lakh. A fine of Rs. 2.2 lakh was slapped on 37 vehicles for riding at a high speed, riding without helmets, driving without wearing seat belts and for speaking on cell phone while driving. Four autorickshaws that did not have fitness certificate were seized. A special drive was also carried out on Melur-Tiruchi National Highway by N. Saravanakumar, brake inspector of Melur unit, along with police officials. As many as 30 vehicles, including autorickshaws, two-wheelers and heavy vehicles, were slapped a total fine of Rs. 40,400 for taking the wrong lane. Twenty-four vehicles were slapped a fine of Rs. 80,500 for overspeeding, riding without helmets, driving without wearing seat belts and for speaking on cell phone while riding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-on-against-violation-of-road-rules/article32830804.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Target to get 6.56 tonnes of vegetable seeds on 17.85 ha in Madurai||For the first time, the Horticulture department is providing various subsidies to motivate farmers to produce vegetable seeds. According to a press release from the department, Madurai district has a target to cover 17.85 hectares to produce 6.56 tonnes of ‘truthful label seeds’ of various vegetables. An official said this initiative had been taken to promote entrepreneurship in seed production. The main aim was to ensure that sufficient quantities of vegetables were produced to cater to the growing population. “To achieve this, there is a need to produce more certified vegetable seeds. But, presently farmers are dependent on private companies for seeds. Hence, this scheme was formulated by the State government to encourage more farmers to produce seeds,” the official said. In Madurai, ‘truthful label seed’ production is promoted for cow pea, onion, drumstick, cluster bean, bitter gourd, snake gourd, pumpkin and leafy vegetables. Farmers with irrigation facilities to cultivate vegetables can apply for the scheme. They will get a 30% subsidy for a maximum of Rs. 1,200 for integrated nutrient management and integrated pesticide management. A 50% subsidy will be given for construction of ‘pack house’ for up to Rs. 2 lakh. A 50% subsidy will be given for setting up shade nets. “After harvest, the farmers can sell the seeds to either private companies or to the Horticulture department,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/target-to-get-656-tonnes-of-vegetable-seeds-on-1785-ha/article32830300.ece
12 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Watchman assaulted||A group of four persons attempted to murder V. Ganesan, 60, watchman of a TASMAC shop at Sithalangudi near Vadipatti, after he told them that liquor could not be sold as the shop had been closed for the day on Saturday night. The four persons had come to the shop at around 9 p.m. By then the shop was closed for business. When they said they wanted to buy liquor somehow, the watchman asked them to come the next morning. The men got angry and one of them slashed him with a knife causing bleeding injury on his hand. He was admitted to the Government Hospital in Vadipatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/watchman-assaulted/article32830807.ece
12 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Library to be set up in memory of John Moses||A library cum readers’ circle in memory of the late leader K John Moses, State general secretary of Janata Dal (Secular), would be established in the city. A decision to this effect was taken at a remembrance meeting here on Sunday. The Samamkudi Makkal Iyakkam state president C J Rajan presided. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, DMK district secretary G. Thalapathi, CPI(M) district secretary Vijayarajan, CPI district secretary P. Sethuraman, district Congress president V. Karthikeyan, MDMK district secretary Pudur V. Boominathan, SOCO Trust managing trustee Mahaboob Batcha, advocate Gandhi, Tamil Nadu Theological Seminary’s former principal Dhyan Chand Carr recalled their association with John Moses. ArchBishop Antony Pappusami unveiled a portrait of John Moses and recalled his contributions to the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-to-be-set-up-in-memory-of-john-moses/article32830814.ece
12 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Teja s Express timing revised||Southern Railway has revised the departure of Train No. 02613 Chennai Egmore - Madurai Tejas express for the convenience of passengers. A statement said the train currently leaves Chennai at 6 a.m. on all days except Thursdays and reaches Madurai at 12.20 p.m. For the convenience of passengers, the train will leave Chennai at 6.30 a.m. with effect from October 13 and reach Madurai at 12.50 p.m. Departure time of this train from Tiruchi and Kodaikanal Road, being the limited halts, has been revised as 10.35 a.m. and 11.55 a.m. respectively. However there is no change in timings in the return direction, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-timing/article32830235.ece
12 October 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district reports over 95 fresh cases again||Madurai district recorded 97 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, which took the total number of cases in the district to 17,486. A total of 60 persons were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases in the district is 776. One fatality reported on Sunday took the district’s death toll to 398. Kanniyakumari added 79 cases to its tally, which now stands at 13,763. Hospitals in the district discharged 107 people. There were 76 fresh cases in Tirunelveli, which saw its total case count rise to 13,512. There were 87 discharges. Thoothukudi recorded 69 new cases to have a tally of 14,121. Fifty-four people were discharged from hospitals. A total of 67 fresh cases were registered in Theni, which raised the district’s case count to 15,630. Hospitals discharged 66 people. The total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar went up to 14,829 with the addition of 35 cases. After 36 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 213 active cases. The death toll remains at 215. Dindigul reported 32 new cases to have a tally of 9,307. There were 52 discharges. Ramanathapuram marked 26 fresh cases, which pushed its total case count to 5,744. Four people were discharged. Similarly, 26 people tested positive in Sivaganga, taking its tally up to 5,499. Hospitals discharged 33 people. The number of fresh cases reported in Tenkasi was 18, which raised its tally to 7,614. There were 24 discharges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-district-registers-67-fresh-cases/article32830297.ece
12 October 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami is CM candidate: BJP leader||Former Union Minister and BJP leader Pon. Radhakrishnan on Sunday said the BJP in the State is part of the AIADMK front and Edappadi K. Palaniswami is the Chief Minister candidate. Speaking to reporters, he said the AIADMK was the leader of the alliance in the State, in which the BJP was a trusted ally. Asked to comment on Information Minister Minister Kadambur Raju’s remark that Mr. Radhakrishnan had lost ground in his home town and that his observations need not be taken seriously, the BJP leader said the election would reveal who had popularity. He said the BJP delegation would meet Mr. Palaniswami, who is expected to visit Kanniyakumari on Wednesday to review the COVID-19 situation. He also appealed to the T.N. and Kerala governments to conduct Navarathri celebrations as per tradition. The officials should follow COVID-19 protocol, but at the same time, observe traditions, he said. Last week, the former Minister had said the BJP may even join hands with the DMK for the ensuing elections, which caused a flutter among the two parties. Though he blamed the media for misinterpreting his observations, the clarification on Sunday showed that the party high command had expressed its concern over his utterances, an office-bearer in the BJP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-is-cm-candidate-bjp-leader/article32830263.ece
12 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||EWS quota: Jipmer increases MBBS intake||The Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Education and Medical Research (Jipmer) has increased the number of its MBBS seats for 2020-21 academic session on its main campus in Puducherry and at its Karaikal facility following the implementation of the reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS). Jipmer had 200 MBBS seats — 150 seats in Puducherry and 50 in Karaikal campus — the aggregate seats available across all quota categories has now been increased with the approval of competent authorities to 249 — a net increase of 49 seats. The aggregate MBBS seats is now 187 in Puducherry (an increase of 37 seats) and 62 in Karaikal (an increase of 12 seats). “The increase is across the board for various categories with the statutory reservation for Economically Weaker Sections,” Pankaj Kundra, Dean (Academic), Jipmer, said. The 10% EWS quota has been introduced in compliance with the Centre’s policy of complementing the seats already reserved for the Scheduled Castes (15%), the Scheduled Tribes (7.5%) and the OBCs (27%). “The additional seats have been established after a proportionate strengthening of facilities in both the campuses,” Jipmer spokesman and additional professor N.G. Rajesh said. There was a certain gestation time before an order of this magnitude was implemented. Since these were notified by the Centre, there was one year window for improve the facilities to a matching level, officials said. Local candidates A change was reflected in the seats reserved for students who were Puducherry natives with 48 seats earmarked in this section under various categories. The quota of seats is 22 (21+1 for Persons with Benchmark Disability) in the unreserved segment, four in the EWS, 12 in the OBC (11+one PwBD), seven in the SC and three in the ST categories. Jipmer has implemented 5% horizontal reservation for PwBD candidates as per the Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, while provisioning eight out of the 187 seats on its Puducherry campus. According to the revised matrix in a recently released prospectus, two seats for PwBD has been added to the unreserved seat quota at Jipmer Puducherry resulting in 57 seats (55+2) in this category. The EWS quota is 13 seats (12 + one for PwBD) while an additional seat each under PwBD quota had been provided for OBC (36 - 35+1), SC (19 - 18+1) and ST (9 - 8+1). The NRI/OCI quota remains unchanged at five seats. For Puducherry residents, the seats under P-UR category aggregate 22 (21+1 PwBD), P-EWS 4, P-OBC 12 (11+one PwBD), P-ST 3 and P-SC 7. Under the seat matrix for the 62 seats at Jipmer Karaikal, the UR quota is 20 (19+1 PwBD), EWS 4, OBC 12, SC 6 (5+1 PwBD) and ST 3. The NRI/OCI quota has one seat while the distribution of other seats is P-UR 9, P-EWSs 1, P-OBC 3, P-SC 2, P-ST 1. Admission counselling Meanwhile, Jipmer has announced that it would no longer be conducting its flagship MBBS entrance test from this year after the Centre mandated National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) as a single medical entrance exam for UG courses in the country, including for admission to Jipmer and AIIMS. The Dean (Academic) said admissions to MBBS in Jipmer would be based on NEET score from the 2020 academic session. The counselling would be done only through the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC), Directorate General of Health Services, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and not by Jipmer, Puducherry, the Dean said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ews-seat-reservation-jipmer-increases-mbbs-intake/article32830274.ece
12 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 320 fresh infections||Puducherry recorded four more deaths due to COVID-19 and 320 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 31,549. The capital accounted for all fatalities. The patients, all men, were in the 59-74 age group. The Union Territory’s toll touched 563. Puducherry has so far accounted for 468 deaths, Karaikal 49, Yanam 42 and Mahe 4. A total of 4,352 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, Puducherry accounted for 253, Karaikal 39, Yanam six and Mahe 22. The positivity rate stood at 7.35%, case fatality rate at 1.78% and recovery rate at 83.33%. In all, 336 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. So far, 21,835 patients have been discharged in Puducherry, 2,485 in Karaikal, 1,629 in Yanam and 342 in Mahe. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that while the resumption of tourism , especially over the weekends, was a welcome development for reviving the local economy, it was also imperative that safety protocols are followed. He noted, with concern, that large sections of the floating population were not wearing masks while moving around. The Minister sought the cooperation of the police in ensuring that tourists adhere to safety norms to avert another spike in COVID-19 cases. The U.T.’s tally has now climbed to toll climbed to 563 deaths, 4,695 active cases, a cumulative total of 31,549. cases and 26,291 patients recovered. Cuddalore count Eighty-four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Sunday. With this, the district’s tally touched 21,659. The COVID-19 toll touched 249 with the death of two persons on Sunday. According to the Health department, Cuddalore district had 931 active cases with 153 persons were discharged across the district on Sunday. Villupuram district reported 81 cases, taking the tally to 12,545. Forty-six cases were reported in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 9,676.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-320-fresh-infections/article32830716.ece
12 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Mortality rate has come down, says Health Minister||The mortality rate in COVID-19 positive cases which was 1.6 % last week has now been brought down to below 1.3 %, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Sunday. The number of those cured of the viral infection in the State has risen to 92 %, the Minister further said. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Vijayabaskar said intensive measures taken by the State government to curb the spread of the viral infection had resulted in bringing down the COVID-19 positivity rate within 10 % in all districts. Instructions had been given to micro, small and large industrial units to carry out COVID-19 tests on their labourers between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. in the respective units, the Minister said adding that medical camps had been started during night hours at Chennai. Fever camps were being conducted continuously in all the districts to detect COVID-19 cases. At a time when COVID-19 positive cases were on the rise in other States, the Tamil Nadu government had mounted extra vigil in border districts deploying medical teams to screen those entering the State. Stating that the COVID-19 vaccine trials were currently under way without causing any side-effects, Mr. Vijayabaskar appealed to the general public to compulsorily wear a mask while venturing out and adhering to the safety measures as advocated by the State government. The Health Minister said treatment had been provided to 5.97 lakh persons in the State affected by the viral infection so far. The State government had appointed over 15,000 doctors, nurses and lab technicians during the COVID-19 period. Awareness about the viral infection and the precautionary measures being taken to curb its spread was being created through documentary films and television.  The State has appointed over 15,000 doctors, nurses and lab technicians during the COVID-19 period Vijayabaskar Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mortality-rate-has-come-down-health-minister/article32830241.ece
12 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Civic body acts after residents complain of leak in sewage line||The Pudukottai Municipal Corporation has acted instantly on the grievance of the residents of Ayyappa Nagar after they complained of leakage from a sewage line into a field nearby. Leakage of unclean water from the pipe into the open ground had caused stench and contaminated the acquifer, they said. The residents who passed by the route had no choice but to step into the water while crossing it. “While some children slipped and fell, many adults refused to venture outdoors as they were unable to tolerate the stench,” a resident said. The complaints of the residents reached the ears of the civic body on Saturday, following which the Pudukottai Corporation Commissioner visited the spot and took stock of the situation. “The commissioner has ordered the officials of the zone to begin repair works as soon as possible,” a corporation official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-acts-after-residents-complain-of-leak-in-sewage-line/article32830270.ece
12 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two DPCs inaugurated||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday inaugurated two Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) at Kidarampatti and Parukkaividuthi villages in the district on Sunday for the benefit of farmers. Inaugurating the centres, Mr. Vijayabaskar said the farmers could sell paddy directly to the purchase centres at competitive prices without interference of agents. He said Pudukottai district would become more fertile and the livelihood of the farming community would rise once the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar linking project was implemented. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials were present on the occasion, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-dpcs-inaugurated/article32830244.ece
12 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone warning issued||Port officials at Pamban have issued a cyclone warning after a depression that was formed over the west-central Bay of Bengal on Sunday, lying centred near the south-southwest of Vishakapatnam, about 490 km southeast of Kakinada and 520 km east-southeast of Narsapur. Following this, officials of the Fisheries Department have asked fishermen to not venture into the sea, a press release issued here said. Tokens would not be issued and mechanised boatmen had been told not to venture until further notice, the press release from the department added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-told-not-to-venture-into-sea/article32830313.ece
12 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen asked not to venture into sea||A depression has formed over westcentral Bay of Bengal and lay centred on Sunday morning near south-southwest of Vishakapatnam (Andhra pradesh) 490 km southeast of Kakinada (Andhra Pradesh) and 520 km east-southeast of Narsapur (Andhra Pradesh). Following this, the fisheries department officials have in a press release appealed to all the fishermen to stay off from venturing into sea. The tokens would not be issued and mechanised boatmen have been told not to venture until further advise from the officials, the release added. The port officials here at Pamban have hoisted the first cyclone warning here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-asked-not-to-venture-into-sea/article32830291.ece
12 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||French national tests positive||A French national aged about 44 years tested positive to COVID-19 virus following which he has been admitted to the Government Hospital here on Sunday. Health department officials here said that the foreigner was travelling with four others. They were tested. However, they tested negative to the virus. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the foreigner was on a tour visiting various locations during the last one month. As he was coming by road from Chennai, the swab test was taken. Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that the French national was stable and doctors were attending on him at the isolation ward in the GH. The others, who were travelling with him, were quarantined and under medical observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/french-national-tests-positive-to-covid-19/article32830304.ece
12 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone warning||Port officials at Pamban hoisted the first cyclone warning on Sunday. A depression formed over westcentral Bay of Bengal and centred on Sunday morning near south-southwest of Vishakapatnam, 490 km southeast of Kakinada and 520 km eastsoutheast of Narsapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyclone-warning/article32830284.ece
12 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Footfall increases in Yercaud, hotel bookings yet to pick up||Yercaud, popularly known as ‘poor man’s Ooty’, is slowly returning to normalcy following relaxations in lockdown enforced to contain COVID-19. Though footfall to parks has improved, hotel owners say that bookings have not improved much yet. Boating restricted Though tourists to the hill station must get an e-pass from the district administration and boating in Yercaud lake is restricted, visitors have started coming to the six parks that were reopened recently. A rise in footfall to the parks under the Horticulture Department was noticed during the long weekend in first week of October. From October 2 to 4, cumulatively, the Anna Park collected Rs. 23,225, Lake Park Rs. 4,070, Rose garden Rs. 35,515, the two government botanical gardens Rs. 3,625 and the genetic heritage garden collected Rs. 24,470. Tourist vehicles Taxi operators here said use of tourist vehicles was minimal as most of them came in personal vehicles and that too for a day. They said an increase in use of tourist vehicles could be expected only when bus services resumed. Occupancy Stating that hotel booking were minimal, Kalpanna Sivaraj, joint secretary, Tamil Nadu Tour Travel and Hospitality Association, expected the businesses to improve only when the e-pass restrictions were relaxed as majority of tourists to the hill station came from Bengaluru during weekends. She said occupancy was low at the moment and many hotels were forced to reduce their tariffs to attract customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/footfall-increases-in-yercaud-hotel-bookings-yet-to-pick-up/article32830276.ece
12 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. holds 4,767 fever camps||Salem Corporation has conducted 4,767 fever camps so far as part of COVID-19 containment measures and has screened over 3 lakh persons. A release said the Corporation, between July 10 and October 10, had organised 4,767 camps in which 3.10 lakh persons were screened. As many as 12,431 persons with COVID-19 symptoms underwent swab tests at these camps of whom 1,206 tested positive. Persons with lifestyle diseases were given medicines at these camps, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-holds-4767-fever-camps/article32830317.ece
12 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inflow to Mettur dam increases||The inflow to Mettur dam increased on Sunday. Officials from the Public Works Department said water level at the dam was 98.5 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 62,915 tmcft and the inflow was 24,036 cusecs. The discharge through Cauvery river was maintained at 16,000 cusecs while 900 cusecs was released through East-West canal. An average rainfall of 1.4 mm was recorded in Salem on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inflow-to-mettur-dam-increases/article32830316.ece
12 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||HMK condemns Cuddalore incident||Hindu Makkal Katchi (HMK) leader Arjun Sampath condemned the incident in Cuddalore where a Dalit panchayat president was made to sit on floor. He demanded stern action against those involved in the incident. Mr. Sampath also condemned the State government for cancelling grama sabhas citing COVID-19 spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hmk-condemns-cuddalore-incident/article32830315.ece
12 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi Medical College gets cancer block||Cancer patients in the district no longer have to travel long distances any more. The Government Medical College Hospital here has all facilities that will be dedicated to the people by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is expected to arrive here on Tuesday. The Chief Minister is visiting the district to review the COVID-19 situation and take stock of the requirements. During his stay, he will inaugurate new projects and lay foundation for development works, officials said here on Sunday. The cancer outpatient ward at the hospital here was started in 2002. Over the years, under the National Health Mission Project, Rs. 16 crore was earmarked for establishing the cancer block. The State government, for its part, sanctioned Rs. 2.60 crore for construction of new buildings. The works that started in 2016 ended a year later and equipment required for the cancer department was ordered and installed. Two months ago, authorities issued licence for operational purposes. On an average, doctors say, at least 30 to 50 patients from Thoothukudi and surrounding pockets travel to other cities for treatment. With the launch of the cancer block here, the patients no longer need to travel. Officials say eligible patients will get treatment under the Chief Minister’s Insurance Scheme too. The state-of-the-art equipment can diagnose the tumour precisely and treatment can be planned accurately. The maximum dose to the tumour will not affect normal tissues. Radiation can be effective and the normal tissues will remain intact. Radiation oncologists, medical physicist and technicians have been appointed and trained. Minister Kadambur Raju and Collector Sandeep Nanduri inspected the new facility on Sunday and supervised the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-medical-college-gets-cancer-block/article32830264.ece
12 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Puthur shopping complex construction to begin soon||After a prolonged legal battle and more than a year after floating the tender, the Tiruchi City Corporation has finally brought the old fish market at Puthur under its control, and razed down all shops so as to construct a commercial complex. The Puthur market was originally established to accommodate vegetable traders. However, a portion of the market was allocated to wholesale and retail fish traders after the closure of a private market at Bheema Nagar about 25 years ago. Though the market became an instant hit thanks to its prime location, the unhygienic surroundings and emanating stench had led to protests from the residents. Acknowledging the plight of the residents, the Corporation constructed a new market for fish traders at Kasivilangi on the outskirts of the city and decided to build a commercial complex at the Puthur market. The civic body floated the tender in August last year and completed the process three months later. Though the civic body managed to shift the vegetable traders to a Woraiyur market in June, it could not vacate the fish traders as a section of traders filed cases in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking allocation of shops to them in the new market. The civic body successfully fought the cases recently. Still, the officials had to hold a number of meetings to convince the traders as some of them who were not sure of getting new shops at the new market, were not in a mood to budge. At one point of time, the officials warned that if they failed to vacate their shops by Friday, no truck carrying fish from landing centres would be permitted from Saturday. Only after this warning, the traders relented and moved to the new market. A senior official told The Hindu that all hurdles for constructing a commercial complex had been removed. Though the preliminary work had begun in August, actual civil work would begin in a few days. The new complex would have a built up area of about 10,250sq.mt. It would have ground plus three floors. A sum of Rs. 20.20 crore had been allotted for the project. Construction of a parking lot in the basement with a capacity to accommodate 50 cars and 125 two-wheelers is also part of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthur-shopping-complex-construction-to-begin-soon/article32830283.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts record 572 new cases||The central districts on Sunday recorded 572 new cases of coronavirus, reflecting a slight drop compared to Saturday’s 590. Seven deaths- three in Tiruvarur and two each in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur were recorded. Men aged 75, and 70 and a 67-year-old post-transplant patient died of COVID-19 in Tiruvarur. In Thanjavur, men aged 64 and 68 years succumbed to the viral infection. The 68-year-old man suffered from coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease. A 77-year-old man with coronary artery disease and a 55-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome in Nagapattinam also died of the disease. Despite recording lower than 200 cases, Thanjavur continued to report the highest number among the central districts. Of the 181 persons who tested positive, four were staff nurses on COVID duty and one a doctor at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Two lecturers at a private college, and a lecturer at the Department of Pharmacy at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital also tested positive. However, only six of the 181 cases were reported from within the Thanjavur Municipal Corporation limits. Tiruvarur recorded 98 new COVID cases, while Tiruchi recorded 87 fresh cases. Among the patients in both districts there were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with symptoms of Influenza-like Illnesses. “Most of these patients were from existing containment zones,” a senior official said. In Nagapattinam, 61 patients tested positive while in Pudukottai 48 fresh cases were recorded. Officials in both districts said that large section of the positive cases were local index cases with no travel or contact history. Meanwhile, in Karur, 48 patients tested positive for the viral infection. In Ariyalur, of the 37 who tested positive, five hailed from Ariyalur block, two from Thirumanur, three from Sendurai, three each from Andimadam and T. Palur and 12 from Jayankondam block. Meanwhile, 255 throat swab samples were lifted on Saturday for testing. Perambalur recorded 12 new cases including inter-district travellers and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses. While most patients are admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, some were also admitted to hospitals in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-record-572-new-cases/article32830239.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Social distancing goes for a toss on World Biriyani Day||As city residents thronged a restaurant in Tiruchi commemorating World Biryani Day by selling the delicacy at just 10 paise per plate, social distancing became a casualty. The public had lined up right from 9 a.m. after the restaurant announced that the offer would only be available for the first 100 customers. K. M. S. Hakkim Biryani, the restaurant, announced the celebration of World Biryani Day for the first time in the city by selling biryani at 10 paise per plate for the public and Rs. 1 for frontline COVID-19 volunteers. “We decided to initiate this offer to thank the public for their patronage and to celebrate the dish that made us popular in the city,” said K. M. S. Mydeen, Proprietor. While over 1,500 people thronged the shop in Thillai Nagar, only 100 were served with the special offer. At the Palakkarai branch, frontline workers were invited to eat at the chain’s popular biryani at a cost of Rs. 1. “ We did not expect the crowd, and were disappointed to turn away so many customers. We intend to increase the numbers next year,” Mr. Mydeen said. However, some said that the public neglected COVID safety norms while lining up for the biryani. “There were no social distancing norms being maintained, and there was no way to control the crowd,” a resident of Thillai Nagar said. While the advertisement for the event had been released two days ago, the civic body and the district administration could have taken action to control it, another resident said. “COVID-19 virus is still spreading. At such a time, businesses must take precautions and permissions must be given by the relevant authorities to conduct such events,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-on-world-biriyani-day/article32830237.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||77 stolen two-wheelers recovered, one held||A special police team has recovered 77 stolen two-wheelers and arrested a 51-year-old man on the charge of lifting the vehicles from various places in Tiruchi and other districts in the Central zone. The team was constituted on the direction of the Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan to apprehend those involved in stealing vehicles. The team which was conducting vehicle checks on Saturday here stopped a two-wheeler rider near the Main Guard Gate. As the behaviour of the motorist was suspicious, the team inquired about the two-wheeler. It came to light that the two-wheeler was stolen from Chinna Kadai Veethi here last month. A press release said the team conducted further inquiries with the rider during which he identified himself as V. Rajkumar (51) of Melamarudhur in Tiruthuraipoondi taluk in Tiruvarur district. He also confessed to have stolen 77 two-wheelers from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The team recovered the stolen vehicles and got the accused remanded in judicial custody on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/77-stolen-two-wheelers-recovered-one-held/article32830243.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi gets one more urban forestry farm||One more urban forestry farm will come up at Kallakudi near Pullambadi in the district, according to Collector S. Sivarasu. It will be the third such major initiative, on the lines of the farms set up at Lalgudi, where 15,000 saplings were raised on Saturday, and at Srirangam where 10,000 saplings are being raised. Mr. Sivarasu said the urban forestry initiative would be carried out on the Japanese model of “Miyawaki” reflecting in creation of dense greenery in urban living environments. It would come up on 1.36 acres owned by the Pullambadi town panchayat. Arrangements were being made to plant 20,000 saplings. The plot was expected to be transformed into a dense forest within three months of plantation. The aim was to create a clean and green environment for the walkers to get fresh and pure air. S. Vaidhayanathan, Revenue Divisional Officer, Lalgudi, said 60 types of various species of flower and fruit saplings would be planted.  Sakul, Executive Officer, Pullambadi panchayat, said that the project would cost Rs. 12 lakh. Tiruchi based “Uravugal” public charitable trust had sponsored 20,000 saplings. Mr. Sivarasu said that planting would begin soon. It would be made as a model urban forestry farm, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gets-one-more-urban-forestry-farm/article32830236.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fencing of Periyar statue opposed||A group of Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) members staged a protest on Sunday expressing their opposition to fencing the statue of Periyar at Srirangam leading to police intervention. The Corporation authorities had planned to erect a fence around the statue situated a few metres away from the Rajagopuram of the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in the afternoon. Upon learning about the move, a group of Dravidar Kazhagam members came to the spot and opposed the move to fence the statue triggering tension for some time leading to police intervention. The protesting Dravidar Kazhagam members showed the patta in their possession of the place where the statue had been installed to the civic body officials. The work was put on hold in view of the opposition following which the Dravida Kazhagam members dispersed from the spot, said police sources. The DK members had opposed the move on Saturday too when fencing work was to start. The move to put up a fence around the statue at Srirangam was to prevent it from being vandalised by anti-social elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fencing-of-periyar-statue-opposed/article32830245.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IIM-T reaps benefit from solar power plant||Installation of a two Mega Watt Solar Power Plant (2 MW SPP) in the campus of Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi has begun to bring benefits to the institution. There was a reduction of over Rs. 7 lakh in the monthly power expenditure, estimated to be in the range of 60 to 70 percent of the bill amount, official sources said. Peak load yet to reach At present, the air-conditioners in the classrooms and hostels in the institution are not in use due to online classes. The peak load has not reached. The extent of savings on power bill will be to a higher extent when the power consumption increases after resumption of normal classes, the sources said. IIM-T had signed a memorandum of understanding with power PSU Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) and had secured Rs. 14.2 crore financial assistance to set up the 2-megawatt solar power plant. Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, Chairman, Managing Director, REC Ltd, New Delhi, inaugurated the solar power plant recently. IIM-T is the first among all IIMs in the country to have the solar power plant on campus. The institution has been paying the TANGEDCO on commercial rates in excess of Rs. 6 per unit. There will be substantial benefit from the solar power plant to residents in the living quarters who have also been paying commercial tariff to the TANGEDCO. Fifty five out of eighty quarters have been occupied by teaching faculty and other employees in the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-t-reaps-benefit-from-solar-power-plant/article32830271.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP happy in AIADMK alliance’||There was no confusion in BJP over the issue of alliance; the question of a new alliance does not arise, party State vice-president K. Annamalai said on Sunday. The BJP was quite happy in the alliance with AIADMK under the leadership of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The BJP and AIADMK were ideologically moving on a common trajectory, Mr. Annamalai told media persons. The Chief Minister had also expressed his support for the Farm Acts, he said. The State BJP president Murugan had also called on Mr. Edappadi K. Palaniswami to compliment the latter on being named as the CM candidate, Mr. Annamalai pointed out. The statement of senior leader Pon. Radhakrishnan on the alliance issue had been quoted out of context. The senior leader had actually meant that the alliance will be decided by the party leadership at the time of elections, Mr. Annamalai explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-happy-in-aiadmk-alliance/article32830272.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman staying alone found murdered||An aged woman was found murdered in her house on Nagammai Street in Sangiliadapuram area here on Sunday morning. Police gave the name of the deceased as Anandhi (79) - a widow who had been staying alone. The victim's son Kumar and daughter were residing separately. Ear studs and nose pins made of gold and worn by the woman were found missing. Police sources said the murder came to light when the woman's son Kumar came in the morning to meet her. On receipt of information, police personnel inspected the scene of crime and conducted inquiries. Fingerprint experts also inspected the spot. The body was sent for post mortem to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The sources said there was no visible external injury on the victim's body. The Palakkarai Police have registered a case of murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-woman-staying-alone-found-murdered/article32830242.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two drown||Two youth were reportedly washed away in the Kallanai Kalvai at Manojipatti near Thanjavur Town on Sunday. The duo aged 18 years and 19 years along with a group of their friends had gone to the waterbody to take a bath when they drowned. Firefighters who conducted a search had to suspend their operation due to poor lighting. The search operation would resume on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown/article32830246.ece
12 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 98.72 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 26,817 cusecs and the discharge was 15,997 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32830247.ece
12 October 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Corpn., MLA issue cost break-up for tank installed in Tiruppur||The Corporation and the Tiruppur south MLA on Sunday issued a break-up of the cost involved for installation of a water tank and other works after many raised questions whether the works really cost as much as mentioned on the synthetic water tank. Tiruppur south MLA S. Gunasekaran inaugurated the tank and taps at ward 50 of the Corporation on October 7. The cost involved for the works was mentioned as Rs. 7.70 lakh on the synthetic tank. Soon, many raised concern on social media whether installation of the tank and the concrete structure cost Rs. 7.70 lakh. Mr. Gunasekaran posted a video on his Facebook page stating that the tank and the taps were installed by the Corporation using its public fund and not with the MLA fund. According to the MLA, he only inaugurated it. Mr. Gunasekaran also shared the break-up of cost involved in the installation, which was released by the Corporation, on his Facebook page. According to the details shared by the Corporation, a motor was installed for the hand-pumped borewell at the first lane of Eswaramoorthy Layout. The tank installed also supplied water to Muthuvinayagar Kovil Street. The cost break-up mentioned expenses as Rs. 67,500 to construct a pump house, Rs. 41,800 for flushing of existing borewell, Rs. 54,357 for motor, Rs. 16,352 for panel board, Rs. 1,43,000 for borewell cable and pipe, Rs. 2,39,500 for distribution pipeline, Rs. 80,000 for electrical facilities including meter board, Rs. 26,100 for tank, Rs. 80,231 as 12% GST, Rs. 7,700 as 1% LWF and Rs. 13,050 as EB centage charge which totalled Rs. 7,69,582. Aam Aadmi Party’s district convener S. Sundarapandian, one of the persons who raised questions about the cost, alleged that the total works done might not have cost Rs. 7.70 lakh. The party leader claimed that similar projects carried out in the past in the rural areas of Tiruppur district were at lower budgets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-mla-issue-cost-break-up-for-tank-installed-in-tiruppur/article32830310.ece
12 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Udhagamandalam Municipality urged to desilt Kodappamund channel||Residents living around the Kodappamund channel have demanded that the Udhagamandalam Municipality (UMC) carry out desilting work on the channel to prevent flooding of the low-lying areas around town. Residents said that due to the channel not being desilted regularly before the monsoon, they face the threat of flooding their homes each year. R. Sumanth, a resident who lives near the ATC bus stand, said that sewage being let into the channel leads to many sections of the Kodappamund channel getting blocked, leading to a higher chance of flooding when it rain. “Due to the channel being extremely polluted with the town’s sewage, the water when it enters our homes poses a health risk to residents. We have also seen these flooding events more commonly over the last few years due to more intense showers,” he added. G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association, said that the municipality should expedite work on overhauling the Underground Drainage (UGD) line work which was announced earlier this year. “Unless the sewage line is established, so that the town’s sewage is separated from the channel, these issues will keep arising every few months,” said Mr. Janardhanan. He also said that stiff penalties should be imposed on businesses and residences that illegally divert their sewage into the channel. “There are certain choke points along the channel where due to garbage getting collected, are prone to water overflowing, like near the railway station. These places should be regularly desilted till a more permanent solution is found,” said Mr. Janardhanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhagamandalam-municipality-urged-to-desilt-kodappamund-channel/article32830736.ece
12 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Dist. administration takes stock of measures to tackle NE monsoon||The Nilgiris district administration has begun preparing for any eventualities that might result due to rain brought by the Northeast monsoon. Areas that are prone to landslips as well as flooding in previous years have already been identified and measures already in place to prevent loss of life and damage to property in these areas. A total of 283 areas have already been identified as being prone to landslips. Awareness campaigns are being conducted targeting communities in these areas so that they are aware of protocols that need to be followed in case of any emergencies. The district administration stated that teams comprising staff from various departments have been formed to deal with emergencies due to the monsoon. These teams will be tasked with monitoring low-lying areas prone to flooding. Moreover, 456 relief shelters have already been identified, where people who need to be evacuated from their homes can be sheltered. Inspection Officials will conduct inspections in each of these relief shelters to ensure that they have toilets, drinking water facilities and electricity. In order to inform the authorities about any emergencies, a total of 2,529 people have been identified across the district to provide information about any emergencies. The district administration has appealed to people to provide information about trees which are in danger of becoming uprooted as well as buildings in danger of collapsing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dist-administration-takes-stock-of-measures-to-tackle-ne-monsoon/article32830738.ece
12 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||T.N. govt. not interested in panchami land: MP||Member of Parliament D. Ravikumar on Sunday alleged that the ruling AIADMK had no bona fide intentions  to retrieve panchami lands in the State and transfer them to the Adi Dravidars, as was evident in its lack of efforts over the years. In a statement, Mr. Ravikumar said that the previous DMK government had constituted a committee headed by former Madras High Court Judge Maruthamuthu in 2011 to examine issues related to panchami lands. However, when the AIADMK government came into power, the panel was dissolved. However, on a subsequent writ petition filed in the Madras High Court, the AIADMK government formed a high-level committee in 2015 and it was anyone’s guess to know what happened to that committee as well, Mr. Ravikumar said. “The constitution of the high-level committee was thus only an ‘eyewash’ and this only showed that the AIADMK government was not interested in retrieving panchami lands that would be transferred to Dalits,” he said. The claim of State Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju that the AIADMK government was interested in the welfare of Dalits lacked truth and if it was true why were no steps taken to retrieve the lands, he asked.  The constitution of the high-level committee was only an eyewash and this only showed that the AIADMK government was not interested in retrieving the lands D. Ravikumar Member of Parliament||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-not-interested-in-panchami-land-mp/article32830277.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 389 fresh cases, four deaths||Salem district reported 294 positive cases on Sunday among which 287 were indigenous, including 151 in Salem Corporation limits. Seven patients returned from Chennai, Dharmapuri, Erode and Namakkal. The district reported two deaths. According to officials, a 57-year-old man and a 72-year-old man from Dharmapuri died at private hospitals. Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 389 new cases of COVID-19, the lowest daily case load in the past several days. The district had 4,917 patients undergoing treatment in different hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. The Health Department on Sunday declared the deaths of four patients, taking the district’s toll to 491. As many as 390 persons from the district got discharged from different treatment centres on Sunday. In Namakkal, 159 cases were reported. Among the patients, 16 returned from Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Theni, Karur and one from Uttar Pradesh. Erode district reported 163 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 8,276. While 130 persons were discharged, 1,099 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, taking the toll to 101 so far. In Dharmapuri, 86 indigenous cases were reported, while Krishnagiri saw 88 indigenous cases. Tiruppur district had 1,167 patients under treatment, including the 172 persons who tested positive on Sunday. According to the Health Department, 123 persons from Tiruppur district were discharged and the district did not report any death on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 128 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 5,219 while 799 people are undergoing treatment. The toll in the district stands at 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-294-fresh-cases-two-deaths/article32830321.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nagercoil Corporation not to allow digging of borewells for public, private use||Driven by the goal to prevent depletion of groundwater table, the Nagercoil Municipal Corporation has decided not to entertain requests for digging of borewells both for public and private use. “The need for allowing borewells does not arise as the drinking water supplied by the Corporation on a daily basis is meeting the requirement. Nanjil Nadu in Kanyakumari district is blessed with water resources and sufficient ground water and it is our duty to preserve them for the future generation,” said Asha Ajith, the first IAS officer to become the Commissioner after Nagercoil became a Muncipal Corporation. At present, the Corporation has 400 borewells for public consumption and there are innumerable borewells in private use. Pointing out that borewells elsewhere in the state had depleted the ground water table, resulting in water scarcity, she said supply of water from Puthen Dam would fully take care of the drinking water need in the Corporation area. The scheme was expected to be complete in eight months. N. Suresh Rajan, representing Nagercoil Assembly constituency, said he recommended a few borewells for the public use, but the Corporation had expressed its inability to entertain the request on technical grounds. “I also agree that there is no need for digging borewells once the water from Puthen Dam will be available for the people of Nagercoil,” he said. Asked whether the old borewells would be closed after the completion of the Puthen Dam scheme, she said a decision on the issue would be taken after studying the situation in the future. Ms. Asha Ajith also agreed with Mr. Suresh Rajan that untreated sewage entering the water bodies was a major cause of concern. According to Mr Suresh Rajan sewage from 52 wards was entering Palayar, referred to as the Pakruli river in the Sangam period, and polluting it and other water bodies receiving supply from it. “The underground sewage system got delayed because of a few cases before the National Green Tribunal. Completion of the sewage treatment plant will put an end to the problem of linking sewages directly to the water bodies,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-not-to-allow-digging-of-borewells/article32830279.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stamp duty, registration fee collection up||The declining trend continued in May, June and July. The revenue growth from stamp duty and registration fees is the proxy to real estate demand. A senior official said the property demand had come back strongly in August and September. Pent-up demand “There was a pent-up demand amid the complete lockdown in April and May, which brought activities to a stand still. With the number of relaxations allowed and more number of auspicious days, the revenue has been positive in August and September [when the e-pass system for inter-district travel was scrapped],” officials of the Department of Registration said. The number of documents registered increased to 2,98,956 in September this year from 2,38,978 in the same period last year. In August this year, the number of documents registered rose to 2,17,070 from 2,00,649 in the same period last year. Sanjay Chugh, city head-Chennai, Anarock Property Consultants, said the reduction in interest rates for home loans and incentives offered by builders had helped to revive the property demand. “The pent-up demand is getting reflected now. With interest rates being lower and incentives from some quality builders in the market, it may be the right time to buy a house,” he said. More site visits Sridharan, chairman of CREDAI, Tamil Nadu, said the demand had come back strongly. “The lockdown relaxations, especially the opening up on Sundays, have increased site visits. People who were waiting on the sidelines are now actively considering buying a house, and the inquiries have gone up significantly,” he said. But he called for a reduction in the registration fee and stamp duty, which is at 11%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stamp-duty-registration-fee-collection-up/article32830250.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nature’s bounty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/natures-bounty/article32830324.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Deft hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deft-hands/article32830287.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aerial view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aerial-view/article32830293.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With eye on sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-eye-on-sky/article32830809.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In command||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-command/article32830925.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Alliance Air launches new service from tomorrow||Alliance Air, a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India, is launching a circular flight service on Bengaluru-Madurai-Coimbatore-Bengaluru sector from October 13. The airline is deploying a 70-seater ATR 72 aircraft for this four-days-a-week service - it will be operated on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday. Flight 9I 573 will depart from Bengaluru at 0630 hrs.; arrive in Madurai at 0750; depart from Madurai at 0820; arrive in Coimbatore at 0910; depart from Coimbatore at 0935; and reach Bengaluru at 1035.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flight-service/article32830278.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Packed procession||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/packed-procession/article32830260.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The stretch of road from Peramangalam to Moovanur in Tiruchi district that passes through Kuruvikarankulam hamlet gets too muddy during rainy season, hindering movement of vehicles. The road is vital for farmers to transport their produce. Buses from Peramangalam to Musiri, Thiruthiyamalai sivan temple, Ponnankannipatti, Thandalaiputhur and Moovanur pass through the road. For two-wheeler riders, it becomes an uphill task when a bus comes in the opposite direction. Pits and potholes that were recently covered with loose soil have surfaced again. The authorities concerned have to strengthen the road for the safety of travellers. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    While most people afflicted with COVID-19 have recovered quickly, for some, the symptoms linger for weeks or months following the initial recovery. These patients develop complications that may have lasting health effects, damaging lungs, heart and brain. Older people and people with many serious medical conditions are the most likely to experience lingering COVID-19 symptoms. The potentially long-lasting problems from COVID-19 make it even more important for people to reduce the spread of the disease by following precautions such as wearing masks, avoiding crowds and keeping hands clean. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.    Lockdown relaxations are being eased more and more, but there are fears that the COVID-19 cases will peak during October-November. The civic authorities seem to have reduced the intensity of disinfection process. Not many are serious about wearing facemarks or following social distancing. Only through strict adherence to preventive measures can COVID -19 effect be reduced. S. Raghavan, Cantonment.   This is with reference to the article 'Call for better maintenance of Mavadikulam' published in The Hindu dated October 10. It is a pleasure to know that after years of struggle, the Public Works Department has initiated action to develop Mavadikulam. Priority should be given to prevent allowing the sewage from the residences and other commercial establishments. Erection of earthen mounds for waterbirds must be undertaken in consultation with ornithologtists, and the Forest Department must be roped in for planting of the right varieties of saplings. Vedanthangal, Vellode, Vaduvoor, Udhayamarthandapuram, Vettangudi and Koonthakulam Bird Sanctuaries have been formed only in irrigation ponds. Hence, there will not be any problem in using the pond primarily for irrigation alongside developing it as a haven for waterbirds. V. Sundararaju, Srinivasa Nagar South.    As a precautionary measure, the biometric system in PDS shops may be deferred until vaccine is found for COVID-19. There is a need to curtail the sporadic spread of corona virus during the second wave in the coming months. Else, there will be chances of spreading the virus through finger contact. Dimple R. Mohan, Sangiliyandapuram.   Now that commuters have started using the bus stops after restoration, the shelters at the central Bus Stand, Sevasangam bus stop, American Hospital bus stop, Court bus stop, Government Hospital bus stop where homeless and destitute people could be found have to be cleaned up. The shelters look like breeding spots for mosquitoes. An action plan must be drawn up for joint execution by different government departments. M. Raja, Tiruchi.    The Old Kollidam bridge that seems to be in a state of damage need to be reconstructed. The bridge must be constructed with a walking track and entry fee could be levied by the civic body for maintaining it. G. Srinivas, Tiruvanaikoil.    The plan of Tiruchi City Corporation for establishing a walkway along the Uyyakondan canal and the public park sounds interesting. The flooring of the walkway tracks must be undertaken with care. The local body ought to take cognisance of the state of ruin of the walkway along the Amma Mandapam road due to lack of maintenance. Periodic inspection and maintenance is a vital requirement for maintaining the walkway. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32830281.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The entire stretch of Kiruthumal river is filled with garbage, plastic waste and sewage. The first step in Madurai under the Smart Cities Mission programme should have been to clean and maintain the Kiruthumal river. The district administration should start cleaning the Kiruthumal and ensure that clean water flows in the river.  N. Mohamed Ismail,  Madurai    As the junction of Anna Nagar 80 Feet Road, Vandiyur Main Road and PTR bridge slope is always busy and chaotic, road users find it inconvenient to cross this point. Construction of a traffic island and laying a zebra crossing here will provide safety to road users.  Dhyana Sekar,    The S. Alangulam pond recharges groundwater for houses in Valluvar Colony, Kalai Nagar, Viswanathapuram, Bharathi Nagar and Mudakathan. Kudimaramathu works were undertaken for desilting the pond and constructing a supply channel from Periyar Main Canal to improve the groundwater level. However, the works were discontinued and the residents have started letting sewage water into the canal. This will ultimately find its way into the S. Alangulam pond. If the practice continues, the entire pond will be filled with sewage water and lead to health issues for residents. The authorities must take urgent steps to address this issue.  Andal Gopalakrishnan,    Roads in Madurai that were dug up for laying drinking water and drainage pipelines are not closed properly once the works are over. This poses a threat to vehicle users. The authorities must inspect them and ensure that the roads are restored properly. Also, such works must be taken up in a phased manner, instead of digging up the whole road at the same time.  K.R. Rajendran,   Madurai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32830806.ece
12 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Aspirants for bypolls in Belagavi LS segment more in BJP||Election Commission of India is yet to announce a byelection to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat that fell vacant after the death of the former Union Minister Suresh Angadi. Political developments related to the bypoll, however, have begun in the district. The earliest trends suggest that the number of aspirants in the BJP outnumber those in the Congress or the Janata Dal(S). BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel toured the district to meet taluk-level leaders and heads of different morchas on Saturday and Sunday. However, he told journalists in Belagavi on Saturday that the party would focus on the bypoll only after the ECI announcement. This is the second time since Angadi’s death that Mr. Kateel is visiting Belagavi. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi also held a meeting of party office-bearers a week ago. Angadi’s followers and relatives have demanded that the party nominate either his wife or one of his daughters in the elections. His uncle Lingaraj Patil urged Mr. Kateel to honour Angadi’s memory by giving party ticket to one of his family members. This is apart from the sympathy factor, he reminded Mr. Kateel. Some in the BJP feel that a Lingayat Banajiga leader should fill the slot held by Angadi in Parliament and if possible, in the Union Council of Ministers. KLE Society chairman Prabhakar Kore, a member of the Banajiga community, met Mr. Kateel on Saturday and told journalists that he had not retired from politics yet. The former Rajya Sabha member joined the BJP in 2008 after spending decades in the Congress. His Rajya Sabha membership was not renewed when the BJP chose a Sangh Parivar favourite Eeranna Kadadi over him this year. Lingayat Panchamshali community leaders, including Jaya Mrutyunjay Swami, have demanded that the party nominate a leader from the community if Angadi’s family did not get party ticket. This would help leaders, including Shankargouda Patil, State’s representative in New Delhi, MLA V.I. Patil, Raju Chikkangoudar, Ravi Patil and Mahantesh Doddagoudar, say party workers. Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has spoken to some leaders about fielding his son and KMF director Amarnath Jarkiholi, said one BJP leader. If a Jarkiholi family member gets party ticket, the brothers will work together despite party differences, he said. Mr. Kateel meeting the former MP Amarsinh Patil in Raibag on Sunday led to speculation that the BJP may be planning to field the leader from the Kuruba community to strengthen the backward class vote base in North Karnataka. The few names doing the rounds in the Congress are that of the former MP Prakash Hukkeri and MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar. The party could also ask MLAs Satish Jarkiholi or Mahantesh Koujalgi to fight the polls, said a Congress leader. However, there are not many seeking party nomination. No meeting has been held over this issue at the State or district level till now, he said. The Janata Dal(S) is yet to see bypoll-related activity, members say. “We are waiting for instructions from senior leaders about the polls. We will choose the best candidate among us and give a proper fight,’’ says Ashfaq Madaki, who fought the Assembly polls unsuccessfully last time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aspirants-for-bypolls-in-belagavi-ls-segment-more-in-bjp/article32830345.ece
12 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sam — the Indian connection to Nobel in Chemistry||This year’s Nobel prize in Chemistry has an Indian connection. Samarth Kulkarni, Chief Executive Officer of CRISPR Therapeutics Research Centre, founded by Emmanuelle Charpentier, hails from Belagavi. This was revealed after a tweet from Dr. Kulkarni was shared widely among Belagavi residents with congratulatory messages and tags about his schooling in the city. He acknowledged them saying: “I am grateful for all the congratulatory notes from everyone in Belagavi and hope that we can continue to work hard towards making medicine from this technology.” Prof. Charpentier and Jennifer Doudna are the two scientists who have been selected for the coveted prize for their work on “genetic scissors”. Prof. Charpentier founded the CRISPR laboratory a few years ago. Dr. Kulkarni, who serves as the CEO of the institution, studied in Rashtriya Military School and GSS Pre University College here. Dr. Kulkarni, called Sam by his friends in the U.S., is a young bio-technology scientist who has been working with CRISPR since 2015. He has served as the company’s Chief Business Officer and president before being promoted as CEO. He has also worked for pharmaceutical and medical technology companies. He serves on the board of some technology companies. After graduating in B.Tech in Biotechnology from IIT Kharagpur, he received a Ph.D in bioengineering and nanotechnology from the University of Washington. He has conducted research on the delivery of biological drugs and molecular diagnostics. He has authored several publications in leading scientific and business journals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sam-the-indian-connection-to-nobel-in-chemistry/article32830352.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suburban rail project to take six years to be completed||Citizens will have to wait for at least six years before all the four corridors proposed under the suburban rail project are completed. To prevent further delays, the Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Ltd. (K –RIDE ) has proposed that work should not be undertaken in phases but simultaneously across the corridors — KSR Bengaluru to Devanahalli, Baiyappanahalli to Chikkabanvara, Kengeri to Whitefield, and Heelalige to Rajanakunte. “Taking up a project in a phased manner will delay execution, so there is a plan to start the project in all the corridors and complete it within the deadline,” said sources. Citizens groups and activists who have been campaigning for the suburban rail network in Bengaluru said of the four corridors, the agency should complete the KSR Bengaluru to Devanahalli line on priority as it would come as a relief to commuters relying on public transport to get to work. Land acquisition The authorities will start issuing the preliminary notification for acquisition of 102 acres of land required for the project from next month. However, unlike with other infrastructure projects, land acquisition is not expected to be a hurdle. “More than 85% of the land required for the project is available. For the rest of the 102 acres of land, preliminary notification will be issued,” said an official. Rail activists have demanded that the authorities make the suburban rail system an economical option for the public to travel in the city. Rail activist Sanjeev Dyamannavar said, “The suburban rail project involves a huge investment. To lessen the burden, the government must explore the possibility of giving GST exemption, interest-free loans, and others,” he said. Lakhs of people are expected to use the mass transit system once it is operational, and the pricing of tickets will play a role in determining its popularity. “K-RIDE must also explore other options to make the suburban rail system sustainable by generating non-fare box revenue. These measures will help the public get a transport system at an affordable rate,” Mr. Dyamannavar added. Another bone of contention is K-RIDE’s plans to run trains with air-conditioned coaches. This will significantly increase ticket fares. Commuters argue that Bengaluru’s weather is such that they do not need air-conditioned coaches, and that people should be given the option of travelling in non-AC coaches too. “The fares should be such that even the poorest of the poor can use the suburban rail. The cost of building a rail system is much cheaper than that of a metro network. The agency should take up the project that has been delayed for decades on a war footing,” said Rajkumar Dugar of Citizens for Citizens.  The fares should be such that even the poorest of the poor can use the suburban rail. The cost of building a rail system is much cheaper than that of a metro network. Rajkumar Dugar, from Citizens for Citizens||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suburban-rail-project-to-take-six-years-to-be-completed/article32830704.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah is the biggest liar of the century, says Kumaraswamy||Barbs continued to be traded between Janata Dal (S) and Congress leaders on Sunday, with former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy calling the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah the “biggest liar of the century”. “Siddaramaiah has said that he had discussed with the JD(S) the matter of support to the Congress when the motion of no confidence was moved. He has also said that the sons of soil did not support. This is a blatant lie and Mr. Siddaramaiah has proved himself to be the biggest liar of the century,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said in a series of tweets. In another tweet, he said, “In the last century, a former Congress Chief Minister had been termed as a big liar. Mr. Siddaramaiah has snatched that title.” He added that Mr. Siddaramaiah, without holding any discussions with the JD(S), was lying through his teeth and should stop doing so at least now. “While I am accused of playing caste politics during elections, what is Mr. Siddaramaiah [doing]? The land knows that he wears the AHINDA mask and is a fake socialist,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda accused the Congress of indulging in caste politics in Rajarajeshwarinagar. He said that no matter how powerful someone is, it is not possible to win elections based on the strength of one caste. Mr. Gowda was speaking here after holding discussions over the choice of party candidate in R.R. Nagar. He said, "I have said it a thousand times that it is not possible to win on the strength of one caste. [KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar] is free to experiment whatever he wants and he will suffer.” When asked for a response to the JD(S) leaders’ criticism, Mr. Shivakumar refused to respond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-is-the-biggest-liar-of-the-century-says-kumaraswamy/article32830359.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Women are hit hard by economic fallout of COVID-19’||Women have been disproportionately impacted by the pandemic, especially those who are part of the workforce. Women employees and entrepreneurs continue to suffer the impact of layoffs and business losses to a greater extent than men. As per a recent analysis by McKinsey Global Institute, women are more vulnerable to COVID-19-related economic effects because of the already existing gender inequalities. The magnitude of inequality is striking. Using data and trends from unemployment surveys in the United States and India where gender-disaggregated data is available, the study estimates that female job loss rates owing to COVID-19 are about 1.8 times higher than the male job loss rates globally, at 5.7% versus 3.1%, respectively. Dip in sales revenues Confirming the trend, Ipshita Sen, founder of the NGO Engendered, which helps women in their mid-careers, said studies in India show that four out of every 10 working women have lost their jobs post the lockdown. Similarly, 90% of the women entrepreneurs have reported a significant decrease in their sales revenues. Women entrepreneurs are relatively more vulnerable in this situation as they tend to operate mostly in sectors such as food, arts, recreation, and retail which are the worst-affected by the pandemic. “As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to ravage economies, lives, and livelihoods, it is already apparent that there is a greater negative impact on women and the progress towards gender parity,” said Ms. Sen. The second calendar quarter (April to June 2020) employment numbers in India indicate that the number of women who lost jobs was higher, as a percentage, than that of their male counterparts. As per the McKinsey report, women make up 39% of global employment, but account for 54% of the overall job losses, indicating a skewed gender scenario which could be true around the globe. Such inequality, intuitively, has always been there against women at workplaces and elsewhere. But, the pandemic has brought the magnitude of it to the forefront, said Nirmala Menon, CEO and founder of Interweave, a firm that offers consulting on diversity and inclusion issues. “The pandemic has brought the gender inequality issue up closer and it has triggered angst and anger. It is becoming a subject of discussion on various channels and social media is keeping the pressure up. Therefore, employee organisations are forced to be fair and sensitive while handling career issues of their women employees,” added Ms. Menon. Across all professions B.S. Murthy, CEO of Leadership Capital, a mentoring and CXO hiring firm, said women professionals and women entrepreneurs in Bengaluru are not insulated from the economic impact of the pandemic. “It is true that more women are losing jobs in the organised sector than men. So, it’s obvious that women, by all means, are more affected by the pandemic. It is true everywhere and so also is the case with our city.” Women across all professions — ranging from fashion designers and those in the catering services to artistes, dancers, and hairdressers — are under pressure. “What about cleaning staff at our over 500 marriage halls, teachers, and ayahs at over 1,000 playschools in our city or housekeeping staff of several of our corporates? Invariably all these jobs are dominated by women and most of these jobs are lost,” added Mr. Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-are-hit-hard-by-economic-fallout-of-covid-19/article32830706.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Associations demand uniformity in midterm holidays for schools||The government’s decision to declare midterm holidays for government, aided and unaided schools following the State board syllabus has received mixed reactions from parents, teachers and other stakeholders. Many schools said they had already planned midterm exams and what portions would be covered for October following the government’s initial decision to cancel midterm holidays, while others argued that online classes for a limited number of hours every day should be allowed to make up for lost time. Teachers and parents expressed concern over whether portions will be covered in time. A teacher, who did not want to be named, said that there were many institutions that followed the State board and CBSE and/or ICSE under different sections. “This decision will create a lack of uniformity among the boards. Parents may also worry as one set of students will not have any classes while their peers in other boards will continue learning online,” the teacher said. C.A. Ramesh of Suma Public School in the city, while welcoming the decision said that online classes for two hours a day should have been permitted so that children don’t lose their focus.“Parents can keep their children constructively and productively engaged. More importantly, the government can use this break to improve access to internet connectivity and infrastructure, especially in rural areas,” he said. Managements have sought more clarity from the government. Shashidhar Dindur, secretary of Recognised Unaided Schools Association, said the government should come up with clear and comprehensive guidelines. “The government should, on a priority basis, issue guidelines and plans for the academic year 2020-21 so that once online classes resume we will know what to do and how to go about it,” he said. Shashi Kumar D., General Secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, has requested the Department of Primary and Secondary Education to issue clear orders on online classes. “This is discriminatory as only one set of schools get holidays and the others do not,” he said.  The government should come up with clear and comprehensive guidelines. It should, on a priority basis, issue guidelines and plans for the 2020-21 academic year so that once online classes resume, we will know what to do and how to go about it.Shashidhar DindurSecretary of Recognised Unaided Schools Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/associations-demand-uniformity-in-midterm-holidays-for-schools/article32830375.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||9,523 new cases in State||The State recorded as many as 9,523 COVID-19 cases and 10,107 recoveries on Sunday. With this, the State has seen a total of 7.1 lakh positive cases and 5.8 lakh recoveries. Of the over 9,000 new positive cases, 4,623 were reported in Bengaluru. As many as 75 people succumbed to the virus, taking the total number of COVID-19-related deaths across Karnataka to 9,966. The media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday had two new features: the positive rate for the day and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) for the day. On Sunday, the positivity rate stood at 9.53%, and the CFR at 0.79%. The media bulletin also stated that a total of 904 patients have been admitted in intensive care units across different hospitals. There are a total of 1.2 lakh active cases in the State. A total of 99,923 COVID-19 tests were conducted across the State, including 38,731 rapid antigen tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9523-new-cases-in-state/article32830696.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. appoints legislators as in-charge for each ward||The Congress on Sunday announced the appointment of one legislator to each ward and gram panchayat in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira Assembly constituencies to oversee the campaigning for the party’s candidates. This was announced by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar after he met with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and a host of senior party leaders to discuss strategies for the party’s victory in both constituencies. “The workers have been given responsibility at the booth level. There will be a coordinated effort,” he told presspersons. Mr. Shivakumar handed over the B-forms to the candidates, H. Kusuma (R.R. Nagar) and T.B. Jayachandra (Sira). JD(S) announcement The Janata Dal (Secular) will announce its candidate for R.R. Nagar on Tuesday, and the selected candidate will file the nomination papers on Wednesday, party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda said on Sunday. He added that the party was tired of fielding turncoats and had identified three party workers. The BJP has kept the announcement of its candidate for R.R. Nagar pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-appoints-legislators-as-in-charge-for-each-ward/article32830360.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Beneficiaries get property cards virtually from PM||Beneficiaries of the SVAMITVA scheme, which entails issuance of property cards after a drone survey in rural areas, from Ramanagaram district here were among those to receive their property cards from Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually on Sunday. The cards were distributed to property holders in 763 villages across six States, including Karnataka, by the Prime Minister, who sent a link to the respective phones that enabled the download of the property cards. In Ramanagaram, 157 beneficiaries in Magadi and Ramanagaram taluks received links on their phone, a note said, adding that four villages — M.G. Palya, Seebekatte, Basavapatna, and Shambayyanapalya — were part of the national pilot projects. While Mr. Modi was scheduled to interact with Ms. Manjula, it was put off owing to the model code of conduct prevailing for the the Bangalore Teachers constituency, where election is scheduled on October 28. The note said that so far, about 24,804 properties in 67 villages have been surveyed through drones and sketches in Ramanagaram. Once it is implemented fully, this scheme will eliminate unnecessary litigation over property and will allow the local body to fix property tax on a scientificbasis, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beneficiaries-get-property-cards-virtually-from-pm/article32830363.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gambling: 65 held; Rs. 96 lakh seized||The Central Crime Branch police raided a hotel at Mahadevapura on Sunday and arrested 65 people who were allegedly gambling. The police team seized Rs. 96 lakh in cash during the raid, one of the biggest hauls in recent times. “We got a tip-off that one of the biggest gambling events was being organised at the hotel. Most of the people were from Andhra Pradesh who had been invited for the high-end event,” said a CCB official. Two of the organisers have been detained. A senior CCB official expressed surprise that such a big event, organised during the pandemic, went unnoticed by the jurisdictional police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gambling-65-held-rs-96-lakh-seized/article32830694.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Missing girl found dead; police suspect murder||An 18-year-old girl, who was reported missing last Thursday, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a field near her house at Battarahalli on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. The police suspect she was murdered. The deceased was a first-year B.Com. student at a private college in Ramanagaram, said a police officer, adding that herparents had filed a missing person’s complaint with the Kudur police. On October 10, passers-by saw a single slipper and a stone with blood stains. People gathered at the spot and after a search found the body in a pit. The Kudur police are awaiting the post-mortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/missing-girl-found-dead-police-suspect-murder/article32830699.ece
12 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Candidates’ list out||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) has announced the list of candidates eligible for document verification for 14 posts in the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. The details in this regard can be obtained from the KPSC websitehttp://kpsc.kar.nic.in, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/candidates-list-out/article32830373.ece
12 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Provisional selection list||The KPSC has announced the provisional selection list for seven posts of Junior Training Officer - Architectural Assistant in the Commissionerate of Employment and Training. Candidates who are likely to be affected by this list may file objections, if any, addressed to the Secretary, KPSC, Udyoga Soudha, Bengaluru - 560001 within seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provisional-selection-list/article32830374.ece
12 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ranaghatta project: Minister promises to push for funding||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah has said he will make efforts for the release of funds required to execute the Ranaghatta project that brings water to Dorasamudra, a historic tank at Halebidu, from Yagachi river. Speaking to presspersons after offering bagina to Dorasamudra tank that had filled up following the rains this year, on Saturday, the Minister said he would discuss the project with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to get funds sanctioned. The project was announced by the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government. Mr. Gopalaiah, who is also minister in-charge of the district, said that the State government would prioritize developmental projects. “The government will not play politics on the issue of works that benefit the farming community,” he said. K.S. Lingesh of the JD(S), Belur MLA, said the project was stuck. Once the project was implemented, Dorasamudra tank would get water so that farmers in the area would benefit. “The State government should provide funds for the project and implement it at the earliest,” he said. Deputy Commissioner R .Girish, Zilla Panchayat CEO B.A. Paramesh, District BJP president H.K. Suresh and others were present. Home visit Later in the day, Mr. Gopalaiah visited the house of the youth, who lost both his parents to COVID-19. Dheemanth, 25, lost his father and mother within a gap of two days, a week ago. His mother was a teacher and his father, a priest. All three had tested positive for the infection. While he was under treatment, his parents succumbed to the infection. A couple of days later he recovered. The Minister told officers to forward files, recommending him for a compensatory job in the State government, to the secretariat in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ranaghatta-project-minister-promises-to-push-for-funding/article32830500.ece
12 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Kagodu Thimmappa tests positive||Former Minister and senior Congress leader Kagodu Thimmappa has tested positive for COVID-19 infection. He has been admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru. Mr. Thimmappa, 88, had developed symptoms of the infection two days ago. He gave a swab sample for the test at Sagar in Shivamogga district. As he tested positive, his family took him to Bengaluru. Protest The former Minister had taken part in a protest against the farm bills at his native place Kagodu recently. Sagar MLA Hartal Halappa and others have posted statements on their social media accounts wishing him a speedy recovery from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kagodu-thimmappa-tests-positive/article32830502.ece
12 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Elderly woman, son murdered at home||A woman and her son were found murdered at their residence at Hale Ikkeri in Sagar taluk on Saturday night. The police identified the deceased as Bangaramma, 62 and her son Praveen, 32. Unknown people barged into the house and attacked them with a knife. The reason for the crime is not yet known. It is said the incident happened in the presence of Praveen’s wife and son. The accused had tied them up. No valuables were missing from the scene. The Sagar Rural Police have registered the case. Witnesses K.M. Shantaraj, Superintendent of Police of Shivamogga, and other officers visited the spot. Mr. Shantharaj told The Hindu that Praveen’s wife was a witness to the incident. “A member of the family is a witness to the crime. A preliminary inquiry has shown that the accused had not taken away valuables. I have formed a team of officials to probe the case. We hope to arrest the accused soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elderly-woman-son-murdered-at-home/article32830503.ece
12 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||People urged to participate in resistance day on Wednesday||Raita Krishikarmikara Sanghatane, an organisation of farmers and farm workers affiliated to All India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sangathan, has urged people to actively participate in the All India Resistance Day to be observed on October 14 condemning the recent farm laws. In a joint press release, T.S. Suneet Kumar and H.V. Diwakar, president and secretary of the outfit, respectively, said that the legislation were amended by the BJP government to help big corporate companies flourish, intensifying their exploitation of the toiling masses. “With the removal of pulses, cereals, oil seeds and other essential commodities from Essential Commodities Act, the BJP government is going to help big corporate companies purchase them at much cheaper prices from farmers and stock them to create artificial scarcity in the market. It would essentially lead to artificial widening of demand and supply and result in steep rise of prices of the commodities. The government’s move would thus help hoarders and bring sufferings to farmers and consumers,” they said. The Left leaders said that the amended legislation would destabilise the APMC mechanism and drive out vast a majority of poor and marginal farmers from agriculture by giving full control to corporate companies. “The amendments to Karnataka APMC Act and the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Agriculture Reforms Bills passed by Parliament would pave the way for increased corporatisation of agriculture. A vast majority of farmers have small land holdings. These legislation would allow big companies to snatch land from farmers,” they said. They called upon the people to actively participate in the All India Resistance Day scheduled on Wednesday demanding the withdrawal of the recent amendments to the APMC Act, the Land Reforms Act, the Electricity Act and the Essential Commodities Act and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-urged-to-participate-in-resistance-day-on-wednesday/article32830342.ece
12 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Repairs to 45-km stretch approved||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has given administrative approval to road repair works on Bidar-Aurad stretch and a bridge repair work near Kouta (B) in Bidar district, Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan has said. Mr. Chavan has in a release stated that a delegation led by Bidar MP Bhagwant Khuba met Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari multiple times and obtained approval for the work on the 45-km Bidar-Aurad stretch at a cost of Rs. 77 lakh and the bridge repair work near Kouta B village at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.33 crore. After the recent rainfall, the road condition has turned from bad to worse. As a result, commuters are forced to take detours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/repairs-to-45-km-stretch-approved/article32830348.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fall in marine catch leaves fisheries sector gasping||A month after deep sea fishing began in the coastal belt, the fisheries sector is gasping for breath with heavy reduction in marine catch. Though many workers from outside the State such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha have returned to work in fishing boats, marine catch is yet to pick up. Mangaluru Trawl Boat Owners Association president Nitin Kumar told The Hindu that a majority of about 900 trawl boats in Mangaluru, which are engaged in deep sea fishing spending 10 days to 11 days in the sea, have begun sailing out in turns. But the catch is not normal. Trawl boats also lost some days of fishing during the last month due to rough sea condition. Mr. Kumar said that normally, fishermen get bumper marine catch during September-November. Catch has come down drastically in this season though deep sea fishing resumed on September 1 after a five-month break due to the lockdown and COVID-19 issues. For example, “Rani” fish catch has come down from the normal about six to seven tonnes a day to about two to three tonnes. Market demands this particular variety of fish for its meat. Cuttlefish catch has also come down from tonnes to kilograms to the level of 700 kg to 800 kg on some days. Cuttlefish has good export demand, while its local consumption is not much. Mr. Kumar, who is a former chairman of Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation, said that marine catch depended on the vagaries of sea, including direction and speed of current and other weather factors. As the marketing of marine catch has not picked up due to transport issues in view of COVID-19 situation, prices of fish and other marine products have not picked up. Mangaluru Fishmeal and Oil Manufacturers Association president Khader H.K. said that the coastal belt had 21 active factories covering Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. They are making use of only 5 % of their processing capacity now as many fishing boats are returning with meagre marine catch. “I have not seen such a scenario in the fishing sector in the past 25 years of my experience as a processor of marine products,” he said. Mr. Khader said that like the other sectors hit by COVID-19 issues, the fisheries sector too has been affected. There is a chain impact. Deputy Director, Department of Fisheries, Dakshina Kannada, P. Parshwanath, said that the sector is yet to come to terms due to multiple factors associated with COVID-19, including transportation. Fishermen and traders are not getting remunerative price for quality fish used for table purpose. The rates for quality fish have dropped by 30 % to 40 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fall-in-marine-catch-leaves-fisheries-sector-gasping/article32830831.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State making efforts to reach the top slot in fisheries, says Minister||Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport Kota Srinivasa Poojari said on Sunday that the State occupied the ninth position in inland fisheries and fourth position in marine fisheries in the country. All efforts are being made to take the State to the top position in both the sectors. Speaking after inaugurating “Matsya Pradarshanalaya” at Lalithodyana in Dharmasthala, Mr. Poojari said that the Union government has sanctioned Rs. 3.5 crore to the State to promote the fisheries sector along the coast. There is good demand for fish chips. Pattadhikari of Dharmasthala D. Veerendra Heggade said that taking care of animals and birds, more so, fish, will help in reducing stress in one’s life. Ornamental fish cannot be seen in lakes, rivers and sea. Hence, one should cultivate the hobby of keeping fish by becoming an aquarist. Legislators Harish Poonja and Pratap Simpa Nayak took part in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-making-efforts-to-reach-the-top-slot-in-fisheries-says-minister/article32830835.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Frontline warriors ensured low COVID-19 death rate in Udupi’||Uudpi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Saturday said that the district was one among three in the State that registered the lowest deaths owing to COVID-19. The district is different from the other two as COVID-19 patients in those districts were shifted elsewhere for advanced treatment, while patients in critical condition were treated in Udupi itself, he said. This was because of the dedicated work by COVID-19 frontline warriors, Mr. Jagadeesha said. He was speaking at a workshop organised to motivate frontline warriors in Udupi to enable them to discharge their duties without any stress. The frontline warriors comprising government doctors, Health Department officials, doctors in the district experts team, tahsildars, executive officers have been working relentlessly to save lives, thereby keeping the death rate in the district at the lowest. At the same time, the administration is giving importance to their safety too, he said and added that no warrior has died in the district, thus. Private hospitals too have extended the maximum support in the fight against COVID-19, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that the administration as a whole has collectively faced the pandemic through lockdown, unlocks, quarantining people entering the district from outside and their health check-up, safety of migrant workers, all these days. The number of COVID-19 positive patients in the district came down considerably as the frontline warriors did not succumb to criticism being dished out on social media. Besides fighting COVID-19 effectively, the district has been in the forefront in delivering citizen services for 12 months. District COVID-19 Nodal Officer Prashanth Bhat, who could not receive the felicitations during Independence Day, was felicitated on the occasion. MAHE Vice-Chancellor Lt. Gen (retd.) Venkatesh, Udupi Zilla Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Kundapur Assistant Commissioner K. Raju, District Health Officer Sudhirchandra Suda, Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, Avinash Shetty, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/frontline-warriors-ensured-low-covid-19-death-rate-in-udupi/article32830826.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cyanide Mohan to go on the floors in January next||Shooting for the forthcoming multilingual crime thriller, Cyanide, will start on January 15. Mangaluru and Mysuru are among the cities where the film will be shot. According to the film-maker Rajesh Touchriver, the film is roughly based on the crimes committed by Cyanide Mohan who has been convicted of murdering 15 women. This film will be produced in Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada. Priya Mani will play the role of an investigating officer in the film in South Indian languages, while Yashpal Sharma will play the same role in the Hindi version, Mr. Touchriver told The Hindu over phone. “We will start shooting on January 15 in Mangaluru,” he said. It will be shot in locations in Mysuru, Madikeri, Kasaragod in Kerala, Goa and Hyderabad, he added. Cyanide Mohan, a teacher by profession, has been convicted of 15 murders of the 20 he has been accused in, by the District Sessions Court in Mangaluru. He has been charged with befriending unmarried women and luring them to take cyanide after sexually assaulting them in various lodges in different parts of the State in 2009. The victims were from Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod in Kerala. The last of the convictions came in June this year. “This film is a crime thriller inspired on the crime Mohan was involved in,” said Mr. Touchriver, who has written the story and screenplay. “I am not glorifying him (Mohan) but using those incidents for depiction in the film,” he said. The film will be brought out under the banner Middle East Cinema Pvt. Ltd. by businessman Pradeep Narayanan. Among the actors featuring in the film include Rohini, Chittaranjan Giri, Tanikella Bharani, Ram Gopal Bajaj, Shiju, Shaju, Sriman, Mukundan, Sameer, Sanju Sivaram, Riju Bajaj and Rimju. Prominent actors from Kannada and other languages will be part of this film, Mr. Touchriver said. While Sadat Sainudeen is the photography director, George Joseph will handle music. Gopal Sankar will do playback singing. Sasi Kumar and Gokuldas are the film editor and art director, respectively. Ravi Punnam will write dialogues in Telugu, while Raaja Chandrasekhar will do it for Tamil. Mr. Touchriver and Lennon Babu are writing the dialogues in Malayalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyanide-mohan-to-go-on-the-floors-in-january-next/article32830351.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ananthakrishna passes away||The former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Karnataka Bank Ltd. Ananthakrishna passed away here on Sunday. He was 74. He is survived by his wife and a son. He was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the bank from 2000 till 2009 and thereafter had continued as the Non-Executive Chairman of the bank for sometime. Ananthakrishna was the ninth chairman of the bank and was associated with it for 45 years in different capacities. He hailed from Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada. He was the honorary secretary of Indian Banks Association. He began his career as a teacher in Deepika High School, Modankaup in Bantwal taluk. Later, he served as a lecturer at Manipal Institute of Technology. He moved over to HAL as Junior Programmer before joining Karnataka Bank Ltd. as an officer in 1971. Paying tributes, Managing Director and CEO of the bank Mahabaleshwara M.S. said: “He was a guiding force to his employees. The Karnataka Bank family is mourning his loss.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ananthakrishna-passes-away/article32830370.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth arrested for bid to rob woman of valuables||The Vitla Police on Sunday arrested Zubair Ahmed (24), a native of Uttar Pradesh, on the charge of making an attempt to rob a 45-year-old woman of valuables in Meginapete in Vitla Kasba on Friday. The police said that Ahmed, who did wood works in a carpentry shop nearby, did not have income in the last few days. Hence, he planned to loot houses for quick money. On Friday morning, he entered the house of Lalita (45) when she was doing puja. After assaulting her and tying her up, Ahmed took away her gold ear-ring. The police recovered the ring the same day as it had fallen a few metres away from the house. Working on some clues, the police traced Ahmed and arrested him. The items used by him to assault the woman were seized. Ahmed has been booked under Sections 394, 393 and 454 of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-arrested-for-bid-to-rob-woman-of-valuables/article32830833.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six more selected||The other six beaches selected for the eco-label ‘Blue Flag’ in the country are Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kappad (Kerala), Rushikonda (Andhra Pradesh), Golden (Odisha), and Radhanagar (Andaman). Among the 13 beaches earlier identified by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for the certification also included Bhogave (Maharashtra), Kovalam (Tamil Nadu), Eden (Puducherry), Miramar (Goa), and Bangaram (Lakshadweep).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-more-selected/article32830376.ece
12 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police open fire in the air, rescue cattle||In a bid to thwart cattle smuggling, the police opened fire in the air and rescued six head of cattle from a car near Moodbidri early on Sunday. According to the police, they opened fire after the car, loaded with the cattle, hit the police patrol vehicle and tried to speed away. The incident occurred at about 5 a.m. at Oudal near Shirtady. As the Moodbidri police team was patrolling the area, it saw the car, which did not have a registration number, on the road. When the police asked the car driver to stop the vehicle, the driver drove towards the police and hit the police vehicle before speeding away. The Moodbidri Police Inspector opened fire in the air. Then, the car stopped a few metres away from the police party and the driver and his accomplice escaped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-open-fire-in-the-air-rescue-cattle/article32830366.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CM discusses precautions to be taken during Mysuru Dasara||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a meeting with senior officials on the precautions to be taken against the spread of COVID-19 during Dasara celebrations in Mysuru. Apart from Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, the meeting held at the Chief Minister’s Home Office ‘Krishna’ was attended by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaybhaskar, Additional Chief Secretary Javed Akhtar, Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Tourism Department’s Principal Secretary T.K. Anil Kumar and Mysuru’s Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. Mr. Sudhakar tweeted that the meeting discussed the precautions to be taken to ensure the health and safety of the general public and tourists visiting Mysuru for Dasara amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting comes after a COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee visited Mysuru and submitted a report to the government, imposing restrictions during the celebrations of the annual Dasara festival, which is scheduled to begin on October 17. Among other things, the committee has recommended that the gathering for the inauguration atop Chamundi Hills should not be more than 200 while the number of people gathering inside Mysuru palace for the Vijayadashami procession should be restricted to 300. Also, the committee has made it mandatory for all participants including officials, security personnel, staff, media, artistes and others to undergo RT-PCR tests conducted after October 14. Meanwhile, Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar, who is also the Minister in-charge of Mysuru district, made a telephonic call to former Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Abhiram G. Sankar, inviting him to the Dasara festivities. Mr. Sankar, who has recently been posted in the IAS Training Centre at Mussoorie, had served as Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru for two years and four months. Mr. Sankar, however, said he would not able to make in view of work, but hoped the festival would go on smoothly without hurdles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-discusses-precautions-to-be-taken-during-mysuru-dasara/article32830504.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Leopard habitats and wild prey base outside protected areas eroding: Study||Gradual erosion of large wild prey outside protected areas (PAs) has forced leopards to switch to livestock adding to human-leopard conflict across the State as also the country. The loss of prey base is due to poaching, habitat destruction (outside protected areas) and disturbance due to mining, quarrying, linear projects and so on. A new study shows that natural habitats such as forests and rocky outcrops, and presence of large wild prey (ungulates >20 kg body weight) are extremely important for leopard presence though it is a common belief that they survive and do extremely well in human dominated landscape. The study was conducted by conservation biologist Sanjay Gubbi and his team from Nature Conservation Foundation. They argued that protecting natural wild prey can be a key factor in reducing human-leopard conflict. The study is significant as there are at least 2,500 leopards in Karnataka alone and a significant number of them thrive outside protected areas which do not receive conservation priority. This is leading to depletion of wild prey base such as spotted deer, sambar and other wild animals and forcing leopards to target livestock, according to the authors of a paper titled “Every hill has its leopard: Patterns of space use by leopards (Panthera pardus) in a mixed-use landscape in India” published in the international journal PeerJ. Mr. Gubbi said many leopard habitats outside the protected areas face severe threat from quarrying, mining, infrastructure development, and loss of wild prey to poaching. “If leopards are to survive outside protected areas, we need scientifically assessed zoning where some areas have to be prioritised for leopard conservation and designate some areas for natural resource extraction,” he added. Despite leopards being widespread and their numbers being reasonably high in the country, there is severe lack of scientific data on their distribution and population especially outside protected areas. The researchers carried out occupancy surveys — a scientific methodology to understand where a species occurs and what factors drive their presence — in nearly 24,000 sq. km area, walked 2,768 km and in terms of the geographical area, this is perhaps the largest field study on leopards in the country ever done, said Mr. Gubbi. To understand where the probability of leopards presence was higher, the researchers compared occupancy of leopards in natural habitats (forests, rocky outcrops), human-dominated areas (agricultural fields such as sugarcane plantations, maize fields and other areas with little or no natural habitats), and intermediate habitats (areas that had a mix of natural habitats and human-dominated areas). The highest presence of leopards was found in grids that have natural habitats and consisted of large wild prey such as chital, sambar, four-horned antelope, barking deer, wild pig and others. This is the first of its study that compared leopard presence in different habitats throwing new light about leopards’ habitat and food preferences. This baseline data can be used in the study area for understanding leopard distributional changes in the future. It can also be used to check if leopards have been colonising new areas or if they go locally extinct, Mr. Gubbi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-habitats-and-wild-prey-base-outside-protected-areas-eroding-study/article32830372.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||PFA cracks down on illegal dog breeding in Mysuru||People For Animals (PFA) in Mysuru is cracking down on illegal dog breeders in the city owing to high rates of animal abuse. The PFA located an illegal backyard dog breeder at Udbur on the outskirts of the city with the help of the local animal welfare officials and the police. It rescued 6 of 18 dogs and sent them to the Woof Wagon Pet Resort for rehabilitation. The rescued dogs are being monitored by the Woof Wagon veterinarians for any ailments. Some were in a miserable condition. The release said various pedigree breeds like German Shepherds, Dobermans, Huskies, Retrievers and Labradors were found housed in small metal cages. The PFA said as per the general regulations related to dog breeding in India, it was mandatory for the dog breeder to register with the State Animal Welfare Board of their respective States. In this case the dog breeder had no registration and hence it was illegal. The release cited the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017, as per which mutilation of ears is banned and yet two Dobermans were found with their ears cropped and tails docked. The entire process took three days to complete due to legal restrictions by when the breeder had moved other dogs to an undisclosed location and hence these could not be rescued, the release said. Underlining the cruelty involved, the PFA said dogs are forced to breed consecutively through their heat cycles without a pause and this leads to ovarian and uterine tumours. Once the breeder realizes that they cannot profit from a dog, it is abandoned on the streets. PFA has rescued more than 100 breed dogs that were abandoned on streets by breeders this year alone, the release added. Advocating the need to adopt Indian street dogs, the PFA said they are not inferior to the pedigree breeds and were more sturdy and resistant to infections. This will also help reduce the population of street dogs and help the community at large, it added. In addition, pedigree dogs such as Alaskan Malamutes, Siberian Huskies and Saint Bernards are adapted to low-temperature environments but are brought to warmer tropical climates and made to suffer, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pfa-cracks-down-on-illegal-dog-breeding-in-mysuru/article32830506.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Property tax: MCC to go after habitual defaulters||In a new drive, localities whose residents are known to be defaulting on property tax payment for years now, will be targeted and forced to remit the amount to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) which is facing a severe cash crunch. Though there are nearly 1.75 lakh registered properties in the MCC limits, there are areas and localities within the city where the revenue inspectors and assistant commissioners hesitate to approach the owners to pay property tax. There have been instances where the MCC staff have been roughed up or even threatened in the past. In view of the current financial crisis and the imperatives of mopping up additional revenue, the MCC passed a resolution in a council meeting recently to widen the tax net. Mayor Tasneem said all the elected councillors will join MCC inspectors and officials in the tax collection drive which will commence from Monday (October 12) and continue for a fortnight. The elected representatives will convince the habitual defaulters to pay the tax. Assistant commissioners of different zones of the MCC have made a list of defaulters. The drive, however, will be led by the zonal ACs who will have the list of defaulters in their respective zones. All residential units, commercial complexes and revenue layouts within the MCC jurisdiction will be covered during the drive that will be held from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m Property tax is one of the major sources of revenue for the MCC and the target for the current financial year is Rs. 140 crore. However, the Mayor said the MCC was lagging behind in mopping up the revenue and hence the drive was needed. According to a senior official in the MCC, the city body had collected nearly Rs. 71.4 crore from 96,475 property owners as on October 3. This is the second such drive conceived by the MCC in the last 10 days. The earlier drive to make people tax compliant entailed upon the MCC to go to different wards of the city and set up temporary kiosks to enable payment of property tax. This was initiated as many regular tax payers were staying back due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and hesitating to go to the MCC zonal offices for tax remittance. Though the MCC has already introduced an online system of property tax payment, individuals have to make a one-time visits to collect their unique property ID which has been generated for each property under the MCC limits. From next year, the entire transaction can be online. But the door-to-door collection drive seem to be the only solution to deal with habitual defaulters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-tax-mcc-to-go-after-habitual-defaulters/article32830510.ece
12 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mahisha Dasara to be restricted to floral tributes this year||In view of COVID-19, the celebration of Mahisha Dasara will be restricted to offering floral tributes to the statue of Mahishasura atop Chamundi Hills on October 15. Briefing reporters on Sunday, former Mayor of Mysuru Purshothama said the Mahisha Dasara Organising Committee had sought permission to celebrate Mahisha Dasara to remember the forgotten pride of ancient Mysuru. The Organizing Committee of Mahisha Dasara had written to the previous Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat as well as the present Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, besides City Police Commissioner Chandragupta seeking permission to observe Mahisha Dasara on October 15. “We were confident of receiving permission for the celebration in line with our constitutional and democratic rights,” Mr. Purushothama said adding that the celebrations will be restricted to offering floral tributes. “There will be no stage or any public function in view of COVID-19. The gathering will also be restricted to the number of people permitted by the District Administration and the Health Department officials,” he said. Mr. Purushotham said they have been celebrating Mahisha Dasara for the last seven years including last year when it was opposed and the event atop Chamundi Hills was cancelled. “But, we held the programme at Ambedkar Park in Ashokapuram last year and later took out a procession through several streets of the city,” he said. Meanwhile, writer K.S. Bhagwan, who was also present at the briefing, regretted that Mahishasura had been depicted as an evil person. On the contrary, Mahishasura was an ideal ruler of the then Mysuru region, who followed Buddhism. The region was first called Mahisha Mandala before it became Mahishapura and eventually Mysuru, Prof. Bhagwan said, before wondering why anybody would name Mysuru after Mahishasura if he were evil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahisha-dasara-to-be-restricted-to-floral-tributes-this-year/article32830508.ece
12 October 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Man washed away, another rescued||A 28-year-old man was washed away in a stream near Maski in Raichur district on Sunday. Fire and Emergency Services personnel and the police, however, succeeded in rescuing another man Jaleel (58). The man who was washed away has been identified as Channabasava. Following heavy rain, officials discharged water from the Maski dam into the stream. These two men had gone near the stream to attend to nature’s call but were left stranded in the middle of the stream after the flow of water became heavy and surrounded them. “Soon after information reached, Fire and Emergency Services personnel and the Maski police rushed to the spot and threw a rope at Channabasava. But, unfortunately, he could not succeed in holding onto it rope and was washed away in the flowing water,” Tahsildar of Maski Balaram Kattimani told The Hindu . Fire and Emergency Services personnel tried their best to rescue Channabasava but their efforts failed, he added. Meanwhile, officials brought a crane and lifted the stranded Jaleel to safety. “Officials are still looking for the missing Channabasava,” Mr. Kattimani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-washed-away-another-rescued/article32830350.ece
12 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||25 sheep killed in lightning strike||As many as 25 sheep were killed after being struck by lightning at Satyampet in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district on Sunday. According to sources, the sheep that were killed belonged to Sanna Timmanna Purple. These were among 250 sheep. Meanwhile, the district received heavy rain between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Rain mixed with drain water entered several houses in Satyampet locality keeping women and elderly persons busy in throwing water out. Locals said that no official from the departments concerned visited the spot where the sheep were killed and rainwater entered houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/25-sheep-killed-in-lightning-strike/article32830349.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. makes a U-turn, Dasara holidays declared||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education issued an order shortly after the announcement was made.    Tushar Girinath, in-charge Principal Secretary, Primary and Secondary Education, told The Hindu that there would not be any online classes for primary and secondary students of all schools under the State board. “However, online classes for pre-university students may continue,” he said. On October 10, the State government temporarily halted the Vidyagama scheme under which government school teachers visited students in their neighbourhoods, after fears that it was leaving families vulnerable to the virus. The decision to go ahead with the mid-term holidays has come as a surprise to teachers, parents, and students as they had been informed that the vacation would be cut to make up for the lost academic days due to the pandemic. Amid debates and discussions on reopening schools in the State, the Chief Minister had earlier said that the government would consult experts, officials, and other stakeholders before taking a decision on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-makes-a-u-turn-dasara-holidays-declared/article32830379.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Positivity rate in Bengaluru climbs after two months||The COVID-19 positivity rate in Bengaluru, which had fallen in the last two months, is on the rise again. According to data provided by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) war room, the positivity rate from October 1 to 10 is 14.53%. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive for every hundred tests conducted. After reaching a high of 24.15% in July, the positivity rate fell to 13.45% in August and 12.79% in September. Officials had hoped that the downward trend would continue, but this does not seem to be the case. Since the start of October, the number of people contracting COVID-19 has been on the rise, with daily figures crossing the 5,000 mark several times. Better contact tracing C. Nagaraj, Director of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) and State task force member, said the increase could be attributed to better contact tracing efforts by teams on the ground. “Earlier, primary contacts of positive patients would be reluctant to be tested for COVID-19 unless they had symptoms. But now, as patients can stay under home isolation, they are willing to get tested earlier. This is partly responsible for the high positivity rate,” he said. According to Giridhar R. Babu, member, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, peripheral zones such as R.R. Nagar and Mahadevapura are seeing a surge in cases which coincides with the complete relaxation of restrictions. However, civic officials said the positivity rate is directly linked to the number of tests conducted. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, said that every city has multiple peaks and lows. “This fortnight positivity rate has increased. Whenever we see a surge in the positivity rate, we quickly ramp up testing further,” she said. She also said that the ramping up of testing is majorly dependent on the overall trend and logistics availability. N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner, said there was a need to increase testing, which would further reduce the positivity rate. “So far, on an average we are conducting 38,000 tests per day and it needs to be increased to 50,000. All cities that have reduced their positivity rate have done ramped up their testing to a great extent,” he said.  Positivity rate in Bengaluru March – 3.76 % April – 1.14 % May – 1.10 % June – 6.91 % July – 24.15 % August – 13.45 % September -12.79 % October (till 10th) – 14.53%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positivity-rate-in-bengaluru-climbs-after-two-months/article32830512.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Striking a pose||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/striking-a-pose/article32830837.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pedalling away||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedalling-away/article32830354.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||On alert||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-alert/article32830368.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Have the Opposition parties Congress and Janata Dal (S) suddenly become enlightened about women’s representation in politics, an issue that has been on the back burner for decades? At least mathematically speaking, both have given “50%” seats to women in the ensuing bypolls. Never mind that it is just one of two seats. The JD(S) has picked Ammajamma, wife of the MLA whose death has necessitated the byelection in Sira. The Congress has chosen Kusuma H., wife of the late IAS officer D.K. Ravi and the daughter of a former MLA. Of course there is the usual argument that it was not their own political merit but family legacy that weighed in their favour. Then again, aren’t entire political dynasties, as a matter of right, bequeathed to sons across parties?   The Jarkiholi brothers seem to be the untiring newsmakers of Belagavi. When the five brothers are not busy competing for space in newspapers, their followers fill in. The recent news from the Gokak family stable is about formation of a “Sahukar army”, a fancy name for a fans’ association of district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and his brothers. It seems as though the brothers are divided politically, but their fans are united in their admiration. The supporters of the clan are going around town pasting posters and banners and sharing pictures of the brothers and their parents. Some declare their loyalty to the brothers, while others predict Ramesh Jarkiholi(in picture)will become Chief Minister in future. Satish Jarkiholi, the Congress leader, meanwhile, in a trending interview talks of children — named Priyanka and Rahul. “I am an industrialist, politician and social worker. These three fields are where my children will be active too,” he said, hinting at continuing family legacy. Balachandra Jarkiholi, the KMF chairman, has his share of devoted fans. His followers claim he has remained unmarried only to serve the people.      An audio clip purportedly of a telephonic conversation between two police inspectors, which went viral sometime ago, is in the limelight again in Hassan. The officer, who claimed that he would get posting as CPI of Hassan Rural Circle in the audio clip, has indeed been posted to the same position. P. Suresh, who had worked in Hassan earlier as PSI, was posted to the Karnataka Lokayukta after he was promoted as Police Inspector. A couple of days ago, he took charge as CPI of Hassan Rural. In fact, the same officer in his telephonic conversation had allegedly said that he would get the post with the help of Hassan MLA, though there was tough competition among his batchmates for the “lucrative” position. The day he took charge, a few youngsters celebrated by garlanding him and showering flowers on him. As this video clip surfaced, former Minister H.D. Revanna demanded that the Home Department suspend him for “entertaining rowdy elements in his chamber”. Bageshree S. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Satish G.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article32830356.ece
12 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Glimpses of Alappuzha on 115-year-old school walls||Glimpses of Alappuzha’s history have been recreated on the walls of the 115-year-old SDV Boys School here. A full portrait of Raja Kesava Das, pier and lighthouse at Alappuzha Port, scenes from the paddy fields of Kuttanad, coir rope-making, snakeboat race, and Kathakali art form among others now adorn the seven pillars and walls of the school. According to Jinu George, a drawing teacher at SDV Boys School and the artist behind the paintings, it is an artistic tribute to Raja Kesava Das, the Dewan of Travancore and the founding father of Alappuzha Town. It took more than 117 days for Mr. Jinu to finish a total of 10 pictures. Acrylic paint and enamel were used and paintings were done with knife and brush. The paintings cover an area of more than 600 sq ft. Besides, quotes from famous personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Steve Jobs, Gautama Buddha, Kunjunni Mash and so on are also displayed prominently. Mr. Jinu says he undertook the task to overcome the difficulties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and uphold human spirit and hope. Earlier, the inspiration for the work came from S. Ramanand, manager of SDV Schools. A. Sivasubramaniam and other members of the school management supported the idea. Mr. Jinu had earlier created works including an eight feet oil painting of St. Thomas, which was presented to Pope Francis in 2017. It is displayed in the art gallery at the Vatican. SDV School was founded in 1905 by prominent citizens of Alappuzha after drawing inspiration from the Theosophical Society led by Annie Besant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/glimpses-of-alappuzha-on-115-year-old-school-walls/article32830455.ece
12 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||619 cases reported from Alappuzha||The district logged 619 COVID-19 cases and 728 recoveries on Sunday. As many as 615 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. One person each who came from abroad and another State and two health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also reported four COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official tally to 60. The deceased were identified as a 77-year-old man from Polathai (died on October 6), a 72-year-old woman from Vandanam (died on October 6), a 59-year-old man from Punnapra (died on October 7), and an 80-year-old woman from Muhamma (died on October 7). Of the total cases, 70 were reported from Alappuzha and 55 from Aroor. Punnapra South (44), Kayamkulam (41), Pathiyoor (28), Ambalappuzha North (25), Ambalappuzha South (22), Kuthiathode (21), Panavally (20), Mararikulam (19), Muhamma (18), Mavelikara (16), Purakkad (14), Thrikkunnappuzha (12), Cherthala (12), Haripad (12), Kadakkarappally (11) and Chennithala (11) also recorded double-digit case count. Active cases The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 6,250. The police have registered 65 cases and arrested 53 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 354 people for not wearing face masks and 1,541 for not maintaining physical distance. Another 22 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 124 people in connection with the 22 cases. Parts of ward 4, 10, 12 and 21 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/619-cases-reported-from-alappuzha/article32830457.ece
12 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cultural centre at Chengannur||A cultural centre will be constructed at Chengannur at a cost of Rs. 16 crore. According to Saji Cherian, MLA, the centre will come up on three acres of land of Government ITI, Chengannur. The process of acquiring land for the project had been completed, Mr. Cherian said. Facilities It will have a study centre, museum, 1,200-seat auditorium, open-air auditorium, study rooms, venue for literary debates, food court, mini-park and recreation centre for children. It will be constructed under the aegis of the Department of Cultural Affairs. Mr. Cherian said the construction would begin soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cultural-centre-at-chengannur/article32830456.ece
12 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Encroached land at Munnar acquired||The Revenue Department acquired the land in which a resort and a camp under the ownership of Vellukunnel Jimmy Zakaria functioned at Anayirangal, near Munnar, on Sunday. Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan issued an order on October 7 to acquire the resort and land that were in encroached government property. They had found after verification that the title deed was forged. The order issued by the Subcollector directed Udumbanchola tehsildar to acquire the land. On Sunday, the Devikulam Subcollector, Udumbanchola Land Assignment tehsildar Joseph and tehsildar Niju Kurian led the revenue team to acquire the resort and land. A notice board proclaiming it as government land was also erected there. Extent of land attached Mr Prem Krishnan told The Hindu that nearly five acres of land with tents and camping facilities was attached. The title deed of the land was under the tandaper (revenue record) issued to a land nearly half a km away. A report by the Subcollector stated that in total, three plots owned by Jimmy Zakkaria in Chinnakkanal, near Munnar, were forged. The other two lands would be acquired after verification by the survey team, said the Revenue officials. The total acreage of the land would come to around 10 acres. Jimmy Sakaria was listed as a major encroacher as per the information given by the Devikulam Revenue Divisional Office. Munnar ASP Swapnil Mahajan-led police force also assisted in the attachment of the property. With this, the RDO launched the attachment of land and property as part of a huge exercise in connection with encroachment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroached-land-at-munnar-acquired/article32830466.ece
12 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki water level gets closer to blue-alert mark||Water level in Idukki reservoir neared the blue-alert level on Sunday. The level was 2,390.28 ft, which was 85.39% of the storage level. The blue-alert level as per the new rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission was 2,390.85 ft. The orange alert level was 2,396.85 ft. The red alert level was 2,397.85 ft. Increased inflow There was increased inflow through the main tributary, the Periyar, following heavy rain in Peerumade taluk. Power generation remained below normal at the Moolamattom power house and the water level is increasing less than a foot a day. Meanwhile, water level in the Mullaperiyar dam slightly decreased. The water level on Saturday was 128.5 ft. The inflow was 655 cft and Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 1,400 cft. Releasing water at high level for irrigation in Tamil Nadu is stated to be the reason for the falling water level. On August 3, water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was 115.75 ft. However, it rose to 130 ft in four days and reached 136.75 ft on August 11. The water level started to fall after Tamil Nadu drawing more water from the reservoir.  Water level in the Mullaperiyar dam slightly decreases with T.N. drawing more water||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-water-level-gets-closer-to-blue-alert-mark/article32830487.ece
12 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Pregnant woman dies of COVID-19 in Kannur||A 36-year-old pregnant woman died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, on Sunday. Doctors, however, managed to save the baby. The baby was put on ventilator and is in a critical condition. A resident of Nayanmarmoola in Kasaragod, the deceased was suffering from multiple health issues. According to medical superintendent K. Sudeep, the patient was brought to the hospital in a critical condition on October 8 and was suffering from severe pneumonia. The patient was not healthy enough to conceive. Besides, the infection further complicated matters, doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pregnant-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-kannur/article32830400.ece
12 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||MLA opposes collection of money from police officers||N.A. Nellikkunnu, MLA, has sought the Chief Minister’s intervention to withdraw State Police Chief Lokanath Behera’s order that police personnel should pay Rs. 100 each for medals engraved with ‘COVID Warrior’ to be given to policemen on COVID-19 duty. Mr. Nellikkunnu said policemen had served society with a spirit of self-sacrifice during the pandemic. “The decision to present medals to them is in recognition of their service. But the proposal that each officer pay Rs. 100 for the purpose is strange and paradoxical. It is a practice unheard of in the history of the State,” he added. “To put it mildly, this is an insult,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-opposes-collection-of-money-from-police-officers/article32830389.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Uncertainty plagues second phase of Vyttila Mobility Hub||Uncertainty looms large over the Rs. 572-crore second phase development works of Vyttila Mobility Hub (VMH), which was envisaged as an inter-modal public transport hub to host buses, autorickshaws, metro rail and ferries. Just a small part of the 26-acre premises that was taken over from the Agriculture Department is being used now, as space to berth KSRTC and private buses. Footfall at the metro station on the premises too is not as high as was expected. Even worse, the approach road to the hub is narrow and ill-lit, while footpaths are in dilapidated condition, turning away commuters from the premises. The VMH Society is without a full-time managing director after R. Girija was shifted from the post a few months ago. It could hamper decision-making in matters such as the awarding of tenders for second phase works. The further development of the hub was not on the State government’s immediate priority list, probably because of fund crunch following the unprecedented floods of 2018 and 2019 and the COVID-19 situation, said official sources. The VMH Society stakeholders were not on the same page on the government proposal earlier this year to grant land on the premises for setting up a CNG refilling outlet. It was because the prime land at Vyttila was handed over to the VMH Society on condition that it would only be used for transportation activity. KMRL report The State government had in 2019 accorded administrative sanction for second-phase works at the hub on a public-private partnership basis. Kochi Metro Rail Limited had readied a detailed project report (DPR) for this in 2018. Apart from augmenting facilities for bus, ferry and metro commuters, commercial space was to be earmarked for kiosks, supermarkets, hotels, dormitories and a paid AC lounge, in the second phase works. Sources in KMRL said the work had not made any headway. “We were vested with the task of preparing the DPR and executing the project. A decision on sourcing funds and allied matters is awaited,” they said. Meanwhile, work is under way at one end of the hub for building a terminal for the metro agency’s Water Metro project. The Water Metro’s control centre too is slated to be built at the hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uncertainty-plagues-second-phase-of-vyttila-mobility-hub/article32830792.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism sector upbeat about resuming services||Tourism and related stakeholders in central Kerala have wholeheartedly welcomed the State government’s decision to reopen tourism locales in a phased manner from Monday, especially since guests from north India are expected to turn up in good numbers during the Pooja holidays. Operators of homestays and houseboats were particularly delighted at the decision permitting resumption of tourism activities from the day, while others are willing to wait a fortnight more, till November 1, when beaches will be opened to tourists. The government has entrusted deputy directors of Kerala Tourism in each district and District Tourism Promotion Council  (DTPC) secretaries with ensuring that all stakeholders, including guests, adhere to the COVID-19 protocol. “The government’s decision to reopen the sector has come at the right time, since small and medium players in the sector were severely hit by the pandemic-induced stalemate. On their part, tourism entrepreneurs must ready their infrastructure and manpower to receive guests,” said S. Vijayakumar, Secretary of Ernakulam DTPC. Backwater cruise The permission to operate backwater cruises will help tourist boat operators, especially at Marine Drive here. They are permitted to carry guests numbering half the seating capacity of each boat. All boats must be disinfected and frequently sanitised. The DTPC’s tour packages too will resume in tandem with the tourism relaxations. Bookings can be made online or at the tourism counter at Durbar Hall Ground. Tour desks would shortly be opened at Kochi metro’s Aluva, Edappally and Ernakulam Junction stations, he added.  The operators of 1,200 houseboats, of which around 800 have licence issued by the Ports Department, are eagerly awaiting the resumption of operations. “A bulk of houseboats operate in Alappuzha, followed by around 200 in Kumarakom. We have communicated to all industry stakeholders to strictly adhere to COVID-19 protocol, especially in ensuring hygiene of vessels and landing points. The health of guests and also of the local community with whom the houseboat sector is closely linked, will be accorded priority. Common check-in spots have been planned to enable proper screening of guests,” said Jobin G. Akkarakalam, vice president of Kerala Houseboat Owners Federation. He welcomed the government’s decision to extend loan at discounted interest and grant-in-aid in the Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1.20 lakh range to houseboats, depending on the number of rooms each vessel has. A vessel would require approximately Rs. 5 lakh to restore its engine, batteries and other components and to clean and fumigate them, as they had been idling since March, said Mr. Akkarakalam. At Thattekkad The Thattekkad Wildlife Sanctuary in Kochi’s suburbs is among the spots that nature enthusiasts have been waiting to visit. “The reopening of tourism sector has come at the right time, since migratory birds, especially from the Himalayas, generally arrive in Thattekkad from October 20 each year. Most people visit the locale for birdwatching and trekking and stay put for three days,” said Girish Chandran, a naturalist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-sector-upbeat-about-resuming-services/article32830782.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No system in place to monitor those cured of COVID-19||While the district has so far recorded over 14,800 recoveries from COVID-19, no system is in place yet to monitor people who have recovered, for symptoms or problems that might persist even weeks after testing negative for SARS-CoV-2. According to A. Fathahudeen, pulmonologist and nodal officer for COVID-19 treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, such a system to monitor and study people who had recovered could be the need of the hour. “There are several critically ill patients who have been discharged. We need to see what happened to the shadows on their X-rays, if they still persist and how many of them are still symptomatic. Then, we could plan more tests like a lung function test and see what their oxygen saturation levels are,” he said. But since the hospital is a COVID-19 facility, he anticipates that patients, once discharged, might be hesitant to return for more tests. “A decision will be taken this week on how we can approach them. Assessing symptoms over phone might be an option,” he said. Patients have been reaching out to doctors personally, complaining about breathlessness on exertion, persistent fatigue and giddiness. Telemedicine unit While the Health Department in the district did not have a systematic method yet of monitoring patients with persistent symptoms even after testing negative, the telemedicine unit had been asked to keep track of such patients reaching out for help, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. A 53-year-old resident of Aluva, who was admitted in July to the ICU at the Government Medical College Hospital with pneumonia after testing positive for the disease, said that she continued to get breathless on walking some distance or speaking continuously for a while. Undisturbed sleep had eluded her for weeks after her discharge, leaving her irritable and angry, she added. She said she sought the help of a health professional for a prescription of anti-depressants that did not help. Observing that patients, some of whom had been treated for COVID-19 in other States or even abroad, were approaching the hospital with breathing difficulties or cough even two months after their treatment, Aster Medcity set up a post-COVID clinic recently, said Praveen Valsalan, pulmonologist. “Breathlessness is common. People also come with residual cardiac problems or neurological problems, besides post-traumatic stress,” he said. A lung function test is done to determine the reason for persistent problems. Medication was sometimes suggested for persistent cough and people with post-traumatic issues were referred to a psychiatrist at the clinic, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-system-in-place-to-monitor-those-cured-of-covid-19/article32830794.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Flyover debris being used to fill overbridge approach ramps||The debris of concrete that is being dismantled from the Palarivattom flyover is being transported to overbridge construction sites in the city suburbs, to fill the space within the retention walls of their approaches. Altogether six girders, which together constitute a span, have been cut using diamond cutters and dismantled, as part of reconstructing the structure. Adjacent girders will be dismantled next, to create space for workmen to begin pulling down the pier caps, official sources said. The concrete deck, girders, and pier caps, which are dismantled mainly at night, will be crushed beneath the flyover and taken to overbridge construction sites, to be used for filling up space on the approaches. The demolition work has been going on as scheduled, ever since it began on October 1. Extra effort is made to carry out work during the day, if rain hampers work at night. The focus on night-time dismantling has helped cause least disturbance to traffic at the congested junction, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flyover-debris-being-used-to-fill-overbridge-approach-ramps/article32830784.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Elephant case: forest officials in the dock||After the elephant owners, two forest officials of the State are facing legal action for “conniving with the accused” in a case relating to “forging of documents, illicit transaction of elephants and contempt of court.” The Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW), Kerala, has initiated action against the Deputy Conservator of Forests, Social Forestry Division, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Range Officer for the “serious disobedience of the directions from the higher-ups” in the case related to A.V. Prasanth, an elephant owner, who allegedly transported an elephant. Incidentally, the Principal Secretary (Forest) had stalled the actions against Mr. Prasanth and V. Shaji of Kollam and a few others for illegally transporting and trading captive elephants in violation of the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and Captive Elephants Management Rules. Besides booking case against them, the department had also seized 15 elephants, who were in the possession of Mr. Shaji and others. The Hindu had reported that the government had asked the CWW to conduct an inquiry into the complaint of the association of elephant owners that the animal owners were harassed by the forest officials. The two officials, according to a communication issued by the CWW, were asked to report the actions taken in the case within seven days. The Range Forest Officer was summoned to the office and instructed to take action against Mr. Prasanth for the illegal transfer of the elephant, Sankaranarayan. After the reminders and repeated oral directions, a case was booked. However, “no further investigation has been made and the accused has not been arrested and produced before the court,” the CWW noted. The CWW also reported that the action of the officials amounted to “serious disobedience of directions issued by the higher-ups, serious dereliction of duty and their connivance with the accused in the case.” ‘No lapses’ Responding to the developments, Y.M. Shajikumar, the Deputy Conservator, said he was yet to get any communication in this regard. There were no lapses in the investigation and all possible and legal efforts were made to arrest the accused. Mr. Prasanth could not be arrested as his house was found closed, he said.He felt that he was being victimised and someone was taking vengeance on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-case-forest-officials-in-the-dock/article32830471.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Where life is hemmed in by absence of public transport||Sheeba Yesudas, a single mother of two teenagers, has no clue how to plug the drain on her already meagre income, thanks to the near complete absence of public transport in the wake of the pandemic in her Puthenvelikkara grama panchayat near North Paravur. A salesgirl in a textile shop, she is now forced to spend Rs. 70 every day as autorickshaw fare for conveyance as the public transport remains yet to be restored to the pre-pandemic days. “At a time when we are already struggling to make ends meet, this is an additional burden we could have done without. During normal times, I could have hitch-hiked my way back and forth. But due to the scare of COVID, people no longer entertain that,” said Sheeba who is the sole breadwinner of the family. That even autorickshaws are operating in limited numbers make life even harder for the working class who cannot afford the luxury of two-wheelers. Except for a sole private bus, the public transport network in this hamlet bordering Thrissur district is completely absent. KSRTC, which used to operate multiple services through the panchayat from nearby towns like Aluva and Paravur, is missing since the lockdown in March. “I have personally spoken to the KSRTC authorities to restore at least a limited number of services during the morning and evening office hours since majority of the people work outside the panchayat. They had promised to do the needful in a week. That was a fortnight ago,” said P.V. Laju, president, Puthenvelikkara panchayat. With no scope to pressurise private operators to resume service unless guaranteed of a stable collection, the civic body has been left with no other option but to knock on the door of KSRTC yet again. It emerges that Sheeba is among the relatively lucky lot considering she has to pay only Rs. 70 for her daily trip from her home in Thuruthyppuram to the shop at Puthenvelikkara and back. “That fare could touch Rs. 220 for back and forth trips between Thuruthyppuram and Paravur and Rs. 150 from Puthenvelikkara to Paravur. That could be too much for casual labourers working in those places,” said Francis Valiyaparambil, a former district panchayat member. With the pandemic situation continuing, the restoration of public transport any time soon seems unlikely, leaving people in the panchayat with little options.  During normal times, I could have hitch-hiked my way back and forth. But due to the scare of COVID, people no longer entertain that Sheeba Yesudas Salesgirl||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-life-is-hemmed-in-by-absence-of-public-transport/article32830790.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Operations at harbour affected||Operations at the Thoppumpady fisheries harbour were partially disrupted following a dispute among fishers over the arrival of a couple of boats manned by fishers from Tamil Nadu. Purse seine boat workers had objected to the arrival of gillnet boats on Saturday at the harbour with their catch. Harbour workers said the boats had arrived with fishers from Thengapattanam in Tamil Nadu. A Fisheries Department official said fishers from other States were not allowed to operate out of fishing harbours in Kerala as part of measures taken to contain COVID-19. However, there is a difference of opinion among the community of fishers regarding the rule, which has divided them. An online meeting of stakeholders on Sunday in the presence of District Collector S. Suhas failed to arrive at a consensus. Activities at the harbour have been restricted for a long time, and workers are in a poor state, said M. Majeed, general secretary of the Harbour Coordination Committee. He said besides hundreds of trawl boat workers from Tamil Nadu, there were around 5,000 people who depended on the harbour directly for livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/operations-at-harbour-affected/article32830796.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Metro Cycle Club formed||A Kochi Metro Cycle Club has been formed for employees of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL). The club was formally inaugurated on Sunday by K. Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of Police, at the Muttom station. To mark the occasion, KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma and his wife Prashansa Alkesh cycled to Muttom all the way from their home at Thevara. Mr. Mahesh Kumar, yet another avid cyclist, joined them en route. They shared their experiences and the importance of cycling as a hobby and exercise. Close to 50 persons are members of the cycle club now. Metro employees in small groups cycled from their homes to Muttom on the day, while adhering to COVID-19 curbs. Mr. Sharma, who bicycled 101 km the previous week alone, said the club was aimed at encouraging cycling as a hobby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-cycle-club-formed/article32830785.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ban on felling of trees around Mangalavanam||Felling of trees within 1 km around the boundary of the Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary without prior permission from a competent authority in the State government has been restricted. The ban on felling of trees has been included in the list of activities prohibited or to be regulated within the eco-sensitive zone of the sanctuary by the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change in the draft EZ notification published recently. No new commercial hotels and resorts shall be permitted within 1 km of the boundary of the protected area or up to the extent of the eco-sensitive zone, whichever is nearer. However, small temporary structures for eco-tourism activities are permitted, according to the notification. The draft notification also places a ban on new commercial construction of any kind within 1 km from the boundary of the protected area. At the same time, local people shall be permitted to undertake construction work in their land. The notification, published on September 5, also suggested the formation of a monitoring committee for overseeing the implementation of the provisions of the notification. While the Ernakulam District Collector will be the ex-officio chairman of the committee, the Ernakulam MLA, an expert in ecology and environment, regional officer from the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, a representative of a non-governmental organisation working in the field of environment, including heritage conservation, a wildlife expert from the Kerala Forest Research Institute and the Town Planning Officer from the Kochi Corporation will be its members.  The draft notification will be taken into consideration on or after 60 days of its publication. Those interested in making suggestions can send them to the Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Indira Paryavaran Bhawan, Jorbagh Road, Aliganj, New Delhi-110 003, or e-mail them toesz-mef@nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-felling-of-trees-around-mangalavanam/article32830787.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||BPCL, Prodair to start liquid oxygen supply||Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) along with business partner Prodair Air Products has offered to supply available liquid oxygen to Ernakulam district. The supply of 90 MT of liquid oxygen for the next two months will be free of cost for supporting the district administration in combating the pandemic, said a press release on Sunday. The truck carrying the first parcel of liquid oxygen from BPCL Kochi refinery to the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, will be flagged off by District Collector S. Suhas at 3.30 p.m. on Monday at BPCL Kochi Refinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-prodair-to-start-liquid-oxygen-supply/article32830791.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Protest staged against Swamy’s arrest||The Laity Council of the Catholic Bishops Conference of India has alleged that Christian missionaries working for the uplift of Dalits and the poor were being portrayed as Maoists and jailed. In a statement issued here on Sunday, leaders of the council alleged that Father Stan Lurde Swamy was arrested on charges that were fabricated against him. He has been working in Jharkhand over the past three decades for the uplift of the poor and Adivasis, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-staged-against-swamys-arrest/article32830797.ece
12 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Nigerian national arrested||The Elamakkara police on Sunday arrested a Nigerian national and three others on the charge of peddling MDMA, a narcotic drug. The arrested are Amamchukwu Okake, 31, from Bengaluru and Yasim, Muhammad Shahad, and Muhammad Riyas, all residents of Aluva. The drug was seized from a building at Edappally where the youths were staying, following a tip-off. On questioning, they said the consignment had been purchased from the Nigerian in Bengaluru. The police arrested him from Bengaluru. They recovered foreign currency and fake passport from him. Held for bike theft The Kalady police arrested five persons, including two minors, on the charge of stealing five new-generation mobikes. They arrested are Vijay, 20, Binto, 25, and Sabin, 22. They were arrested on Saturday evening during routine vehicle checking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nigerian-national-arrested/article32830795.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No let-up as 1,228 more test positive||For the second day in a row, over a thousand people in the district have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 1,228 newly infected persons, the source of infection of 160 people remains untraced. A total of 1,032 people have contracted the infection through local contact. Eight health workers have been infected. The number of recoveries also crossed the 1,000-mark on Sunday, with 1,036 people testing negative on the day. Around 30,844 people remain in quarantine in the district. The total active caseload stands at 12,804. For testing, 2,747 samples were collected from government and private facilities. Private hospitals At all private hospitals in the district, 10% of the beds set aside for COVID-19 patients would be brought under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP), the government’s healthcare scheme, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. The rates for COVID-19 treatment have been capped for hospitals empanelled as part of the scheme. While a few hospitals had already been empanelled for COVID-19 treatment, at present all private hospitals had been directed to offer at least a few beds under government rates, said Dr. Numpeli. If the KASP beds were set aside, about 200 ICU beds and 50 ventilators would be available at private hospitals at government-fixed rates, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-as-1228-more-test-positive/article32830801.ece
12 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Many MSMEs yet to hop aboard digital bandwagon||Faced with the prospect of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Kerala’s tourism sector losing their market share to mega players, stakeholders have highlighted the urgent need for players in the sector to join the mainstream digital bandwagon, in order to remain afloat and make their presence felt. MSMEs in the sector, which together provide employment to 80% of the approximately 15 lakh workforce, are the worst hit by the pandemic and the subsequent lull in the arrival of guests. The president of city-based Tourism Professionals Club (TPC), George Scaria, who is also a guest lecturer teaching responsible tourism at a university in Austria, said almost half the MSME players were unaware of digital technologies. Mr. Scaria, who began his tourism career 30 years ago, is learning content marketing strategy online from the University of California. He, however, added that technology had its limitations and human intervention still played a major role in ensuring that tourists had a memorable trip. All that should not prevent MSME stakeholders from dropping their suspicion of each other and coming together on digital platforms for the common good. “Especially since the MSME Ministry is proactive and helpful,” he said, pointing to an instance of a bank denying loan to his tour agency that caters mainly to foreign tourists. “I shot off a complaint to the regional officer, who took it up with the bank concerned. A loan-approval letter from the bank followed,” he said. India Tourism, in association with the MSME Ministry, recently apprised stakeholders in the sector of the numerous schemes that they could avail, in order to help those struggling in the wake of the pandemic. Help desk Recently, Web CRS Travel Technologies, a Kochi-based Startup India-accredited company, launched a free help desk to support MSMEs in the tourism sector. The aim is to provide necessary professional assistance to MSMEs that are preparing to reopen after the lockdown. Experts from various fields will clarify doubts of tourism entrepreneurs, while also assisting in technology elements needed to revitalize the tourism industry. Questions and concerns of entrepreneurs working in hospitality, tour and travel companies and tourism experience providers would be answered directly, or after consultation with experts, said Neelkanth Pararat, the founder of the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-msmes-yet-to-hop-aboard-digital-bandwagon/article32830780.ece
12 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,421 people recover in Kollam, 712 new cases||The district reported the highest recovery rate of 1,421 on Sunday while 712 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of the recovered patients had hit 1,384 on Friday and 1,022 on Saturday, but it touched nearly twice the figure of the new cases reported. It has also brought down the total active cases in the district from 8,244 to 7,546 in a single day. The new patients include 705 contact cases, four health workers, one person with no known source, one NRI, and one from another State. Health Department has also confirmed that the deaths of a 70-year-old Kollam resident, 81-year-old Perinad resident, and 63-year-old Edamulakkal resident are due to COVID-19. Kollam Corporation has the highest number of contact cases while Neendakara, Peryayam, Karunagappally, Kadakkal, Kalluvathukkal, Thazhava are other places that reported new cases. The health workers who tested positive are from Kadakkal, Alappad, Aryankavu and Paravur. A 29-year-old Kulathupuzha resident is the case with no known source. The district currently has 20,430 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,58,946. The Health Department has traced 54,581 primary and 7,014 secondary contacts. The department has also opened a COVID-19 Second-line Treatment Centre (for pregnant women) at Ramarao Memorial Taluk Hospital, Nedungolam. Expectant mothers who have completed 34 weeks will be provided medical aid at the hospital if they develop symptoms or test positive. Thirty beds with facilities to handle such cases have been arranged, and if the patients develop complications, they will be shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam. The district administration on Sunday reviewed the activities of sectoral officers in strengthening COVID-19 surveillance and containment. The District Collector has also directed to ensure the presence of officers at the COVID-19 hospitals in Kollam to supervise the admission of emergency cases. Fishing Meanwhile, Thangassery harbour and auction halls at Jonakapuram, Port Kollam, Moothakara, Thangassery and Vaddy were temporary reopened on Sunday. They will be functional till 12 noon, October 18. All fishers venturing into the sea have been asked to register their names and Fisheries Deputy Director will be in charge of ensuring compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1421-people-recover-in-kollam-712-new-cases/article32830459.ece
12 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew sector plods on as demand, supply dip||Usually it is the season when cashew sales skyrocket due to the demand of Navratri and Diwali markets. But with both consumption and supply taking a massive hit due to COVID-19, the future of cashew industry hangs in the balance. More than 400 processing units in the State have downed shutters since lockdown, rendering thousands of skilled labourers jobless. Small and mid-level entrepreneurs are finding it increasingly difficult to tide over the revenue dip. “Both international and domestic markets are down. Export volume has hit an all-time low and domestic sales have plummeted due to the absence of tourists, pilgrims, festivals and events. Nearly 80% of the factories are not operating. The price of most moving items such as splits and grade 320 has come down,” said Nizamudeen I., president, Federation of Cashew Processors and Exporters. A comparison While the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) had a record sale of Rs. 5.5 crore last Onam, this year’s figures did not even come close. “Since COVID-19 cases going up, the market is unlikely to recover soon. If we are not able to sell, the product will pile up and labourers will get fewer working days,” said KSCDC chairman S. Jayamohan. The corporation had procured 2,000 tonnes of best quality RCN from the local farms in Kannur and Kasaragod at a higher price during lockdown to operate the factories during Onam. From Guinea-Bissau The KSCDC is expecting 2,500 MT of RCN from Guinea-Bissau by October 25 so that the government-run factories can continue processing. “The KSCDC and Capex will continue processing to protect the labourers. The situation is complex and we will incur a loss, but we cannot deny the labourers their livelihood,” he said. The procurement of cashew apple was also hit, affecting the production of value-added products. Processors’ plight Private processors say they are in dire straits, with most facing revenue recovery procedures due to default in interest payments. With COVID-19 aggravating the crisis, one processor had ended his life recently. “In the last couple of years, five processors have committed suicide due to the crisis. Though a revival package was announced, it was sabotaged by the banks. They close the door at us, and both the Centre and State governments have failed to notice our plight,” said Shikar A.M., processor and secretary of Cashew Industry Protection Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-sector-plods-on-as-demand-supply-dip/article32830489.ece
12 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||District Collector’s adalat on October 19||District Collector’s online public grievances redressal adalat for the residents of Pathanapuram taluk will be held on October 19 from 11 a.m. Residents can register their complaints through Akshaya centres at Pathanapuram, Panampatta, Elambal, Pattazhy and Kaduvathode till 5 p.m. on October 15. Maximum cases will be settled on the day itself and contact 0474-2793473, 0474-2792970 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-collectors-adalat-on-october-19/article32830467.ece
12 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||New building of Kundara college to be opened||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the new building of the College of Applied Sciences, Kundara, under IHRD, on October 12 through video conference. Minister K.T. Jaleel will preside over the function and Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will be the guest of honour. N.K. Premachandran, MP, principal secretary Usha Titus, and IHRD director P. Suresh Kumar will attend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-building-of-kundara-college-to-be-opened/article32830468.ece
12 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pala is an emotion of the heart: Kappan||The proposed association of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) appears to have hit a major blockade with the regional party now coming face to face with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over the Pala Assembly constituency. Addressing media persons here on Sunday, NCP leader and Pala MLA Mani C. Kappan asserted that the KC(M) held no emotional connections with the seat as was often touted. “If Pala was Mani (K.M. Mani) sir’s wife, ‘she’ has become my heart now. The mandate that its voters has given to me is not for exchange, not even for a Rajya Sabha seat,” Mr. Kappan said. According to him, the NCP national leadership has decided not to hand over any of its seats, be it Pala, Kuttanad or Elathur, to anyone for anything. Regarding the proposed entry of the KC(M) faction to the LDF, he said the matter was yet to come up for a discussion in the LDF forum. Mr. Kappan, who had unsuccessfully contested in Pala against K.M. Mani three times on a trot, rode on his popularity and the raging factional fight within the KC(M) to emerge victorious during the byelection, necessitated by the death of K.M. Mani, last year. Responding to Mr. Kappan’s statement, Jose K. Mani said more than just a name, Pala was a feeling as far as the KC(M) was concerned. He, however, termed the ongoing debates over the seat as hypothetical and said the party would come clean about its plans soon. “We would like not to respond to such discussions for the time being as the KC(M) is yet to announce its political stance, which can be expected in a matter of days,” Mr. Mani said. N. Jayaraj, MLA, another leader with the Mani group, had earlier stated that Pala formed the core of the KC(M) politics. “Irrespective of the coalition that we are going to associate with, Pala should be with us. That’s a matter of priority,” he told media persons. Meanwhile, official source said the CPI(M), the lead partner in the LDF, had been working behind the scenes to sort out the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-is-an-emotion-of-the-heart-kappan/article32830472.ece
12 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,214 schools in Kottayam upgraded||As Kerala is all set to become the first total digital State in public education in the country, as many as 1,214 schools in Kottayam have been upgraded with hi-tech education facilities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally declare the State’s achievement through videoconferencing on Monday. According to officials the district education department, hi-tech school and hi-tech lab projects have been completed in 831 primary (Classes 1 to 7) and 383 high school and higher secondary schools (Classes 8 to 12) in the government and government-aided sector. As part of the project As many as 21,106 information technology devices and equipment have been made available in these schools as part of the project. Devices The devices deployed include 6,552 laptos, 4,003 multimedia projector, 5,478 USB speaker, 2,530 mounting accessories, 1,064 screens, 378 DSLR camera, 348 multi-function printer, 382 HD webcam, and 371 television sets. High speed broadband facilities have been made available in as many as 920 schools. The hi-tech school programme, implemented by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), forms a key part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission of the State government. The project was implemented at a cost of Rs. 42.36, of which Rs. 34.75 was from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) while the rest of the amount was raised at the local level. As per estimates, Kottayam currently has 131 little KITE IT club units with a total membership of 6,932. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, authorities have completed the high-tech lab project in 11,275 schools at a cost of Rs. 26.15 crore. The IT devices deployed comprised 4,033 laptops, 2,523 multi-media projectors, 3,296 USB speakers, 1,448 mounting accessories, 808 screen, 257 DSLR camera, 250 multifunction printer, 268 HD webcam, and 256 television sets. High-speed broadband facilities have been made available in as many as 616 schools. The district currently has 97 little KITE IT club units with a total membership of 4,891.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1214-schools-in-kottayam-upgraded/article32830460.ece
12 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||417 cases in Kottayam||As many as 417 persons tested positive for SARS-Cov-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 412 persons including five healthcare workers contracted the virus through local contact. The cases reported during the day also included 165 women and 48 children. As many as 58 persons were aged above 60. The disease continued to spread rapidly in Kottayam, which reported 68 cases, followed by Thrikkodithanam with 32 cases, and Ettumanur with 30 cases. Cases were also reported from Chirakkadavu-20, Changanassery-17, Kumarakom-15 and Erattupetta-14 etc. With 158 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,557 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/417-cases-in-kottayam/article32830462.ece
12 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Protest against priest’s arrest||The Catholic Bishop’s Conference of India (CBCI) Council for Laity has flayed attempts to incarcerate Christian missionaries, who work among the backward communities, by portraying them as Maoists. V.C. Sebastian, secretary, said the council would stage on Monday demonstrations titled ‘Stand with Stan’ declaring solidarity with Fr. Stan Swamy, who was recently arrested. The council would submit petitions to the President and Prime Minister of India seeking the priest’s release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-priests-arrest/article32830473.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode among districts with highest COVID tally||Kozhikode figures among the three districts that reported over 1,000 fresh COVID-19 cases in the State on Sunday as 1,219 more were found to have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 here. According to the Health Department, the other two districts are Malappuram and Ernakulam. As many as 1,121 people were infected in Kozhikode through local transmission while the source was unknown in 76 people. Within Kozhikode Corporation, there were 364 cases of locally acquired infections. There were 28 health workers among the newly infected persons. The number of active cases in the district reached 11,573, with 954 more recovering from the infection. As many as 6,929 people are under home isolation. MP’s warning Meanwhile, M.K. Raghavan, MP, has called for beefing up scientific containment measures in the wake of rise in COVID-19 cases in the district. In a release, he pointed out that the shortage of beds, ventilators, and ambulances was a sign of things to come. He claimed that the State might have to face a situation similar to Italy if its approach was not scientific and rationalistic. Health workers were getting tired and Kozhikode was figuring in the list of districts with a high tally of COVID cases. The highest number of restrictions too were in Kozhikode. Mr. Raghavan said that instead of ‘unscientific containment zones and lockdowns’, time-bound and scientific steps should be taken. In Kannur As many as 413 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Sunday. Among them, 375 contracted the virus through local transmission. Of the total active cases in the district, 4,784 are in home isolation, and the remaining 1,098 are being treated at hospitals and FLTCs. The district has so far reported 17,080 COVID-19 cases. In Kasaragod Kasaragod recorded 242 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday. This include 233 local transmission cases. A total of 5,360 people in the district are under observation, which include 3,856 in home and 1,504 in institutional observation. So far, COVID-19 has been confirmed in 14,707 people in the district. Of these, 827 had come from abroad and 624 returned from other States. As many as 13,256 were local transmission cases.  (With inputs from Kannur and Kasaragod bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-among-districts-with-highest-covid-tally/article32830403.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kappad beach gets Blue Flag tag||The historic Kappad beach of Malabar has secured the prestigious Blue Flag international certification from the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). It is one of the eight beaches in India to grab the coveted eco-label after fulfilling a number of safety and hygiene standards laid by the international jury. “We are sure to scale new heights with this global title. Kappad is the only beach in Kerala to have this label now, and it is the result of our sincere work. The Kozhikode district administration and the Tourism Department can be proud of their contributions to the cause,” said Koyilandy MLA K. Dasan. He added that the completion of the proposed coastal highway project would take the destination to further heights.  A new chapter The much awaited certification, which was officially confirmed by Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar through his Twitter account on Sunday, turned out to be a proud moment for Chemanchery grama panchayat too, which had been in the forefront for clearing ground for the title. It said the latest recognition opened a new chapter in the history of Kappad, where Portuguese explorer Vasco-da-Gama landed in 1498. Ahead of the final certification process, ‘I am saving my beach’ flag had been hoisted on the beach. A number of factors, including environmental issues, safety measures, and sanitation standards, had been taken into account while executing the work. Tourism Department officials said the destination was prepared by all means to win the tag. The national jury representing the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had previously evaluated the renovation work at the beach and forwarded its report to the international jury. Earlier, a district-level committee under the District Collector also had been formed to oversee the work. Nearly 1 km of the beach had been brought under the development project. Facilities such as jogging track, washrooms, and scenic rain shelters had been completed at the site, apart from several other beautification projects. Tourism officials said the total cost estimated for the renovation project was Rs. 8 crore. There were over 30 different criteria to be met while undertaking the project. A professional team had been appointed to carry out the work and its supervision. According to officials, the maintenance of the beach for the next two years too has been entrusted with an agency for complying with the certification process. It was in 2018 that Kappad beach was short-listed for the unique certification process. There were 12 States in India which were eligible to vie for the title. Considering the eco-label’s role in tourism promotional activity, the district administration was after a series of awareness programmes to sensitise the local communities to the process and its importance in the international tourism sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kappad-beach-gets-blue-flag-tag/article32830394.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lack of transparency alleged in faculty recruitment at CU||Calicut University (CU) publishing the shortlist of candidates for the interview to pick faculty members for its various departments has reportedly snowballed into a controversy with allegations of nepotism and lack of transparency doing the rounds. The university is recruiting faculty members after a gap of a decade and 116 posts are to be filled now. There had already been allegations about the notification for the appointment not specifying community-wise reservation norms. The authorities, however, had claimed that they were complying with a directive of the Kerala High Court. It was pointed out that the details would be given during the time of appointment. The first shortlist of candidates for the recruitment of Assistant Professors to the Department of Arabic was released by the university on September 28. The list had application numbers and the candidates’ names. However, when another one for the recruitment of Assistant Professors to the departments of Russian and Comparative Literature, Philosophy, English, and Hindi was out on October 7, the names of candidates were hidden. It only had the application numbers.  A year ago It has been pointed out that this smacked of lack of transparency as a large majority of candidates might have forgotten the application numbers by now. The process of recruitment had begun around a year ago. The university has reportedly not issued any order about the indexing criteria and details about the cut-off marks on the shortlist so far. The index marks of each of the applicants too had not been published.  Not acknowledged Candidates are yet to figure out if their application has been accepted or rejected as the status of their application had not been acknowledged, it is learnt. In this context, members of the university syndicate owing allegiance to the United Democratic Front have raised the suspicion that efforts were on to recruit candidates who had been illegitimately included on the list. People related to powerful politicians in the ruling Left Democratic Front had found their names in it, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-transparency-alleged-in-recruitment-of-faculty-at-varsity/article32830401.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kathakali shifts to virtual stage, adulation follows||The Attavilakku, the lamp used during Kathakali performances, was not lit for six months anywhere in the State. This was the largest gap in the history of the art form and the repercussions were tragic. And when it was rekindled by the end of June 2020, it marked a new beginning for the art form that brought name and fame besides tourists to Kerala. The first ever online live performance of Kathakali was hosted by Kozhikode-based Thodayam Kathakali Yogam. ‘Duryodhana Vadham,’ performed by artistes, including Kottakkal Devadas and Kalamandalam Hari R. Nair, on June 28 was viewed by over 15,000 people on Facebook. Main performers It was just a beginning. The path pointed out by Thodayam was later adapted by patrons of Kathakali across the State, as a result of which several online performances were streamed on social media platforms and YouTube over the last three months. These include ‘Kalyana Sougandhikam’ at Paliyekkara, Ernakulam; ‘Kirmeeravadham’ by Vazhenkada Kunju Nair Memorial Trust, Karalmanna, ‘Poothanamoksham’ by Gandhi Seva Sadanam, Perur, ‘Purappadu’ at Killikkurissimangalam, all in Palakkad; ‘Seetha Swayamvaram’ at Thiruvalla, Pathanamthitta, and ‘Rugmangada Charitham’ at Cheruthuruthy, Thrissur, and a dozen other performances. ‘Give them stages’ During and soon after the lockdown, the Kathakali artistes, allied performers and backstage artistes were facing loss of livelihood. The patronising organisations tried to support them through financial aid. “These artistes are very proud and do not want to accept such help. So the best way to support them was to provide them stages and to remunerate them for the performances,” said Sreejith Menon, secretary of Thodayam Kathakali Yogam, which later on organised a seven-hour-long performance of ‘Nalacharitham 2nd Day.’ The Nalacharitham performance was based on the lyrics by veteran artiste Kalamandalam Gopi. It was watched live by over 10,000 enthusiasts. “We are proud that we could revive the Kathakali stages in such a period of crisis. We are exploring newer ways to reach out to our audiences,” Mr. Menon added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kathakali-shifts-to-virtual-stage-adulation-follows/article32830486.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wetland along service road turns rubbish dump||The wetland along the Canolly Canal service road between Eranhikkal and Kunduparamba is turning into a dumping ground of non-biodegradable and hazardous waste materials from urban households and shops. Bundles of used diapers, masks, loads of plastic bottles and disposable materials have been piling up at the spot since lockdown days. The dense growth of shrubs and grass along the road is offering a cover for miscreants to dump waste, say residents. Though surveillance cameras were installed, they are now dysfunctional because of the lack of periodical maintenance and regular monitoring. “The  lackadaisical attitude by the corporation authorities towards the place is evident as a public crematorium and a nearby multi-storey building for industrial promotion activities along the canal service road are now remaining useless. Cleaning workers never come to this abandoned spot,” said Sekharan, a casual labourer from the area. ‘Huge potential’ According to members of local residents’ associations, the Eranhikkal stretch of the Canolly Canal has huge potential to grow as an eco-tourism destination with its scenic surrounding and waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wetland-along-service-road-turns-rubbish-dump/article32830391.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New facility at district TB centre||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will lay the foundation stone for an annexe building for the District TB Centre, CB-NAAT machine, and digital X-ray unit, through a virtual conference on Monday. A release said the proposal for a new building was placed in view of the existing structure, which is over 40 years old, becoming dilapidated. The work is expected to be completed in six months, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-facility-at-district-tb-centre/article32830402.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surveillance project for town||A city surveillance project with an exclusive control room to monitor visuals from closed circuit television cameras will be implemented at Kunnamangalam along with the opening of the new Kunnamangalam model police station building. Administrative sanction has already been accorded to the Rs. 63.5-lakh surveillance project. The police say the construction of the station building, which will also house the hi-tech control room, is in the final phase and they will be able to shift to the new space within six months. Only the construction of a road to the place and a few finishing works are remaining, they add. Night surveillance cameras connected to the police control room have been one of the long-pending demands of traders in Kunnamangalam town. Recurring incidents of thefts and anti-social activities had forced many shop owners in the area to install their own surveillance systems. Some of them had also appointed security guards. Kunnamangalam MLA P.T.A. Rahim said the new project will help the police exercise better control over traffic management. They will be able to introduce effective night surveillance measures and track miscreants, he adds. For the completion of the model station building, the State government will spend about Rs. 3 crore. On completion of the shifting process, the Kunnamangalam court building will be renovated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surveillance-project-for-kunnamangalam/article32830392.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Harbours to resume operations today||Harbours and fish landing centres, which had remained closed in the district following the COVID-19 outbreak, will resume operations amid tight regulations on Monday. Only 50% of workers will be allowed at the facilities, in line with the safety measures in place to fight the epidemic in coastal regions. Accordingly, fishermen and allied workers who have tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 alone will be permitted to enter harbours and fish landing centres. They will also have to produce identity cards or passes issued by the harbour management committees concerned. No public entry will be entertained at the facilities. The conventional auction procedures will not be allowed in the harbour areas as part of the physical distancing protocol. Buyers will have to accept the prices fixed by the harbour management committees. Wearing of masks will be compulsory for all fishers and allied workers. Boat owners will be responsible for disinfecting boats after each service. Incident commanders will monitor the safety aspects and promptly report suspected cases to the authorities. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, who issued an official order on Sunday permitting the reopening of the facilities, said the decision was taken considering the difficulties facing fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harbours-to-resume-operations-today/article32830399.ece
12 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||5 tonnes of spoiled dates seized in Malappuram||Food Safety officials in Malappuram district seized five tonnes of spoiled dates during raids conducted at different centres on Sunday. The dates worth Rs. 15 lakh were found to have been imported under a fake licence and were found spoiled. As much as 4.9 tonnes of spoiled dates were seized from an agency at Athavanad near Tirur. The agency was closed down after it was found to have been functioning without licence. Officials destroyed the dates. The raids followed a complaint by a consumer after he found that the dates he had bought from a shop at Perinthalmanna were spoiled and had worms in them. Spoiled dates were widely sold on offer by some shops in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5-tonnes-of-spoiled-dates-seized-in-malappuram/article32830390.ece
12 October 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||1,451 test positive in Malappuram||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued unabated in Malappuram district on Sunday. District officials said 1,451 people tested positive for the virus. However, there was consolation among officials as 1,059 infected persons recovered in the district.    As many as 1,332 of the new cases were found to have contracted the virus through direct contact. There were 80 cases whose source of infection could not be identified.    Among those tested positive on Sunday were 11 health workers. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district has risen to 8,870, and those in quarantine have gone up to nearly 53,000.    While 14 cases came from other States, 14 came from abroad. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that health and allied departments were on full alert as the pandemic was spreading at great speed. He said people should ensure their self-protection considering the high possibility of the virus spread.    He said those violating restrictions would have to face legal action. The total number of recoveries crossed 25,000 in the district. Nearly 150 people died of COVID-19 in Malappuram in the past six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1451-test-positive-in-malappuram/article32830397.ece
12 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Talks on 6-km forest road today||The issue of constructing a six-km forest road for the tribespeople living in the Parambikulam forest in the district will be discussed at a meeting to be held here on Monday afternoon. District Collector D. Balamurali has convened the meeting to find a way out of the crisis stirred up by the tribespeople who began constructing the road by taking on the forest authorities last week. Officials of the Forest, Public Works, Scheduled Tribes Development, Revenue, and Geology Departments and the police are expected to attend the meeting. Leaders of the tribespeople too have been invited to the meeting. 45-km trip The tribespeople living at Thekkadi in Parambikulam forest in Muthalamada panchayat in the district have long been demanding a six-km road through the forest connecting Chemmanampathi with Parambikulam. At present, they have to travel 45 km and cross twice the borders of Tamil Nadu to reach Palakkad. However, forest and revenue authorities are of the view that the proposed road would be impractical as it is through treacherous terrains. Mr. Balamurali said that all options would be weighed before reaching a decision. “Let is look at all alternatives. Their demand has been genuine, but it looks like taking a huge risk considering the terrain through which the road is proposed,” said Mr. Balamurali. The tribespeople are adamant that they would go ahead with the road if the authorities did not permit them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-on-6-km-forest-road-today/article32830395.ece
12 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||640 cases in Palakkad||The surge in COVID-19 cases in Palakkad district continued as 640 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. However, there were 546 recoveries in the district. Officials said that 405 of the new cases were found to have contracted the disease through local contact. When seven cases came from other States, one came from abroad. The source of infection could not be ascertained in 227 cases. The number of active cases currently under treatment has risen to 6,538 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/640-cases-in-palakkad/article32830881.ece
12 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Biker held with 6 kg of ganja||The police seized six kg of ganja from a biker at Walayar, near here, on Sunday. Harikumar Paruthipulla, 40, from Peringottukurissi was arrested for smuggling in the ganja from Tamil Nadu. Police said that ganja was brought from Avinashi for local distribution at Kanjikode and Walayar regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biker-held-with-6-kg-of-ganja/article32830882.ece
12 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||378 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 378 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 323 contracted the virus through local contact while six persons had come from abroad. The source of 28 persons were yet to be ascertained. The test positivity rate for the day was 7.46%. With 35 cases, Thiruvalla municipality reported the highest number of cases , followed by Pallikkal panchayat with 23, and Pathanamthitta municipality with 22 cases each. With 151 recoveries during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 3128 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/378-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32830461.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Managing surge capacity is the new challenge||As it is becoming more evident that the State would be fighting the COVID-19 pandemic for many more weeks or months, the entire focus of the health administration is now on managing the surge capacity in districts. (Surge capacity generally refers to the ability of a health system to maintain a sudden, unexpected increase in patient volume that would otherwise severely challenge or exceed the present capacity of the system.) The number of patients who are critically ill has spiked in all districts. However, not all districts are well-placed to manage the increasing number of patients requiring ICU care or ventilator support. Though the private health sector has stepped in for COVID-19 management, even now, a clear picture of how many private hospital beds, ICU beds and ventilators would be available for COVID-19 management in districts is not available. A senior Health official said that private hospitals had been told to compulsorily set aside 10% of their beds for COVID-19 patients. “It is not easy to create more ICU beds because it requires enormous human resources support. We need at least 36 staff nurses to run 10 ICU beds round the clock, which is unthinkable in the current situation,” he said. There are not enough doctors also to put into service. Category B patients The focus is shifting to Category B patients now, who have more than mild symptoms, which might aggravate, because of various co-morbidities like diabetes or their immuno compromised state. “The attempt is to manage Category B patients well so that their condition does not worsen, requiring ICU care/ventilator support. In all districts, district authorities have been asked to take over small and medium hospitals to create COVID-19 second line treatment centres where high flow nasal oxygen facilities to give supplemental oxygen to patients, and physicians would be available round the clock,” he said. District wise As for districts, Thiruvananthapuram, which has some 1,200 beds with oxygen support (including 397 ICU beds) and 360 ventilators, is one of the best-equipped districts and is expected to manage COVID-19 very well. Case graph does show signs of plateauing but the high daily caseload of around 900-1,000 cases is extremely worrisome as the hospital stay for every patient is an average of 10 days. Kozhikode and Ernakulam are expected to do fine because of the strong presence of private hospitals. But Kozhikode already has a high caseload and it will also have to bear part of the load of Malappuram, which is mostly dependent just on Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, for critical-care patients. Similarly, situation in Alappuzha and Kasaragod are also worrisome. Kollam (with 2,163 beds in all, and 246 oxygen supported beds, including 68 ICUs, 108 ventilators) is another problem district, which has been experiencing a surge and is leaning heavily on Thiruvananthapuram for providing critical-care support. There are District Programme Management Support Units in every district, which are supposed to have a daily dashboard with real-time monitoring of hospital beds/ICU occupancies. However, there are inherent problems of reporting from hospitals and hence the functioning of these control rooms have not exactly been perfect, it is pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/managing-surge-capacity-is-the-new-challenge/article32830476.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Polls spoiler for capital city draft master plan||The Thiruvananthapuram draft master plan 2031 is unlikely to see the light of the day before the local body elections. The proposed amendments in the Interim Development Order (IDO), which governs the awarding of building permits and all kinds of land use in the city, in the absence of a sanctioned master plan, have also been hanging fire as these are yet to be taken up for discussion and approval in the meetings of the Corporation council. The two recent meetings of the Corporation council, convened over video conference, had ended with hardly any transaction of its usual business. Technical glitches had made the Corporation to cut short the meetings. The amendments to the IDO, which are beneficial to those who were having difficulties in getting their building permit applications cleared as their land was wrongly marked as paddy field or meant for public use, were included in the agenda for the previous council meeting. The Town Planning Department is almost done with the preparation of the draft master plan. Strong protests But the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) is also wary of taking it up before the local body elections, considering the strong protests by the people in some wards which were recently added to the Corporation when the previous plan was released some years back. The plan was then scrapped. Though the latest draft master plan is being prepared by addressing most of the issues from the previous one, there are still concerns of public perception at a time when the local body elections are drawing near. The Corporation’s Town Planning Standing Committee is planning to get at least the amendments to the IDO passed in the upcoming council meetings. The amendments are meant to benefit those who have been unable to get building permits as their land is supposed to be paddy land or in some specific zone, even though they are not. Such files are now forwarded to the Regional Town Planner's office for concurrence. With these amendments, the Corporation can take the decision at its level itself and avoid the delays faced by the public. The Mayor has called an all party meeting on Monday to discuss various issues including the holding of council meetings. The opposition parties had in the previous council meeting raised concerns regarding online meetings and had demanded that meetings should be held in the council hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polls-spoiler-for-capital-city-draft-master-plan/article32830908.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New cases dip to 797 in capital||The district reported 797 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, even as the district administration declared more containment zones in the Corporation and panchayat areas in a bid to contain the spread of the disease. The death toll in the district, meanwhile, inched closer to the 300-mark with two more recent deaths getting confirmed as due to the virus. The tally has risen to 299 with the deaths of a 68-year-old woman from Palkulangara and an 84-year-old man from Poojappura. While local transmission accounted for 633 of the cases reported on Sunday, the source of infection remained vague in 150 cases. Two persons who tested positive on the day had arrived from other States, health officials said. Sunday’s caseload included 335 women and 462 men. The number of children and senior citizens diagnosed with the disease over the past 24 hours was high as in the past several days. According to health officials, the list contains 79 children below the age of 15 and 119 persons aged above 60. Twelve more health workers also have tested positive in the district. On a positive note, the recovery rate also was relatively high on Sunday. The number stood at 1,200. As on Sunday, 11,720 persons are under treatment for COVID-19. Over the past 24 hours alone, 2,576 persons were quarantined, taking the total number to 31,779. Meanwhile, more containment zones have been declared in the Thiruvananthapuram corporation limits and in the grama panchayats in the district. Containment zones The following are the new containment zones in the Corporation limits: Kinavoor, Medical College area, Muttada, Chettivilakom, Kuravankonam, Nanthencode, Kunnukuzhi, Ayoorkonam region in Peroorkada, Kodunganoor, Harbour, Kannamoola, Thycaud, Karamana, Arannoor and PTP Nagar. The following panchayat regions also have been declared containment zones: Puthuserry Madom and Eythukondakani in the Kollayil panchayat; Mavuvila and Nellivila in the Venganoor panchayat; Pulavangal in Thirupuram panchayat; Pothencode town in Pothencode panchayat; Puthukurichi north, Puthenthope north, Vilayilkulam and Cheramanthuruthu in Kadinamkulam panchayat; Koythoorkonam in Andoorkonam panchayat; Puruthipara, Parandodu and Meenankal in Aryanad panchayat; Njarakkatuvila in Karavaram panchayat; Moonumukku in Kanjiramkulam panchayat and Madanvila in Azhoor panchayat. The following areas are no longer containment zones, District Collector Navjot Khosa said: Kadambattukonam in Navayikulam panchayat; Valiyavila, Plavila and Meenthangi in Pulimath panchayat; Edathara and Vavarambalam ward (Vavarambalam junction) in Pothencode panchayat; Chittiyookode in Malayinkeezhu panchayat; Pandiyode and Irumba in Aruvikkara panchayat; Pavathiyanvila and Neduvanvila in Parassala panchayat and Manjamkode in Aryancode panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-dip-to-797-in-capital/article32830915.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Order on inter-State water disputes scrapped||The Water Resources Department has scrapped a 2014 order which sought to prevent the release of information regarding inter-State water disputes under the Right to Information Act. The department has now issued modified guidelines on the matter following a High Court ruling in 2019 which frowned upon the attempt to prevent flow of information under RTI. No info under RTI Through a July 22, 2014, order, the department had decided not to give out information on inter-State water issues under RTI on the ground that it could adversely impact the State's interests, given the disputes with neighbouring States. According to the order, such information was to be withheld until the cases pending in courts were settled. However, the High Court, in a June 25, 2019, ruling observed that the department's decision cannot be allowed to influence State information officers/appellate authorities. These officers should be governed exclusively by the provisions of the Right to Information Act, 2005, the court noted. In the light of the court ruling, the Chief Engineer (Inter State Water) of the Irrigation Department had sought suitable directions from the government. Order on Oct. 1 In an October 1 order, the State government cancelled the 2014 order and noted that information officers should handle queries on inter-State water issues as per the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005. The Chief Ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu had met on September 25, 2019, to sort out issues related to inter-State water sharing and the revision of the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project agreement. Subsequently, the two States had formed joint committees to carry forward the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-inter-state-water-disputes-scrapped/article32830492.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||St. Mary’s school gets maximum IT equipment||St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Pattom, here has received the maximum number of IT equipment installed as part of the high-tech classroom project in the district. A pressnote issued here today said as many as 691 equipment have been installed in various classrooms of St. Mary’s school. Nellimoodu New Higher Secondary School has received 356, and Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, 342 equipments. High-tech classrooms As many as 31,130 IT equipment have been installed in 1,270 schools in the district as part of the State’s achievement of becoming the first to have high-tech classrooms in all schools, the pressnote added. Installation of the high-tech equipment has been completed in Classes I to VII in 868 government and aided schools and in Classes VIII to XII in 402 schools. These include 9,507 laptops; 5,775 multimedia projector; 7,970 USB speaker; 3,694 mounting accessories; 2,613 screen; 379 DSLR camera; 399 multi-function printer; 401 HD webcam; and 392 43-inch televisions. High-speed broadband Internet was also installed in 1,032 schools. IT training was given to 15,194 teachers. Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) is implementing the high-tech school project as part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission. An amount of Rs. 56.17 crore - Rs. 48.61 crore from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and Rs. 7.56 crore from the local level – have been utilised in the district, KITE CEO K. Anvar Sadath said. CM to declare Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will announce the completion of the projects and declare the State first in the country to become completely digital in the education sector on Monday.  As many as 31,130 IT equipment have been installed in 1,270 schools in the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/st-marys-school-gets-maximum-it-equipment/article32830906.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10-day Alpasi festival deferred||The 10-day annual Alpasi festival of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, scheduled to commence from October 15, has been deferred as 10 persons, including the chief priest and joint chief priest of the iconic temple in the capital, have been infected by SARS-CoV- 2.Devotees are not being allowed from October 9 after the chief priest, joint chief priest and support staff of the temple tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday evening. Only the chief priest and the Tantri have the right to perform poojas in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. Difficult Since Friday, Tantri Tharanallur Satheesan Namboodiripad is performing the poojas in the temple. The decision to defer the festival was taken as the Tantri opined that it will be difficult to go ahead with the festival in the absence of chief priest, joint chief priest and other priests. The festivals of Thiruvallam Parasurama temple, Vaduvathu Mahavishnu temple, Cheriya Udeswaram temple and Arakathu Devi temple in the capital held along with the Alpasi festival will have to be postponed as the idols of the four temples are taken jointly for the arat. The temple authorities will decide on the new dates for the Alpasi festival in consultation with the Tantri. The authorities are hopeful of opening the temple for devotees from October 16, one day before the idols of Goddess Saraswati from Padmanabhapuram Thevarakkett, the idol of Kumaraswamy from Velimalai Murugan temple and the idol of Munnuttinanga from Sthanumalayan temple in Suchindram reaches the Navarathri mandapam in front of the temple for the 10-day Navaratri celebrations. The 10-day Painkuni festival, scheduled from March 30 and deferred due to the spurt in COVID-19, was held from September 10 in adherence with the protocol norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alpasi-temple-festival-deferred/article32830463.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala Chicken opens 12 outlets||Twelve of the 50 Kerala Chicken outlets targeted by the Kudumbashree as part of the government’s 100-day action plan have been launched in the State. Ten of these outlets are in Ernakulam, and two in Thrissur district. Agreements have been signed to open six more outlets in Ernakulam. These are expected to become functional in a couple of weeks. The outlets in the two districts are supplied by 36 farms in Ernakulam district. Farms are set to open soon in Thrissur. To Kottayam Once the target of 20 outlets in Ernakulam is achieved and the Thrissur operations start expanding, the Kudumbashree will turn its attention to Kottayam where 10 outlets are scheduled to be opened. The first outlet of the Kerala Chicken was launched in Ernakulam at the end of June. The Kudumbashree had rolled out the project so that half the chicken sold in the State could be produced here. How the model works The Kudumbashree has adopted the integration model for Kerala Chicken. It supplies the chicks, feed, and medicines, while the farmer has to ensure a shed for the birds, electricity and water charges, and labour charges. The space should accommodate a minimum of 1,000 birds. Most farmers are from the Kudumbashree network. Joint enterprises can also be launched. More chicks will be supplied to such ventures. Supervisors visit farms every day to ensure that parameters such as quality of chicks, feed intake, and proper vaccination are met. After the 40-45 days in which the chicks mature and are taken back by the Kudumbashree, the farms are left vacant for 15 days for cleaning and sanitising before they are allotted the next batch. Farmers’ income Payment to the farmers is based on the feed conversion rate (feed consumed divided by weight of the bird). While farmers usually receive Rs. 7 for a kg of the bird, Kerala Chicken farmers will get up to Rs. 13 for a kg depending on quality. At Rs. 10 for a bird, a farmer with 1,000 birds will earn approximately Rs. 19,000 over these 40 or 45 days, say Kudumbashree officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-chicken-opens-12-outlets/article32830491.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sargam showcases students skills in various disciplines||Sargam, a programme launched by the district unit of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, to get specialist teachers to promote students’ skills in arts, sports, and work experience has received a good response. Besides keeping students engaged and in a positive frame of mind and alleviating their anxieties during these unsettling times, Sargam also aims to provide those interested in these areas opportunities to nurture their talents. In the first phase, all students in the district from lower primary to higher secondary and vocational streams are taking part in the programme. Videos of various activities prepared by Samagra at the district level are shared by trainers on a WhatsApp group and from there percolate down to school headmaster, school resource group comprising teachers, and finally on class WhatsApp groups. Videos The videos are categorised into Kaliveedu (work experience education), Kalikkalam (health and sports education), Chitraveedu (painting), and Pattupetti (music). Both Kaliveedu and Kalikkalam are further segmented as per the class in which students study, while Chitraveedu and Pattupetti are for students from classes 5 to 8. After watching the videos, students’ doubts or recommendations can be shared on the school group and cluster groups. Their works are shared on the school groups and shared at the block resource level too to motivate them. While opportunities to watch the videos on class groups are available, there has been demand for uploading them on YouTube to enable repeat viewing. In the next phase of Sargam, teachers will be asked to identify talented students on the basis of responses to the videos and formed into groups on a cluster basis. Specialist teachers will take classes for these students online to hone their talents. When schools reopen, these students will be given direct classes by the specialist teachers, say Samagra officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sargam-showcases-students-varied-skills/article32830464.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BEFI campaign against coronavirus||The district committee of the Bank Employees Federation of India (BEFI) will be organising a campaign from October 12 to 17 to increase awareness among the staff and customers to follow all COVID-19 protocols. The campaign will focus on the need for the staff to wear gloves while handling currency notes, the use of sanitisers, physical distancing , wearing of masks and for the customers to visit the bank only in emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/befi-campaign-against-coronavirus/article32830913.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID monitoring: nine sectoral officers replaced||Nine of the sectoral officers who were appointed as part of strengthening COVID-19 prevention measures in the district have been replaced with new officers. Officers who could not appear for duty due to health reasons and those who have been transferred to other districts have been replaced, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. The district administration had appointed 92 sectoral officers and COVID sentinels at the panchayat and municipality level to ensure that the restrictions imposed in the district under Section 144 of the CrPC are strictly enforced. Assembly of more than five people in public places has been banned through the prohibitory orders, which will be in place till the midnight of October 31. Restrictions have also been imposed on the number of people attending indoor and outdoor programmes. The sectoral officers are tasked with ensuring that the public follow these guidelines. They will also monitor break-the-chain measures such as physical distancing, wearing masks, use of sanitiser and quarantine protocols. These officers will function as the eyes and ears of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in enforcing the COVID-19 prevention measures, Ms. Khosa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-monitoring-nine-sectoral-officers-replaced/article32830916.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Groundwater faces arsenic threat: study||Researchers have underscored the need for policy interventions at the highest level to urgently address the serious threat posed by arsenic contamination of groundwater in the country. According to a paper published in Geoscience Frontiers, 20 States and four Union territories are affected by this problem now. The paper ‘Arsenic contamination of groundwater: A global synopsis with focus on the Indian Peninsula’ is authored by E. Shaji, Associate Professor, Department of Geology, University of Kerala; M. Santosh, Foreign Expert at the China University of Geosciences, Beijing; and K.V. Sarath, Pranav Prakash, V. Deepchand and B. V. Divya of the Department of Geology, University of Kerala. Arsenic contamination in groundwater was first reported from Chandigarh, and a second case was reported in the lower Gangetic plain of West Bengal. 20 States hit “'But now we find that 20 States are affected,” Dr. Shaji said. The list mentions south Indian States Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Investigations in Kerala are in progress, he said. Drinking arsenic contaminated groundwater can lead to serious health issues including cancers, coronary heart disease, liver damage, arsenicosis and hyperkeratosis. according to the authors. “'Thirty-three Asian countries are significantly affected by groundwater arsenic contamination. The most affected countries are China, Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan. In India, it is reported that a population over 50 million is currently at risk from arsenic contamination,”' it noted. Groundwater can get contaminated by both natural processes and anthropogenic causes like mining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/groundwater-faces-arsenic-threat-study/article32830909.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank campaign on farm loans||The Kerala State Cooperative Bank (Kerala Bank) has launched a campaign in connection with the disbursement of NABARD-assisted long-term loans for agricultural and allied activities. The campaign is aimed at assisting farmers and encouraging farming and allied activities amid the COVID-19 pandemic. For more details, farmers should contact Kerala Bank branches, K. Mohanan, Regional Manager (Thiruvananthapuram), Kerala Bank, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bank-campaign-on-farm-loans/article32830477.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Help children lead dignified lives: Minister||Protection of girls is society’s responsibility, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja has said. She was speaking after inaugurating the International Day of the Girl Child celebrations here on Sunday. When compared to other States, Kerala had been able to provide children with security and ensure their health, the Minister said. However, the State needed to create an environment in which children could live with dignity. It had not been able to prevent crimes against children entirely. Often, it was people known to children who committed crimes against them. The police should bring the guilty to book, Ms. Shylaja said. Many programmes The department was taking up a number of programmes for children. Balanidhi to support children in need of protection, documentation of activities of children’s homes during lockdown, and socio-economic survey of families of children in these institutions, were among the projects. Group foster care to rehabilitate children living in institutions was under way. An amount of Rs. 2,000 was being provided each month for fostering 72 children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-children-lead-dignified-lives-minister/article32830490.ece
12 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for abusing nephew||The police on Sunday arrested a 50-year-old man hailing from Poonthura on charges of sexually abusing his nephew. The accused, a fisherman by profession, has been accused of abusing his sister’s son, now aged 11, over the past four years. The incident came to light after the boy informed his parents. He informed the police that his uncle harassed him whenever he visited the latter's home, which is in the same neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-abusing-nephew/article32830917.ece
12 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Women protest against Hathras gang rape||Activists of Women Justice Movement posted letters from post offices across Kerala on Saturday in protest against the Uttar Pradesh government’s efforts to ‘shield the guilty in the Hathras gang rape case.’ Inaugurating the protest, the forum’s State president Jabeena Irshad said atrocities against women and Dalits had gone up in UP ever since Yogi Adityanath assumed office as Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-protest-against-hathras-gang-rape/article32830482.ece
12 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||960 persons test positive in Thrissur||As many as 960 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Sunday. Of them, 958 people contracted COVID-19 through local contact. In all, 560 people recovered from the disease on Sunday. There are 9,304 active cases in the district and 140 people are undergoing treatment at hospitals in other districts. So far 22,078 people have been affected by the disease and 12,601 people recovered from it. There are 11 disease clusters in the district. The patients included 121 people above the age of 60 and 70 children below the age of 10. In all, 5,896 people are under home observation. Meanwhile, a 63-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, tested positive for the virus posthumously. The deceased was identified as Mohanan of Pullur. A 52-year-old Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) worker, who was under treatment for COVID-19 died at Thrissur Medical College Hospital on Sunday. Anil Kumar of Mapranam, near Irinjalakuda, was overseer in KSEB's Parappukkara Division. He was a kidney patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/960-persons-test-positive-in-thrissur/article32830878.ece
12 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Two more complaints of custodial torture||A day after a case was registered against four jail officers in connection with the death of an accused in a ganja case, two more accused on Sunday lodged complaints alleging custodial torture at the quarantine centre at the Ambilikkala hostel in Thrissur. Ambilikala private hostel is a quarantine centre of the jail department for accused persons in various cases before admitting them to the jail. Two persons arrested in theft cases under the Aloor and Kodungallur police stations have complained of brutal torture in the quarantine centre by the jail officers.  40-odd injuries They complained against the jail officials following the death of Shemeer, an accused in ganja case, allegedly following custodial torture at the quarantine centre. The post-mortem examination report found 40-odd injuries on Shameer’s body. It is reported that two other accused in the ganja case, arrested along with Shameer, too were tortured at the quarantine centre. The East police have registered a case against four jail officials in connection with the death of Shemeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-complaints-of-custodial-torture/article32830880.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Al-Ameen to be revived in online form||Al-Ameen , a newspaper started by freedom fighter Mohammed Abdur Rahiman Sahib from Malabar in October 1924, is set to reincarnate in digital form. The revived version of the newspaper that had been the voice of the freedom struggle in Malabar will be available for online reading on websites and social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram and YouTube. Financial problems Although there were attempts to revive Al-Ameen earlier, financial constraints prevented the newspaper from taking off again. Veekshanam Mohammed, Malappuram district vice president of the Congress, said that the paper would not change or dilute its original editorial policies: that it stood for truth and for freedom. Mr. Mohammed will be the publisher of the newspaper. Abdur Rahiman Sahib started Al-Ameen in October 1924 after his two-year jail term in the wake of the Malabar Mappila Rebellion, as he found that a newspaper was one of the strongest instruments to fight the tyranny of the British Raj. His paper mirrored the necessity of freedom and, therefore, had to face oppression by the British. Sahib named his paper Al-Ameen (meaning honest) as he insisted that the content of the publication was truthful. He took a firm stand against deporting freedom fighters to Andaman cellular jails and the enactment of Mappila Outrages Act.  Al-Ameen spoke against the British when some other newspapers kept silent during the Simon Commission period and Salt Satyagraha. When some detractors branded the paper as pro-Muslim, some others termed it as anti-Muslim. The publication ground to a halt in September 1939. Sahib was jailed in 1940. Although he tried to revive it after his release in 1945, it did not take off. Sahib died on November 23, 1945. Although Sahib’s friend Moidu Moulavi tried to revive it in 1946 and 1960, financial constraints burdened the publication. Moulavi’s sons V. Subair and M. Rasheed too tried to revive the paper, but without success. Young teacher Bayis Kodur has assumed the editor’s post. District Congress secretary Ummer Gurikkal is the managing director. Logo Film personality P.T. Kunhumohammed and Mohammed Abdur Rahiman Sahib Trust chairman C. Haridas will jointly release the logo of Al-Ameen here on Monday, which will mark the 96th birthday of the newspaper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/al-ameen-to-be-revived-in-online-form/article32830388.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Zero-carbon medians||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zero-carbon-medians/article32830789.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Risky business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/risky-business/article32830799.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Elements at play||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elements-at-play/article32830919.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Game-ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/game-ready/article32830494.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Helping the needy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-the-needy/article32830911.ece
12 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth found dead in Chandragiri fort tank||Two youth from Tirupati, who had gone to the Chandragiri hill fort on Saturday, were found dead in the pond atop the hillock and their bodies were fished out and shifted to area hospital for autopsy. According to the Chandragiri police, three youth had gone to the fort on Saturday evening and gained access to the hilltop that has been under surveillance for sometime now. When they reportedly ventured into the water body on the hillock to swim, unaware of its depth, two of them lost balance and slipped in the pond and started drowning, said the police. The third youth, Mahesh (17), who had stayed back, shouted in vain for help. He ran down the hill and informed the fort officials, besides passing on the information to the area police. The police, in coordination with the fire department personnel, launched a search that went on for three hours on Saturday night and was resumed in the early hours of Sunday. After a two-hour-long operation, the two bodies of the youth – identified as Rangam (27) and Anudeep (23) – were found stuck in between rocks. The bodies were shifted to the SVRR Hospital for autopsy. A case was registered. ‘Dangerous depths’ The Circle-Inspector (Chandragiri) said that the pond is known for its dangerous terrain and depth. He said that the fort officials were told to mount vigil on the stretch leading to the hillock. Youth saved Meanwhile, the Pakala circle police in the early hours of Sunday saved the lives of two youth from the swirling waters of a rivulet, when they were washed away while negotiating an overflowing causeway beneath a railway bridge. The duo, along with their motorbike, was washed away in the gush of waters following heavy rains in the area. People who were about to cross the causeway saw them calling for help and immediately informed the police. Sub-Inspector (Pakala) K. Rajasekhar and his team rushed to the spot and helped the duo reach to safety. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar congratulated the police team on their successful rescue mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-found-dead-in-chandragiri-fort-tank/article32830220.ece
12 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for snatching gold chains||The Puttur sub-division police on Sunday morning nabbed a three-member gang of chain-snatchers at the Gandhi Road junction in Tirupati and seized some gold ornaments and a motorbike. With the help of CC camera footages in Puttur, Srikalahasti and Tirupati sub-divisions, the investigative team zeroed in on them, after they went absconding reportedly following two chain-snatching incidents at Mahadeva Puram village on Pichatur-Srikalahasti road and on the outskirts of Nagari on October 6, attacking lone women pedestrians. Sub-inspector (KVB Puram) D. Gopi said the three youth – Jayasurya, Manoj and Vasudevan Achari – belonged to Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-snatching-gold-chains/article32830219.ece
12 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on alert in East Godavari||The East Godavari district authorities are on alert as depression in the Bay of Bengal is very likely to be intensified into a deep depression by Monday off 410 km of southeast of Kakinada city. Fishermen were alerted about the rough weather conditions in the sea and they were advised not to venture into the sea for fishing until further communication. Several parts of the Agency have been experiencing continuous rainfall since Sunday morning. Maximum rainfall of 58.6 mm was recorded in V.R. Puram mandal in the Agency on Sunday, according to a weather bulletin. Heavy rainfall was recorded in Chintoor (36.2 mm), Kunavaram (26.8 mm), and Prathipadu (18 mm). Rajamahendravaram city received 11 mm rainfall, while Kakinada received 4.9 mm rainfall on Sunday. Rainwater stagnated in the low-lying areas across the district headquarters of Kakinada. Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar deployed teams to monitor the situation in the city.  Control rooms set up Meanwhile, the spell of rain worries farmers as heavy winds are ikely to damage the standing paddy crop. As many as seven control rooms have been set up across the district to monitor the impact of continuous rains in the district. The grievances to extend timely action and support during the rains could be registered at the control rooms; Collector office (Contact Number 18004-253077), Sub Collector office at Rajamahendravaram (08832-2442344), Sub Collector at Yetapaka (08748-285279), ITDA Rampachodavaram Project Officer office (18004-252123), Revenue Divisional Office at Amalapuram (08856-233100, and RDO office at Ramachandrapuram (08857-245166).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-on-alert-in-east-godavari/article32830853.ece
12 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP, Congress hold rally against 3-capital plan||Leaders and activists of TDP and Congress, led by former Kakinada city TDP MLA Vanamadi Venkateswara Rao, took out a rally here against the proposed shifting of the executive capital from Amaravati. They extended their support to the ongoing agitation against the three-capital plan. “Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy did not object to the proposal of developing the capital city in Amaravati when he was the Leader of the Opposition. Shifting of capital from of Amaravati will hurt those who parted with their land for the capital city. The movement will continue till the State government withdraws the three-capital proposal,” said Mr. Venkateswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-congress-hold-rally-against-3-capital-plan/article32830850.ece
12 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja seized, three held||The police on Sunday arrested three persons and seized 950 kg of ganja worth Rs. 23.75 lakh while it was being transported from the Visakhapatnam Agency during a raid at Mathayyapeta village in the limits of Kotananduru police station in East Godavari district. On a tip-off from the local sources, the Tuni rural police, led by CI K. Kishore Babu, nabbed the gang which procured the contraband from Dharakonda forest in the Visakhapatnam Agency and was transporting it to the neighbouring States. The three accused were identified as K. Chandra Rao, P. Govardhan and K. Ravi Kumar. They belong to the Visakhapatnam Agency. Kingpin at large In an official release, Mr. Kishore Babu said the kingpin of the gang was absconding. The search is on for three more persons identified as K. Anand, D. Lingamurthy and B. Nagesh, driver of the van in which the ganja was being transported. The police seized a van and two motorbikes during the raid. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-seized-three-held/article32830852.ece
12 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual workshop held on Madhubani painting||A two-day virtual workshop on Madhubani painting was conducted by the Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing, Kurnool. Shalinee Kumari Jha, faculty of Department of Creative Arts, Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, conducted the workshop. Madhubani painting is an ancient cultural art form of Bihar which dates back to the Ramayana. Paintings were first done on Khobar Ghar (nuptial chamber of the newly wed couple) and on the walls, with mud and cow dung. The walls of Mithila’s houses were painted to welcome the wedding procession of Lord Shri Rama. It was a lost art form until 1934. British colonial officer for Madhubani district, William G. Archer, ‘discovered’ the paintings while inspecting the damage caused by the 1934 earthquake. The workshop was inaugurated by IIITDM Kurnool director D.V.L.N. Somayajulu and he narrated the importance of learning traditional art forms. “Ms. Shalinee Jha is considered one of the progressive artists of our times and her themes combine traditional methods with contemporary issues which make her art highly successful,” said Mr. Somayajulu. Besides the students of IIITDM, Kurnool, the workshop had participants from across India, and reputed foreign universities. ‘Source of artistic innovation’ “Mithila painting is deeply rooted in its ancient iconographic traditions, but recently Mithila painting has become a source of artistic innovation with new training systems (provided by Mithila Art Institute) and is focusing on modern and social themes,” said Ms. Shalinee Jha whose painting is displayed at the Asian Art Museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virtual-workshop-held-on-madhubani-painting/article32830222.ece
12 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight die of virus in Prakasam||The toll due to coronavirus in south coastal Andhra Pradesh rose to 1,002 with eight more persons succumbing to the dreaded disease in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours.  650 test positive With this, the toll rose to 531 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Sunday night. The toll remained unchanged at 471 in Nellore district, which reported zero deaths during the period. Continuing with the positive trend, 526 more patients recovered when compared to fresh admissions in the two districts during the period. While 650 persons tested positive for the disease, 1,002 patients won the battle against the viral disease. With 288 fresh cases, the cumulative confirmed cases increased to 58,244 in Nellore district. However, the number of active cases came down to 3,145 following discharge of 471 patients from hospitals in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam district, the total number of positive cases jumped to 54,388 with 362 new cases during the period. As many as 531 patients fully recovered from the disease bring the number of active cases further down to 4,046. So far, 1,04,910 patients had been discharged from hospitals in the two districts with Nellore district accounting for 55,099 recoveries and Prakasam district for 49,811 recovered persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-die-of-virus-in-prakasam/article32830225.ece
12 October 2020||Ongole,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Work closely with local police to check illegal sand transport’||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal asked the personnel of the Special Enforcement Bureau(SEB) to work closely with the local police to eradicate illicit liquor and illegal transport of sand. Holding a review meeting here on Saturday, the SP asked them to put special focus on sand transport in the coastal region including Chirala, Vetapalem, Chinnaganjam and Gudluru. The informant network should be strengthened to detect transport of illicit liquor from other States, he said, adding that the auctioning of seized vehicles used in illegal sand and liquor transport cases should be conducted after taking permission of the courts concerned.  687 arrested so far The SEB officers should have complete information on the sand reaches in their respective police station limits, should act tough on ganja and other drugs peddlers, he said. SEB Assistant Commissioner Srinivas Chowdhary said that so far 453 cases of sand smuggling had been registered in the district and 687 persons arrested and 15,312.9 tonnes of sand seized during this year. As many as 832 cases of liquor smuggling had been registered and 858 persons arrested in this connection after seizing and 3,400 litres of non-duty liquor from other States and 2,860 litres of Andhra Pradesh liquor (Duty Paid Liquor).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-closely-with-local-police-to-check-illegal-sand-transport/article32830849.ece
12 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain lashes Prakasam district, Gundlakamma gets good inflows||Incessant rain lashed several parts of Prakasam district on Sunday under the influence of a depression in the Bay of Bengal bringing cheer to farmers. Low-lying areas in the city, including Pragati Colony, Balaram Colony and Housing Board Colony were in a sheet of water following the wet spell. Weathermen predicted heavy rainfall as the weather system is likely to intensify further into a deep depression in the next 24 hours. Fishermen refrained from fishing in the sea as it remained rough to very rough. They were advised by the Indian Meteorological Department not to venture into the sea on Monday also. Meanwhile, the Obul Reddy Gundlakamma reservoir received a good inflow of 5,000 cusecs following moderate rains in the catchment areas. With this, the storage in the reservoir increased to 3.24 tmcft as against its full capacity of 3.86 tmcft. The irrigation authorities released 3,000 cusecs of water downstream to maintain a flood cushion of 0.68 tmcft. Racherla received a maximum rainfall of 98.6 mm in 24 hours followed by Giddalur(92.2mm), C.S.Puram (90.2 mm), Cumbum (80.2mm), Pamur (74.8 mm), Bestavaripeta (71.6 mm), Parchur (71.2 mm), Pullalacheruvu (45.6 mm) and Veligandla (40 mm), a report compiled by the Chief Planning Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-lashes-prakasam-district-gundlakamma-gets-good-inflows/article32830862.ece
12 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three vehicle lifters arrested||Prakasam Police have arrested three offenders and recovered vehicles worth Rs. 6.34 lakh from them in Ongole. Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP) K.V.V.N.V.Prasad said on a tip off, the offenders were nabbed near the Gorantla multiplex complex late on Saturday. One autorickshaw and six motorcycles were seized from them in the presence of mediators. The kingpin, Sk Jilani(30), from Guntur was involved in 25 property offences in Guntur and Prakasam districts. Sk Jilani along with Sk.Ashiq and Sk.Basha, his accomplices from Ongole, had conducted a recce before lifting the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-vehicle-lifters-arrested/article32830223.ece
12 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Search on for site for cricket stadium: MP||Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat on Sunday said that the government was searching for a suitable land for the construction of a cricket stadium in the city. Mr. Bharat launched the auction of players for the fourth season of Rajamahendravaram Premiere League (RPL), which is scheduled to commence from November 4. As many as 450 cricket players from seven States participated in the auction conducted by the RPL authorities. Former Corporator Ajjarapu Vasu is the RPL Chairman and Mr. Bharat is the mentor for the event. As many as 71 matches will be played in the 45-day tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/search-on-for-site-for-cricket-stadium-mp/article32830851.ece
12 October 2020||Special Correspondent ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student ‘ends’ life||A 17-year-old student ended his life, allegedly being upset with not qualifying in the Engineering Agriculture and Medical Entrance Test(EAMCET), at Vetapalem in Prakasam district on Sunday. The exam results were declared on Saturday. The student, identified as B. Uday, who completed his Intermediate education from a private junior college at Chirala. People with suicidal thoughts can always seek help by dialling the helpline number 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-ends-life/article32830854.ece
12 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH superintendent promoted||The Government General Hospital Superintendent A. Krishnamurthy has been promoted as Additional Director of Medical Education. He will continue to work in the GGH with the new responsibility as per the orders issued by the Special Chief Secretary. Several doctors congratulated Mr. Krishnamurthy on his elevation while recalling his services to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ggh-superintendent-promoted/article32830856.ece
12 October 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goods distributed||Bollineni Medskills and Tech Mahindra jointly distributed essential commodities to 500 teaching and non-teaching staff of private educational institutions, many of whom are yet to receive their salaries. Centre head Ch.Nageswara Rao said that the kits of essential goods were supplied to 1,500 persons in phased manner. Srikakulam Collector J.Nivas lauded the initiative of the institution, according to release from Bollineni Medskills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/goods-distributed/article32830857.ece
12 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavam arrangements reviewed||TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Sunday took stock of the arrangements made for the Navaratri Brahmotsavams scheduled to commence on October 16. He went round the mada streets and supervised the arrangements being made for the Vahan Seva . Mr. Reddy enquired about the steps taken for ensuring proper social distancing when they congregate at the galleries to witness the processions, the entry and exit points of the mada streets and galleries and provision of sanitiser for physical hygiene. Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy apprised him about the circular markings made at the galleries for seating arrangements besides the other precautionary measures . Mr. Reddy also visited the Vahana mandapam from where the processions are scheduled to commence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavam-arrangements-reviewed/article32830871.ece
12 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business incubator at IIIT to promote new tech||A business incubator – Gyan Circle Ventures – was inaugurated recently at the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT ,Sri City) by the Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. The institute’s Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development has been selected as a ‘Group 2 Centre’ (G2C) under the Technology Incubation and Development of Entrepreneurship (TIDE 2.0) scheme, with an initial funding for five years from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY). Mr. Pokhriyal said the business incubator would promote innovation in infrastructure development and smart manufacturing, besides developing entrepreneurial spirit by taking new technologies like AI, block-chain, cyber security, IoT and robotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/business-incubator-at-iiit-to-promote-new-tech/article32830872.ece
12 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT-T trains housing corporation engineers||The four-day refresher training programme conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) for the engineers of Andhra Pradesh State Housing Corporation came to a close on Sunday. The outreach activity for capacity building and skill development of the engineers is meant to ensure quality in the State’s flagship housing project ‘Navaratnalu – Pedalandariki Illu’, said IIT-T director K.N. Satyanarayana. The series of lectures included RCC design for conventional and seismic loading, quality control tests for cement, steel, concrete, soil exploration and foundation design. Over 1,000 engineers virtually attended the training programme, in which Principal Secretary Ajay Jain delivered the presidential address. APSHCL Managing Director G.S. Naveen Kumar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iit-t-trains-housing-corporation-engineers/article32830873.ece
12 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister to take part in NSU symposium||Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will take part virtually as the chief guest at the two-day national symposium organised by the National Sanskrit University (formerly RS Vidyapeetha), Tirupati, starting October 12. The Minister will deliver the inaugural address at the symposium on ‘Sanskrit teaching – with special reference to National Education Policy 2020’ and also release an e-book of the proceedings. According to the symposium coordinator and professor of Education, R. Chandrasekhar, V-C V. Muralidhara Sharma will preside over the event and resource persons from across the country will deliver lectures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-minister-to-take-part-in-nsu-symposium/article32830226.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests press the demand for Amaravati as single capital||Massive protest rallies were taken out at many places across the State on Sunday to express solidarity with the farmers and residents of the villages located in the Amaravati region, who had been agitating for the last 299 days in support of their demand that the government drop its plan to shift the capital out of Amaravati, to Visakhapatnam. The Amaravati agitation will complete 300 days on Monday. Leaders of the opposition parties and representatives of various organisations had expressed solidarity for the cause at an all-party meeting organised by leaders of the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) recently. A large number of farmers and members of the Amaravati Mahila JAC started in a rally from Thullur holding green flags and raising slogans of ‘Jai Amaravati’. Farmers from Anantavaram, Nekkalu, Rayapudi, Velagapudi, Borupalem, Venkatayapalem and Krishnayapalem participated in the rally. Amaravati Mahila JAC member and Congress leader Sunkara Padmasri said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s indifference to the cause of the farmers reflected his arrogance. The farmers of the region had given 33,000 acres to the government to develop a new capital, but Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was hell bent on ruining this region, she alleged. Mild tension In Guntur, the JAC leaders staged a dharna at the Shankar Vilas junction. Leaders of the TDP, the BJP and the Left parties participated in the protest. At one point, there was mild tension when the police stopped the leaders from going ahead with a rally that followed the dharna. Participating in the protest, former Minister Nakka Anand Babu lambasted the government for his “indifference to the aspirations of five-crore people” of the State. He said not just the TDP and other parties but also people of the entire State wanted Amaravati to continue as the single capital. The leaders said the government was trying to suppress the agitation by giving it a caste colour while the fact was that over 70% of the population in the region comprised Dalits and weaker sections. An attempt by the city Congress leaders to take out a rally on the BRTS Road in Vijayawada was foiled by the police who placed them under house arrest. Former Minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao participated in a farmers’ rally at Mylavaram and said the struggle had turned into a people’s movement and none could suppress it now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-press-the-demand-for-amaravati-as-single-capital/article32830453.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Three capitals’ is aimed at thwarting sub-nationalism in the future: Kallam||The concept of ‘three capitals’ is meant to thwart sub-nationalism in the future and build cities that make economic sense. It is backed by evidence of failed attempts to transform urban agglomerations into thriving cities at great costs, says Ajeya Kallam, Principal Adviser to the Chief Minister. Addressing a webinar on ‘Decentralisation of three capitals’, organised by the YSRCP Legal Cell on Sunday, Mr. Kallam said that Navi Mumbai and a city in the Middle East were the only two, among the 32 mega cities in the world, that had flourished in the modern era due to their natural advantages. ‘Acceptable model’ Instead of pouring all resources into Amaravati, the government decided to decentralise the capital functions, which was a model accepted by a plethora of committees — right from the ones headed by former Supreme Court judge B.N. Srikrishna and former bureaucrat K.C. Sivaramakrishnan, observed Mr. Ajeya Kallam. The cost of construction of new buildings and creating the related infrastructure in Visakhapatnam, which was planned to be shaped as the Executive Capital, was estimated to be a maximum of Rs. 5,000 crore, Mr. Kallam said. The Judicial Capital (Kurnool) would require not more Rs. 1,000 crore, he said. “Whereas, Amaravati will gobble up Rs. 1,00,000 crore if the TDP government’s model is taken forward by its successor amidst a deep financial crisis,” Mr. Kallam asserted. There is abundant government land in Visakhapatnam and Kurnool, which brings down the land cost drastically. Plan for Amaravati “As far as the Legislative Capital (Amaravati) is concerned, it has been resolved to reduce the scale of projects in a manner that is proportionate to the actual requirement, in accordance with the public works and finance codes,” Mr. Kallam said. “Many projects in Amaravati have no financial closure as the TDP government acted as per its whims and fancies,” he observed. A study by a German think-tank proved that the cost of public services would be optimal only in cities having a population of less than a million. “Taking into account a whole lot of such technical and economic factors, the government conceived three capitals. It has done its homework, and no expert in urban planning voted for what Mr. Sivaramakrishnan described as ‘honeypot’ model,” Mr. Kallam added.  No expert in urban planning has voted for what former bureaucrat Sivaramakrishnan described as ‘honeypot’ model Ajeya Kallam, Principal Adviser to Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-capitals-is-aimed-at-thwarting-sub-nationalism-in-the-future-kallam/article32830868.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man shot dead in Vijayawada||A 33-year-old man was shot dead by unidentified persons near a bar and restaurant located on the outskirts of the city in the limits of Nunna police station around Saturday midnight. The victim, G. Mahesh, who was working as a clerk in the office of the Commissioner of Police was consuming liquor at an isolated road near a bar and restaurant along with his friends Kurra Harikrishna, Vuyyuru Dinesh, Yandrapati Geethik Sumanth and Kancharla Anudeep, according to the police. When Mr. Anudeep and Mr. Sumanth went to the dhaba leaving Mahesh and two others around 11.30 p.m., two unidentified persons came to the spot on a two-wheeler and opened fire at Mahesh from a close range. The assailants shot about 10 rounds and only four of them fired. Mahesh collapsed and succumbed to injuries on the spot, while Harikrishna, who sustained a bullet injury, escaped. One of the assailants sped from the spot in Harikrishna's car and later abandoned the vehicle a few kilometres away from Mustabad. Investigation is on Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu inspected the spot in the early hours on Sunday. Police, who were informed of the shooting by men at the bar, launched a manhunt for the accused. “We are inquiring in all the possible angles and eight teams have been formed to nab the culprits. As of now, we assume two persons were involved in the shooting and further investigation will reveal details,” DCP (L&O-II) Vikrant Patil said. Mahesh, a resident of Christurajpuram, got divorced a year ago and was about to get married in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-shot-dead-in-vijayawada/article32830228.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert sounded as heavy rain forecast||With the well-marked low pressure over the Bay of Bengal turning into a depression that could trigger more rainfall, the district administration has sounded alert in the coastal mandals and low-lying areas. According to a release by District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, heavy to very heavy rains are likely in the district till October 13. All the officials concerned have been asked to stay alert. He also called upon the public to cooperate with the revenue officials and move to relief centres when necessary. Helplines were set up across divisions. People can dial 08672-252572 at Collectorate, Bandar, 0866-2574454 at Collector's Camp Office in Vijayawada, 0866-232717 at the office of Sub-Collector, Vijayawada, 08672-252486 at Revenue Divisional Office, Bandar, 08674-24369 at Revenue Divisional Office, Gudivada, in case of emergency or for any other help and information. Fishermen were asked not to venture into the sea. The flood inflow into the Krishna River at Prakasam Barrage was at around 40,000 cusecs as of 6 p.m. and 32,940 cusecs was being discharged into the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-sounded-as-heavy-rain-forecast/article32830933.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online cricket betting racket busted||The Krishna district police busted an online cricket betting racket and arrested 18 persons, who included bookies, sub-agents and punters, under the Nuzvid rural police station limits on Sunday. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu told the media at Machilipatnam that the special enforcement teams, on a tip-off, had raided the house of Mukku Venkata Rao, a sub-agent, at Pothireddypalem of Nuzvid rural mandal on October 5, and arrested him. Basing on information provided by Venkata Rao, the police arrested Mugilisetty Venkateswarlu of Kandukuru in Prakasam district and 16 others. They were allegedly organising online betting through an App called Sunex 365. Venkateswarlu, who was its administrator, used to engaged sub-agents for the purpose. The police further found that the App was developed by Rohith, and that payment Apps were used to transfer money online. Cash, mobiles seized The police seized Rs. 6.45 lakh in cash, 17 mobile phones and other equipment from their possession. Nine of the arrested persons belonged to Krishna district and the remaining hailed from Prakasam districts. The police are on the lookout for Rohith and another key accused Shiva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-cricket-betting-racket-busted-18-held/article32830218.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protest against Dalit atrocities tomorrow||Civil society organisations and trade unions have decided to stage a demonstration at the Lenin Centre here on October 13 ( Tuesday), in protest against the growing atrocities against women and the Dalits. Leaders of an alliance of various organisations K. Dhanalakshmi, Durga Bhavani, A. Malyadri, P. Suresh and D. Rama Devi, said the rape and murder of a Dalit girl at Hathras district in Uttar Pradesh and the alleged bid by some vested interests to cover up the incident reflected the sorry state of law and order in the country. It was high time pressure be mounted on the Central and the State governments to act tough on the perpetrators, otherwise they would be emboldened to commit such heinous crimes against women and the downtrodden, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protest-against-dalit-atrocities-tomorrow/article32830934.ece
12 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to introduce energy conservation policy||In an attempt to achieve energy security, cost-effective power and strengthen the power sector, the State government is contemplating to introduce a new policy for promotion of the use of the latest and efficient technologies for energy conservation in various sectors, according to a release by State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy. He stated that the Energy Department was eliciting the views of experts and the Central agencies such as Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and institutes such as The Energy Resources Institute (TERI), Central Board of Irrigation and Power and Alliance for Energy Efficient Economy for formulating the policy. The policy is aimed at conserving energy being used in industries, buildings, civic bodies , agriculture, transport, power utilities, commercial and residential sectors. According to the BEE report 2018-19, India ranks the highest in terms of growth rate of energy consumption in the world. The consumption is expected to grow and accounts for 11% of the global energy demand by 2040. Growing demand Energy demand will be more in A.P. due to the growth in agriculture activity, industrialisation and urbanisation. In view of this, efficient use of energy assumes importance. Saving of one unit of energy reduces the need for fresh capacity creation by 2 to 2.5 times. Energy efficiency helps meet power requirement apart from reducing fossil fuel consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-introduce-energy-conservation-policy/article32830874.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 190 new cases, district tally crosses the 53,000-mark||The district reported 190 fresh COVID-19 infections taking the cumulative tally to 53,028 on Sunday. The death toll also rose to 442 after three more persons died in the last 24 hours, as per the COVID-19 bulletin. As many as 217 persons undergoing treatment have recovered from the infection during the same period, said the officials. The number of discharges increased to 49,792 and the active cases further reduced to 2,794. Out of 318 clusters in the district, nine are very active and 65 are active. As many as 244 clusters are dormant. It may be remembered that already 627 clusters were denotified by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-190-new-cases-district-tally-crosses-the-53000-mark/article32830947.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die, four severely injured in road accident||Two persons died on the spot and four others were severely injured when a lorry hit them from behind reportedly due to brake failure at Hanumanthawaka Junction here on Sunday morning. The incident occurred while all the victims were waiting before the traffic signal on NH-16. The deceased were identified as P. Ramu (30), a native of Vizianagaram district, and Ramakrishna Raju (26). The four injured persons, who were in an auto-rickshaw, were shifted to hospital for treatment. According to the Arilova police, the accident occurred at around 11 a.m. when the lorry carrying some plastic sheets was coming from Kolkata towards Visakhapatnam. The lorry hit the vehicles, which were waiting at the traffic signal, from behind. Two persons who were on motorcycles died on the spot with severe injuries, while four more in an auto-rickshaw, including the driver, suffered injuries. Police said that the driver claimed to have applied brakes repeatedly, but the vehicle failed to stop. However the Transport Department officials would check the condition of the vehicle and ascertain whether the driver’s statement was true or not. The report would be out in a couple of days, the police said. Hanumanthawaka Junction is one of the major junctions in the city, connecting routes to and from the city, apart from Simhachalam and Beach Road. “Fortunately, being a Sunday, the traffic was much less compared to weekdays. Otherwise, the casualties would have been more,” the police said. Traffic was disrupted for some time after the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-in-road-accident/article32830884.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rushikonda gets coveted ‘Blue Flag’||Rushikonda Beach and seven other beaches in India have been conferred the coveted eco-label ‘Blue Flag’. All these beaches will now be on the global map. Collector V. Vinay Chand confirmed that a communication was received from Sanjai Jalla, Mission Leader, Blue Flag Beaches of India. The other seven beaches, which have been conferred the tag are — Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kasarkod (Karnataka), Padubidri (Karnataka), Kappad (Kerala) Golden (Odisha) and Radhanagar (Andaman). All the eight beaches have been conferred the ‘Blue Flag’ in their maiden attempt . India has also bagged the third best award for ‘best practices’ on pollution control in the coastal regions. This is out of 50 Blue Flag nations, to which India now belongs. “It is one more feather in the cap of Visakhapatnam and the city will now be on the international tourism map. International tourists prefer to visit beaches with the Blue Flag tag as they meet all the international norms of safety, cleanliness and provide amenities matching international standards,” Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu on Sunday evening. The ‘Blue Flag’ certification is given by the Denmark-based Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). Rushikonda Beach is the only one beach in the State, which was selected by the Union government, for development to match international standards, under BEAMS (Beach Environment and Aesthetics Management Services) project. “The Rushikonda Beach was nominated for the project in 2017 and it was finalised in February, 2018. Outdoor fitness equipment, machinery for continuous beach cleaning, safety equipment like CCTV cameras and lifeguards were all provided as part of the project,” R. Purnima Devi, District Tourism Officer and Nodal Officer for the Blue Flag Project said.  Basic criteria  The basic criteria for getting the certification are: safety/security, pollution-free, good bathing water quality and environmental education of beach users. A Blue Flag beach should have benches, showers, a gymnasium and proper solid waste disposal systems among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rushikonda-gets-coveted-blue-flag/article32830870.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu fanning Amaravati protest for selfish gain: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday said that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was organising protests with his ‘paid artistes’ against the proposed three capitals to safeguard the wealth he had amassed by ‘insider trading’. Addressing the media here on Sunday, the Minister criticised Mr. Naidu for asking people to protest in the name of Amaravati, claiming that the call by the TDP chief did not get any response from any region in the State. Reiterating that the government has a clear vision for developments of all regions of the State equally, the Minister said that people from all 13 districts had welcomed the decision to set up three capitals. He also said that the decentralisation process began from the day the Bill pertaining to the issue was passed in the Assembly. The YSRCP government would make overcome all the hurdles and set up three capitals in the State. Vizag land scam Referring to the land scam allegations in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Satyanarayana said that the SIT investigation would be completed soon and the report would be made public. Responding on allegations made by TDP leaders that the YSRCP leaders were involved in corruption, the Minister said the State government was ready to face any kind of inquiry. “Fearing investigation followed by arrests in the insider trading case, it was the TDP leaders who moved the court of law to get a stay and this proves their involvement in the Amaravati land scam,” he added. MANSAS Trust row Speaking about the reported move by the MANSAS Trust to privatise the MR College in Vizianagaram and other issues, the Minister said it is a private matter of the Pusapati family and the State government has nothing to do with it. He accused former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju of spreading false propaganda against the government. “The government is focussing on development of Visakhapatnam Metro Rail project and the detailed project report for the project is being prepared,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. The Minister also said that steps were being taken by the GVMC to treat sewage water. Keeping in the view the growing traffic in Visakhapatnam, flyovers, under-bridges and subways would be constructed at major junctions, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-fanning-amaravati-protest-for-selfish-gain-botcha/article32830876.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU seeks reopening of Chittivalasa Jute Mill||A protest was organised by the CITU at the Chittivalasa Jute Mills (CJM) quarters at Tagarapuvalasa, near here, on Sunday demanding reopening of mill, which is under lockout for a long time. Addressing the workers, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said revival of the mill with Rs. 50 crore could provide direct employment to 5,000 workers and thousands of others indirectly. He wondered whether a single industry was established after the YSRCP came to power 16 months ago. He alleged that both the management and the government were not bothered about the travails of the workers, who were thrown out of their jobs due to the lockout. He warned that the YSRCP government and Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao would have to pay a heavy price, if they fail to do justice to the workers. TDP leaders Korada Rajababu and Ganta Nookaraju extended their support to the workers. CJM MW and Workers Union president R.S.N. Murthy presided.  Both the management and the government are not bothered about the travails of the workers, says CITU State president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-seeks-reopening-of-chittivalasa-jute-mill/article32830937.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP blames TDP, YSR Congress for delay in establishing ESI hospital||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State general secretary and MLC P.V.N. Madhav has held the TDP government in the past and the present YSR Congress Party government responsible for the undue delay in the establishment of the 500-bed ESI hospital, which was sanctioned by the Centre, for the city. At a protest, organised by the BJP at Sheelanagar, where some land was allotted by the previous government, Mr. Madhav recalled that Mr. Naidu instead of allotting the land required for construction of the hospital, tried to get the project shifted to Vijayawada. Former Union Minister for Labour Bandaru Dattatreya had laid the foundation stone for construction of the hospital on April 11, 2016. He said that the present YSR Congress Party government was also not allotting the additional land sought by the Centre, delaying the execution of the project. BJP State vice president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju alleged that both the TDP government and the present YSR Congress Party government have failed to address the problems of workers. He said that the Centre was ready to sanction funds for the project. BJP Parliamentary district president M. Raveendra explained that the ESI Hospital at Gandhigram in the city was started in January, 1972 on land taken on lease from the Visakhapatnam Port. The lease period had expired and the hospital building was in a dilapidated condition. The Centre had sanctioned a 500-bed ESI Hospital to Visakhapatnam and sought 10.25 acres of land. The TDP government had cheated the ESI members of north Andhra by not allotting the required land for construction of the hospital, he alleged and sought that the present government should allot the additional land without any further delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-blames-tdp-ysr-congress-for-delay-in-establishing-esi-hospital/article32830941.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF condoles death of civil rights activist Seshaiah||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) has condoled the passing away of civil rights activist and convenor of the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Coordination Committee of the Civil Liberties Committee (CLC) S. Seshaiah on October 10. Seshaiah was afflicted with COVID-19 recently and after initial treatment at Anantapur, he was rushed to Hyderabad last week but succumbed at about 8.30 p.m. on Saturday. For over four decades, Seshaiah had been actively involved in progressive politics - as a Left social activist and then in the arena of civil liberties as functionary of the AP Civil Liberties Committee (APCLC), which renamed itself post-bifurcation as Civil Liberties Committee. He taught law for many decades at the Sri Krishnadevaraya University in Anantapur, HRF Coordination Committee Members V.S. Krishna (A.P.) and S. Jeevan Kumar (Telangana) said in a statement here on Sunday. Seshaiah became State general secretary of the APCLC in 1998 during very turbulent times. Leading activists of the APCLC T. Purushottam and Azam Ali were targeted and killed by members of counter-insurgent criminal gangs going by names like Green Tigers on 23 November, 2000, and 18 February, 2001, in Hyderabad and Nalgonda respectively.  The HRF leaders conveyed their condolences to Seshaiah’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hrf-condoles-death-of-civil-rights-activist-seshaiah/article32830896.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stringent laws needed to protect girl child: MLC||MLC P.V.N. Madhav has said that girls were facing a lot of problems within the four walls of their home as well as outside and the government should come out with stringent laws for their protection. He released a poster, brought out by Bala Vikas Foundation (BVF), an NGO, working for the education and rights of children, on the occasion of International Girl Child Day on Sunday. Commending the activities of the BVF, particularly those related to the safety and protection of girls, Mr. Madhav said that education of girls and women empowerment, apart from giving them equal opportunities were needed. BVF secretary Narava Prakasa Rao said that BVF has been observing this day every year for the last 10 years to sensitise girls on their rights and responsibilities. Education alone would help them to know their rights. The day was being observed on October 11 since 2011 to create awareness among the public on the rights of girls and women, he said. District Child Rights Protection Officer Satyanarayana, Advocate G.B.V. Ravi Kumar and Dr. Nanduri Gopala Krishna participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stringent-laws-needed-to-protect-girl-child-mlc/article32830936.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain forecast: be on alert, officials told||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has directed the officials to be on the alert to undertake relief measures, in view of the heavy rain from Monday morning onwards, forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The Collector held a review meeting with officials of Revenue, Irrigation, Agriculture, Fisheries, R & B and other departments, through teleconference on Sunday. He directed the irrigation officials to monitor the inflows into Raiwada, Thandava, Konam and Pedderu reservoirs and release the water, if necessary, after alerting the villagers downstream.  The officials should alert people living in low-lying areas. Toll-free numbers have been opened at the Collectorate 0891-2590102 and 0891-2590100. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, ITDA PO S. Venkateswar, Narsipatnam Sub Collector N. Mourya and Paderu Sub Collector Sivajyothi attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-forecast-be-on-alert-officials-told/article32830938.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||43 tribal youth to be trained in tailoring||As part of the community policing programme ‘Prerana’, 43 tribal youth, from various areas of Visakhapatnam Agency, will undergo a two-month training in tailoring at the Skill Development Institute in Vijayawada. Tribal youth from Annavaram, GK Veedhi, Chintapalle, G Madugula, Seethampeta, Pedabayulu, Munchingputtu, Nathavaram and Koyyuru mandals, who have passed Class X and Intermediate, have been picked up for the training. SP B. Krishna Rao appealed to them to make use of the opportunity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/43-tribal-youth-to-be-trained-in-tailoring/article32830939.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banned tobacco products seized in raids||The city police conducted raids on various shops at Dwaraka and West Zone areas, and seized banned chewing tobacco products worth Rs. 3.40 lakh on Sunday. The police conducted raids on pan shops and grocery stores at Appughar, Arilova, Kancharapalem, KRM Colony, Pendurthi, Urvasi Junction and a few other areas. Addressing a media at MVP police station, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that based on concrete information about the storage and illegal sale of the ‘gutka’ and ‘khaini’, five police teams conducted raids on the shops. He said that the police have seized over 17,000 packets of the banned tobacco products apart from nabbing some persons for illegally storing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banned-tobacco-products-seized-in-raids/article32830944.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children electrocuted||Two children were reportedly electrocuted at Atchutapuram in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday night. The victims were identified as N. Yashwanth (13), a Class VII student, and N. Jai Simha Charan (15), a Class VIII student. The duo happen to be cousins and residents of Atchutapuram. According to reports, after a brief spell of rain at Atchutapuram on Saturday night, a flexi, which was installed on the terrace of the house, fell. The duo allegedly attempted to lift the flexi and came in contact with electric wires which were nearby. The family members shifted them to a hospital and the doctors declared them brought dead. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-children-electrocuted/article32830945.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division earns Rs. 7.43 crore in scrap sale||The Materials Management Department of Waltair Division earned a record Rs. 7.43 crore in a single day through the sale of unserviceable materials (scrap) released from various activities of the railways. This is the best ever record in East Coast Railway (E Co R). Senior Divisional Materials Manager of Waltair Division K.B. Tirupataiah did a lot of exercise to achieve this feat, under the guidance of Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-earns-rs-743-crore-in-scrap-sale/article32830942.ece
12 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Discover Vizag’ car rally organised||A car rally ‘Discover Vizag’ was organised by TT Motor Sports here on Sunday. Rotary Club of Visakha Port City and Rotary Blood Bank sponsored this year’s rally. Around 40 members participated in the rally along with their families. The organisers said that the speed limit was set to 50 km/hr to ensure safety and all the participants wore masks. Rotary Club Visakha Port City president Capt. Kali Prasad said that posters to promote ‘End Polio’ and ‘Donate blood - save lives’ campaigns were displayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discover-vizag-car-rally-organised/article32830943.ece
12 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roundtable opposes move to privatise MR College||Representatives of various opposition parties, civic societies and students’ organisations have asked the government to run itself the MR College instead of privatising the institution as it will deprive many poor and middle class students of an opportunity to pursue higher studies at an affordable fee structure. At a roundtable organised here on Sunday by Lok Satta Party to discuss the issues related to MR College and alleged irregularities in MANSAS Trust, speakers said the aided college was the lone institution in the district headquarters to offer many courses with 12 major departments. Member of AP Legislative Council Pakalapati Raghuvarama expressed concern over delay in the admission process for the academic year 2020-21. “Future of over 4,000 students hangs in balance due to the ongoing controversy,” he said. Lok Satta Party State president Bhisetti Babji said that the MR College issue was not an internal matter of Pusapati family members -- Ashok Gajapathi Raju, Sanchaiata Gajapathi Raju and Urmila Gajapathi Raju -- who have been at loggerheads with regard to MANSAS Trust. Forum for a Better Vizianagaram president M. Venkateswara Rao said that the old students of the college were unhappy with the developments in the college which was established in 1879. ‘Staff a worried lot’ Congress Party general secretary Jammu Narayana and Jana Sena leader Tyada Ramakrishna said the teaching and non-teaching staff were at their wits’ end in the wake of the developments in the trust. Jana Vignana Vedika State president M.V.R. Krishnaji, representatives of teachers’ associations Alluri Siva Varma, Gullipalli Jayapal and others participated in the roundtable. Meanwhile, Pattana Powra Samskshema Sangham, Students’ Federation of India, Akhila Bharataya Vidyardhi Parishad and other organisations extended their support to the protests at MR College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roundtable-opposes-move-to-privatise-mr-college/article32830860.ece
12 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girls vow to pursue higher studies, choose right career||Several girls, who took part in International Girl Child Day celebrations here on Sunday, vowed to continue higher studies and choose a right career instead of accepting early marriage proposals from parents and relatives. ‘Competing with boys’ Kesali Foundation organised a programme to create awareness about child marriages and their ill-effects. Gurla Sub-Inspector P. Nilavati said that parents should not feel girls as a burden. They have been competing with boys in all professions, he added. Govt. schemes Former member of AP Commission for the Protection of Child Rights Kesali Apparao said that the government's ‘Amma Vodi’ and ‘Naadu-Nedu’ schemes were ensuring decent education for children. He said that the girls were able to prove their mettle in all national competitive examinations. Representatives of various organisations participated in the awareness programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girls-vow-to-pursue-higher-studies-choose-right-career/article32830858.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Depression in the Bay may intensify today||Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely to occur in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Guntur, Prakasam, Chittoor and Anantapur districts till October 12 morning. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places in Krishna, Kurnool and Kadapa. Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Guntur, Prakasam, Chittoor and Anantapur districts till October 13 morning. Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places in East and West Godavari, and Kurnool till October 14 morning. Squally winds, with speed reaching 55-65 kmph are likely to blow along and off the A.P. coast. The sea condition would be rough to very rough along and off Andhra Pradesh and Yanam coasts. It will be rough to very rough over west-central and adjoining northwest, southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off the Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts. Fishermen cautioned Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea along and off the A.P. and Yanam coasts. They are advised not to venture into the west-central and adjoining northwest, southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off the Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts till October 12. Local cautionary signal number three (LC-III) was hoisted at Kalingapatnam, Bheemunipatnam, Visakhapatnam, Gangavaram, Kakinada, Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam, Vadarevu and Krishnapatnam ports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/depression-in-the-bay-may-intensify-today/article32830865.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Art with a message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beautification-work/article32830864.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lightening up the mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lightening-up-the-mood/article32830951.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-day Collector bats for women staff||RDT Hospital Director Vishala Ferrer explained to Ms. Sravani that the decision was taken as working women needed to attend to their domestic responsibilities after 8 p.m. without any hassel. K. Chinmayi, a tenth class student of Sarada School, also assumed the office of the Municipal Commissioner for a day on the occasion. She put forth some solutions for the problems being faced by adolescent girls at school. “Girls are facing difficulties to find sanitary napkins and the right place to dispose of the used ones,” she said and proposed to set up vending machines for sanitary napkins at schools. Ms. Sravani and Ms. Chinmai took stock of the works at the ward secretariat in the First Line area . Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy accompanied them. B. Madhushree was made the Joint Collector (Revenue). Sameera was made the District Revenue Officer, while Sahasra assumed office of the Joint Collector (Development) for a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-students-at-the-helm-for-a-day/article32830866.ece
12 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Killing sparks fears of renewed violence||The gory murder of TRS activist M Bheemeshwar Rao allegedly by Maoists in Venkatapuram mandal of neighbouring Mulugu district on Saturday night sparked fears of renewed Maoist violence in Bhadrachalam Agency, which shares a volatile border with Chhattisgarh. Saturday night's incident brought the chilling memories of the murder of a former MPTC member of Kothuru village, N Srinivas Rao, who reportedly owed allegiance to the TRS, allegedly by Maoists in Charla mandal in July last year. Suspected Maoists abducted Srinivas Rao, held him captive for three days before gunning him down on charges of acting as a "police informer" in Yerrampadu-Puttapadu forest area along the inter-State border over a year ago. However, the police then rebutted the charges. Last month, the district police claimed that the CPI (Maoist) Charla Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) Commander Sodi Jogaiah, 25, main accused in Srinivas Rao's murder case, was killed in an exchange of fire between police and the Maoist rebels in Chennapuram forest area of Charla mandal on September 23. Sources said several politicians and those reportedly on the hit list of Maoists in Agency areas of the district moved to safer places in plain areas as per a security advisory issued by the police in the wake of the murder of the TRS local activist by the ultras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/killing-sparks-fears-of-renewed-violence/article32830777.ece
12 October 2020||CHITTOOR,TELANGANA||After a lull, red sanders’ operatives back in action||After a lull of about six months, influx of the red sanders smuggling operatives from the north-western districts of Tamil Nadu into the Seshachalam hills spread over Chittoor and Kadapa districts has resumed. The area with cascading streams and rivulets coupled with dense undergrowth provides the trespassers the much-needed support to hoodwink the combing task force teams and to camp for a fortnight and beyond on the banks of scenic streams. The smuggling activity in the Seshachalam hills came to a halt on March 24 when lockdown was clamped in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. Three months later, the bustle of woodcutters resumed, but on a negligible scale following curbs at the border check-posts. With complete lifting of the restrictions on the transport across the borders, the movement of woodcutters has slowly returned to its visible levels since a week. According to officials of the Red Sanders Task Force, number of operatives present in the Talakona range alone since a couple of days is over 40, apart from other batches on their errands at Chamla and Balapalle ranges. During the fresh combing operations, the task force personnel have come across several halting points of the operatives, where the latter found enough time to cook meal and enjoy booze as well. In the previous years, the operatives had to go several kms in search of water, but now they could find it in just a few meters from wherever they halt. The copious rains in the biosphere from June till now led to cascading waterfalls and streams between Talakona to Rajampeta range. Now that the operatives are exploiting the benefits of rains and undergrowth, the task force personnel observe that the scenario has made their task very tough. As most rivulets and streams are brimming with rainwater, the chances of detecting the footprints of the smuggling operatives turn bleak. It is observed that during hot summer months, the forest paths would be clear and the sounds of axing the trees and clatter of cooking utensils and murmurs of the operatives could be detected with some degree of accuracy. Green cover A combing expert and Inspector of the Red Sanders Task Force, M. Vasu, speaking to The Hindu confirmed that the rains and density of green cover in recent months turned a boon for the smuggling operatives. He said that fresh batches are now hitting their old trails through Bhimavaram and Chamla valleys, Kalyani dam and Talakona range, trekking over 40 km towards red sanders rich beats on the borders with Kadapa. “After a lull in combing activity, we too find our paths completely covered with undergrowth, making our advancement difficult. The sighting of wild animals, mostly bears, wild elephants and reptiles, is another cause for concern,” said the task force official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-a-lull-red-sanders-operatives-back-in-action/article32830899.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engg. web options postponed||Engineering admission procedure cycle has been changed with the web options that were to start on Monday (October 12) getting postponed to October 18. The decision has been taken as the officials are yet to finalise the number of seats to be displayed as universities are yet to ratify the permission for some new courses apart from ambiguity on the extension of fee reimbursement scheme to emerging technology courses that will be offered from this year. New seats About 19,000 new seats have been created at the B.Tech level in emerging streams of technology like Cyber Security (CS), Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML) and a few others. A majority of them are from the three subjects that were earlier used to be offered at the postgraduate level. The growing demand for these professionals in the job market has led to creation of these courses at the B.Tech level itself from this year. But universities are yet to give permission to various colleges that opted to offer these courses this year. Officials expected that the process of permissions and affiliations would be completed by October 12 when they initially decided the dates. Another issue was bringing them under the fee reimbursement scheme officially and officials were waiting for permission from the higher authorities. A meeting of senior officials held with Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran decided to extend the date of web options as clarity lacked on the final number of seats to be included for the benefit of students. “Since we didn’t want to inconvenience the students we decided to extend the date for web options to October 18. The final list may be approved by October 16,” an official revealed. Around 1.2 lakh seats have been approved by the AICTE for Telangana this year but the universities may give affiliation to 96,000 to 97,000 seats going by the indication from the higher authorities. Revised schedule As per the revised schedule, window for exercising the web options will be open from October 18 to 22. Options will be frozen on October 22 and the seats will be allotted on October 24. Certificate verification for candidates who have already booked the slots online will start from October 12 and end on October 20. The online filing of basic information, payment of processing fee and slot booking for selection of helpline centres started on October 9 and will continue till October 19. Payment of tuition fee and self-reporting through website has to be done from October 24 to 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engg-web-options-postponed/article32830339.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS worse than UP in Dalit horror: Cong.||TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that Telangana has turned worse than Uttar Pradesh in terms of atrocities against Dalits and warned the State government not to remain a mute spectator to the rising attacks on them. Mr. Reddy and a team of Congress leaders met Dalit families who were target of attacks in the State at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday and distributed Rs. 50,000 each, donated by former Medchal MLA Kichennagari Lakshma Reddy. The programme was organised by TPCC SC Department chairman Preetam. Family members of a farmer, Narasimha, from Gajwel constituency, who committed suicide, explained how the government officials forcibly took away their land that allegedly drove him to suicide. Similarly, family members of Rajababu of Mallaram in Bhupalpally district, claimed that some TRS leaders were behind his brutal murder. The TPCC chief also spoke to the father of a 13-year-old Dalit girl who was set ablaze after she resisted a rape attempt. “A total of eight Dalit families who had faced atrocities like attempt to rape, murder, abetment to suicide, grabbing of land or houses, shared their grievances. And we heard them,” Mr. Reddy said. ‘Discriminations galore’ He alleged that Dalits were being subjected to discrimination, torture and other kind of atrocities. He also accused the TRS government of taking away the land of poor Dalits forcibly. Poor Dalits girls are being raped and the government was not taking any action to stop such incidents, he charged. The TPCC chief promised that the Congress would fight to get justice for them. AICC secretary A. Sampath Kumar, TPCC vice-president and ex-MP Dr. Mallu Ravi and other leaders were also present. He reminded that KCR had promised to make a Dalit CM if voted to power but ignored the promise after coming to power in 2014. He did not even induct a single Dalit minister then but had inducted several ministers from his own community into his cabinet and other top positions in the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-worse-than-up-in-dalit-horror-cong/article32830774.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two from social welfare school make it to NDA||Two cadets of Telangana Social Welfare Residential Sainik School at Rukmapur in Karimnagar cracked NDA & NA Examination-II to be eligible to join the National Defence Academy in officer cadre. With this feat, the institution has made a beginning with the very first batch of cadets to fulfil its purpose of establishment, within just two years, said TSWREIS secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar congratulating the cadets Mallesh Yadav and Pratheek Kumar, the Rukmapur Sainik School team and their mentors. Mr. Kumar also pointed out that the main Sainik Schools of Ministry of Defence do not provide adequate representation to the students belonging to the marginalised sections of society. Sainik School upgrade Hence, a Sainik School exclusively dedicated to the students of these sections was started, with one social welfare school at Rukmapur converted into Sainik School with the approval of Telangana government on par with Sainik Schools of Ministry of Defence, to train the cadets academically, physically and mentally to join the officer cadre of Indian Armed Forces. The school commenced in 2018-19 with a retired Army officer, Colonel Ravindra Reddy as its director. The Secretary termed the achievement as vindication of his belief that a separate State Sainik School would do wonders. Minister for SC Welfare Koppula Eshwar conveyed his appreciation to the cadets and the team behind their success, press release said.  With this feat, the institution has made a beginning with the very first batch of cadets to fulfil its purpose of establishment, within just two years. R.S. Praveen Kumar, Secretary, TSWREIS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-from-social-welfare-school-make-it-to-nda/article32830759.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Is murder by Maoists a fresh challenge to police?||The killing of Bheemeshwar Rao, who was said to be closely associated with the ruling TRS, by CPI (Maoist) in Mulugu district, is the first formidable challenge thrown by them to police forces in recent times. A few months ago, police enhanced combing operations following inputs about movement of Maoist squads in northern Telangana districts abutting Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. In fact, the Telangana Intelligence department and local police are continuously keeping tabs on Maoists. It it not an exaggeration to say that police had the upper hand in the ongoing battle with the outlawed Maoists for the past few years. Police had to step up their operations after movements of Maoists squads were noticed in Asifabad district. During the searches, three or four exchanges of fire took place. Bhaskar alias Adellu, Maoist State Committee member, was believed to have escaped from police during these exchanges of fire. Following this, DGP M. Mahender Reddy flew to Asifabad and had a series of meetings with the field-level officers, apparently to motivate them and plan operations to check intrusion of Maoists. Within last few weeks, eight Maoists were neutralised by police forces in ‘exchanges of fire’ reported in Asifabad, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Mulugu districts. But the killing of Bheemeshwar Rao by Maoists in Venkatapuram mandal came as a jolt to the police forces who stepped up combing operations with their elite commando forces like Greyhounds. The victim was not a top leader of the TRS or an influential person locally. Yet the murder by Maoists in Venkatapura mandal assumed significance since top police officials of Telangana State and Central Reserve Police Force met recently in Venkatpur to formulate strategy to check Maoists. Police sources said the killing was executed by Bhadradri Kothagudem East Godavari (BKEG) area committee secretary M. Jogulu alias Sudhakar. It is yet to be ascertained if Sudhakar was physically present when the plot was executed. However, it is believed that a group of six militia members from Chattisgarh participated in the killing. The victim’s family members told the police that ‘Maoists in plain clothes’ came to their house in the dead of night. One of the family members said that though a couple of Maoists were carrying firearms, one of them carrying a knife stabbed Rao to death. It is suspected that by the time the local police learnt about the killing, the Maoists would have crossed Telangana border and disappeared into Chattisgarh forests. In the past one year, presence of the Maoists in northern Telangana districts was confined to their movements now and then. The major violence perpetrated by them was the alleged killing of an MPTC member Srinivasa Rao in mid-Sileru area of Charla mandal. Barring that, no violent incident involving them was reported in the area. Recently, they blew up land mines on the roads at a couple of places near mid-Sileru project area. However, killing a person within a few days of top police officials holding a meeting in the area created ripples locally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-murder-by-maoists-a-fresh-challenge-to-police/article32830772.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Football coach Antony no more||It was a bleak Sunday for the football fraternity of the twin cities with Telangana Football Association (TFA) vice-president S. Antony passing away after prolonged illness. He was 69 and is survived by his wife, two sons and three daughters. Popularly known as Tony, the Trimulgherry resident was counted among one of the most dedicated coaches and promoters of the sport. Through the Shastri Soccer Club and financial support by Prem of Sachdev Sports, he organised tournaments right through the phase when the State football association was dormant for close to two decades since ‘90s. Tony spent time, energy and money, often from his own pocket, to scout talent in the vicinity of Trimulgherry in a selfless manner despite being denied a position on the then Andhra Pradesh Football Association executive committee, which according to former international P.P. Surender Kumar alias Gopi was simple proof, if needed, of this gentleman’s commitment and passion for the sport. For five decades, he was regularly hosting a minimum of five tournaments and coaching camps every year for different age groups and consistently ensured that there was an inter-school tournament. A former State player himself, he knew what the young talent needed and was also a successful coach at St. Andrews School. “The sport will be poorer without Tony and the biggest loss will be for the young talent of Cantonment belt for they will miss the caring touch of this wonderful human being who produced about 60 national players,” Gopi said. Former India football captain Victor Amalraj, TFA president Mohd. Ali Rafat, secretary G. Palguna, former internationals Aleem Khan, SBH coach E. Shaam were among those who expressed condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/popular-football-coach-antony-no-more/article32830761.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cultural extravaganza at MCR HRD Institute||Group-II service officers of Telangana State, while attending the foundation course at Dr MCR HRD Institute, presented a cultural festival called “Mana Samburalu” virtually. Mellifluous singing, energetic folk dances, and soulful music uplifted the mood of the audience. Over 400 officer trainees from across the State, and senior officers, faculty, and staff of the institute witnessed the virtual event. In his remarks, director general of MCR HRD Institute B.P. Acharya stated that learning and perfecting multiple talents will empower trainees to perform their jobs effectively, and thereby fully serve the interests of different sections of the society. He applauded them for mobilising and donating an amount of over Rs. 1 lakh to five folk artistes of TS. Additional DG of the institute Harpreet Singh said, “Continuous development of careers, till retirement and beyond, should be their ultimate aim, rather than succumbing to a sense of complacency.” Trainees including T. Uma Rani, Sudha Madhuri, Surendra Banerjee, D. Jhansi, Rubeena Mohd – all Sub-Inspectors in the Prohibition and Excise Department garnered huge admiration for their performances. A documentary on the plight of Pochampally handloom weavers, made by Rini Anweshi, was widely appreciated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cultural-extravaganza-at-mcr-hrd-institute/article32830902.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 1,717 COVID cases, 5 deaths||Telangana recorded 1,717 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total number of positive cases to 2,12,063. Five more persons succumbed to the virus and with that, the death toll touch 1,222. The total number of active cases as on Thursday was 25,713 with 21,209 persons under home/institutional quarantine. The sudden dip in the cases was expected to be on account of decline in the number of samples tested to 46,657 from 52,000 daily since the past few days.  Reports of 1,093 of the 46,657 samples tested are awaited and the total number of samples tested till date has reached 35,47,051. The case fatality rate of 0.57% continued to be much lower than the national average of 1.5%. The number of recoveries continued to be on par or higher than the positive cases with 2,103 persons recovering from the impact of the virus on Thursday, taking the total number of recovered persons to 1,85,128. The recovery rate climbed up to 87.2% as against the national average of 85.5%.  Of the new positive cases, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation contributed the major share with 276 persons testing positive on Saturday. Neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy districts reported 131 and 132 new cases, respectively, while Karimnagar (104) and Nalgonda (101) too reported cases in three digits. Kumram Bheem Asifabad district reported the lowest number of positive cases at 14. The number of positive cases was on the lower side in Bhupalpally (15), Jogulamba-Gadwal (16), Vikarabad (18). Nirmal and Mulugu (19 each) were also among the districts that reported fewer cases, according to the bulletin released by the Health department on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-1717-covid-cases-5-deaths/article32830766.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Protest over RGV movie on Disha case||Family members of Disha and women rights activists staged a protest near the residence of controversial filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma in Jubilee Hills protesting the release of his upcoming movie, ‘Disha Encounter’ on November 26. They demanded that the movie not be released as it will “send a wrong message to society”. “The trailer itself is very hurtful. Will he come up with such a movie, if someone from his family was raped and murdered,” Disha’s mother asked. Disha, a 27-year-old veterinary doctor from Shamshabad, was gang-raped and murdered on November 27 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-over-rgv-movie-on-disha-case/article32830887.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth driving sports car runs over pedestrian||A pedestrian was killed and another escaped with minor injuries, after a 25-year-old youth driving a Ferrari lost control and ran over them on 100 Feet road of Madhapur here on Sunday. Yesu Babu (50), who worked as a watchman at Kakatiya Hills, died on the spot. The luxury sports car, which was being driven by Naveen Kumar Goud, is owned by Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited, Madhapur, police said. A case was registered and driver Naveen taken into custody. Meanwhile, a 25-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by his late wife’s relatives at Dharam Karam Road of Ameerpet on Sunday morning. The victim, K. Chandrashekar Raju, and his parents who had been arrested in connection with the suicide of his wife Lakshmi, were released on bail last month. A native of Repalle in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district, Raju had gone to a chicken shop on Sunday morning. “When he returned home around 9.20 a.m., he was stabbed to death in the apartment parking lot,” SR Nagar police said. His family alleged that he was killed by his late wife’s relatives. In another incident, at Pahadi Shareef, the body of a history-sheeter was found with multiple injuries. Police said Abdul Waheed (29), a car driver from Rajendra Nagar, went out on Saturday night with two people, and did not return. Teen found dead A class 10 student was found dead at her residence in Jawaharnagar on Saturday morning. Police said the 17-year-old hanged herself on Friday night after her mother chided her for constantly using mobile phone.    (Those in emotional distress may call Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni on 040-66202000 or 66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ferrari-runs-over-pedestrian/article32830764.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed by dead wife’s kin||A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by his late wife’s family members at Dharam Karam Road of Ameerpet on Sunday morning. The victim, K. Chandrashekar Raju, and his parents who had been arrested in connection with the suicide of his wife Lakshmi, were released on bail last month. Lakshmi’s parents alleged that their daughter took the step due to harassment by her husband and his family. A native of Repalle in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district, Raju had gone to a chicken shop on Sunday morning. “When he returned home around 9.20 a.m., he was stabbed to death in the apartment parking lot,” SR Nagar police said. The victim’s family alleged that he was killed by his late wife’s relatives. Meanwhile at Pahadi Shareef, body of a history-sheeter was found with multiple injuries. Police said Abdul Waheed (29), a car driver from Rajendra Nagar, went out on Saturday night with two people, and did not return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-by-dead-wifes-kin/article32830890.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||89 MLRIT final year students get certificates||Marri Laxman Reddy Institute of Technology (MLRIT) awarded certificates to 89 final year B. Tech students, trained in various technologies like Software Engineering Best Practices, OOPS Design Principles, Release Strategy, Introduction to Front End Technology and Database & Testing from EPAM Systems through the Pre-Education Programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/89-mlrit-final-year-students-get-certificates/article32830901.ece
12 October 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Protest over RGV movie on Disha||Family members of Disha and women rights activists staged a protest near the Jubilee Hills home of controversial filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma over the release of his upcoming movie, ‘Disha Encounter’ on November 26. They demanded that the movie not be released as it will “send a wrong message to society”. “The trailer itself is very hurtful,” Disha’s mother said. Disha, a 27-year-old veterinary doctor from Shamshabad, was gang-raped and murdered on November 27 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-over-rgv-movie-on-disha/article32830770.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medical camps on Assembly premises||A medical camp would be set up on Assembly premises on October 13 and 14 when a special session of the legislature has been convened to pass some Bills to screen visitors for COVID. Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and Council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy who reviewed the arrangements for the session on Sunday directed the Legislature Secretariat to open medical camps on the premises. Members, legislature staff, media and police personnel who show symptoms of the virus or doubtful of contracting the virus should undergo medical check up. The camp would open at 2 pm on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medical-camps-on-assembly-premises/article32830893.ece
12 October 2020||ONGOLE,TELANGANA||‘Tobacco sector to get back its sheen’||The Tobacco Board has chalked out ambitious plans to extend and consolidate the country’s position in the global tobacco trade by projecting it as a definite market to global players, according to its chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu. Mr. Raghunadha Babu shared his vision with The Hindu here to step up export of the principal commercial produce in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to bring back the past glory to the sector when production was over 300 million kg. India is being viewed now largely as an “opportunity market” by the global players with the production of FCV tobacco declining over a period to about 220 million kg for various reasons, he said. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the crop regulator has been forced to further slash the crop size to 203 million kg, which included 115 million kg for Andhra Pradesh this year. All-out efforts are being made by the Tobacco Board to take the production to at least 250 to 270 million kg in the next two to three years, and improve the quality of crop to cater to the global market, Mr. Raghunadha Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tobacco-sector-to-get-back-its-sheen/article32830903.ece
12 October 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Crop withers after sowing||Paturi Mallesh is a farmer from Kasala village in Hatnoora mandal. He is a tenant farmer who took about as much as 22 acres on lease. He is paying a lease amount of Rs. 12,000 per acre. In June, Mallesh purchased paddy seed of 22 bags by paying Rs. 900 a bag. Not only he, but several farmers from Kasala, Reddykhanapur, Chickmadur and Nandipet purchased the seed and cultivated the crop. Thoughcrop seemed to be healthy, there was no yield. It withered for reasons unknown to farmers. Mallesh alone spent about Rs. 6 lakh on the 22 acres so far in addition to the lease amount which comes to a total of Rs. 2.64 lalk. It was stated that in about 50 acres of land the paddy variety of 1010 was sown and all the farmers were at the receiving end. A few days ago, they reached the district headquarters and submitted a memorandum at the Collectorate. They also attached the copies of bills of seed purchased. As expected, the response from officials was ‘we will look into the matter.’ Ch. Manik Reddy, another farmer from Reddykhanapur, purchased for bags of the same variety seed and he had also lost crop on about four acres. “There is no response from officials or politicians. We have made a representation to MLA Ch. Madan Reddy, who promised to look into the matter. ‘Looking into the matter’ means keeping it aside. Can we get justice?” asked a farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-withers-after-sowing-in-telangana/article32830341.ece
12 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BJP deceiving farmers, says TRS MLA||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Ch. Kranthi Kiran alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had been deceiving farmers by stating that meters would not be fixed to agriculture pumps. “Bharatiya Janata Party candidate in Dubbak byelections M. Raghunandan Rao has been stating that there will be no meters for agriculture borewells as per the new Bills introduced by the Central government. But the reality is that meters will be fixed and in Andhra Pradesh they were already fixed. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao opposed the Bill and wrote to Prime Minister on April 2, 2020,” said Mr. Kranthi Kiran, while speaking to reporters here on Sunday, along with Lok Sabha member K Prabhakar Reddy and Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Farooq Hussain. The Member of Legislative Assembly said that there were about 70,000 farmers in the Dubbak Assembly constituency limits who were getting Rytu Bandhu and of them about 90% farmers were having borewells and now all of them would be fixed with meters. “Bharatiya Janata Party is doing injustice to farmers. People of Dubbak are with us and will teach a lesson to BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-deceiving-farmers-says-trs-mla/article32830894.ece
12 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Refute campaign on social media: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Sunday urged non-resident Indians (NRIs) from Telangana to refute the allegations being levelled against the TRS on social media during Dubbak bypoll. Mr. Harish Rao held a video-conference with NRIs and explained development works. “The NRIs have played a key role in the struggle for Telangana. Dubak was once a drought-prone area and under the leadership of MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy drinking water is being supplied. Neither Congress nor BJP were able to do this,” said Mr. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/refute-campaign-on-social-media-harish/article32830776.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||1.65 crore tonnes of paddy to be procured||The State government has targeted procurement of 1.65 crore tonnes of paddy from farmers at the back of a record production in the current year. Of this massive quantity, procurement in the Vaanakalam (kharif) is expected to be around 90 lakh metric tonnes and balance 75 lakh metric tonnes during Yasangi (rabi season). The government has already announced a minimum support price of Rs. 1,888 a quintal for A-grade variety and Rs. 1,868 a quintal for the B-grade or common variety. The significant improvement in the procurement target is attributed to the projected rise in the area under agriculture with the operationalisation of major projects like Kaleshwaram. Procurement of 1.65 crore tonnes of paddy would set a record for the State as the procurement was 1.12 crore MT in 2019-20 and 77.41 lakh MT in the year before that. Paddy procurement for the entire crop year hovered around 50 to 60 lakh MT during the previous years. The Civil Supplies department has released the paddy procurement policy for the current year after the State Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, finalized the action plan for the purpose at the village level itself. 5,690 centres As the incidence of the COVID-19 pandemic continues, the government has decided to open 5,690 procurement centres in villages so that overcrowding at agricultural market committees is avoided and the process is taken up at the farmers’ doorstep. Paddy procured from farmers should be custom-milled and the resultant raw rice delivered by millers would be utilised for Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) and other welfare measures. The annual requirement of raw rice for TPDS and other welfare schemes, including open market sales scheme with two months buffer, is pegged at approximately 28.8 lakh metric tonnes. The policy mentioned in detail the specifications of paddy, including the presence of foreign matter, both organic and inorganic, discolouration, moisture content and immature, shrunken or shrivelled grains. The Civil Supplies Corporation, IKP (women self-help groups), agriculture cooperative societies and other agencies would make paddy purchases at procurement centres. The allotment of procurement centres to these groups would, however, be made after taking into consideration their previous performance. The policy contained clear guidelines pertaining to custom-milling of paddy to be undertaken by rice millers and they were directed to deliver the custom milled rice within 15 days of receipt of paddy. “The collectors shall take action to blacklist the rice millers who divert paddy stocks delivered for custom milling or indulge in purchase of PDS rice”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/165-crore-tonnes-of-paddy-to-be-procured/article32830778.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Ayaram-Gayaram culture at work again||Ayaram-Gayaram culture is embedded with the election, and it erupts stronger during the byelections when the scope for dissidence is on a larger scale. It is easy to encourage defections during that time as State-level leaders of all parties land up in one constituency. Scores of such scenes are being witnessed in the Dubbak bypoll as leaders of all political parties are running jumping into others along with followers. Congress snatched the TRS leader Cheruku Srinivas Reddy to announce him as official candidate while TRS took the revenge, ensuring the defection of K.V. Narasimha Reddy, who was Congress candidate in the last elections. There were some ‘ins and outs’ related to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too. And there is no count of village and mandal level leaders quitting one party and joining another and as election date approaches it is difficult to remember who belongs to which party.     The day is not far when government schools functioning under different managements will have common guidelines. Thus far, normal and residential schools and colleges of education, social, tribal, Backward Classes and the Minorities Welfare department had their own set of guidelines which bred discontent in staff. For example, the remuneration of contract residential teachers of welfare departments was Rs. 40,000 per month but their counterparts in the Education department got only half the sum. The matter was discussed by the Ministers of all the five departments at a meeting recently when it was decided to hammer out a solution with further consultations. Special Chief Secretary to Education Chitra Ramachandran was entrusted the responsibility of discussing the issues with Secretaries, Commissioners and directors of all the five departments shortly.   Withdrawal of the monsoon, onset of winter and festivals bring cheers to all, but not to Health department personnel at least this year. They have been kept on high alert following reports that there is scope for surge in COVID-19 cases during winter. Reports suggested that chances of survival of the coronavirus, basically connected to the respiratory system, is expected to be more in cool climate. So Health staff hope that all safety norms are followed.  (R. Ravikanth Reddy, N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ayaram-gayaram-culture-at-work-again/article32830773.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Colourful catch!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/colourful-catch/article32830905.ece
12 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Magistrate may not act as ‘post office’ for police custody pleas||Dismissing a revision petition against the denial of police custody of three accused in an ATM theft case, the court of an Additional Sessions Judge here has remarked that “judicial magistrate may not act as a post office” and “the court is always empowered and legally required also to check the genuineness of the request of the police custody”. The matter pertains to alleged theft of Rs. 38.86 lakh from the ATM booth of a private bank at Caterpuri village on September 10 last year. An FIR was registered at Palam Vihar police station in this connection. The police recorded the confessional statement of three accused — Raghunath, Sanjeev and Anil — on July 7 and on September 14. However, the Judicial Magistrate In-charge (Gurugram), Kopal, turned down the pleas of the investigation officer (IO) seeking their police custody on both occasions. Hearing the revision petition against the September 14 order, Additional Sessions Judge Amit Sahrawat observed that the police were seeking the custody of the accused to recover the stolen cash more than a year after the crime. The court also pointed out that the police were seeking custody to demarcate the place of theft, but the site plan was already recorded in their file. Saying that the two investigation officers in the case had made “clear and deliberate lapse” in making a fair and proper investigation, the judge, in his five-page order, pointed out that the statement of the bank manager and the agency responsible for replenishing the ATM machine were not recorded about the serial number of the notes allegedly stolen. “Without such statement, any of the recoveries of the currency notes, even if made from the accused, may not be linked with the alleged theft,” the court observed. The court also remarked that the investigating officers were habitual of recording the confessional statement of the accused at any time and subsequently to seek police custody on the basis of such confessional statement. Upholding the order by the court of JMIC Komal, Mr. Sahrawat observed that “this court does not see any kind of illegality and irregularity in the order” and directed the Police Commissioner to take action against such “reckless” investigating officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/magistrate-may-not-act-as-post-office-for-police-custody-pleas/article32830515.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Lending a helping hand||On Wednesday afternoon, 36-year-old Deepak Kumar, a driver from Ghaziabad, was wandering outside a building next to the Bangla Sahib Gurdwara. He asked a person standing outside the door of the building: “Is this where CT scans are done?” He was told it is yet to start. Many people have started coming to Guru Harkrishan Polyclinic Bangla Sahib after it was announced earlier this week that people from economically backward sections can get an MRI scan done for Rs. 50. The charge for X-ray will be Rs. 50 while dialysis will come at Rs. 600. “Four machines for dialysis have already arrived and we will most probably start dialysis from next week. We have placed orders for X-ray and MRI machines, but they have not arrived. We plan to start the services by December,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, which runs the clinic. Eligibility assessment A committee of doctors will decide whether a person is eligible for an MRI scan for Rs. 50 while others have to pay Rs. 800. Mr. Sirsa said they are also planning to buy a machine to do CT scan at cheaper rates for poor people, but they have not finalised it. All the machines are brought with donations, he said. Mr. Kumar, who makes Rs. 13,000 a month, said he cannot afford getting tested from outside. “My head has been aching for the past 15-20 days. I went to see a doctor and got a little relief, but he asked me to get a CT scan done. I knew it is expensive outside and a friend of mine told me that I can get it done at Bangla Sahib for Rs. 50,” he said. Virat Rana, 20, came with his friend to enquire about the tests. “My brother is a doctor, who works at a hospital and also runs a clinic in Krishna Nagar. He has asked me to enquire whether it has started, so that he can refer patients here.” A board outside the clinic shows rates of different tests done there, starting from Rs. 20. “Every patient has to do a registration of Rs. 10 and he will get his consultation and medicine for that money. If we feel that he is extremely poor or cannot afford a test, then we will do it for free. No one should go unhappy from the gurdwara,” a doctor at the hospital said. Modernised machines The doctor said that as the clinic is old they were adding the machines to modernise it. “Also, we have many senior consultants who come here once or twice a week without taking any money. They also suggested that we should have these machines as people will benefit. Then we did a survey in the area and found that these tests were really expensive and we should start them here as a charity,” the doctor said. The clinic, which used to witness a footfall of around 250-300 patients a day, has been partially operational since the virus outbreak. Though the timing of the clinic is 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., the administration is planning to run the new tests for 12 hours from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Close to the clinic, there is a pharmacy where anyone can buy medicines at a cheaper rate. “I came here to buy my vitamin tablets. The rates here are about 60% cheaper than outside,” said R.P Pandey, 63, who was waiting outside the pharmacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lending-a-helping-hand/article32830520.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||UG admissions in DU to begin at 10 a.m. today||Admissions to merit-based undergraduate courses in Delhi University (DU) are set to begin on Monday from 10 a.m. In a first, the admission process will be entirely online this year, including verification of documents. University officials have urged students not to visit college campuses as it will be a “contactless” admission. Once applicants log into the university portal, the home screen will reflect the cut-offs and application details. The applicants can then select a course or college and check the cut-offs. The officials have asked the students to ensure that the course and college of their choice are submitted as only one application under each list will be allowed. The students will also have access to a suggestive calculator that will help them ascertain their eligibility criteria in the different colleges. They will be given a reference number to help them track the status of their applications. In case there are further details or documents required from the applicant, they will be intimated by the college. After verification of documents and once the application is approved by the college, the student can pay the fees. The students will be able to apply to colleges till October 14 and the last date of payment under the first list is October 16. 100% cut-off at LSR This year, cut-offs in the university soared with Lady Shri Ram College, asking for 100% for psychology, economics and political science honours. Apart from economics and political science, courses like B.Com honours also saw high cut-offs with several colleges setting the target above 98%. The varsity has received over 3.53 lakh applications this year for around 70,000 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ug-admissions-in-du-to-begin-at-10-am-today/article32830528.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three friends killed in road accident||Three persons were killed and one injured after their car hit a tractor in Moti Nagar on Sunday, the police said. The accident took place in front of Kirti Nagar metro station at 1.30 a.m., they said. The police received information from Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital in Moti Nagar that three persons — Rajesh Sharma (32), Tarun Gupta (42) and Charandeep Singh (38) — all from Pandav Nagar, were declared brought dead while Parveen Singh (38) from Jhilmil was undergoing treatment, said DCP (West) Deepak Purohit. The DCP said the tractor was loaded with iron rods. An FIR has been registered and the bodies have been shifted to the DDU hospital for autopsy. Further investigation is under way, they said. Girja Shankar Joshi, the brother-in-law of Sharma, said the four were friends since their childhood. “They went to have dinner last night in Punjabi Bagh when the incident happened. I spoke to Parveen’s wife who said he was in trauma,” Mr. Joshi said. Sharma used to work in a courier company at Mahipalpur. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Charandeep used to work in a media organisation and is survived by his wife, daughter and son. While Gupta used to run a computer shop at his residence and is survived by his wife and daughter Parveen is the owner of the car, but he was not driving the vehicle at the time of the incident, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-friends-killed-in-road-accident/article32830524.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||City to get three ‘rapid response’ teams to rescue injured animals||Delhi will soon have three “rapid response” teams to rescue injured wild animals, including leopards and jackals, and those which inadvertently venture into human habitations, according to forest and wildlife department officials. Until now, the department took the help of experts from wildlife NGOs and the Delhi zoo to rescue stranded or injured wild animals. “These are coordinated exercises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-to-get-three-rapid-response-teams-to-rescue-injured-animals/article32830516.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||BSES worker held for sexual harassment||A 32-year-old BSES employee was arrested for allegedly flashing his private part to a minor girl in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, the police said on Sunday. They said they received information on Saturday at 4.30 p.m. about the incident. “The police then reached the spot following which the complainant said her six-year-old daughter was standing near door where one person from BSES committed the crime,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. A case was then registered under Section 354A of IPC and 12 POCSO Act and accused Raju from Hauz Rani, was nabbed. “...the service of the accused has been terminated by his employer...,” said a BSES spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bses-worker-held-for-sexual-harassment/article32830525.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Four held for killing man during robbery||Four men were arrested for allegedly killing a person and injuring his friend during a robbery in central Delhi’s GB Road, police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Rahat Ali (19), a resident of New Seelampur, Fardeen (21), from Gautam Puri, Suhaib (19) and Salman (22), both residents of Seelampur, they said. According to police, Rahat Ali and Fardeen were arrested by the police whereas Suhaib and Salman were arrested by the Crime Branch. On October 5, one Anirudh Kumar Yadav called his friend Aman and made a plan to visit Aman’s maternal uncle’s house in Karawal Nagar. They met at ITO and went to visit G B Road to get cigarettes, police said. Yadav was urinating whereas Aman was standing on the road. Meanwhile, Yadav heard Aman saying that his phone has been snatched by one person. Later, Aman caught the snatcher and started beating him. Meanwhile, another person came there and attacked Aman with a knife. Yadav intervened and tried to save Aman, but the accused also attacked him with knife. After robbing the mobile phone, the accused fled the spot, a senior police officer said. Aman was rushed to RML Hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said. The weapon of offence, a scooter, two mobile phones and a countrymade pistol were recovered from the accused, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-held-for-killing-man-during-robbery/article32830526.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||HC grants bail to woman convicted of killing stepson||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a woman, who was convicted of killing her stepson, as there is presently no one to look after her 7-year-old son. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Pajnish Bhatnagar, as a condition for the bail, ordered her to work ‘pro bono’ (without payment) with an NGO here for the welfare of the children in the area. “If it is found that the appellant [woman] is not willing to perform the pro-bono work of ‘Pahal’ [NGO], it shall be open to the State to move an application for cancellation of the bail granted to the appellant,” the court said. The woman was found guilty by a trial court here of murdering her minor stepson with whom she did not have a good relationship. In her bail plea, she stated that her husband is a rickshaw puller and is, therefore, not able to look after the child as he has to labour throughout the day. She stated that there is no other member in the family, who could look after the minor child. The bail plea also stated that she does not have a criminal past and that her appeal against the conviction is pending. The court was informed that she has undergone incarceration for over four years and two months and that her jail conduct is found to be satisfactory. “While on the one hand, the appellant [woman] has been found to be guilty of serious and heinous crime of committing the murder of her own minor stepson, on the other hand, the son of the appellant — who is 7-years-old — is suffering without the company of his mother,” the Bench said. “The family of the appellant is poor and the father of the child is working as a rickshaw puller and has to work throughout the day to make both ends meet,” it said, adding, “In the peculiar circumstances of the case, we are inclined to grant bail to the appellant during the pendency of the present appeal”. The court directed the woman to provide her mobile phone number to the Investigating Officer – at the time of release, which shall be kept in working condition at all times. It also directed her not to switch-off or change the same without prior intimation to the IO, during the period of bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-grants-bail-to-woman-convicted-of-killing-stepson/article32830514.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Road to nowhere||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/road-to-nowhere/article32830522.ece
12 October 2020||Chandrapur,||Shoot tiger with 8 human kills, MP tells forest dept.||Congress MP Suresh Dhanorkar from Chandrapur has asked forest officials in the region to shoot dead a tiger that is believed to have killed eight people and some 25 heads of cattle since January last year as efforts to capture it by special teams have been futile. In a press statement released on Saturday evening, Dhanorkar, who is the only the Congress MP from the State, said the people of over a dozen villages in Rajura tehsil, part of Central Chanda forest division, were terrified and it was affecting agricultural work which is the mainstay here. He demanded that the tiger be shot dead to save farmers of the region. Mr. Dhanorkar said he had held meetings with Chief Conservator of Forests N.R. Praveen and spoken over phone with State Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod about the troublesome tiger, officially called RT-1. Forest Department officials said search teams, with over 150 personnel armed with camera traps and other equipment, had been formed in Wirur, Rajura and Kothari ranges under Central Chanda division deputy conservator of forest Arvind Mundhe to capture the big cat but they had not tasted success yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shoot-tiger-with-8-human-kills-mp-tells-forest-dept/article32830448.ece
12 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Digital forensics: the new normal in crime investigation||In the backdrop of the multi-agency investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the role of digital forensics science has come to the fore with digital data being extensively used in the investigation, people familiar with the probes said. Central agencies — Enforcement Directorate, Central Bureau of Investigation and Narcotics Control Bureau — have been probing various angles in the case. Licensed equipment, software and algorithms are used to investigate digital data when the accused refuse to open up. Investigators said they had managed to retrieve significant and relevant data (from storage devices and from the cloud), which had been either erased or overwritten or simply hidden. After retrieving the data, investigators analysed, dissected and reconstructed it to use in the investigations and decide on the future course of action. In the fast-paced digital and cyber forensics work undertaken by experts, this is possibly for the first time that latest tools and techniques from the U.S., Israel and Germany were deployed in India for gathering crucial information while adhering to the Evidence Act and the IT Act, people in the know said. Network forensic, database analysis, file analysis, registry analysis, email analysis, and OS analysis tools were used to capture data. Though forensic experts are tight-lipped to reveal more, the popular forensic Sleuth Kit tools used are Autopsy, SIFT-SANS, Bulk Extractor, X-Ways Forensics (German), CAINE, Dumpzilla, Encase, FTK, FireEye RedLine, MailXaminer, Oxygen Forensics, Pro-Discover, REGA, USB-Writer Blocker, Volatility, Wireshark and Xplico amongst others. While some investigators prefer open source, others go by licensed software for watertight results. For the first time ever, sharpest investigative minds familiar with traditional methods and the best-in-class digital forensic sleuths collaborated to reach at conclusions. So one does not hear anything on the money laundering allegations levelled by the late actor’s family these days and rather the probe has moved towards drug consumption and peddling in the Hindi film industry in general. People familiar with the investigations said the mobile devices of actors and other accused being probed in this case were in the forensic labs for at least seven hours each, while that of Rajput is undergoing tests. Investigative bodies said they found evidence dating back to 2017 and beyond. The investigation was not just restricted to mobile devices, but also to emails, online drives, hard disk drives, cloud logs. In today’s world when every person or crime leaves a digital trail, investigative bodies know no matter how hard the accused try to erase their trails, they can never be fully eliminated or erased. Commenting on the trend, former law enforcement officer and digital fraud investigator Makarand Wagh, co-founder and director, Macans Infotech, said, “There is a thin line between accessing evidence and destroying evidence.” He added, “We cannot disclose the names of the tool and processes, but electric devices are screened with the help of high-end licensed specific forensic tools. We are using three tools simultaneously on deleted data/items.” According to legal experts, forensic digital crime experts can provide circumstantial evidence to the investigative bodies up to the time of the filing of charge sheet, but the courts will only rely on primary evidence. Thus, the digital data helps in strengthening the case or deciding in closing it. In the corporate world, digital forensics is not new as private sector companies (Tata Group, Aditya Birla Group, L&T Group, and National Stock Exchange) and government bodies such as the Maharashtra and Mumbai police amongst others have been using them to deal with cyber crime.  There is a thin line between accessing evidence and destroying evidence Makarand Wagh Co-founder and director of Macans Infotech||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/digital-forensics-the-new-normal-in-crime-investigation/article32830437.ece
12 October 2020||Mumbai,||Cruise vessel MV Karnika to discontinue operations||The owners ofMV Karnika, a 14-deck large premium cruise vessel whose home port is Mumbai, have decided to discontinue its operations due to mounting debts and the uncertainties posed by COVID-19. Operations have been at a standstill since creditors arrested the ship through an order of the Admiralty Court on March 17. The owners said they are not in a position to start operations as ports in the country have not given a specific date to resume cruise services owing to the pandemic. No information has been made available if the operations of the passenger vessel, with a capacity to carry 2,014 passengers and 621 crew members, will be revived later.  MV Karnika is the first cruise vessel acquired by Jalesh Cruises Mauritius Ltd., majority owned by Subhash Chandra, the chairman of Essel Group, and his family. Mr. Chandra aimed to build a robust cruise tourism industry in India and invested in the project before the financial crisis hit his group. Despite having other investors, he took personal interest to develop this sector as he felt it had vast scope of employment generation.  MV Karnika was the first large cruise vessel to home port in Mumbai and operate to domestic and international destinations. It was also part of the plan to build Mumbai as a major cruise port. Supplies running out “Owners have also appealed to the [Bombay] High Court and the [Mumbai] Port Trust for assistance to provide fuel, power and basic supplies to the 60 crew members that are on the ship. However, they have yet to receive an update on their appeal from the High Court along with the Port Trust,” a statement from the owners said. “Unfortunately, due to this delay, the crew on the ship are living in poor conditions with no fuel, power. We are hoping to get the crew members signed off and relieve them so that they can go home as soon as the legal formalities are completed,” it said. The crew members who are running out of fuel to run the engine and essential supplies have reportedly demanded their pending wages to be paid before being allowed to leave. In a statement the management said, “We would like to reassure the crew and their families that we have not forgotten about them, hence, have put the right wheels in motion. We have asked for urgent indulgence with the relevant authorities and are waiting for their feedback.” Plan to send crew home “In addition, we assure our crew members that they will receive their salaries as soon as the funds are received. Main priority is to reunite the crew with their families,” it added.  MV Karnika has been docked in Mumbai since March 12 and has not been in operation. Its maiden voyage from Mumbai was in April 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cruise-vessel-mv-karnika-to-discontinue-operations/article32830442.ece
12 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sena will contest around 50 seats in Bihar: Anil Desai||The Shiv Sena will contest around 50 seats in the Bihar Assembly polls, the party’s Rajya Sabha MP Anil Desai said on Sunday. Mr. Desai said the Sena does not have an alliance with any party and “has fielded candidates in constituencies where we have our cadre involved in public work”. He said the Sena’s election symbol in Bihar will be a “man blowing tura” (trumpet). The Election Commission had disallowed the Sena from using its symbol ‘bow and arrow’ in Bihar due to similarity with the ‘arrow’ symbol of the JD(U). Asked about the schedule of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray for campaigning in Bihar, Mr. Desai said the details would be provided by the party and the CM himself. The Sena last week released a list of 22 leaders who will campaign in Bihar. Besides Mr. Thackeray, his son and Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, Subhash Desai, Sanjay Raut, Anil Desai, Vinayak Raut, Arvind Sawant, Priyanka Chaturvedi, Rahul Shewale and Krupal Tumane also figure in the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-will-contest-around-50-seats-in-bihar-anil-desai/article32830439.ece
12 October 2020||mumbai,||Man held for raping daughter||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping his 10-year-old daughter, police said on Sunday. The accused lived with his daughter in Vakola, while his wife stayed in Surat following their separation four years ago. On Friday, the Vakola police got a call from Sion Hospital, alerting them about the rape. The mother told the police that her daughter came to visit her in Surat and complained of pain in her private parts. She brought her to Sion Hospital, where doctors confirmed that the girl was raped, the official said. The mother lodged a complaint and the accused was arrested, the official said. A Mumbai court has remanded the accused in police custody till October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-held-for-raping-daughter/article32830440.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||With 2,780 cases Capital’s virus tally touches 3,09,339||As many as 2,780 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,09,339, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. With 29 more deaths having been reported, the death count stands at 5,769. Of the total cases, 2,81,869, people have recovered and there are 21,701 active cases. The number of new cases has been less than 3,000 for the past 10 days. But the number of daily tests, which was above 60,000 in mid-September, was only 48,803, on an average, during these 10 days. In the past 24 hours, 48,753 tests were done. As per Sunday’s bulletin, the number of active cases, people in hospitals, and people under home isolation have slightly decreased compared to Saturday. Out of the total 16,118 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 67.5% are vacant, as per government data. But 55.6% of the ICU beds with ventilators and 56.7% of the ICU beds without ventilators have been occupied. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.7% , which is lower than September. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.5%. The number of containment zones is 2,710.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/with-2780-cases-capitals-virus-tally-touches-309339/article32830427.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 50 lakh fine imposed on NCRTC, says Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said that he has instructed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to impose a fine of Rs. 50 lakh on the National Capital Region Transport Corporation’s (NCRTC) construction site in the city for violating air pollution control measures. Anti-dust operations “Massive dust pollution is happening here. The guidelines issued by the Delhi government regarding pollution control are not being followed by the agency. Therefore, strict action will be taken against it. NCRTC is already aware that anti-dust operations are being carried out all over Delhi but they are not following the rules completely. I have penalised the NCRTC of Rs. 50 lakh. If they continue the violation, then the work will be banned,” the Minister said. Mr. Rai said that an anti-dust campaign is being carried out across the Capital and teams of officials are inspecting different places. “There are 39 large sites in Delhi, covering an area of more than 20,000 square meters where either construction work or demolition work is going on. On the instructions of Delhi government, anti-smog guns have been installed at 33 places to prevent dust pollution. But at six sites, the equipment have not been installed,” he said. Mr. Rai said that the NCRTC has installed only one anti-smog gun and the government has directed to install another one. They cannot restart work till then, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-50-lakh-fine-imposed-on-ncrtc-says-rai/article32830430.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||No restrictions on religious gatherings till Oct. 31||Restrictions on religious gatherings – up to a maximum of 200 attendees – for the upcoming festive season were lifted till October 31 here on Sunday. An order to this effect issued by Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, however, prescribed strict restrictions on activities ranging from setting up food stalls to standing or squatting while attending such events. The order stated that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) would not allow any fair, mela, food stall, jhoola, rally, exhibition or procession inside or outside. They would also need to be videographed so they can be reviewed by a nodal officer. “At all events related to festivities no person will be allowed in standing or squatting position. Only sitting on chairs maintaining social distancing norms shall be allowed. Seating capacity that permits compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour will only be allowed,” the order said. All event organisers will have to obtain requisite permission from the District Magistrate concerned for organising events, well in advance, besides obtaining permission from all other authorities concerned. “Capacity of each event site will be decided on the basis of area and social distancing norms laid down in MHA order... In closed space, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons,” the order stated. In open spaces, according to the order, events will be allowed keeping the size of the ground or space in view with the strict observance of social distancing norms. “Every organiser/ organising committee/samiti shall be responsible for conducting videography/video-recording of the event/programme on a daily basis and a softcopy of the unedited video recording shall be submitted to nodal officers of respective event sites” the order stated. “In case any violation of SOPs/guidelines is observed... the permission granted for conducting such programme/event shall be withdrawn/revoked immediately for all subsequent days,” it also stated.  In case of any violation of SOPs or guidelines, the permission granted for conducting the programme/event shall be withdrawn/revoked immediately for all subsequent days Order by Delhi Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-restrictions-on-religious-gatherings-till-oct-31/article32830422.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Case against BJP member for abusing policeman||A case has been registered against a BJP member for hurling “vulgur abuse” on an on-duty traffic policeman in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh, a senior police officer said on Sunday. In a video, which has gone viral on social media, Yogender Chandolia, former North Delhi Mayor and BJP member, was seen abusing a traffic policeman. Mr. Chandolia was furious after his two-wheeler was towed away by the policeman. The drama continued for an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/case-against-bjp-member-for-abusing-policeman/article32830431.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Adarsh Nagar murder: witness alleges police inaction||The 21-year-old woman, who is an eyewitness in the case of murder of her friend Rahul Rajput, has said that had the police acted on time, Rahul could have been saved. The woman, over a video call from a shelter home, said that on October 7 evening, she was with Rahul when her brother called him to meet for a discussion on a tuition. “The moment we reached, Rahul was attacked. I tried to save him, but could not. I rushed to a police post at Adarsh Nagar where the policemen were having tea. I requested them to come along and save my friend, but they said they could not do anything,” said the woman. She also alleged that there were a total of eight persons who attacked Rahul, but the police have named only five. Even after reporting the matter to a police post, none arrived at the location to try to find out about the attack. Rahul had sustained injuries. He returned home, while the woman was brought home by her brother. Later, the SHO asked her to shift to a shelter home, claiming there could be a threat to her life. Inconsolable, the woman said, had she known Rahul would be thrashed, she would have never let him meet his brother. “I will fight till his killers are hanged. I want justice for Rahul and fair investigation into the case,” she said. Vijayanta Arya, DCP (North-West), said that if the woman’s allegations are found true, then action will be taken against the policemen concerned. “Apart from the woman’s statement, we have technical evidence and eyewitnesses of the incident. We have obtained the CCTV footage from the area to get more clarity on the sequence of events,” said Ms. Arya. Rahul and the woman had known each other for three months. The woman’s brother was against their friendship as they belonged to different religions. The victim was a DU student.  I rushed to a police post at Adarsh Nagar. I requested the policemen to come along and save my friend, but they said they could not do anything Deceased’s friend and Witness in the case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/adarsh-nagar-murder-witness-alleges-police-inaction/article32830432.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Assembly body calls for scribes’ appearance||The Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony has called for the appearance of certain witnesses on Monday, including Prabir Purkaystha, the editor of online news portal NewsClick and Pratik Sinha, co-founder of Alt News. The committee, in a statement, said it has so far examined journalist and author Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, digital rights activist Nikhil Pahwa, digital rights activist and journalists Awesh Tiwari and Kunal Purohit. “The Delhi Legislative Assembly body, after careful deliberations of the allegations in complaints levelled against Facebook, has taken prompt cognisance of this issue and has set its mechanism in full swing,” the committee stated. “To maintain utmost transparency in the functioning of the committee, the proceedings shall be live- streamed for more public outreach,” it also stated. According to the committee, Monday’s proceedings are in continuation of the previous proceedings in light of “allegations and issues of grave concern” raised in complaints against social media platform Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-assembly-body-calls-for-scribes-appearance/article32830421.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||Notification issued on tax waiver for battery vehicles||The Transport Department on Sunday issued a gazette notification stating full waiver on road tax on the battery-operated vehicles under the Electric Vehicle [EV] policy. Suggestions from the public have also been sought on exemption on the registration fee and orders to waive off the fee will be issued in the next three days, the government stated. ‘Crucial step’ “Another crucial step towards ensuring a pollution-free Delhi. This incentive-based policy will encourage large scale adoption of electric vehicles, and bring us closer to fulfilling our dream of making Delhi the EV Capital of India,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted in reference to the notification. Mr. Kejriwal had announced the Delhi EV Policy 2020, last month with a focus to increase the adoption of electric vehicles in Delhi by incentivising the purchase and use of the EVs. The policy aims to register 5 lakh electric vehicles in the city by 2024. According to the notification, the rules issued in the policy for the exemption of registration fee have been opened for public opinion. The Delhi government has implemented the EV policy to promote the use of electric vehicles to reduce Delhi’s air pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/notification-issued-on-tax-waiver-for-battery-vehicles/article32830423.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP holds public meets on farm Acts||The BJP on Sunday organised multiple public meetings and events related to its ongoing programme on dispelling alleged propaganda against the recently passed Farm Acts. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta sought to inform farmers and villagers about the benefits and “positive changes” related to these at a ‘Khat Par Baithak’ held in Jagatpur village of Wazirabad. “In the last six years, AAP has not taken care of the farmers of Delhi,” Mr. Gupta alleged. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, led a Kisan Tractor Rally in south Delhi from Tigri village to Jaitpur village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-holds-public-meets-on-farm-acts/article32830419.ece
12 October 2020||New Delhi,||CM, family take part in anti-dengue campaign||As the Delhi government’s ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign entered its sixth week on Sunday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his family inspected his residence for stagnant water to prevent breeding of dengue mosquito. He also encouraged Delhiites to involve their family members in the campaign and change accumulated water. Taking to social media, Mr. Kejriwal tweeted, “Today is the sixth Sunday of the campaign against dengue, my family also joined the campaign this time. We checked the house and replaced the accumulated clean water...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-family-take-part-in-anti-dengue-campaign/article32830424.ece
12 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 recovery rate nears 83%||Maharashtra reported 10,792 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total case tally to 15,28,226, of which 2,21,174 are active. With 309 deaths, the State’s toll has climbed to 40,349. The recoveries almost matched the case surge with 10,461 people being discharged to take the cumulative recoveries to 12,66,240. “The State’s recovery rate has risen to a new high of 82.86%, while its case fatality rate stands at 2.64%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district reported over 1,500 cases to take its total case tally to 3,15,774, while 30 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,248. As per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate has exceeded 87%, while the number of active cases is below 32,500. 2,170 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported yet another high surge of 2,170 cases to take its tally to 2,29,446, of which 25,767 are active. With 42 fatalities, the city’s toll rose to 9,433. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported more than 550 new cases as its case load crossed the 73,000 mark. Five deaths saw its toll rise to 1,993. Navi Mumbai reported nine deaths as its toll rose to 957, while 292 cases saw its total case tally rise to 43,576. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 600 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 86,897, of which 8,989 are active. A sharp fatality spike of 35 deaths saw the death toll climb to 2,330. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 20 deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,268. As many as 344 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 42,541, of which 7,727 are active. Sangli reported more than 300 cases to take the district’s tally to 42,999, of which 6,684 are active. With 15 deaths, the total death toll has risen to 1,326. Kolhapur reported 25 deaths as its toll rose to 1,479. The district recorded its lowest surge in days, with just 135 new cases to take its total case tally to 45,849, of which 4,406 are active. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported nearly 628 new cases as its total case tally reached 85,727, of which 14,719 are active. With 11 more fatalities, the district’s total death has climbed to 1,448. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported a relatively low surge of 200 cases and five deaths as its total case tally rose to 51,059, of which 4,820 are active, while its death toll has climbed to 1,308. Ahmednagar reported over 500 fresh cases as its total case tally rose to 50,137, of which 7,497 are active. With 11 more deaths, the total death toll has surged to 788. 74,000 samples tested “Of a total of 76,43,584 laboratory samples tested thus far, 15,28,226 (19.99%) have returned positive, with around 74,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said Dr. Awate. A total of 23,10,783 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 24,726 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-covid-19-recovery-rate-nears-83/article32830446.ece
12 October 2020||Pune,||Eknath Khadse will defect soon: Sena Minister||Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra Minister Gulabrao Patil on Sunday lent further credence to the speculation of estranged senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse's possible defection, remarking that it was true that Mr. Khadse would be changing his political colours soon. Mr. Patil, an MLA from the Jalgaon Rural constituency and Minister of State for Water Supply and Sanitation, said he was not aware of which party the BJP leader would eventually join or of whom he was in touch with. “While I do not know who Eknath Khadse is in touch with at the moment, it certainly is true that he will change his party,” said Mr. Patil, while responding to questions whether the disgruntled Mr. Khadse would be joining Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) or the Sena. Since the past few days, rumours have been swirling thick and fast that Mr. Khadse would be entering the NCP fold. It was even rumoured that Mr. Khadse would be meeting with Mr. Pawar while he was in Mumbai recently. The BJP leader, however, refused to comment on the matter after his return to Jalgaon on Sunday. Sena leaders like Abdul Sattar, Uday Samant and Mr. Patil himself, have been urging Mr. Khadse, a stalwart leader from north Maharashtra, to join the Sena. After being denied a ticket in the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls and following the defeat of his daughter Rohini Khadse in the same election, Mr. Khadse has been vocal about his disenchantment with his party. Since the conclusion of the Assembly polls, a major schism has emerged within the Maharashtra BJP leadership with the top brass fearing a possible intra-party revolt by notable OBC leaders led by Mr. Khadse, former ministers Pankaja Munde and Prakash Mehta, and other leaders who were either denied a ticket or suffered upset defeats in the election. Mr. Khadse was reportedly upset with then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, the BJP’s leader in the State, for his ‘authoritarian style’ of running the party and eliminating potential ‘rivals’ in a Machiavellian fashion. At the time, the OBC leaders had blamed Mr. Fadnavis for engineering their defeats and denying them tickets. Mr. Khadse has consistently maintained that there had been a ‘conspiracy’ by certain leaders in the State BJP unit to ensure the defeats of Ms. Munde and his daughter, Rohini, and that the move was aimed at finishing off his political career. Since then, rumours have been circulating of his potential defection to either the Sena or the NCP.  While I do not know who Eknath Khadse is in touch with, it certainly is true that he will change his party Gulabrao Patil Shiv Sena MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/eknath-khadse-will-defect-soon-sena-minister/article32830444.ece
12 October 2020||Thane,||16-year-old detained for killing friend||A 16-year-old boy has been detained from Ambarnath for allegedly stabbing his friend to death following an argument, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Friday night and the boy was detained on Saturday. The victim was identified as Aman Shaikh (18), senior inspector Manjit Bagga said. “Following a heated argument with Shaikh over some issue, the accused stabbed him with a knife and fled from the scene. Their other friends rushed the victim to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” he said. The accused has been charged under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. A local court has sent him to a remand home, the official said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/16-year-old-detained-for-killing-friend/article32830447.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Birthday bash||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/birthday-bash/article32830803.ece
12 October 2020||Washington,||Trump claims immunity from virus ahead of campaign rallies||U.S. President Donald Trump on Sunday declared himself immune from COVID-19 and ready for a fight as his White House race against surging rival Joe Biden enters its critical final weeks. “It looks like I’m immune for, I don’t know, maybe a long time and maybe a short time, it could be a lifetime, nobody really knows, but I’m immune,” Mr. Trump said in a Fox News interview on Sunday. “You have a President who is immune... so now you have a President who doesn’t have to hide in a basement like his opponent,” Mr. Trump added — in a jab at the Democrat Joe Biden and his far more cautious approach to campaigning in a pandemic. It is not yet clear to what degree contracting COVID-19 confers immunity from future infection, with early studies suggesting a few months while newer ones have indicated it could last longer.  Mr. Trump was given the all-clear on Saturday to return to the campaign trail after he was ruled no longer a COVID-19 transmission risk. “I am happy to report that in addition to the President meeting CDC criteria for the safe discontinuation of isolation, this morning’s COVID PCR sample demonstrates, by currently recognised standards, he is no longer considered a transmission risk to others,” Dr. Sean Conley, the White House physician, said on Saturday. Tests showed there was “no longer evidence of actively replicating virus,” and that Mr. Trump’s viral load was “decreasing,” Dr. Conley continued — though he did not state that the President is now virus-free. Dr. Conley said that he would continue to monitor the President as he “returns to an active schedule.” ‘Biden is coughing’ During his interview, Mr. Trump went on to suggest that his White House rival could himself be sick. “If you look at Joe, he was coughing yesterday horribly and grabbing his mask, as he’s coughing,” Mr. Trump said. “And I don’t know what that was all about, and it didn’t get much press.” The Republican leader rallied hundreds of supporters for a comeback event at the White House on Saturday, and is planning rallies this week — in Florida on Monday, then Pennsylvania and Iowa — in a bit to salvage his struggling campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-not-a-transmission-risk-says-white-house-doctor/article32830134.ece
12 October 2020||WASHINGTON,||Senate Republicans reject Trump’s virus aid offer||Republicans revolted on Saturday over President Donald Trump’s efforts to resuscitate bipartisan stimulus talks with a $1.8 trillion offer to Democrats, balking at what they called an exorbitantly costly plan in the latest sign of steep obstacles to any deal before the election. Even as Democrats held out for more concessions over funding from a newly pliant President urgently seeking an agreement before he faces voters next month, it was the deep divisions among Republicans that were standing in the way. Severe backlash Months of simmering tensions came to a head in a tense phone call on Saturday morning between Senators and top administration officials, in which nearly half of the Republican conference spent more than an hour lashing into Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, about the revived negotiations and warning that they could not support much of what was under discussion. The backlash was so severe that Mr. Meadows at one point told Senators that he would relay their concerns to Mr. Trump, but “you all will have to come to my funeral” after he delivered news of such negative reactions. The stark divisions between most Senate Republicans and what the White House has signalled it was willing to endorse to secure Democratic support further undercut the potential for an agreement before November 3, even as the country’s economic recovery continues to falter and tens of thousands of Americans, businesses and schools struggle to weather the pandemic without federal relief. Days after abruptly ending negotiations and then reversing course to demand negotiators “go big!,” Mr. Trump appears to be faced with two unpalatable choices. Either he is likely to have to concede an inability to wrangle a compromise and deliver critical aid before the election, or defy warnings from his own party in the Senate and pressure Republicans to vote on a proposal that, as of now, they believe would largely favour Democratic demands. Most of the Senators signalled an openness to negotiations. But there was dissatisfaction with both the mounting cost of the administration’s offers and the perception that Mr. Mnuchin, in talks with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, was acquiescing to the Democratic plan of a $2.2 trillion package as a baseline.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/senate-republicans-reject-trumps-virus-aid-offer/article32830135.ece
12 October 2020||Beijing,||China backs Iran nuclear deal, calls for new West Asia forum||China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi has called for a new forum to defuse tensions in the West Asia after a meeting with his Iranian counterpart where he reiterated Beijing’s support for Tehran. Mr. Wang and Javad Zarif also reaffirmed their commitment to Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, according to the Chinese Foreign Ministry, an implicit rebuke of the U.S. for abandoning the accord during their Saturday meeting in China’s southwestern Tengchong city. Iran has been locked in an acrimonious relationship with Saudi Arabia, the other major West Asian power, over the war in Yemen, Iranian influence in Iraq and Saudi support for Washington’s sanctions on Tehran. “China proposes to build a regional multilateral dialogue platform with equal participation of all stakeholders,” said the Chinese Foreign Ministry statement. The forum would “enhance mutual understanding through dialogue and explore political and diplomatic solutions to security issues in the West Asia”, the statement added. Mr. Wang added that support for the Iranian nuclear deal, negotiated by the Obama administration but ultimately abandoned by Donald Trump, would be a precondition of entry to the forum. Mr. Zarif said on Twitter his “fruitful talks” with Mr. Wang amounted to a rejection of “U.S. unilateralism” and had also focused on strategic ties and collaboration on the development of a coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-backs-iran-nuclear-deal-calls-for-new-west-asia-forum/article32830126.ece
12 October 2020||Minsk,||In Belarus, women led the protests and shattered stereotypes||With masked riot police officers massing nearby, threatening to attack protesters like him with batons and fists, Aleksei Zulevsky felt safe for the first time in weeks of anti-government unrest in Belarus: He was surrounded by hundreds of women he knew would shield him. “I feel protected here,” said Mr. Zulevsky, as fellow protesters, many holding red and white flags, the banner of the opposition, chanted at a rally last month. “Only cowards beat women!” In a country whose strongman President, Alexander Lukashenko, has openly scoffed at women as too weak for politics and told them their place was in the kitchen, Belarusian women became the face and driving force of a movement aimed at toppling a leader known as “Europe’s last dictator.” That effort may be flagging, with Mr. Lukashenko refusing to give up power even though tens of thousands continue to come out to the streets of Minsk to protest every Sunday. But whether or not it succeeds in ousting him the protest movement has already shattered deeply entrenched gender stereotypes built up over generations. “Women were stronger in this situation,” said Tatiana Kotes, a film production designer and activist. “We had to assume a more significant role. Men’s dominating role in the society has collapsed.” The collapse began even before an August 9 presidential election that Mr. Lukashenko claimed to have won by a landslide, setting off two months of almost nonstop protests. To his obvious distaste, Mr. Lukashenko faced an unexpectedly strong challenge from a woman candidate, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the wife of a popular blogger who had hoped to run himself but was imprisoned before he could register as a candidate. Mr. Lukashenko mocked his rival as a housewife, a meek mother ill-equipped to debate serious issues of state with a veteran leader like himself. “She just cooked a tasty cutlet, maybe fed the children, and the cutlet smelled nice,” Mr. Lukashenko said in an interview shortly before the election. “And now there’s supposed to be a debate about some issues.” Symbol of unity Adding to his rage and, perhaps, consternation, was the fact that the Opposition, previously led by men and prone to bitter internal feuding, had united around three women — Ms. Tikhanovskaya, whom they backed as the candidate; Veronika Tsepkalo, the wife of a would-be candidate who fled the country to avoid arrest; and Maria Kolesnikova, the campaign manager for Viktor Babariko, a jailed banker who had also hoped to challenge Lukashenko. With all the main male opposition figures knocked out of the race by arrest or flight abroad, Ms. Tikhanovskaya and her two colleagues ran a strategic and successful campaign, holding large rallies across the country while Mr. Lukashenko confined himself to Soviet-style visits to factories and military bases. “At our first rallies, we were amazed to see how many people turned up,” Ms. Tsepkalo, 44, said in an interview. “It was a symbol of the unity of Belarusians against the dictatorship.” Ms. Kolesnikova, the only one of the women to remain in Belarus after the election, achieved hero status when she tore up her passport to foil the government’s plan to deport her to Ukraine.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-belarus-women-led-the-protests-and-shattered-stereotypes/article32830129.ece
12 October 2020||COLOMBO,||China grants $90 million to Sri Lanka after visit by official||China announced on Sunday that it was providing a $90 million grant to Sri Lanka, two days after the island nation’s President sought help from a visiting Chinese delegation in disproving a perception that China-funded megaprojects are “debt traps.” Calling the financial assistance a “timely grant,” the Chinese Embassy in Colombo said that it would be used for medical care, education and water supplies in Sri Lanka’s rural areas. and that it would “contribute to the well-being of (Sri Lankans) in a post-COVID era.” s The announcement follows a visit to the Indian Ocean island nation on Friday by a Chinese delegation led by Yang Jiechi, a Communist Party Politburo member and a former Foreign Minister. During talks with Mr. Yang, Sri Lankan President Gotabhaya Rajapaksa asked China to help him in disproving a perception that China-funded megaprojects are “debt traps” aimed at gaining influence in local affairs. Crucial link China considers Sri Lanka to be a critical link in its massive “Belt and Road” global infrastructure building initiative and has provided billions of dollars in loans for Sri Lankan projects over the past decade. The projects include a seaport, airport, port-city, highways and power stations. Critics say that the Chinese-funded projects are not financially viable and that Sri Lanka will face difficulties in repaying the loans. In 2017, Sri Lanka leased out a Chinese-built port located near busy shipping routes to a Chinese company for 99 years to recover from the heavy burden of repaying the Chinese loan the country received to build it. The facility is part of Beijing’s plan for a line of ports stretching from Chinese waters to the Persian Gulf. China has also agreed to provide a $989 million loan to Sri Lanka to build an expressway that will connect its tea-growing central region to the Chinese-run seaport. China’s economic influence over Sri Lanka has worried its closest neighbour, India, which considers the Indian Ocean region to be its strategic backyard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-grants-90-million-to-sri-lanka-after-visit-by-official/article32830127.ece
12 October 2020||Dushanbe,||Tajikistan vote seen as easy win for strongman||Counting was under way in Tajikistan on Sunday in a presidential election expected to pave the way for incumbent Emomali Rakhmon to become the longest-ruling strongman in the former Soviet region. Few are anticipating any hiccups for Mr. Rakhmon as he closes in on three decades in power and looks to overtake Kazakhstan’s recently retired Nursultan Nazarbayev. The Central Electoral Commission said the vote had passed the turnout threshold required for validation, with more than 70% of the nearly five million strong electorate casting votes. Statements of turnouts are a feature of elections in this part of the world however, and are impossible to verify. Authoritarian Rakhmon faces four other candidates, all viewed as token opponents, in his bid for a fresh seven-year term. Results are expected on Monday. Zarina Mamadnazarova, a 25-year-old woman who is unemployed, said she would vote for Mr. Rakhmon “because he is the best President, our national leader”. Mr. Rakhmon is portrayed by state media as bringing stability to the country following a civil war during the 1990s that pitted government forces against a diverse opposition including Islamist fighters. Safar Mallayev, 66, was voting for Mr. Rakhmon because of his “enormous experience”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tajikistan-vote-seen-as-easy-win-for-strongman/article32830132.ece
12 October 2020||BAKU,||Azerbaijan, Armenia report shelling of cities||Azerbaijan on Sunday accused Armenia of attacking large cities overnight in violation of the ceasefire deal brokered by Russia that seeks to end the worst outbreak of hostilities in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh region. Azerbaijani authorities said that nine civilians were killed and more than 30 others wounded after Armenian forces fired missiles at Ganja, Azerbaijan’s second-largest city, and hit a residential building. The city of Mingachevir also came under missile attacks, according to Azerbaijan’s Prosecutor General’s office. Nagorno-Karabakh’s military officials denied attacking Ganja and said the territory’s Army is observing the cease-fire. They added that during the night Azerbaijani forces shelled Stepanakert, the region’s capital, and other towns in violation of the truce. The recent bout of fighting between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces started on September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/azerbaijan-armenia-report-shelling-of-cities/article32830124.ece
12 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. turns focus on Dhaka for Indo-Pacific strategy||Bangladesh is expected to be the focus of the U.S.-led Indo-Pacific strategy when Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun arrives in Dhaka for a visit from October 14 to 16. The visit by the senior American official is the first such attempt by the U.S. administration to engage Dhaka directly ever since Beijing undertook several proactive measures to help the South Asian country deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Deputy Secretary’s engagement in Bangladesh will focus on advancing our common vision of a free, open, inclusive, peaceful, and secure Indo-Pacific region with shared prosperity for all, U.S.-Bangladesh cooperation on COVID-19 response and recovery efforts, and sustainable economic development,” the U.S. Embassy in Dhaka said in a statement announcing Mr. Biegun’s visit. The visit of the senior American official is the clearest sign so far of Trump administration’s desire to draw Bangladesh closer as a key Indo-Pacific partner. Bangladesh has not hosted a senior U.S. diplomat of this stature since the visit of Secretary of State John Kerry in August 2016 during the last phase of the Obama administration. Mr Biegun’s visit to Dhaka will be followed by his interactions in New Delhi. Mr. Biegun will arrive in India on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-turns-focus-on-dhaka-for-indo-pacific-strategy/article32830680.ece
12 October 2020||KARACHI,||Sunni cleric shot dead in Pakistan||Gunmen riding on a motorcycle shot and killed a religious scholar who belongs to a little-known branch of Islam in Pakistan’s bustling city of Karachi, police said on Sunday. The killing of Maulana Adil Khan was immediately condemned and seen as an attempt to trigger sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shiites in the country. Mr. Khan is the son of late prominent scholar Maulana Saleemullah Khan, who founded the grand seminary, Jamia Farooqia, decades ago. The seminary adheres to the Sunni Muslim teachings of the Deobandi sect, whose scholars have been the target of killings in the past. Mr. Khan held a doctorate in religious studies, received training in his father’s seminary and had taught in Malaysia. Police said the cleric and his driver were both killed in the attack on Saturday evening, which took place in the middle class neighbourhood of Shah Faisal Colony. Police added that when the cleric’s vehicle stopped in front of a busy shopping area, gunmen opened fire targeting the driver before firing three bullets that struck Mr. Khan’s head, neck and chest. The three attackers then fled away. PM blames India Prime Minister Imran Khan termed it “an attempt by India to create sectarian conflict across the country,” though no immediate evidence was given that India was behind the attack. Pakistan has a history of sectarian enmity between Sunni and Shiite extremists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sunni-cleric-shot-dead-in-pakistan/article32830131.ece
12 October 2020||Chachoengsao,||Chachoengsao, Thailand, Oct 11, 2020 (AFP) -||At least 18 people were killed and more than 40 injured in Thailand on Sunday when a freight train crashed into a bus taking passengers to a religious ceremony, officials said. The morning collision, around 50 km east of the capital, Bangkok, toppled the bus and sheared off part of its roof. Four people are in critical condition.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chachoengsao-thailand-oct-11-2020-afp/article32830123.ece
12 October 2020||Islamabad,||Hindu temple vandalised in Pakistan||A Hindu temple has been vandalised by a person in Pakistan’s southeast Sindh province, according to the police. One person has been arrested and a case registered in connection with the incident which took place on Saturday, The Express Tribune reported.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hindu-temple-vandalised-in-pakistan/article32830130.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemics and the collective consciousness||As the World Health Organization (WHO) assessed COVID-19 to be a pandemic on March 11 (https://bit.ly/3dlhSkm), I began to look at the impact of the Spanish Flu of 1918-1920 globally, but especially on India. Like perhaps many others born in the middle of the last century, I recalled family members remembering that the disease had been widespread and mentioning the names of one or two persons who had died because of the influenza, the name they used for the pandemic. Certainly, no elder, who was an adult during the influenza, ever mentioned that it had caused millions of deaths. Nor, more significantly, did any textbook of Indian history focus on the great influenza or mention the enormous number of people who had died when it struck India. The family archive My search for material on the great influenza took me to an unpublished autobiography of Kailas Nath Katju, my grandfather. He was 31 in 1918 and had started to lay the foundations of a large law practice in the Allahabad High Court, and also take part in public life. Among pages devoted to family affairs in that period, prominent public events and Congress sessions that he had attended, I came across one paragraph on the influenza. He wrote: “Just as we were leaving Rau (a place near Indore in Madhya Pradesh; grandmother and he returned to Allahabad in the autumn of 1918 after spending a few months in Rau), the great influenza epidemic of 1918 began to afflict India. It was a veritable scourge, in six weeks, it was estimated six million people died of it. It made no distinction between rich and poor, prince and peasant, men and women. It swept the whole country like wildfire, and the number of persons who suffered from the disease must have exceeded crores. By the mercy of God, while all around there were any number of cases, none in our household at 15 Albert Road, suffered from it. It was a great blessing.” Overshadowed by events Grandfather had begun the autobiography when he was in Naini jail in 1942 for participating in the Quit India Movement. Clearly, what he wrote about the great influenza was from memory. While he mentioned a figure of six million deaths, it is now believed that it led to around 17 million deaths in India before it was over. Remarkably, this enormous toll in human lives which amounted to around 5% of the then Indian population is not a part of the Indian consciousness. It has sunk almost without a trace amidst the events surrounding the anti-Rowlatt Act agitation, the massacre at Jallianwala Bagh and the Non-Cooperation Movement. Jawaharlal Nehru’s biography written over an eight-month period from June 1934 illustrates how the ravages of the great influenza had quickly faded from national memory. Nehru devotes a chapter to the “suppressed excitement”, unrest and expectations in different sections of the Indian people at the end of the World War. He places these as the background for the resentment and anger caused by the Rowlatt Bills but entirely ignores the influenza’s human toll and consequent popular emotion that may have resulted from the colonial government’s inability to provide succour to the people. My grandfather too gives an account of the Rowlatt Act and the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in his autobiography, but the paragraph on the influenza stands alone, unrelated to these developments. If the great influenza had faded from popular memory in India, it did so in the rest of the world too. The developments of the 20th century that hold attention are the two World Wars, the rise of communism in Russia and its spread to other parts of the world, the Cold War, the end of colonialism and even the Great Depression — but not influenza. As Laura Spinney notes in her riveting book, Pale Rider: The Spanish Flu of 1918 and How It Changed the World , “We do not see the most dramatic event of them all, though it’s right there before our eyes.” If this is true for the people at large, it is also true for academia. The great influenza interested only epidemiologists and medical historians; it was from the 1990s that experts from other disciplines started to seriously study it. Some epidemics do become a part of the historical consciousness of a region such as the Black Death which devastated Europe in the 14th century. It made a lasting impact on west European society. Now, some social scientists have begun to assert that the influenza also impacted decisively in many ways on the last century, including in creating conditions in the Indian subcontinent that led to disenchantment with British rule; hence, contributing to its end. These claims still need to be thought through by historians though. The impact of this epidemic Will COVID-19 slip out of the global consciousness the same way that the Spanish Flu did? It is perhaps premature to ask that question when the pandemic is far from over, but one assertion, relevant to finding an answer to this question can safely be made. COVID-19’s toll, in human lives, will not be, in absolute numbers, leave alone as a percentage of the global population, anywhere near that of the great influenza. Hence, it may eventually be remembered more for its economic and political impact than the deaths on its account — substantial though they have been till now and will tragically only increase. Will the political and administrative ineptitude which led to migrant labour taking to the highways remain in the Indian consciousness? Only time will tell. As of now, the country seems to have moved on from the issue but those who have suffered will not easily forget their trek. And now even with COVID-19 raging through the country, the people’s attention appears no longer to be mainly on it. This is reflected in the print and electronic media which are giving more space to domestic political and economic issues, foreign policy and security challenges to the state and crime than to the pandemic. Virus in America Ironically, the world’s pre-eminent country, the United States, has suffered the largest number of recorded infections and deaths because of COVID-19. The manner in which U.S. President Donald Trump has handled the pandemic is a major election issue but some polls even there have suggested that the state of the U.S. economy is being accorded higher priority by many voters. That may now change with Mr. Trump and his wife, Melania, catching the virus. Certainly, the irresponsible personal conduct of an infected Trump may sway a substantial number of voters. Indeed, in the longer term, the fact that the holder of the world’s most powerful political office caught the virus may be one reason for COVID-19 remaining in the global consciousness; history records the fate of leaders in battles won and lost, not the countless unknown who perished in it. That is a sad fact. Why did the great influenza not remain in the human consciousness? Perhaps because of the human instinct that life must carry on and painful memories of loss be thrust to the remote corners of the collective consciousness if not erased altogether. Would that happen to COVID-19 too? Vivek Katju is a former diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pandemics-and-the-collective-consciousness/article32830108.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Promised free vehicles, funds? It’s all fake||Here’s an exercise: Log onto any social media or technology platform, whether Google, YouTube, Facebook or Twitter. Type the name of any of these “schemes” — Free Laptop Scheme, PM Scooty Yojana, PM Kisan Tractor Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Solar Panel Yojana, and PM Kanya Aashirwad Yojana. You will be promised anything from free vehicles to free funds to fake employment offers. While fraudsters have been duping the public with non-existent government schemes for some time, this problem has become more widespread during the COVID-19 pandemic. We live in an era where selling personal data can get a fraudster lakhs of rupees. Many of these fake schemes are aimed not only at harvesting the personal data of citizens, but also duping them financially. The extent and spread of fake schemes on these platforms can be quite surprising to some. But while other forms of misinformation (commonly known as fake news) are widely discussed and researched, fake schemes do not figure as often as they should in these debates in India, though they are very common. Like other forms of misinformation, fake schemes also cause immense harm to large sections of the public. Unlike other forms of misinformation, news about fake schemes is shared by people across the ideological and social spectrum. Modus operandi The modus operandi of fake schemes is more or less similar in most cases. In the case of fake employment and loan schemes, people receive a personal or general message informing them that they have been selected for a government scheme (which most often does not exist). They are told that if they wish to avail the benefits of the scheme, they have to pay a certain amount as processing charges. The fraudsters are available for contact till the processing charge is paid, but disappear once they receive the money. Some fake schemes do not leave any digital trace on the Internet despite the times we live in. An example is the Gram Vikas Rozgar Yojana, a fake employment scheme. Letters were directly sent to ‘village pradhans’ (sarpanches) in Telangana, Punjab, Meghalaya and some other States asking them to select candidates from their village and send a demand draft of Rs. 1,200 per candidate to get their villagers enrolled under the scheme. Unfortunately, without checking with the official agencies, many youngsters sent these amounts. All this was done without leaving any digital trace or no phone number. There were only letters and an address. In some cases, people even lined up before government offices and demanded officials to register them under these fake government schemes. At times, political leaders have had to come on television to clarify that there are no such schemes, as in the case of the PM Scooty Yojana. Leaving details online While communal, social and political fake news gain a lot of attention and mostly get shared on social media platforms, fake government schemes appear to have created their own niche in the world of fake news. They mostly get shared through fake website links on social media platforms, WhatsApp messages and YouTube videos. A simple search with the name of these schemes on platforms like YouTube shows us how deep rooted and successful the fake schemes ecosystem is. Though many people are literate, they still believe these schemes to be true and fall for them. On many YouTube videos explaining these fake government schemes, individuals have left their personal details like phone numbers, Aadhaar numbers and bank account details in the comments section. So, it is not just people’s money but privacy too that is in danger with these fake schemes. With no proper and quick grievance redress mechanism, most of the duped citizens blame themselves for falling for the scam and remain silent. There is also the danger that they won’t apply for genuine schemes when they constantly come across fake ones. Tackling the problem While the Press Information Bureau and a few State governments have set up fact-checking initiatives, the visibility of these initiatives is limited. The need of the hour is an integrated and concerted effort by all stakeholders to tackle the menace of fake schemes. For starters, there is need for a centralised government portal with a toll-free number where people can inquire about the messages and file complaints, like they do in the case of cybercrimes. The portal should direct the complaints of people who get duped to the relevant State Police, who should be equipped to deal with the fraudulent practices in a swift manner. Second, social media and technology companies design dedicated policies, like they do for countering hate speech, to take action against individuals/groups posting such content intended to cheat the public. Third, most of these fake schemes operate through websites which look like government portals. Websites that have names similar to government schemes need to be monitored, and necessary proactive action should be initiated if they resort to malpractices. The same can be done with bank account names that sound similar to real government schemes. Further, the government should not only print and broadcast advertisements about genuine schemes, but also alert people about fake schemes so that people are able to differentiate between what’s genuine and what’s fake. The mainstream media, both print and electronic, which gets government advertisements, should be mandated to carry some of these alerts. The messages should be available everywhere, including in districts, and in the local languages. It would also help if there is one single website where people can access all the information they need about various government schemes at both the Central and State levels. The website should also have a mechanism for eligible individuals to apply. While some fact-checkers debunk these fake schemes and try to fill the information vacuum, the problem is too huge and widespread for any single stakeholder to solve. It requires a concerted effort and coordination between multiple stakeholders such as governments, the media, fact-checkers, NGOs and the civil society. It is high time the government takes note of the fake scheme menace. Rakesh Dubbudu is the founder of the fact-checking initiative Factly and Akhil Mothe is a fact-checker with Factly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/promised-free-vehicles-funds-its-all-fake/article32830120.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccines with a global common good guarantee||We are in the grip of a historic pandemic; the novel coronavirus, which causes COVID-19, is threatening the whole of the human family. COVID-19 does not discriminate. Across the globe, outbreaks of COVID-19 continue to claim thousands of lives. Measures with huge costs So far, we have exercised whatever tried and effective methods we have available to human society against the ravages of the infectious disease: quarantines, lockdowns, hygiene measures and social distancing — all a luxury for some, depending on the circumstances. While effective, the economic, emotional and societal costs of trying to stop the virus through lockdowns and social distancing are enormous and unprecedented. Countries are haemorrhaging cash in efforts to ease the economic standstill created by COVID-19. And as the costs rise, the patience of their populations is waning from fear, uncertainty, and economic collapse. The remedy for all: a vaccine as a global common good. Although vaccine development for COVID-19 is proceeding at historic speed, we do not have an effective option as yet. Remarkably and what is encouraging, there are many promising candidates already, several of which are entering the essential phase3 clinical trials. Keeping the hope of the world alive, companies are willing to risk pre-financing production, and governments in turn are already committing billions of dollars towards the purchase of the vaccine/s in anticipation of its/their availability. Right behind the race for the vaccine is the other race — the one to develop proven therapeutics (medicines) that can ease the burden on those struck by COVID-19. These too will find their way to the market, and the global buy up will begin again. What an effective vaccine is Being more cost effective than medicine, vaccines provide a method of prevention. They offer protection from infection in the first place, disrupting chains of transmission and saving individuals from days of illness, hospitalisation or death, possible even in the face of excellent care. An effective vaccine is part of a more lasting solution. The allure of that security is immense. It means buying not only health but also enabling economic recovery and freedom itself in many ways. But an effective vaccine cannot be truly effective and humane until all communities are reached without discrimination. Herein lies the tension. What will the post-COVID-19 world look like? A rich world that is protected, locking out the vast and potentially infectious populations of the poor countries? Or will it be one that shares the therapeutics and the vaccines with the poor? History has shown us how to eradicate diseases for the global good of our own countries — but also for all. The successful eradication of major diseases such as smallpox or polio required a global effort and the availability of vaccines to all who needed it anywhere in the world. When Dr. Jonas Salk came up with a polio vaccine that was approved for the general population to use, he refused to patent it. When asked who owns the patent, his answer was this. “Well, the people, I would say,” he told journalist Edward R. Murrow in 1955. “There is no patent. Could you patent the sun?” We need this sort of leadership — a leadership which will guide us away from incredible profits to humanity’s survival, and lay stress on the need for the open source production of vaccine without any commercial ownership of any COVID-19 vaccine. A message for the rich For the rich world, we would say that this proposed act of human solidarity, to ensure that medicines and vaccines get to the whole human family simultaneously, is really in their own self-interest; not just an act of charity. Surely, nobody will want the virus persisting in many parts of the poor world ready to re-infect the rich world and create new surges where it was under the pleasant thought that the rich had protected themselves from the pandemic. Compared to the cost of the trillions that have gone in the stimulus packages, that is a minuscule cost. The positive news is that we are confronted with clear and simple action that comes at an eminently affordable cost that would save hundreds of thousands of lives, if not millions of future lives. And that is in the self-interest of everyone, especially the rich world. Already, many Nobel Laureates and global personalities have signed on to an Appeal to Declare the COVID 19 Vaccines as a Global Common Good (https://bit.ly/3iPo8Sz and https://bit.ly/3lAQEc6). We now urge all the countries of the world to unite to pass a resolution at the United Nations to make novel coronavirus vaccines as a product without any commercial ownership to turn this collective wish into reality. This must be done soon. Muhammad Yunus and José Ramos-Horta are Nobel Peace Laureates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vaccines-with-a-global-common-good-guarantee/article32830111.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The lost meaning of objectivity||Over the past decade, I have addressed many questions about the building blocks of journalism: impartiality, balance, fairness, accuracy and commitment to truth. While readers tend to agree with most of my readings, one area where I fail to convince many of them is the vexatious question of bias. A group of readers feels that the Office of the Readers’ Editor has a way of finding theoretical explanations for their examples of bias in the newspaper. The notion of bias For instance, V.N. Mukundarajan, a regular writer to The Hindu , wanted to know whether it is possible for The Hindu to announce, like The New York Times did , that “its editorial board is a group of opinion journalists whose views are informed by expertise, research, debate and certain longstanding values. It is separate from the newsroom”. He wrote: “ The Hindu ’s editorials remain an island of balance and fairness in a vast sea of ideologically tilted news, headlines, cartoons, and opinion pieces [so much so] that readers have almost given up talking about The Hindu’ s unbalanced political reporting.” He further contented that protests and objections are not going to make any difference. He wrote: “I have not seen a single case where the Readers’ Editor has admitted that the paper was biased in its reporting. We, long-time loyal readers, will, however, not shy away from taking up instances of egregious bias. I think it may reassure many readers if there is an explicit message that the editorial board has a ‘mind of its own’, unlike the opinion writers who proffer one-sided views, mostly intending to show the government in poor light.” It is not only loyal readers like Mr. Mukundarajan but also a section of social media commentators who see the entire news ecology as a monolithic whole. They tend to lump the good, the bad and the indifferent within a single category called ‘mainstream media’. There is a method in this attack, where some words are given a new spin. One word that is often subjected to over-interpretation is ‘objectivity’. Its natural corollary, the notion of bias, gets entrenched in the minds of some readers who receive much of their trusted information from social media. While it is easy to explain the difference between news and views to an engaged reader, it is nearly impossible to do so to an enraged social media follower. As a news ombudsman, dealing with this issue has been both a challenge and a learning experience. The charge of bias is not restricted to India; it is prevalent across democracies. It has become shrill especially in the last decade. The question of ‘impartiality’ On October 8, members of the Organization of News Ombudsmen and Standards Editors held an internal shop talk on the question of ‘impartiality’. It was led by Tom Rosenstiel, Executive Director of the American Press Institute. Mr. Rosenstiel explained that in journalism we expect the method, and not the individual journalist, to remain objective. He said of the implications of this: “One is that the impartial voice employed by many news organisations, that familiar, supposedly neutral style of newswriting, is not a fundamental principle of journalism. Rather, it is an often helpful device news organisations use to highlight that they are trying to produce something obtained by objective methods.” He pointed out that objectivity as practised by journalists is to have a consistent method of testing information — a transparent approach to evidence. Expanding on this idea, Mr. Rosenstiel said: “The practice began as a way of injecting more scientific rigour into the practice of journalism, but instead it has turned into a devotion to false balance and other elements of what journalism professor Jay Rosen called ‘the view from nowhere’.” Substantial charges of bias come from those who support governments and strong leaders. It would be unethical, lazy and unfair to readers if a news organisation is reduced to be an amplifier for those in power. Rasmus Kleis Nielsen, Director of the Reuters Institute and Professor of Political Communication at the University of Oxford, has an interesting twitter thread, “Misinformation often comes from the top, exhibit no. infinity”, documenting how people in power play a big role in vitiating our news environment. Once the pandemic subsides, I hope to host an open house on this question of impartiality in journalism. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-lost-meaning-of-objectivity/article32830116.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Ending conflict in the Caucasus||The military confrontation between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the gravest since a fragile ceasefire was established in 1994, reflects the failure of the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). Co-chaired by Russia, France and the U.S., the Minsk Group put forward in 2007 the Madrid Principles as the basis for the formulation of a peace treaty between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Drawn from the 1975 Helsinki Final Act principles, signed at the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, they provided for a prohibition on the use of force, respect for territorial integrity, and recognition of the equal right to self-determination. The framework In concrete terms, the Madrid Principles envisaged the demilitarisation of Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian majority region that seceded from Azerbaijan towards the end of the Soviet Union, and the gradual liberation of Azerbaijani territory that Armenia had occupied in the 1991-94 war. Significantly, these steps are consistent with the UN Security Council’s 1993 resolutions, calling for the unconditional withdrawal of Armenian occupying forces from Azerbaijan. Besides, the Madrid Principles mentioned that international peacekeeping operations were to be deployed immediately after the Peace Agreement came into force, to monitor the Armenian redeployment; and internally displaced persons and refugees were to be provided the right to return to their original place of residence. The two Caucasus states also identified more specific guidelines that were to underpin any peace treaty. The most significant of them was Nagorno-Karabakh’s right to self-governance and the election of officials with legislative and executive powers during the interim period preceding a plebiscite. Nagorno-Karabakh would establish judicial institutions, conduct external relations in certain areas, have representation on OSCE forums relevant to bilateral matters and, crucially, be accorded representation in international organisations where statehood was not a constraint. The above catalogue in effect amounts to the grant of statehood for Nagorno-Karabakh in all but name. A hawkish stance Unsurprisingly, Azerbaijan, seeing itself as the aggrieved party over the years, has adopted a hawkish stance, matching aggressive rhetoric with a barrage of artillery and aerial attacks. During the oil boom, Azerbaijan’s defence spending exceeded Armenia’s total budget. In the current hostilities, the President of Azerbaijan, Ilham Aliyev, has asserted the country’s long-standing claim over the occupied Nagorno-Karabakh, ruling out any dialogue with Armenia until the government there offered an apology. Armenia had until recently talked of Nagorno-Karabakh’s reunion with the country as a precondition for a possible return of other territories. Staunchly backing Azerbaijan is Turkey, given the deep cultural ties between the two countries. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan even described Armenia as the “biggest threat to peace in the South Caucasus”. Mr. Erdogan has also been accused by French President Emmanuel Macron of sending Syrian rebel forces to fight in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Despite hosting a military base in Armenia and entering a mutual defence agreement with that country, the Russian response to the hostilities has so far been muted. The U.S. is all but absent from the picture. Located in the main corridor of oil and gas supplies to Europe, Armenia and Azerbaijan have also relied on a nationalist rhetoric and fuelled the dispute through relentless propaganda against each other. In the absence of a peacekeeping force and the political will for peace, low-level frictions have persisted over the years. The adversaries cannot indefinitely delay striking practical compromises to promote their own mutual interest. Difficult as this process may appear, there is no better starting point than the reasonable framework outlined in the Madrid Principles. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ending-conflict-in-the-caucasus/article32830114.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Signalling optimism||The RBI has used its latest monetary policy review to unequivocally indicate that it will prioritise the revival of economic growth over inflation, at least through the end of the current financial year. The bank’s reconstituted Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), with three new external members, unanimously voted to keep policy interest rates unchanged even as it categorically stated that the RBI would “continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy”. Interestingly, the MPC none-too-subtly tilted away from its inflation targeting mandate by downplaying the risks on the price pressures front when it assessed that supply shocks were mainly responsible for keeping inflation above the tolerance band for months. These shocks, it posited, should dissipate as the economy unlocks, supply chains are restored, and activity normalises. As part of the shift in priority it also made bold to project that it would stick with the accommodative stance “at least during the current financial year and into the next financial year”, a forward looking guidance that immediately prompted one of the new members, Jayanth R. Varma, to dissent and vote against the wording. While one will have to wait for the minutes of the meeting to possibly glean the objections that Prof. Varma, a markets expert, had, the MPC’s majority view of ensuring a ‘dovish’ position on interest rates for at least six months has left it little near-term leeway to tame price pressures. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das went to great lengths to emphasise that the current ‘inflation hump’ was a transient phenomenon that needed to be looked through when taking measures to support the ‘emerging impulses’ and helping the economy return to its feet. Through a series of liquidity enhancing and credit flow supportive steps, the central bank reiterated its commitment to maintaining stability in the financial markets, at a time when the resources-strapped Central and State governments are expected to resort to substantially higher levels of borrowing to meet their spending needs. There can certainly be no argument at this point that the economy needs all the support it can get to recover from its 23.9% estimated contraction of the first quarter. The RBI sees a gradual recovery, forecasting a marginal growth of 0.5% in the fourth quarter that would narrow the full-year contraction to 9.5%. It is the inflation assumptions, however, that cause disquiet. From a projection of 6.8% for Q2, CPI inflation is posited to sharply ease — 5.4% in Q3 and 4.5% in Q4. In overlooking the risks that the persistence of supply bottlenecks, cost-push pressures from higher taxes on transport fuels and the possibility of food-price inflation becoming entrenched pose to the outlook on prices, the RBI has clearly sought to talk up confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/signalling-optimism/article32830103.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Food for peace||Alfred Nobel’s willed legacy to reward exceptional work that furthers fraternity among nations, eliminates or reduces armies and promotes congresses of peace has brought the Nobel Peace Prize to a variety of causes — from abolition of landmines, nuclear and chemical weapons to addressing climate change, besides conflict resolution. This year’s prize has been awarded to the World Food Programme (WFP), of the UN system, for its contribution to combating hunger in conflict and disaster-struck sites. The Norwegian Nobel Committee took note of the WFP’s life-saving role in the year of the pandemic, staving off catastrophes of hunger in Yemen, Congo, Nigeria, South Sudan and Burkina Faso. The Prize is a fitting tribute to the aid workers who brave hazardous conditions to reach starving people in theatres of war, civil strife and natural disasters, moving food on aircraft, trucks and even all-terrain amphibious vehicles. The decision to honour the WFP echoes the advice of another peace laureate from 1949, Lord John Boyd Orr, the first head of the FAO, that peace cannot be built on empty stomachs. That counsel must resonate even more with all countries and foster greater cooperation to close the WFP’s funding gap of $4.1 billion, as the world’s hunger map presents a depressing picture with more than a quarter of the population facing undernourishment in many countries; in strife-ridden Syria, an estimated 4.6 million people survive on food aid. Clearly, without stronger commitment from the big powers, the challenge to feed the millions who suffer acute hunger due to conflict and failed agriculture can never be met. The recognition that the WFP has received can help the humanitarian organisation prepare for a decade of ambition and help meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Of central importance is SDG 2 — achieving zero hunger by 2030 — a target that requires determination to resolve festering armed conflict, and more fundamentally, to mitigate carbon emissions early and avert effects on agriculture from disastrous climate events. As the Norwegian committee has pointed out, the need for international solidarity and multilateral cooperation is more conspicuous than ever. Democracy also needs strengthening to help achieve equitable food distribution and end hunger, a salutary outcome experienced by free societies that also have unfettered media. Several poor countries have suffered a severe setback to their developmental aspirations due to the pandemic, and lack strong institutional governance to manage the crisis. This is a time for the world’s big powers to strengthen the UN system, espousing fraternity, shunning militarism, greening economies and resolving conflicts in the true spirit of the Peace Prize.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/food-for-peace/article32830104.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Madras Review||We have received the first issue of the ‘Madras Review’, a new Nationalist fortnightly started in Madras. The journal, we are assured, will stand for the greatest freedom of thought, expression and action in all walks of life, social, political, intellectual and religious. It will strive for a liberated and contented India which, while assimilating all that is best in other countries, will build its national life on the firm rock of her native genius and character. About the coming Reforms it refuses to believe that they initiate an era of peace and prosperity and disagrees with those who consider it as a substantial step towards Home Rule. As to Non-Co-operation, the journal, we are told, has no bias for or against the movement. It recognises it as one of the several ways leading to Swaraj and holds that the alternative to Non-Co-operation is not co-operation, but vigorous, persistent and unceasing agitation, both being equally necessary in our struggle. The first issue contains the report of an interesting interview with Mr. S. Srinivasa Iyengar on Non-Co-operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-madras-review/article32830112.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Pakistan’s new charge against India||Pakistan intends to raise the question of India’s alleged “nuclear-war preparations” in the current session of the United Nations General Assembly. According to theNew Timesof Rawalpindi, Foreign Office sources claim that some other countries have promised support to Pakistan in raising the issue in the U.N. against “India, Israel and some other countries, which are trying to become atomic powers and thus create a threat to world peace.” The London Correspondent of Urdu dailyJungof Karachi, said in a despatch that Pakistan was trying to persuade the Big Powers that while it had accepted their atomic policy, India was bent upon defying them. But various political leaders have criticised the Pakistan Government for its approach on this issue. Mr. Qayum Khan, leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (anti-Ayub group), has said that “Pakistan will be only fooling itself if it thinks that by raising the issue in the U.N. General Assembly, India can be persuaded to put an end to its atomic preparations.”Huriatof Karachi reported that Mr. Khan recently told a public meeting near Rawalpindi that India had already made an atom bomb and that, if it wanted, it could devour Pakistan through a police action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pakistans-new-charge-against-india/article32830113.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Perils of treading the PE path||Last week, I was interviewing a fresher. His enthusiasm for stock markets was infectious. He excitedly opened his mobile to show me the list of stocks he had filtered using online financial screeners. He was going to start investing in, what he thought were, stocks that the rest of the market had not ‘discovered.’ And at prices that he thought were true ‘value.’ Not surprisingly, I found many of his low PE stocks were value traps or worthless. If you are a new investor like him, running screeners through equity apps to pick your stocks, here’s what you need to know about the PE ratio. PE ratio is nothing but the measure of the price of a company’s stock as a multiple of the earnings that a company generates/seeks to generate. The PE ratio is calculated either using the current earnings per share (annualised) or the trailing, four-quarter earnings or the expected earnings per share (forward PE). Many stock market crash courses will teach you to ask yourself whether a company will grow at the rate of its PE. For example, when a stock’s PE is 35 times, the question you are required to pose is whether you expect a 35% growth in the company’s earnings. But growth is not the only factor to influence PE. The market may be willing to afford a higher price for low debt, high return on equity, or steady payouts. Or, it may be unwilling to pay more if there are risks in the form of cyclicality of business or risk of regulations or competition. Sometimes you will see a high PE stock move to a higher PE without being accompanied by commensurate earnings growth. Let us take Dabur India as an illustration. The stock returned 24% in the past one year, far higher than the Nifty’s returns. A year ago, the stock’s PE was at 52 times. If you had asked yourself whether the company would deliver an earnings growth of 52% in the next 2-3 years, the answer would have been a clear no. If you, therefore, had left the stock and moved on, you would have missed the opportunity of catching a stock with index-beating returns. At 62 times PE now, the stock was not de-rated although its earnings did not grow last fiscal. The high PE was awarded for other factors such as its high ROE, low debt, steady, if not high, dividend payouts. Hence, unless you view the PE as a function of multiple factors (for which you need to understand the company), the ratio can be quite misleading. PEs change with time, rate Stock markets tend to value stocks for certain qualities and with time, they may value those qualities less and move to better metrics to estimate prospects. Real estate, infrastructure, retailing and media pre-2008 enjoyed high PE valuations but have never gone back to those levels in the past decade. Real estate play, DLF for instance, enjoyed over 50 PE post its listing, going up to even 100 times. It is now at a more modest 27 times median PE in the last three years. Once the markets got a grip that earnings growth in real estate was not a mere function of the land book, the PEs automatically readjusted to lower levels. A similar story played out with IT companies post Y2K and is likely playing out with finance companies now. Interest rate scenarios, too, influence PE. The underlying value of a company is simply the sum of its future business cash flows in today’s value (discounted at a risk-free rate). When the risk-free rate is low, the discounting leads to an higher-valued asset. Hence, in a low interest scenario, you will find fewer stocks with low PE (as is the case now) and that may lead you to believe that there is no opportunity. PEs also act very differently for some sectors. When your screener throws a commodity company with very low PE, it means its earnings has peaked. It is likely entering a downturn and may not deliver returns any time soon. Hence, if you didn’t know the sector cycles, you can be taking wrong decisions. Different interpretations Another problem is that you can interpret PEs very differently based on how you calculate the PE. For example, in a period of growing earnings in India, analysts tend to use the forward PE (which will naturally be lower as your earnings grow) to hide the fact that current PE is very high. But an analyst who wants to issue a ‘sell’ on such a stock may cite the current PE ratio to make a case for an over-valued stock. As an investor you’ll be left confused, unless you have an idea about the company, its financials, cash flows and very importantly, its prospects. So, screener lovers... make sure you understand businesses, understand cash flows, and understand risks. Ratios will start making more sense.  (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)   Growth is not the only factor to influence PE. The market may be willing to afford a higher price for low debt, high return on equity, or steady payouts. Or, it may be unwilling to pay more if there are risks in the form of cyclicality of business or risk of regulations or competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/perils-of-treading-the-pe-path/article32830090.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Focus on your needs while buying an insurance plan||Reading up on insurance gives us many answers. It also gives rise to many new questions in the mind. We realise that there is much we don’t know and need to understand. These questions lead us to the right product and the right insurance company. Once you have researched your needs and the products available at the site of Insurance Web Aggregators (IWAs), which we saw in detail in the earlier instalment of Cover Note, you can make inquiries on their websites. Answering queries Following this, the insurance company/companies concerned will reach out to you and take you through the process of answering your questions and finalising the sale. You can also contact any agent or the representative of a corporate agency or an insurance broker to take the process forward. At this stage, you will face a lot of hard sell and pressure to make up your mind. Do take your time and be convinced you have all the information you need before finalising your insurance purchase. In the midst of all the confusing inputs and mixing up of issues in an attempt to convince you to buy quickly, don’t lose sight of the purpose for which you are buying insurance. It may be health or life risk coverage, or may be it is an investment tailored to your needs and time frame. It can also be statutory as in the case of Motor Third Party Liability insurance. Except for the last category of policies, a carrot that the intermediary will dangle is the tax break. While it exists and has its value, it cannot and should not be the reason for you to buy insurance, or a specific policy. Many have regretted bad choices being misled by such incidental advantages. We saw many insurance intermediaries in the last few instalments, here is one more. Apart from the agent or broker, you can also buy insurance from an intermediary called an Insurance Marketing Firm (IMF). Unlike other institutional intermediaries (the corporate agent, including bancassurance partner and the insurance broker), an IMF sells insurance but can also be in the business of selling other financial products such as National Pension Scheme (NPS) accounts, post office small savings schemes and mutual funds.  Increasing coverage The objective of creating this additional channel to sell insurance is to locate intermediaries and their field personnel in economically-backward districts in order to facilitate increasing insurance coverage there. Their registration conditions also reflect it. About 375 IMFs are registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). IMFs can appoint insurance sales persons and financial services executives. The former is licensed to sell only insurance and the latter, with suitable licences from other financial regulators, can sell other financial products. In such geographical locations, it will be more convenient for the customers to buy insurance from the same entity that they approach for other savings and investment products. For the intermediaries too, this will lead to better efficiency since they create infrastructure that can be used to sell a wider range of products and can cross-sell to the same customer base.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance and corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/focus-on-your-needs-while-buying-an-insurance-plan/article32830091.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.I am a senior citizen. I am planning to buy a senior citizen scheme jointly with my wife to the tune of Rs. 15 Lakh for the FY21 and Rs. 6 lakh in FY 22, respectively. Am I eligible to get I-T benefit for FY21 and FY22, respectively? Kalyan Kumar Dey A.Senior citizens can invest in Senior Citizens Savings Scheme in order to avail of deduction of the amounts deposited under the said scheme up to Rs. 1.5 lakh in an assessment year under Section 80C of the Act, provided there are no other specified investments or expenditure under Section 80C and underlying Section 80CCE. Q.I work in a Indian IT firm and was assigned onshore work in U.K. under a work permit from January 2018. My assignment got completed and I returned home in January 2020. I did not receive any Indian pay and there was only U.K. pay (but there was an Indian component to it). For FY18-19, my tax in India was 0. But for FY19-20, tax was deducted in India for whole year. I paid tax in the U.K. also for two years. Does this count for dual tax and can I claim my tax paid in India? Also, my colleague returning after February 2020 did not pay any tax in India. Srivatsan A.For the purposes of taxation in India, for the FY18-19, you were an NRI and for an NRI, only incomes accrued and or received in India are taxed in India as per the residential status determination of the Income Tax Act. As there has been no tax deductions in India for FY18-19 and taxes were paid as per U.K. laws for the income earned and received in U.K., the situation of double taxation does not arise for this year. For FY19-20, as per the residential status determination provisions, you still will be an NRI as you were outside India for more than 180 days in the financial year and were outside India for the purpose of employment due to which income tax does not arise in India for the income earned in U.K. You may contact your HR department to understand the reason for deducting the tax for the whole year. Indian income tax return has to be filed for any income received in India for this year. If any excess Indian tax deduction is made by your company, the same can be claimed as refund. However, it is to be noted that any excess tax paid in U.K. cannot be claimed as refund in India or vice versa. Q.I am a very senior citizen and so, I am exempt from paying advance tax. I calculate self-assessment tax and pay it in the stipulated month. Now that the last date of submission of I-T return has been shifted to November 30, can I pay the self-assessment tax in November and file my I-T return by the same date? K.A. Narayanan A.The government issued a Notification dated June 24, 2020 granting relief to assessees by extending the due dates for filing ITR for AY20-21 (FY 19-20) to November 30, 2020. However, a proviso in the notification and a clarificatory press release stated that penal interest for non-payment of self-assessment tax within the original due dates — in your case July 31, 2020 — will be applicable if the self-assessment tax liability exceeds Rs. 1 lakh. If your self-assessment tax liability exceeds Rs. 1 lakh, it is advised that the same be discharged along with interest as soon as possible. The return filing may be done at a later date but before November 30, 2020. This reply is based on the developments and the announcements up to August,21 2020.  (The author is a partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article32830093.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32830102.ece
12 October 2020||Paris,||Nadal’s never-ending Parisian love story turns another page||Rafael Nadal demolished World No. 1 Novak Djokovic 6-0, 6-2, 7-5 in the French Open final to claim a record-equalling 20th Grand Slam title on Sunday. With his record-extending 13th triumph at Roland Garros, the World No.2 Spaniard is now tied with Swiss Roger Federer for most men’s singles Majors. In a match that started under the roof of court Philippe-Chatrier, Nadal was the early aggressor, choking Djokovic to win the opening set in brutal fashion, having committed only two unforced errors. He then kept a firm grip on his subdued opponent in the second as well, winning it 6-2. Brief rebellion Djokovic, who was looking for his 18th Grand Slam title, rebelled in the third set, breaking back for 3-3, only to drop serve on a double fault in the 11th game. Nadal held with ease, closing with an ace, to bag his 100th victory in Paris. “Congrats to Novak for another great tournament. Sorry for today,” said Nadal. “In Australia (in the final in 2019) he killed me. One day one wins, another day the other wins.” Djokovic had won five Grand Slam finals in a row since being beaten by Stan Wawrinka at the 2016 US Open, but Nadal was unperturbed on his favouritre surface changing conditions and the lack of spectators amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Streaks of success The 34-year-old Nadal previously put together streaks of four French Open championships from 2005-08, then five in a row from 2010-14, to go alongside his four trophies at the U.S. Open, two at Wimbledon and one at the Australian Open. Nadal is now even with Federer for the first time since each man had zero Slams to his name in early 2003. He is the oldest French Open champion since 1972 and 15 plus years between his first and most recent Grand Slam titles is the longest span for a man.  I am not even thinking about Roger Federer or No.20. For me, it's just a Roland Garros win. It means everything to me Nadal   It is a true honour to congratulate him. I hope 20 is just another step on the continuing journey for both of us. Well done, Rafa! Federer   Today you showed why you are the King of Clay. Not so pleased with the way I played, but definitely beaten by a better player Djokovic   Grand Slam honours list  20 - Roger Federer (SUI)  20 - Rafael Nadal (ESP)  17 - Novak Djokovic (SRB)  14 - Pete Sampras (USA)  12 - Roy Emerson (AUS)  11 - Rod Laver (AUS), Bjorn Borg (SWE)  10 - Bill Tilden (USA)    Incredible 13  A record fourth time Nadal has won a Slam without dropping a set (all at French Open; 2008, '10, '17 and '20) The Spaniard's sixth Major after turning 30, the most among men in the Open Era He has won at least one Grand Slam in 14 of the past 16 years, except 2015 and '16||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadals-eternal-parisian-love-story-turns-another-page/article32830199.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Our batting has lacked power: Dhoni||Captain M.S. Dhoni and coach Stephen Fleming minced no words about the lack of intent shown by Chennai Super Kings after it lost its fifth game (in seven matches) to Royal Challengers Bangalore on Saturday. Chasing a moderate target of 170, CSK’s batting failed miserably once again, especially the middle-order which did not even make an earnest attempt to increase the scoring rate. Play the big shots Speaking after the match, Dhoni said, “I think we are better off playing the other way round, playing the bigger shots even if you get out. That is something we can do in the coming games. “Our batting has lacked a bit of power from the sixth over onwards. In the coming games, we will try to be more expressive. You rather get out in the 16th or 17th over.” Fleming too echoed similar views: “What I would like is more intensity through the middle overs. We have plenty of batting. While we are recovering well (when we lose early wickets), we are leaving ourselves too much to do at the end. “We have to release the shackles and give the hitters towards the end a little bit more freedom.” Absence of youth When the team was assembled in 2018, it was mocked as ‘Dad’s army’ considering most players were on the wrong side of their 30s. While CSK finished runner-up last year, the lack of youth is starting to hurt this time. “The playoff dream is getting further away if we keep playing like this,” the former New Zealand skipper cautioned. “We have an ageing team and the legs are getting a bit more tired. “The conditions are a factor too. When we put this team together at the last auction, it was done to win five or six games at Chepauk. “Spinners at this stage are playing a small role. The situation is a bit foreign for us and the results are showing that,” said Fleming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/our-batting-has-lacked-power-dhoni/article32830085.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Tewatia, Parag pull off a Royal comeback||Rahul Tewatia and Riyan Parag stole a sensational win from right under the nose of Sunrisers Hyderabad on Sunday. The five-wicket victory, with a ball to spare, at the Dubai International Stadium finally brought an end to the terrible run for Rajasthan Royals, which had come into the match after losing its last four. Ploy fails On a surface where stroke-making didn’t seem easy, the target of 159 set by Sunrisers, after opting to bat, looked distant for Royals when its top-order crumbled again. The ploy to promote Ben Stokes — playing his first IPL game of the season — didn’t work as he chopped Khaleel Ahmed on to the stumps. Skipper Steve Smith’s hesitation while going for a second run for Jos Buttler ended in his run-out. A couple of balls later, Buttler followed Smith to the dug-out, edging Khaleel behind. In dire straits Then Rashid Khan sent back Sanju Samson (26) and Robin Uthappa. At 78 for five, Royals was in dire straits. Another 81 was needed off eight overs when Tewatia (45 not out, 28b, 4x4, 2x6) joined Parag (42 not out, 26b, 2x4, 2x6). They were not separated till the winning shot came — a six by the teenager over cover off Khaleel. It was splendid batting from Tewatia — whose stunning knock against KXIP had given Royals their first win a fortnight ago — and Parag, who has such a mature head on his young shoulders. Earlier, Sunrisers was restricted by another excellent spell from Jofra Archer. But it was young seamer Kartik Tyagi who broke the opening partnership between Warner and Jonny Bairstow. The Englishman’s attempt to hit a second straight six failed as Samson came up with a brilliant diving catch, timing his run towards his left from deep square-leg to perfection. Warner then added 73 for the second wicket with Manish Pandey (54, 44b, 2x4, 3x6) before Archer cleaned up the opener with a fast, fuller, straighter delivery. Kane Williams and Priyam Garg scored 35 off the last two overs to lend respectability to the SRH total. However, Parag and Tewatia had other ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tewatia-parag-pull-off-a-royal-comeback/article32830192.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Suryakumar and de Kock deliver for MI||Suryakumar Yadav played a second match-winning knock of the week to help Mumbai Indians cruise to a comfortable victory against Delhi Capitals and emerge as clear leader in the Indian Premier League points table. Suryakumar’s 53 (32b, 6x4, 1x6) ensured that Quinton de Kock’s quickfire fifty (53, 36b, 4x4, 3x6) didn’t go waste as Mumbai Indians hunted down the target of 163 with five wickets and two balls to spare at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi. Easing the pressure When de Kock mistimed a sweep to Prithvi Shaw at deep square in the 10th over, the winning mark was still 86 runs away. But, on a slowish pitch, Suryakumar and Ishan Kishan kept hitting the boundaries to ease the pressure. Suryakumar used the crease effectively to sent Kagiso Rabada through third-man for a four followed by a whip over long-leg for a six that fetched him his fifty. However, he perished in the last ball of the 15th over and the Capitals captain Shreyas Iyer pouched a skier. By then, however, the target was well in sight with 33 runs required off five overs. Despite a bit of a stutter, Kieron Pollard and Krunal Pandya saw their team through in the last over. Capitals handed debut caps to Ajinkya Rahane and Alex Carey. Shikhar Dhawan (69 n.o., 52b, 6x4, 1x6) took the onus of batting through the innings after Prithvi Shaw and Rahane succumbed in the PowerPlay. But Shreyas holing out in the deep in the 15th over after a partnership of 84 runs with Dhawan gave MI a chance to put the brakes. And a needless run out of Marcus Stoinis in the 17th over meant MI tightened the screws, conceding only 35 runs in the last four overs.   MI 137 for four  MI was 137 for four in 16 overs, with Kishan on 21 and Pollard 2. Rohit (5), de Kock (53), Suryakumar (53) and Hardik (0) were out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-propels-capitals-to-162/article32830194.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennaiyin FC signs Isma||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) has signed Esmael Goncalves, better known as Isma, on a free transfer for the 2020-21 Indian Super League season. The 29-year-old Portuguese attacker, capable of playing anywhere across the forwardline, is set for a first stint in India following a spell at Japanese club Matsumoto Yamaga. Feels great “It feels great to join Chennaiyin FC, a club that represents a city with rich culture and a wonderful fanbase. “My conversations with our head coach (Csaba Laszlo) have been great so far, and I truly believe in the project he has in mind for us. I will work extremely hard to fulfil what my team and coaches expect from me. “And hopefully deliver with as many goals and assists that help us win and achieve our objectives," said Isma. On Isma's acquisition, Laszlo said: "He (Isma) has a proven eye for goal with prior experience of playing in Asia. “He has the capabilities of a lethal marksman and we hope to benefit from his versatility in the forward areas." With UEFA Champions League, UEFA Europa League and AFC Asian Champions League experience, Isma is well-versed in operating across the frontline, highlighted by his record of 75 goals in almost 250 career appearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-fc-signs-isma/article32830709.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Sathiyan to play in Polish League||Star paddler G. Sathiyan will leave on October 15 to play in the Polish table tennis league. “Finally, after seven months and 10 days, I will be flying to play in the Polish league which begins on October 16 at Gdansk,” Sathiyan told The Hindu here on Sunday. “I am really looking forward to it. I have practised very hard with my coach Raman sir . I will be a bit rusty, but hope to get into match-mode soon.” He has already missed four matches in the league, hence will play just four in Gdansk before returning to India to obtain a Japanese visa — he is also scheduled to play in the Japanese league. “My Japanese league visa is under process. The league there starts on November 15. I am planning to come back to India on October 30 and undergo a 14-day quarantine,” said the Asian Games medallist, ranked 32nd in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-to-play-in-polish-league/article32830087.ece
12 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Embarking on an exciting journey||At 16, Anagha Murali is among the youngest players picked for the upcoming Women's T20 Challenge. Anagha will represent the Velocity side, alongside big names like Mithali Raj, Shafali Verma and Englishwoman Danielle Wyatt. Anagha’s rise through the ranks has been dramatically quick. She took up the sport at 11, under the guidance of K. Muralidhara at Herons CC. Just two weeks into her formal training, Anagha got picked for the Karnataka Under-16 team. A year later, the left-arm spinner made it to the Karnataka U-19 team. She soon transitioned to the U-23 level, the women’s Karnataka Premier League exhibition matches, the senior KSCA club league and the senior Karnataka probables list. Anagha won the 'Best Bowler' award in the women's under-16 and under-19 categories in the KSCA awards function last year. Her father Murali recalls the start of her cricket journey. “Muralidhara spotted her talent early. When he said that Anagha should try out for the Karnataka U-16 side, we were surprised. She had only started her formal cricket training two weeks earlier. But Muralidhara was confident, and he was proved right,” Murali says. Anagha, a 1st PUC student at Transcend PUC, is understandably excited and nervous about competing with the stars in the Women's T20 Challenge. The teenager cites Ravindra Jadeja as her idol. The three-team, four-match tournament commences at UAE on November 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/embarking-on-an-exciting-journey/article32830072.ece
12 October 2020||Paris,||Spain capitalises on Swiss slip||Mikel Oyarzabal pounced on a horror slip by Swiss captain Granit Xhaka to seal a 1-0 victory for Spain in the Nations League on Saturday. The night’s other League A Group 4 match saw Germany beat Ukraine 2-1 in Kiev. At the Estadio Alfredo Di Stefano in Madrid, usually home of Real Madrid’s second string side, Real Sociedad striker Oyarzabal struck in the 14th minute. The Swiss boldly tried to play out from the back, but Xhaka slipped as he sought to collect goalkeeper Yann Sommer’s pass. Mikel Merino pounced and threaded the ball through to clubmate Oyarzabal, who finished superbly past Sommer. The Spaniards top their group, having kicked off with a creditable 1-1 away draw against Germany. In Kiev, Germany picked up a first win in its Nations League group with a workmanlike 2-1 away victory over the Ukrainians.  After drawing its opening Nations League games against Spain and Switzerland, the win lifted Germany to second in the group behind Spain.   The results: League A: Group 4: Ukraine 1 (Malinovskyi 76-pen) lost to Germany 2 (Ginter 20, Goretzka 49); Spain 1 (Oyarzabal 14) bt Switzerland 0.   League C: Group 1: Luxembourg 2 (Sinani 12, 26) bt Cyprus 0; Montenegro 2 (Jovetic 9, Ivanovic 71) bt Azerbaijan 0.   League D: Group 1: Faroe Islands 1 (Faero 28) drew with Latvia 1 (Ikaunieks 25); Andorra 0 drew with Malta 0.   Group 2: Liechtenstein 0 lost to Gibraltar 1 (De Barr 10).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spain-capitalises-on-swiss-slip/article32830074.ece
12 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Women’s T20 Challenge in the UAE next month||Harmanpreet Kaur, Smriti Mandhana and Mithali Raj will lead Supernovas, Trailblazers and Velocity in the Women's T20 Challenge to be held in the UAE from November 4 to 9. The matches will begin at 7.30 p.m. Deandra Dottin, Danielle Wyatt, Sune Luus, Chamari Athapaththu, Shakera Selman, PSophie Ecclestone, Salma Khatun, Leigh Kasperek and Jahanara Alam are among the foreigners to be featured in the teams. But some big names, like Sophie Devine, Suzie Bates, Natalie Sciver, Stafanie Taylor, Amelia Kerr, Lea Tahuhu and Hayley Matthews are missing because they would be playing in the Women's Big Bash in Australia. They had played last year's tournament in Jaipur, which had turned out to be a big success.  The squads:   Supernovas: Harmanpreet Kaur (Capt.), Jemimah Rodrigues, Chamari Athapaththu, Priya Punia, Anuja Patil, Radha Yadav, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Shashikala Siriwardene, Poonam Yadav, Shakera Selman, Arundhati Reddy, Pooja Vastrakar, Ayushi Soni, Ayabonga Khaka and Muskan Malik.   Trailblazers: Smriti Mandhana (Capt.), Deepti Sharma, Punam Raut, Richa Ghosh, D. Hemalatha, Nuzhat Parween (wk), Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Harleen Deol, Jhulan Goswami, Simaran Dil Bahadur, Salma Khatun, Sophie Ecclestone, Natthakan Chantham, Deandra Dottin and Kashvee Gautam.   Velocity: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Veda Krishnamurthy, Shafali Verma, Sushma Verma (wk), Ekta Bisht, Mansi Joshi, Shikha Pandey, Devika Vaidya, Sushree Dibyadarshini, Manali Dakshini, Leigh Kasperek, Danielle Wyatt, Sune Luus, Jahanara Alam and M. Anagha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-t20-challenge-in-the-uae-next-month/article32830069.ece
12 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Nitin is overall champ||Dark horse K. Nitin Naik of Nagarkurnool clinched the overall State junior sailing championship at Hussain Sagar Lake here on Sunday. With the winds finally obliging, the sailors and race officials were able to pull off a valid regatta. The qualifier scores were expunged and only points from the finals today counted, pushing overnight leaders far behind. In the girls’ section, Hyderabadi Lakshmi Chandram took the gold followed by teammate M. Lalitha. Overnight leader K. Preethi had a terrible day and had to settle for bronze. Lt. Gen. K.S. Rao, president of Telangana Sailing Association, gave away the prizes.  Final standings:   Juniors (overall): 1. Nitin Naik Kethavat, 2. Lakshmi Chandram, 3. G. Mallesh.   Boys: Juniors: 1. K. Nitin Naik, 2. G. Mallesh, 3. B. Jaikiran. Novice: 1. Bhanuprakash, 2. Kevin Raj, 3. D. Sathvik.   Girls: Juniors: 1. Lakshmi Chandram, 2. M. Lalitha, 3. K. Preethi. Novice: 1. K. Deekshita, 2. B. Minaj, 3. M. Rithika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nitin-is-overall-champ/article32830751.ece
12 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Md Sporting, FCB post wins||Mohammedan Sporting FC continued its winning run by downing ARA FC of Ahmedabad 4-1 in an I-League Qualifier match here at the Salt Lake Stadium on Sunday. FC Bengaluru United prevailed over Garhwal FC by a solitary goal in the other match played at the Kalyani Stadium. Ghanaian attacker William Opoku found the target in the eighth minute for the Bengaulru side, which could not add any more to its tally despite earning a few more chances in the match. Putting behind the rusty performance that saw it edging out Garhwal FC by a last gasp injury-time goal in the opening match, Mohammedan Sporting played true to its potential against ARA. The seasoned Trinidad and Tobago striker Willis Plaza put Sporting ahead in the 13th minute when he made the most of an assist from winger Vanlalbiaa Chhangte to score. The young Nepalese forward Abhishek Rijal found the target twice in the 21st and 45th minutes to secure a 3-0 lead for the Kolkata outfit. The visitor pulled one back in the 54th minute when Mohammedan Sporting defender Saiful Rahman miscued an attempted clearance into own goal. Sheikh Faiaz found the target for Sporting in the 89th minute to complete the scoring process and help his side to the top of the current standings with six points from two outings.  The results: Mohammedan Sporting 4 (Willis Plaza 13, Abhishek Rijal 21, 45, Sheikh Faiaz 89) bt ARA FC 1 (Saiful Rahman 54-og); Bengaluru FC 1 (William Opoku 8) bt Garhwal FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohammedan-sporting-fc-bengaluru-post-wins/article32830076.ece
12 October 2020||CHENNAI:,||Kavin, Gayatri triumph||Kavin Thangam (Venki’s BA, Coimbatore) and Gayatri Devi (Krish BA, Chennai) clinched the men’s and women’s singles titles in the Chennai district badminton championship.  The results (finals):   Men: Kavin Thangam (Venki’s) bt Girish Venkat (Walgreens) 21-16, 21-10.   Boys, u-19: Girish Venkat (Walgreens) bt Nishanth Duraisamy (Smashbounce) 23-21, 21-8.   Women: Gayatri Devi (Krish) bt N.A. Saranya 21-13, 21-15.   Girls, u-19: A.R. Akshita (Fireball) bt Kareena Khanna 21-12, 21-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kavin-gayatri-triumph/article32830707.ece
12 October 2020||Kannur:,||Jubin wins Kannur leg||Jubin Jimmy from Kollam won the Kannur leg of the qualifying round for the all-Kerala online open chess tournament organised by Chess Kerala on Saturday. Jubin logged 8.5 points in the nine-round tournament to finish first. Arpith S. Bijoy (Kannur) came second with 8 points, ahead of team-mate Karthik Raj (8 points).  The final standings: 1. Jubin Jimmy (Klm 8.5 points), 2. Arpith S. Bijoy (Knr 8).   3. Karthik Raj (Knr 8), 4. Abdallah M. Nisthar (Klm 8), 5. Anudeep Anoop (Knr 7.5).   6. Sravan Renjith (Ktm 7.5), 7. N. Jyothilal (Kzd 7.5), 8. U. Abhijith (Kzd 7), 9. Jinan Jomon (Wyd 7), 10. John Veni Akkarakaran (Kzd 7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jubin-wins-kannur-leg/article32830449.ece
12 October 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Niranjan triumphs in Open category||Niranjan emerged champion in the Open category with 10 points from 12 rounds in the 173rd Brilliant Trophy online chess tournament on Sunday.  Final placings: Open (top-5): 1. Niranjan; 2. Ritobroto Sen; 3. Chidvilas Sai; 4. T. Purushothaman; 5. S. Srithan. Juniors: 1. Shravan Ambaru; 2. Havish Kovidh; 3. Arav Pradhan.   Age-group: Boys, u-15: 1. Akash; 2. Atharv. U-13: 1. D. Sreekara; 2. Kirti Sethia. U-11: 1. Rounak Jakhotia; 2. Maheedhar. U-9: 1. Arav Pradhan; 2. N. Karthikeyan. U-7: 1. Havish Kovidh; 2. B. Ayyappan.   Girls, u-15: 1. S. Sruthika; 2. Snigdha. U-13: 1. Naanya; 2. P. Sai Sailendri. U-11: 1. Srivalli; 2. S. Sahasra. U-9: 1. Eesha Reddy; 2. T. Hrithika. U-7: 1. G. Lakshmi; 2. Sanvi Priya.   Special prize: K. Praneeth .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/niranjan-triumphs-in-open-category/article32830749.ece
12 October 2020||KARACHI,||Chibhabha to lead Zimbabwe||All-rounder Chamu Chibhabha will lead Zimbabwe in its upcoming limited-over series against Pakistan starting with the first One-Day International at Rawalpindi on October 30. The series comprises three ODIs and three T20s.  The squad:   Chamu Chibhabha (capt.), Faraz Akram, Ryan Burl, Brian Chari, Tendai Chatara, Elton Chigumbura, Tendai Chisoro, Craig Ervine, Tinashe Kamunhukamwe, Wessly Madhevere, Wellington Masakadza, Carl Mumba, Richmond Mutumbami, Blessing Muzarabani, Richard Ngarava, Sikandar Raza, Milton Shumba, Brendan Taylor, Donald Tiripano, and Sean Williams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chibhabha-to-lead-zimbabwe/article32830070.ece
12 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Sporting sacks coach Law||In a surprise move, Mohammedan Sporting FC sacked coach Yan Law in the middle of its ongoing campaign in the I-League Qualifiers. After the team had secured its second win of the tournament with a 4-1 verdict against ARA FC of Ahmedabad, the club issued a letter notifying the “termination” of its contract with the former Punjab FC coach. “The decision took immediate effect following reviews conducted by the Club’s General Secretary Sk. Wasim Akram and the club’s management. Assistant Coach Saheed Ramon will be in charge of the team for the remaining matches of the I-League Qualifier,” said a statement issued by the club. According to club insiders, the sacking of Law is the result of a factional discord in the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sporting-sacks-coach-law/article32830075.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Super Kings fail in the chase again||After seven matches, CSK’s mid-term report card will just read ‘lack of intent’. The side produced yet another dull display on Saturday, going down to RCB by 37 runs at Dubai. Chasing 170 for victory, CSK’s batting woes played out in a familiar manner. The openers failed to give a good start and the middle-order showed no urgency, as last edition’s runner-up crawled to its fifth defeat of the season.   Super Kings 75 for two Super Kings were 75 for two in 13 overs with Rayudu and Jagadeesan both batting on 25. du Plessis (8) and Watson (14) were the batsmen dismissed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-kings-fail-in-the-chase-again/article32830187.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Who were the Pandavas?||Who were the Pandavas, and why were they so devoted to Krishna? The story begins with Indra’s visit to Kailasa, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. There he says Siva has not treated him with due respect, considering that he is chief of the celestials. Siva then shows him an underground chamber. In the chamber are the four previous Indras. Siva says that they were pushed there as punishment for their arrogance. Indra apologises to Siva, who says it is time for the five Indras to go to the earth. Siva says, “The five of you will be responsible for the death of many, and will thus reduce the pressure on the earth.” He then takes the five Indras to meet Vishnu. Once a person goes to Sri Vaikuntha, he cannot come back. So how could the five Indras go there and then come to the earth? Siva takes them not to Sri Vaikuntha, but to what is known as Karya Vaikuntha. Siva requests Vishnu to take His next avatara, to relieve the earth’s burden. Siva says that during this avatara, the five Indras will serve Him with devotion. Vishnu sheds two hairs from his body — one white in colour and the other black. The black hair becomes Krishna, the son of Devaki. The white hair becomes Balarama, son of Rohini. The five Indras are born as the Pandavas. They had already seen Vishnu when Siva took them to Karya Vaikuntha, but now when they are born on the earth, they are further taught of His greatness by sages, and this makes them more attached to Him. Krishna tells Duryodhana, that He will not eat what Duryodhana offers, because the latter is the enemy of the Pandavas, Every person has five praanas — prana, apana, samana, udana and vyana, and all five have to be in equilibrium, for a person’s good health. Krishna says that the Pandavas are His five praanas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/who-were-the-pandavas/article32830188.ece
12 October 2020||October 12 2020 09:46 IST,||Sudoku - October 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-october-12-2020/article32831252.ece
12 October 2020||Chandigarh,||‘BJP-JJP government will fall sooner than expected’||Ahead of the bypoll for the Baroda Assembly seat in Haryana, Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said given the farmers’ anger after the enactment of new agriculture sector laws and the Centre’s indifference to the farmers’ issue, the ruling BJP-Jannayak Janta Party coalition government will fall sooner than expected.  Do you think the Centre’s new agriculture sector laws will be a key issue in the bypoll? How do you plan to continue your fight against laws? Yes, it’s definitely going to be a major election issue among other issues. The Congress party, being the opposition party, has a responsibility to raise its voice against any injustice or anti-people policy of the government. We strongly feel that the new agriculture laws are tilted in favour of corporates at the cost of farmers. First, these laws do not even mention the Minimum Support Price, leave alone talk of guaranteeing it. There is no denying the fact that MSP, though not remunerative price of the farmers’ produce, has provided the farmers security and stability of income over the last six decades. The BJP government is trying to project these laws as ‘historic’ and ‘reforms’, but the timing, the undemocratic method and manner and the unwarranted haste with which these laws have been passed give rise to valid apprehensions in the minds of the farmers about the abolition of ‘mandis’ and the MSP in due course. We will continue the fight for the rights of the farmers with more vigour in the coming days and there are historic reasons for that. In 2007, the Congress government in Haryana framed laws on contract farming which clearly stipulated that no agreement with the farmers would be done below the MSP. In 2010, the committee constituted by the Government of India for increasing productivity under my chairmanship recommended that the MSP be increased to C2 formula of Swaminathan Commission’s report and it should not be dispensed with for the protection of the farmers. Moreover, the constitutionality of these new laws have been challenged in the Supreme Court as these are in contravention of federal structure of our Constitution. Why has the Congress been demanding that the JJP pull out from BJP-led coalition government? Do you think the alliance will complete its five-year term? It is a matter of principled politics. It is a fact that the JJP fought and was elected against the misrule and anti-farmer policies of the BJP government in Haryana. Now, it is in a Catch-22 situation. They are blowing hot and cold. They are criticising the recent lathi-charge on farmers at ‘Kurukshetra rally’ on the one hand while their second hand is tightly catching the chair. It is time for the JJP to choose between the interest of farmers and their own interests. It is a Hobson’s choice for them but in order to atone for the sin of betrayal of the farmers, they should resign forthwith. They cannot fool the people any longer. This government will fall sooner than expected because of the inherent contradictions and lack of cohesion. The increasing crime, the rampant corruption, the swelling debt, the increasing unemployment makes this government a monumental failure. The sooner it goes, it is better for the State. What does the Baroda Assembly bypoll mean for the Congress and State politics? Any election is a referendum on the functioning of the incumbent government. The Baroda by-election is crucial and it will determine the direction of politics in Haryana in the coming years. The Congress party is set to win this election and the people are eager to punish BJP-JJP government for crime, corruption, communalism, debt, unemployment, new farmer laws, contradictions, scams and scandals, drug menace, inefficiency, inflation, fear and falsehood. The BJP-JJP combine is afraid of entering into the poll fray and has conceded the Congress victory. The Congress has suffered politically in Haryana on account of not having either block or district committees... When is an organisational overhaul expected? It is, of course, a fact that the Congress party has not made organisational appointments at the district and block level for the last few years. Hopefully, the organisation will be reorganised and revitalised at the earliest. We are in the process of reconstituting the block-level Congress committees and district Congress committees and other bodies of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee soon. How do you assess the performance of ruling BJP-JJP alliance government? As I said earlier, the performance of BJP-JJP alliance government is dismal and disappointing. They have failed to give any hope to the people of the State. The people of the State are disillusioned and disgruntled with this government as there is no semblance of governance.  We will continue the fight for the rights of farmers with more vigour in the coming days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-jjp-government-will-fall-sooner-than-expected/article32830413.ece
12 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Another BJP leader held in Assam paper leak case||A second Bharatiya Janata Party leader was on Sunday arrested in connection with the leaking of question papers for the recruitment of 597 unarmed sub-inspectors. The police have so far arrested 46 people, including a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police, for alleged involvement in the case and recovered more than Rs. 5.35 crore from them. A senior police officer investigating the case said BJP leader Jintu Nath was arrested from the Jamuguri area of northern Assam’s Sonitpur district. The police had on October 1 arrested BJP leader Diban Deka, one of the prime accused in the case, from Patacharkuchi in the newly created Bajali district in western Assam.  Arrest of DIG Former DIG Prasanta Kumar Dutta, another prime accused, was arrested a few days later from Kakarbhitta on the India-Nepal border. Some 66,000 candidates had started answering the questions on September 20 when the written test was cancelled after the police discovered the question paper had been uploaded on social media. Investigation revealed that 50 candidates had sat for the “written test” at a guesthouse in Guwahati on September 19 night. Retired IPS officer Deepak Kumar quit as the chairman of the State Level Police Recruitment Board owning moral responsibility for the leak. The exam has been rescheduled for November 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/another-bjp-leader-held-in-assam-paper-leak-case/article32830418.ece
12 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. sounds alert about heavy rain||The Odisha government sounded an alert for heavy rain after Saturday’s well-marked low pressure area concentrated into a depression over the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. Cautioning all district Collectors, Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said the depression lay centred about 400 km south-southeast of Visakhapatnam and 450 km southeast of Kakinada. “It is very likely to intensify further into deep depression during the next 24 hours. It is also likely to move west-northwestwards and cross the north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narasapur and Visakhapatnam during October 12 night,” said Mr. Jena. Mr. Jena said squally weather with surface wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph and gusting to 65 kmph is likely to prevail along and off the Odisha coast. Yellow warning has been issued for the southern districts such as Malkangiri, Rayagada, Koraput, Gajapati and Ganjam districts for Monday. The rain is likely to become heavier there on Tuesday. The atmospheric system is likely to affect more districts such as Nabarangpur, Kandhamal, Puri, Nayagarh, Khordha, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Cuttack. The intense rain may continue till October 14.  ‘Continuous vigil’ “Districts under orange and yellow warning should remain in readiness to meet any eventuality particularly water logging or landslips in hilly areas. Continuous vigil of low lying areas and dewatering wherever is required should be taken up,” said Mr. Jena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-sounds-alert-about-heavy-rain/article32830415.ece
12 October 2020||Guwahati,||Man buried alive for ‘practising witchcraft’||An elderly man was buried alive in Meghalaya on October 7 for allegedly practising witchcraft, more than a week after two people were lynched and cremated in adjoining Assam for the same reason. The police in Meghalaya’s West Khasi Hills district said they have arrested three men — brothers Denial, Diferwell and Jayless Marngar — for murdering their uncle Moris Marngar on the allegation that he had cast an evil spell on their sister Sildaris through witchcraft. The trio had dragged the man out of his house and held him captive at their sister’s house for a few days before burying him. Missing complaint “The village elders filed a complaint at the police station in Nongstoin (district headquarters) after Moris Marngar went missing,” said Klanding Sohlangpiaw, the headman of Mawliehbah Mawnar, where the incident happened. A local police officer said the body of the man was exhumed and sent for an autopsy. The report is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-buried-alive-for-practising-witchcraft/article32830416.ece
12 October 2020||chandigarh,||Ex-student leader shot in Chandigarh||A former student leader of Panjab University was shot dead outside a nightclub here by some unidentified armed assailants, police said on Sunday. The incident took place past midnight when the deceased, Gurlal Brar, was waiting outside the nightclub in his SUV, they said. Brar, who hails from Punjab, was currently residing in Mohali. He was rushed to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research here , where the doctors declared him dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ex-student-leader-shot-in-chandigarh/article32830414.ece
12 October 2020||Gonda,||Priest shot at in U.P. over land dispute||A temple priest was injured after he was shot at by some miscreants early on Sunday morning over a land dispute in a village here, police said. The priest of Ram Janki Temple, spread over 30 acres, and some villagers had a dispute over the land in Tirre Manorama village, Superintendent of Police Shailesh Kumar Pandey said. Some miscreants fired shots at Atul Baba alias Samrat Das, which hit his left shoulder. Mr. Das was taken to the district hospital and then referred to King George Medical University in Lucknow, where his condition is stable. A case of attempt to murder has been registered against four people on the complaint lodged by Mahant Sitaram Das and two persons have been detained for interrogation, Mr. Pandey said. He added that teams have been constituted to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/priest-shot-at-in-up-over-land-dispute/article32830417.ece
