February 1, 2021||World||Over 4,700 people, including Navalny’s wife, held in protests across Russia||MOSCOW: Chanting slogans against President Vladimir Putin, tens of thousands took to the streets Sunday across Russia to demand the release of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny, keeping up nationwide protests that have rattled the Kremlin. More than 4,700 people were detained by police, according to a monitoring group, and some were beaten. Russian authorities mounted a massive effort to stem the tide of demonstrations after tens of thousands rallied across the country last weekend in the largest, most widespread show of discontent that Russia had seen in years. Despite threats of jail terms, warnings to social media groups and tight police cordons, the protests again engulfed cities across Russia's 11 time zones on Sunday. Navalny's team quickly called another protest in Moscow on Tuesday, when he is set to face a court hearing that could send him to prison for years. The 44-year-old Navalny, an anti-corruption investigator who is Putin's best-known critic, was arrested on Jan.17 upon returning from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have rejected the accusations. He was arrested for allegedly violating his parole conditions by not reporting for meetings with law enforcement when he was recuperating in Germany. The United States urged Russia to release Navalny and criticized the crackdown on protests. ``The U.S. condemns the persistent use of harsh tactics against peaceful protesters and journalists by Russian authorities for a second week straight,'' U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter. The Russian Foreign Ministry rejected Blinken's call as a ``crude interference in Russia's internal affairs`` and accused Washington of trying to destabilize the situation in the country by backing the protests. On Sunday, police detained more than 4,700 people at protests in cities nationwide, according to OVD-Info, a group that monitors political arrests, surpassing some 4,000 detentions at the demonstrations across Russia on Jan. 23. In Moscow, authorities introduced unprecedented security measures in the city center, closing subway stations near the Kremlin, cutting bus traffic and ordering restaurants and stores to stay closed. Navalny's team initially called for Sunday's protest to be held on Moscow's Lubyanka Square, home to the main headquarters of the Federal Security Service, which Navalny claims was responsible for his poisoning. Facing police cordons around the square, the protest then shifted to other central squares and streets. Police were randomly picking up people and putting them into police buses, but thousands of protesters marched across the city center for hours, chanting ``Putin, resign!'' and ``Putin, thief!`` _ a reference to an opulent Black Sea estate reportedly built for the Russian leader that was featured in a widely popular video released by Navalny's team. ``I'm not afraid, because we are the majority,`` said Leonid Martynov, who took part in the protest. ``We mustn't be scared by clubs because the truth is on our side.`` At one point, crowds of demonstrators walked toward the Matrosskaya Tishina prison where Navalny is being held. They were met by phalanxes of riot police who pushed the march back and chased protesters through courtyards, detaining scores and beating some with clubs. Still, demonstrators continued to march around the Russian capital, zigzagging around police cordons. In Moscow, nearly 1,500 people were detained, including Navalny's wife, Yulia. ``If we keep silent, they will come after any of us tomorrow,'' she said on Instagram before turning out to protest. Amnesty International said that authorities in Moscow have arrested so many people that the city's detention facilities have run out of space. ``The Kremlin is waging a war on the human rights of people in Russia, stifling protesters' calls for freedom and change,'' Natalia Zviagina, the group's Moscow office head, said in a statement. Several thousand people marched across Russia's second-largest city of St. Petersburg, chanting ``Down with the czar!'' and occasional scuffles erupted as some demonstrators pushed back police who tried to make detentions. More than 1,000 were arrested. Some of the biggest rallies were held in Novosibirsk and Krasnoyarsk in eastern Siberia and Yekaterinburg in the Urals. ``I do not want my grandchildren to live in such a country,`` said 55-year-old Vyacheslav Vorobyov, who turned out for a rally in Yekaterinburg. ``I want them to live in a free country.'' Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde, who currently chairs the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, condemned ``the excessive use of force by authorities and mass detention of peaceful protesters and journalists'' and urged Russia ``to release all those unjustly detained, including Navalny.'' As part of a multipronged effort by authorities to block the protests, courts have jailed Navalny's associates and activists across the country over the past week. His brother Oleg, top aide Lyubov Sobol and three other people were put Friday under a two-month house arrest on charges of allegedly violating coronavirus restrictions during last weekend's protests. Prosecutors also demanded that social media platforms block calls to join the protests. The Interior Ministry issued stern warnings to the public, saying protesters could be charged with taking part in mass riots, which carries a prison sentence of up to eight years. Protests were fueled by a two-hour YouTube video released by Navalny's team after his arrest about the Black Sea residence purportedly built for Putin. The video has been viewed over 100 million times, inspiring a stream of sarcastic jokes on the internet amid an economic downturn. Russia has seen extensive corruption during Putin's time in office while poverty has remained widespread. Demonstrators in Moscow chanted ``Aqua discotheque!'' _ a reference to one of the fancy amenities at the residence that also features a casino and a hookah lounge equipped for watching pole dances. Putin says neither he nor any of his close relatives own the property. On Saturday, construction magnate Arkady Rotenberg, a longtime Putin confidant and his occasional judo sparring partner, claimed that he himself owned the property. Navalny fell into a coma on Aug. 20 while on a flight from Siberia to Moscow and the pilot diverted the plane so he could be treated in the city of Omsk. He was transferred to a Berlin hospital two days later. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to the Novichok nerve agent. Russian authorities have refused to open a full-fledged criminal inquiry, claiming lack of evidence that he was poisoned. Navalny was arrested immediately upon his return to Russia earlier this month and jailed for 30 days on the request of Russia's prison service, which alleged he had violated the probation of his suspended sentence from a 2014 money-laundering conviction that he has rejected as political revenge. On Thursday, a Moscow court rejected Navalny's appeal to be released, and another hearing Tuesday could turn his 3 1/2-year suspended sentence into one he must serve in prison. Navalny's team called for another protest outside the court building. Watch Russia: Over 2000 pro-Navalny protesters detained||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/russia-arrests-over-4700-at-wide-protests-backing-navalny/articleshow/80618363.cms||---
February 1, 2021||India||With nod for 83 LCAs worth RS 47k-cr, HAL readies 3rd plant||BENGALURU: Buoyed by the recent Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approval for procurement of 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas Mark-1A aircraft worth Rs 47,000 crore, Defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL is all geared up to make operational a dedicated second LCA plant in Bengaluru. The new plant at Doddanekundi here, according to sources in HAL, will be inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday. “The plant, when commissioned fully, will be able to produce 16 LCAs per year. We’ll make the Tejas Mark-1A and the trainers here,” one source said. At present, HAL has the capacity to manufacture eight LCAs per year. The first dedicated LCA plant and HAL’s Aircraft Division are both producing them. “The plant that will be inaugurated by the defence minister will technically be the third, given that the Aircraft Division also make LCAs now,” the source said. The Tejas Mark-1A aircraft worth Rs 46,898 crore — 73 fighters and 10 trainers — cleared by the CCS on January 13, will have 43 “improvements” over the Tejas Mark-1 jets which the IAF has already placed orders for earlier. The order/contract for the new 83 aircraft is expected to be placed during the upcoming Aero India show. “From the date of the signing of the contract, HAL will have 36 months to start delivering the first batch of aircraft,” the source said. There was no immediate confirmation on the investment that has gone into the second plant, or when it is expected to be commissioned fully. “The first phase of the operations will start in a few months after Tuesday’s inauguration and we’ll subsequently commission the rest of the plant,” another source said, adding that existing manpower will be used to operate the plant. 5k New Jobs: AtmanirbharSoon after the CCS nod, HAL had said: “Tejas would have the highest level indigenisation in comparison to any programme of this scale with progressive indigenisation of critical technologies, thereby making India a technologically self-reliant nation. The programme would look at developing technologies indigenously.” The Tejas programme, the PSU said, has created a national aerospace ecosystem with participation of approximately 560 companies. “It is estimated that as the LCA Mark-1A programme kicks-off, it will generate primary jobs to a tune of 5,000 across the country. The programme will foster local industry and drive skill development of young Indian workforce,” HAL said. As per the PSUs estimates, the LCA programme, till date has produced 50,000 primary and secondary jobs across the nation. “For the first time in India’s aerospace history, the program enabled partnership with Indian private players to manufacture aircraft fuselage and wings. Some of the major companies contributing in the programme from the private sector are VEM technologies, L&T, DTL, Alpha Toccol, TAML, Data Patterns, Pendios, Compupower and many others,” HAL added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-nod-for-83-lcas-worth-rs-47k-cr-hal-readies-3rd-plant/articleshow/80618697.cms||Chethan Kumar
February 1, 2021||India||PM Modi asks people to become ‘active stakeholders’ in road safety activities||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appealed to people to become “active stakeholders” in road safety activities to save lives. He said road crashes had become a cause of concern across the globe. At least one out of every 10 people killed on roads across the world is from India, according to the World Health Organisation. This is the second time that the PM has spoken about road crashes and the need to increase awareness in his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’. In July 2015, he had expressed concern over a person dying in a road crash every four minutes and had urged every family to inform youngsters about the importance of road safety rules. The PM also said due to implementation of FASTag — the electronic mode of paying user fee at toll plazas — the total saving on account of fuel and time was estimated at around Rs 21,000 crore. Endorsing the views of a listener, he said because of FASTag, waiting time at toll plazas had drastically reduced. On average, around 415 lives are lost on Indian roads every day. The last year was only an exception due to Covid-induced lockdown which resulted in a sharp decline in road crashes, deaths, and injuries. Modi said several efforts were being made for road safety at the individual and collective level along with the government. While highlighting key messages put out by agencies such as Border Roads Organisation to create awareness among people about road safety, Modi urged people to send innovative slogans or catchphrases which could be used for the road safety campaign. Welcoming the PM's address, road transport minister Nitin Gadkari said this would strengthen the efforts to make roads safer. Experts also welcomed the PM’s call to make road safety a mass movement. Last week, leaders from several disciplines including health, enforcement, and civil society had urged the government to give top priority to check road deaths by taking measures, from creating awareness to rectifying engineering and design faults, to improving trauma care. Addressing a webinar on Injury Prevention in India, chief of spine services and medical director of Indian Spinal Injuries Centre Dr H S Chhabra had said, “All stakeholders have to come together and do their bit to reduce road crashes and injuries.” Participating in the webinar, senior Haryana cadre IPS officer Hanif Qureshi said there was a need to make the road environment conducive for people to follow traffic rules. “When we expect people to follow lane driving, we must ensure we have lane markings on our roads. You hardly see any road marking and NHs. There is a need to design our roads in a manner that reduces the probability of a crash,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-asks-people-to-become-active-stakeholders-in-road-safety-activities/articleshow/80618800.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 1, 2021||India||J&K schools, colleges to reopen from Feb 1; Vaishno Devi daily cap increased to 25k||JAMMU: The J&K administration on Sunday announced the reopening of all educational institutions in the Union Territory from February 1, besides increasing the daily limit of pilgrims at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine to 25,000. In an order pertaining to the revised Covid-19 regulations, the administration also put all 20 districts of J&K in the green category and allowed restaurants and cinemas to operate at full capacity. Deputy commissioners, meanwhile, have been asked to focus on weekly positivity rates including random sampling in schools in case the positivity rate goes beyond 10%. The order, however, mentioned that Lakhanpur with a buffer of 500m radius on Jammu-Pathankot highway and Jawahar Tunnel, the gateway to Kashmir, along with the Jammu-Srinagar highway would remain in the red zone. There will be, however, no restrictions on the entry of passengers, returnees or travellers to J&K, whether by road, rail or air. “They will have to compulsorily undergo a Covid-19 antigen test through any of the prescribed methods as per the protocol of the government of J&K,” the order stated. “No deputy commissioner or any subordinate magistrate shall impose any local lockdown, outside notified containment zones, without prior consultation with the State Executive Committee,” the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-schools-colleges-to-reopen-from-feb-1-vaishno-devi-daily-cap-increased-to-25k/articleshow/80619177.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 1, 2021||India||Srinagar shivers at -8.8°C, coldest in 30 years||SRINAGAR: Kashmir shivered at -8.8°C after the mercury dipped to such a low in three decades on Saturday night when the minimum temperature had plunged to -11°C in 1991, according to the meteorological department. The day temperature was recorded below zero degrees Celsius on Sunday. Inclement weather conditions threw life out of gear as drinking water supply froze due to severe cold. The minimum temperature was recorded at -12°C in Pahalgam and -8°C in Gulmarg. Ladakh’s Leh town recorded -16.6°C, Kargil -17.4°C and Drass -26.2°C. Jammu city was at 5.8°C, Katra 5.4°C, Batote 1.1°C and Bhaderwah at -1.5°C. A Met official said there will be a perceptible improvement in night temperatures in both J&K and Ladakh with the harshest 40-day chill period, known as Chillai Kalan, coming to an end soon. To effectively beat the chill, residents used traditional kangris and pheran (loose robes) while those affluent went into the Hamam — a small room carved out in the house with a floor of stone slabs that emits heat by burning wood underneath the room — to make themselves comfortable. The cold wave significantly reduced traffic. The inflow of domestic tourists, meanwhile, has increased this winter season especially in the ski destination of Gulmarg. All hotels and resorts are fully booked for February as well, said Altaf Ahmed, a hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/srinagar-shivers-at-8-8c-coldest-in-30-years/articleshow/80619179.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 1, 2021||World||Pakistan completed its nuke programme in 1992: Ex-envoy||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s former ambassador to the United States, Syeda Abida Hussain has revealed that Pakistan had started its nuclear programme in 1983 during former military dictator General Zia-ul-Haq’s time and it was completed in 1992. In an interview with a private news channel, Hussain, also an ex-cabinet member of Nawaz Sharif’s government, said she was appointed as ambassador to the US on the recommendation of the then president Ghulam Ishaq Khan during the first premiership of Nawaz Sharif after she lost the election. The former ambassador said that during her stint as Pakistan’s envoy in Washington, most of her communication used to be with President Ishaq Khan. “Khan had tasked me to keep the Americans engaged in talks till Pakistan completes its nuclear programme in 18 months,” she said. According to Hussain, the US administration including diplomats, senators, and congressmen repeatedly advised Pakistan against the execution of the nuclear programme. When asked about the source of communication between her and Ishaq Khan in absence of modern tools, Hussain said she had visited Pakistan five times to get briefings from the president during the 18 months. “I used to avoid using the phone knowing that it could be tapped,” she said. Since the nuclear programme was under the purview of the president, Hussain said most of her conversations used to be with him, and not the prime minister. “This is also because President Ghulam Ishaq Khan did not trust anyone,” she maintained. When asked about whether Nawaz felt bad for bypassing him and directly communicating with the president, she said: “He never revealed it.” Hussain also said that Al Qaeda founder Osama Bin Laden had supported and funded ex-PM Nawaz Sharif. “He (Osama Bin Laden) supported Mian Nawaz Sharif at one time. However, that is a complicated story. He (Osama) used to extend financial assistance (to Nawaz Sharif),” Hussain said, recalling that at one time Bin Laden was popular and liked by everyone including the Americans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-completed-its-nuke-programme-in-1992-ex-envoy/articleshow/80619303.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 1, 2021||World||Pakistan appeals against acquittal in Daniel Pearl murder case||ISLAMABAD: Authorities in Pakistan have petitioned the Supreme Court to review its decision to free British-born Pakistani Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and his three accomplices convicted of kidnapping and beheading American journalist Daniel Pearl, the Pearl family lawyer confirmed on Sunday. The petition was filed by the provincial government of Sindh on Friday, a day after the court acquitted Sheikh and others, who were convicted for the Wall Street Journal reporter’s murder in 2002. “The petition was filed to seek a review and request the court to recall the order of acquittal,” said Fayyaz Shah, the prosecutor general for the Sindh government. Following the top court’s decision on Thursday, the Biden administration had expressed an outrage, with White House press secretary Jen Psaki underscoring the new US administration’s commitment to secure justice for Pearl’s family. “This decision to exonerate and release Sheikh and the other suspects is an affront to terrorism victims everywhere, including in Pakistan,” she said, calling on the “Pakistani government to expeditiously review its legal options including allowing the United States to prosecute Sheikh for the brutal murder of an American citizen and journalist”. Washington said last month that it “stands ready to take custody of Omar Sheikh to stand trial insisting the US “cannot allow him to evade justice for his role in Daniel Pearl’s abduction and murder.” Legal experts in Pakistan, however, maintain that the country’s laws do not allow another country to undertake such an intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-appeals-against-acquittal-in-daniel-pearl-murder-case/articleshow/80619367.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 1, 2021||India||100 satellites designed by students to be launched on Feb 7||MUMBAI: On January 25, SpaceX broke a world record by launching 143 satellites in one go. Now, India is set to break another record. On February 7, 100 tiny satellites, called Femto satellites, designed and developed by 1,000 students across India, will be launched at the birthplace of APJ Abdul Kalam, Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu. Femto satellites are tiny ones with a low mass and are used for scientific and training purposes. Dedicated to Kalam, it is a joint project by APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation, Chennai-based Space Zone India and another organisation called Martin. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, general secretary of the Kalam International Foundation, Milind Chaudhari, said that of the 1,000 students, 380 are from Maharashtra, making it the second-highest after Tamil Nadu. Of the 100 satellites, 38 are from Maharashtra which includes one of Children’s Academy in Mumbai. Chaudhari said that initially the students were given online training by Space Zone India and on January 19, were provided hands-on experience at Jaywant Rao College of Engineering and Polytechnic at Pune. He said all the districts of Maharashtra were represented. The Femto satellites measure 4X4X4cm and are made of composite material. According to Chaudhari, the launch of the 100 satellites in the high altitude scientific balloon at Rameshwaram will be around 10.30am on February 7, and it will attain an altitude of 35,000-38,000m. He said the total mission span is for five to eight hours and the Femto satellite are equipped with sensors to study areas like ozone, cosmic ray, carbon dioxide and humidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/100-satellites-designed-by-students-to-be-launched-on-feb-7/articleshow/80619414.cms||Srinivas Laxman
February 1, 2021||India||India sends 1 lakh Covid vaccine doses to Oman, to export over 5 lakh doses to Afghanistan||NEW DELHI: India’s vaccine diplomacy is moving further afield. After gifting vaccines to its immediate neighbours, India this weekend sent a lakh doses of covid vaccine to Oman, arguably India’s closest partner in the Gulf. Later this week, India is scheduled to send over 5 lakh doses to Afghanistan. India will also send 2 lakh doses to Nicaragua, 1 lakh to Barbados, 70,000 to Dominica and 1.5 lakh to Mongolia, though dates for these are yet to be finalised. Meanwhile, Egypt, Algeria, UAE and Kuwait have all purchased vaccines and are on the commercial export list. Apart from the gifts, Mongolia (10 lakh) Nicaragua (3 lakh), Saudi Arabia (30 lakh) Myanmar and Bangladesh are among those who have contracted to purchase vaccines from India. These purchases are made commercially but need export clearance from the Indian government. The UN Covax initiative will see India selling about 100 lakh doses of vaccines. (Pakistan, which is India’s neighbour, but currently without virtually any diplomatic relations with India, it said has secured 17 million vaccines from the Covax pool for its use.) In addition, the UN will be buying about 4 lakh doses for its own workers all over the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sends-1-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-to-oman-to-export-over-5-lakh-doses-to-afghanistan/articleshow/80619508.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 1, 2021||India||‘Planned thermal plants could kill 8.4 lakh people’||If India were to set up every coal-powered plant it has planned, its power generation capacity would go from 200GW in 2018 to 300GW by 2030. The cost of this expansion, however, would be 8.4 lakh lives. A study by researchers from the University of Maryland, Urban Emissions Info, University of Massachusetts Amherst and Texas Tech University, published by the National Academy of Sciences of the USA, has found that 78,000 deaths in India were already attributable to coal plants in 2018, the base year for the study. If all coal plants in the pipeline were set up, deaths linked to them would go up to 1,12,000 annually. And the lifetime impact of these new plants is estimated to be 8,44,000 premature deaths. “We first run the model using estimates of emissions of PM2.5, NOx and SO2 from all sources except power plants in 2018… We run the model again, adding power plant emissions from 2018… In the third run, we add emissions from planned plants,” lead author Dr Maureen Cropper told TOI. Then, mortality was calculated for stroke, ischemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lower respiratory infections, diabetes mellitus and lung cancer. They found that ambient PM2.5 in 2018 was 53.5µg/m3 — higher in the Indo-Gangetic plain and in areas with high coal-powered plants than in southern India — which would increase to 55.9µg/m3 if all planned plants started operating. With new plants, the share of coal-fired power plants to PM2.5 would go up from 9% in 2018 to 13% by 2030 across the country. “In Odisha and Jharkhand, where planned plants double installed coal capacity, deaths increase by 50%,” the paper said. “Bihar and West Bengal are downwind of large expansions of capacity in Jharkhand and Odisha and, under the assumption that current pollution control practices continue, will experience significant health impacts from cross-border pollution.” Two things could change the scale of this impact in opposite ways — households switching to cleaner fuels and full implementation of new air regulations. “In Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh, over 75% households burn solid fuels for cooking; in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan, approximately two-thirds of households do,” the paper said. That adds 112μg/m3 to their PM2.5 exposure. If these households switched to cleaner alternatives, PM2.5 deaths attributable to coal power plants would shoot up to 44%. If new plants were accounted for, it would rise 46%. "When people are already inhaling a lot of PM2.5 from household air pollution, the impact of power plant emissions is much smaller than if they were not exposed to household air pollution," Cropper explained. And while there are regulations for thermal power plant emissions, notified in 2015, they are not being enforced. The study calculated that mere implementation of the 2015 regulations would cut SO2 emissions by 90-98% and NOx emissions by 95%. Full implementation would reduce coal power plant PM2.5 by up to 70% every year. “[The] near-term infrastructure investments [in coal-powered plants], although allowed under India’s Nationally Determined Contribution pledges, are inconsistent with long-term climate goals of limiting global temperature change below 1.5°C or 2°C,” the paper said. “A rapid shift away from coal-centered electricity generation to other, non-emitting sources (such as renewables) is not only essential to stabilize the global climate but could accord with India’s own development agenda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/planned-thermal-plants-could-kill-8-4-lakh-people/articleshow/80619959.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
February 1, 2021||World||Xi not just problem for our primacy but for democratic world: US policy paper||NEW DELHI: As Joe Biden takes charge in Washington, the US’ China policy is likely to remain just as hard-nosed as it was during the Trump administration. In November, US State Department brought out its own version of George Kennan’s Long Telegram, but with China in its crosshairs. Elements of the China Challenge set out its own blueprint of how the US should deal with China. This week, a former, though anonymous, US administration official “with deep expertise and experience dealing with China” drew another strategy for US to deal with China. Published by US think tank Atlantic Council, the strategy document, titled The Longer Telegram (yet another riff on George Kennan) says the US should target Chinese president Xi Jinping at the core of its strategy. Incidentally, Trump’s deputy national security adviser, Matt Pottinger’s notes on China were leaked in the dying days of the Trump administration. “For the United States, its allies, and the US-led liberal international order, this represents a fundamental shift in the strategic environment. Ignoring this profound change courts peril. Xi is no longer just a problem for US primacy. He now presents a serious problem for the whole of the democratic world.” The document states, “Given the reality that today’s China is a state in which Xi has centralized nearly all decision-making power in his own hands, and used that power to substantially alter China’s political, economic, and foreign-policy trajectory, US strategy must remain laser focused on Xi, his inner circle, and the Chinese political context in which they rule. Changing their decision-making will require understanding, operating within, and changing their political and strategic paradigm. All US policy aimed at altering China’s behavior should revolve around this fact, or it is likely to prove ineffectual. This strategy must also be long term…” The document observes, correctly, that the Kennan document of 1946 pre-supposed a deep insight into the working of he Soviet system, thereby identifying its inherent flaws. China is much more careful, and has studied the causes of the destruction of the USSR much more than the USSR’s erstwhile enemies. “The uncomfortable truth is that China has long had an integrated internal strategy for handling the United States, and so far this strategy has been implemented with reasonable, although not unqualified, success. By contrast, the United States, which once operationalized a unified strategy to deal with the challenge of the Soviet Union, in the form of George Kennan’s containment, so far has none in relation to China. This has been a dereliction of national responsibility.” The author says an “operationalised strategy” should comprise 7 components: rebuild the economic, military, technological, and human-capital underpinnings of US long-term national power; agree on a limited set of enforceable policy “red lines” that China should be deterred from crossing under any circumstances; agree on a larger number of “major national security interests” which are neither vital nor existential in nature but which require a range of retaliatory actions to inform future Chinese strategic behavior; identify important but less critical areas where neither red lines nor the delineation of major national interests may be necessary, but where the full force of strategic competition should be deployed by the United States against China; prosecute a full-fledged, global ideological battle in defense of political, economic, and societal freedoms against China’s authoritarian state-capitalist model … among others. The document says the areas of strategic competition against China should include “sustaining current US force levels in the Indo-Pacific region; stabilizing relations with Russia and encouraging the same between Russia and Japan; concluding a fully operationalized Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) with India, Japan, and Australia by inducing India to abandon its final political and strategic reservations against such an arrangement, among other suggestions. The trouble with all of these is the nature of current US politics and economy. The document acknowledges that the US needs to work on itself before it works on China. Other analysts have suggested many of the same things to the US. But this document also focuses on one important issue: “In the final analysis, the major problem facing the United States in confronting Xi’s China is not one of military, economic, or technological capabilities. It is one of self-belief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/xi-not-just-problem-for-our-primacy-but-for-democratic-world-us-policy-paper/articleshow/80619873.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 1, 2021||India||Cinema halls can operate at full capacity from Feb 1 adhering to Covid protocols||NEW DELHI: Cinema halls will be permitted to operate at full capacity from February 1 once they adhere to Covid-19 safety protocols, Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Sunday. “There is good news. In February, people can watch and enjoy films in theatres as we are allowing full occupancy in all cinema halls. Cinema halls can now open at 100% capacity. We encourage as much online booking (of tickets) as possible,” Javadekar said. Releasing the fresh SOPs for cinemas to operate at full strength, the minister added that existing sanitisation and Covid protocols will continue to be in place though the relaxations will now allow people to buy food from stalls inside theatres. The I&B minister said restrictions on exhibition of films will remain in place for containment zones, even as the SOPs added that individual states and UTs may consider proposing additional measures suited to their local assessment of the coronavirus situation. The SOPs also said 100% seating capacity will only be allowed inside cinema halls. The SOPs also emphasise the need to follow all coronavirus-related safety measures inside cinema halls, while general guidelines say respiratory etiquettes must be followed by staff and visitors, by using face masks at all times, maintaining adequate social distancing outside the auditoriums, and in common and waiting areas. The use of Aarogya Setu app has also been advised. The SOPs said visitors will have to go through thermal checks at entry, while exits will have to be staggered and conducted in a row-wise manner to avoid crowds. Film screenings will also be staggered for multiple screens to avoid crowding. The government has also encouraged digital payments for tickets, food, and beverages and said cinema halls should set up sufficient box office counters through the day to allow advance booking and prevent crowds. As announced earlier, SOPs calls for frequent sanitisation of the entire premises, especially common facilities after every screening and also makes it incumbent on cinema halls to display Do’s and Don’ts throughout the premises by way of announcements, standees and posters. The new guidelines were welcomed by the Producers Guild of India. “We welcome the decision of @MIB_India to allow 100% capacity in cinemas from February 1 and extend our sincere gratitude to Honourable @PrakashJavdekar ji and everyone involved in facilitating this important step in our industry's recovery," PGI said on Twitter. Congress MP Manickam Tagore, however, referred to the decision as “foolish”. In a tweet tagging the Union I&B minister, Tagore said, “In Parliament you wanted to sit with social distancing but in cinema halls full occupation. Why you put ordinary people life at risk when #COVID19 still active?....”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cinema-halls-can-operate-at-full-capacity-from-feb-1-adhering-to-covid-protocols/articleshow/80620123.cms||Swati Mathur
February 1, 2021||India||India-made Covishield part of Pakistan jab drive under vaccine alliance||NEW DELHI: India’s vaccine diplomacy took further wing with 1 lakh anti-Covid shots being sent to Oman, a close partner in the Gulf, after having supplied the jabs to immediate neighbours. Later this week, India is scheduled to send over 5 lakh doses to Afghanistan. India will also send 2 lakh doses to Nicaragua, 1 lakh to Barbados, 70,000 to Dominica and 1.5 lakh to Mongolia, though dates are yet to be finalised. Egypt, Algeria, UAE and Kuwait have all purchased vaccines and are on the commercial export list. Apart from the gifts, Mongolia (10 lakh) Nicaragua (3 lakh), Saudi Arabia (30 lakh), Myanmar and Bangladesh are among those who have contracted to purchase vaccines from India. The purchases are made commercially but need export clearance from the Indian government. Meanwhile, around seven million made-in-India doses of AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine will be part of Pakistan’s free Covid-19 vaccination drive starting next week under theglobal Covax alliance, PM Imran Khan’s special assistant on health Dr Faisal Sultan said on Sunday. Read AlsoOver 37 lakh and counting: Tracking India's vaccination driveOver 37 lakh healthcare workers across India have received shots of Covid-19 vaccine till January 30, the 15th day of the nationwide immunisation drive. Uttar Pradesh has administered the maximum number of vaccine doses in the country so far with over 4.63 lakh people inoculated.As a special Pakistani plane departed for China to fetch the first batch of Sinopharm’s Covid-19 vaccine, Dr Sultan announced that around seven million out of the 17 million committed doses of Covishield would reach the country by March. “Though AstraZeneca is being prepared in India, it will come through Covax, an international alliance which has announced free vaccines for 20% of Pakistan’s population. DRAP (Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan) has already registered both Sinopharm and AstraZeneca,” Dr Sultan said. Read AlsoIndia's vaccine production capacity is best asset world has today, says UN chiefNEW YORK: Calling for India to play a major role in global vaccination campaign, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Thursday termed the vaccine production capacity of India as the "best asset" that the world has today. Addressing reporters here, the UN chief said, "I know that inThe UN Covax initiative will see India selling about 100 lakh doses of vaccines. In addition, the UN will be buying about 4 lakh doses for its own workers all over the world. India’s vaccination drive is attracting attention, with Indian ambassador to the Philippines Shambu Kumaran tweeting on Sunday that the Asean nation was examining India's rollout of inoculations, pointing to reports in the local media there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-made-covishield-part-of-pakistan-jab-drive-under-vaccine-alliance/articleshow/80620189.cms||---
February 1, 2021||World||At least 3 killed in Mogadishu hotel attack: Security sources||MOGADISHU: A jihadist attack on a hotel in the Somali capital Mogadishu Sunday has left at least three people dead, a security source told AFP. "So far three people, two of them civilians, and a security guard ware confirmed dead, but the death toll could be higher," said Mohamed Dahir a senior official with with the national security agency. Six civilians were wounded in the attack, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/at-least-3-killed-in-mogadishu-hotel-attack-security-sources/articleshow/80620523.cms||---
February 1, 2021||India||Participate in farmers' protests or pay fine, Punjab panchayats tell households||BATHINDA: Even as protests by farmers in Punjab completed four months on Sunday, panchayats across the state have started asking every household to send at least one member to the protest sites. Some village panchayats are calling upon their residents to join the farm protests on the borders of Delhi or else ‘pay a fine’ in the event of non-participation from a household. Earlier, the task of mobilising protesters was limited to activists of farm organisations. It was on October 1, 2020, that indefinite protests had started in Punjab, first at railway tracks, toll plazas and business establishments of some corporate houses and then at the residences of some BJP leaders. The protests are going on at 70 to 80 places in Punjab apart from the ones at the Delhi borders. Panchayats of at least five villages in Malwa region of Punjab passed resolutions that each household has to send at least one male member for a week to the protest sites in Delhi. Read AlsoUnions harden their stand after surge of support from farmers in western UPNEW DELHI: Emboldened by the massive support which they get from ‘panchayats’ across western Uttar Pradesh, the farmers’ unions on Sunday appeared to have hardened their stand while reiterating that they are ready for talks if the government offers more than what it had proposed on January 22.Avtar Singh, sarpanch of Kararwala village in Bathinda district, said the entire village had given the call for support in a voice vote. Villagers, he said, decided that a household would have to pay Rs 2,100 to the panchayat if no member goes for the protests. Karnail Singh, sarpanch of Sivian village in Kotkapura block of Faridkot district, said villagers unanimously decided to send a member from every household for the protest and set a fine of Rs 500 for non-participation. The panchayat of Thikriwal village in Barnala district, native village of freedom fighter Sewa Singh Thikriwal, too passed such a resolution. A 25-member jatha will leave the village regularly, said sarpanch Mohinder Singh. Likewise, the gram panchayats of Barey village in Budhlada block of Mansa and panchayat of Natheha village in Bathinda district too passed resolutions, asking residents to reach Delhi borders in support of protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/participate-in-protests-or-pay-fine-punjab-panchayats-tell-households/articleshow/80620577.cms||Neel Kamal
February 1, 2021||India||Weekly Covid-19 casualties in India fall below 1000, lowest since May||NEW DELHI: India’s weekly death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic fell below 1,000 for the first time since the first week of May last year, while fatalities recorded in January were the lowest in eight months and less than half of the toll reported in December. Fresh cases of the virus too continued to move along a steep downhill path, with the count in January falling below 5 lakh at 4,71,282, the lowest monthly tally since June last year. There were 89,934 cases reported in the current week (January 25-31), down 6% from the previous seven days. Last week, India had recorded less than 1 lakh fresh cases for the first time since the June 15-21 week. Weekly cases are now less than 14% of the number recorded at the peak of the pandemic, when the tally had climbed to 6,45,014 in September 7-13. While the case count has been falling steadily, there has been a steeper drop in deaths related to the pandemic. India recorded 975 Covid fatalities during the current week, the lowest in 37 weeks. This was also the first time since May 11-17 when less than 1,000 deaths were recorded during a Monday-to-Sunday week. India’s weekly Covid-19 toll has fallen by 88% since the peak when the country had recorded as many as 8,175 deaths (September 14-20). Read AlsoA year after first Covid case, India’s toll drops to 4th in worldIndia completes one tumultuous year of the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday, with the virus outbreak appearing increasingly under control in most parts of the country with each passing day.There were 5,453 recorded deaths from the virus in January, the lowest monthly toll since May last year, when 4,267 fatalities were reported. Deaths were down to less than half the number reported in December, when the toll stood at 11,427. The highest monthly toll was in September when 33,255 deaths were officially reported in the country. The toll in January was less than a sixth of that number. Within the country, a major chunk of new cases are being reported from Kerala and Maharashtra, the two states that together account for two-thirds of all active cases in India. Of the 89,934 fresh cases detected in the current week, Kerala alone accounted for around 39,000 infections and Maharashtra more than 17,000. Together, the two states had a 63% share in new cases recorded in the week. On Sunday, India reported 11,539 fresh Covid cases and 117 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/weekly-covid-19-casualties-in-india-fall-below-1000-lowest-since-may/articleshow/80620633.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 1, 2021||India||Country saddened to witness tricolour’s insult on Jan 26: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: The country was saddened to witness the insult to the tricolour on January 26 and there was a need to infuse the coming days with new hope and a newness, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday during his ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address. The PM did make any further reference to the violent turn the tractor rally organised by the farm unions took on Republic Day, but said India had shown great perseverance and achieved a lot in the year gone by in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. He sought to place the incident in the context of better news, such as rollout of the vaccination programme, which he said was doing well. With visuals of protesters crowding the ramparts of Red Fort playing on Doordarshan alongside the audio, the PM said, “Last year, we displayed exemplary patience and courage. This year too, we have to work hard to attain our resolve. We have to take our country forward at a faster pace.” Modi pointed to positive developments in the “first month of 2021”, like India’s exemplary win on the cricket pitch in Australia, the celebration of Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Diwas’ and the Republic Day parade at Rajpath that showcased the participation of two women IAF pilots. “Our cricket team, after initial setbacks made a grand comeback, winning the series in Australia. The hard work and teamwork of our players is inspirational,” he said and added that amid all this, the country was saddened to witness the insult to the tricolour on January 26. The PM also dwelt on India’s fight against Covid-19 and said, “The beginning of this year marks the completion of almost one year of our battle against corona. Just as India’s fight against corona became an example, our vaccination programme too is turning out to be exemplary to the world. Today, India is undertaking the world’s biggest Covid vaccine programme.” “Along with the biggest vaccine programme, we are vaccinating our citizens faster than anywhere in the world. In just 15 days, India has vaccinated over 30 lakh corona warriors, whereas an advanced country such as America took 18 days to get the same done; Britain 36 days.” Modi described the ‘Made in India’ vaccine as a symbol of the country’s “self-reliance” and “her self-pride”. “During the moment of crisis, India is able to serve the world today, since she is capable, self-reliant in the field of medicines, vaccines. The same thought underpins the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign,” he added. The PM went on to highlight that as India is going to commence the celebration of 75 years of independence, youth must come forward to write about incidents associated with freedom. “Write books about the saga of valour during the period of freedom struggle in your area. Now, as India will celebrate 75 years of her freedom, your writings will be the best tribute to those heroes of our freedom,” he added. Modi said an initiative had been taken for young writers to mark 75 years and information regarding this could be accessed on the education ministry’s website. The PM said this initiative would help harness emerging talent and also prepare a category of thought leaders who would decide the course of the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/country-saddened-to-witness-tricolours-insult-on-jan-26-pm-modi/articleshow/80620635.cms||---
February 1, 2021||India||As west UP farmers boost stir, unions again insist on repeal of laws||NEW DELHI: With protesters from west UP providing the farmers’ agitation fresh wind, the unions on Sunday reiterated that they were ready for renewed talks but would continue to insist on repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). The unions said they had not yet received any communication from the Centre for talks which could, however, happen only in a congenial atmosphere. They claimed more than 100 farmers were still reported to be “missing” after the tractor rally and the police action that followed the violence on Republic Day. The unions’ umbrella body Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has formed a committee to look into the issue of “missing persons”. “It is compiling information on missing persons following which formal action can be initiated with the authorities,” farm leader Darshan Pal said. On the prospect of talks, Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan, referring to PM Narendra Modi’s remark that the proposal made to farmers (keeping the laws suspended for up to 18 months) was still on offer, said, “If the government takes two steps forward (from what it had offered on January 22), farmers will not move backward. We don’t have any ego. We are ready for talks. We want farmers to get what they want and they want repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee for MSP.” This might suggest some leeway, but it is for the unions, mainly from Punjab, to take a decision. Read AlsoParticipate in farmers' protests or pay fine, Punjab panchayats tell householdsEven as protests by farmers in Punjab completed four months on Sunday, panchayats across the state have started asking every household to send at least one member to the protest sites.Earlier in the day, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait suggested that talks could take place on February 2 but later told ANI that while he was thankful to the PM for his initiative, those arrested would need to be released first. Appealing to farmers to strengthen the movement, Yadav, in his message from Shahjahanpur border, said, “Pura khel ab palat gaya hai. Ab palda kisan ka bhari hai. (The situation has completely turned and farmers are now on the front foot)." Modi told an all-party meeting on Saturday said that the government’s proposals to the unions still stood and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was just a phone call away for taking the talks forward. He referred to the agriculture ministry’s proposals of putting implementation of the farm laws on hold for 18 month and setting up a joint committee to discuss farmers’ demands during the period. The ministry had made this proposal during the 10th round of talks on January 20 and stuck to it in the next round of talks on January 22 while asking the unions to come for talks after accepting this offer. The unions, however, rejected the offer, leading to the current stalemate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-west-up-farmers-boost-stir-unions-again-insist-on-repeal-of-laws/articleshow/80620746.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Meerut||9 injured in collision between 2 passenger buses||Bijnor: At least nine persons were injured when two buses collided head-on apparently due to low visibility caused by dense fog on Sunday morning in Bijnor district. The roadways buses, one from Uttarakhand and the other of UP, rammed into each other on Delhi-Pauri National Highway.The Uttarakhand bus caught fire due to the impact, a police officer said. Fire tenders and local policemen rescued the passengers and rushed them to a hospital.Bijnor’s superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “Nine passengers were injured. Now their condition is out of danger.” Meanwhile, in another road accident, two men on a motorcycle were killed after being hit by an unknown vehicle on Saturday night.The deceased were identified as Rikanshu (20) and Vasu (22) from Bijnor’s Heempur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/9-injured-in-collision-between-2-passenger-buses/articleshow/80616803.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 1, 2021||Allahabad||HC stays govt notification on issuing ST certificates||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High Court has stayed the notification issued by the state government whereby it had issued certain directions for issuance of Scheduled Tribe certificate in Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Mau, Azamgarh, Jaunpur, Ballia, Ghazipur, Varanasi, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts. By this notification dated July 15, 2020, the state government had provided that only Scheduled Tribe certificate be issued to those ‘Nayak’, who are a sub-tribe of Gond. Hearing a PIL filed by Nayak Jan Sewa Sansthan, a division bench comprising Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice Jayant Banerji directed the state government to file its reply (counter affidavit) and also directed to list this case in the week commencing February 15, 2021 for the next hearing. Earlier, appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate H R Misra contended that once the Parliament issued a notification dated January 7, 2003 by which each Scheduled Tribe has an independent entry, then the state government has no power to interpret it. This power lies with Parliament only, he contended. The court passed this order on January 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-stays-govt-notification-on-issuing-st-certificates/articleshow/80619489.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 1, 2021||Patna||Upendra Kushwaha meets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar again||PATNA: Former Union minister and RLSP president Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday met CM Nitish Kumar at the latter’s residence, fuelling speculations about his return to the ruling JD(U). Sources said Kushwaha had a long meeting with the CM in presence of former JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh. Kushwaha, the sources added, might be inducted into the state cabinet. It is Kushwaha’s second meeting with Nitish after the 2020 assembly polls. The RLSP could not win even a single seat in the assembly polls. Earlier, Kushwaha had called on Nitish at the CM residence on December 2 last year. The December 2 meeting had triggered rumours that Kushwaha might merge his RLSP with the ruling JD(U), and that he would be inducted into the Nitish Kumar-led cabinet after being nominated as a member of the state legislative council. However, Kushwaha had then described the speculations as “premature guesswork”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-meets-nitish-again/articleshow/80618154.cms||Madan Kumar
February 1, 2021||Patna||9,954 girls among 21,065 examinees in Katihar||KATIHAR: At least 21,065 candidates, including 9,954 girls, will take the Intermediate exam in Katihar district. Preparations are afoot to conduct free and fair exams from February 1 in the district. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj, who chaired a meeting of officials on the collectorate premises, said the exam will be conducted at 33 centres in the district, including at 25 centres in Katihar subdivision, three in Manihari and five in Barsoi subdivision. “Section 144 of the CrPC will be clamped in the 200 metres radius of the exam centre to check unauthorized movement of people,” Tanuj said. State chief secretary, through videoconferencing had a meeting with top officials, in which SP, DDC, ADM, municipal commissioner, DEO and others were present. According to a statement, candidates will not be allowed to carry mobile phones and other electronic devices like Bluetooth, laser, etc at the exam centres. Officials have been asked to frisk candidates twice -- one at the main entrance of an exam centre and the other while entering a room of that centre, said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9954-girls-among-21065-examinees-in-katihar/articleshow/80617399.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Rajkot||Teacher conned of Rs 50,000 in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A teacher at a private school was conned of Rs 50,000 by online fraudsters on January 20. The teacher, Kashyap Pancholi, lodged a complaint of cheating under the Information Technology Act at DCB police station on Saturday. Pancholi said that he received a message on Facebook from his friend Jenish Patel, asking him to send Rs 50,000 through bank transfer as he had met with an accident and needed money urgently. Patel sent him details of two different accounts but as Pancholi did not have netbanking facility, he asked his other friend Nishit to transfer the money. Next day, Pancholi called Patel to ask him about his health. Pancholi got confused when Patel said that he was all right, so he asked him about the previous day’s accident. Patel told him that he did not meet with any accident which shocked Pancholi. He then told his friend about the message he had received on Facebook. On seeing the account, Patel told Pancholi that it was a fake account and the impostor had used his photo as profile picture to make it look genuine. On realizing that he had been conned, Pancholi approached the police. Cops said that they are investigating about the two bank accounts to which the money was transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teacher-conned-of-rs-50000-in-rajkot/articleshow/80617425.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Cops red-faced as two brothers killed in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF/PATNA: Two brothers from a scheduled caste family were brutally killed at a village in Nalanda district in the wee hours of Sunday, inviting sharp criticism from Chirag Paswan-led LJP which accused the government of failing to protect the lives of the Mahadalits. Police said the bodies of Ajay Kumar Paswan alias Bhola (27) and his younger brother Ranjit Kumar Paswan alias Titu (24), both autorickshaw drivers, were recovered from the outskirts of Kushahar village under the Bind police station area around 6.30am. The two were residents of the neighbouring Rasulpur village. As the news about the double murder spread in the area, locals blocked the Bihta-Sarmera road and disrupted vehicular traffic for several hours. The victims’ family members told police that the accused called the two brothers on the pretext of hiring their autorickshaws for ferrying passengers around 3am on Sunday. However, their bodies with throats slit with sharp-edged weapons were found a couple of hours later. According to the victims’ family, the duo had an altercation with some youths belonging to another hamlet over washing of their vehicles on January 17. The matter was reported to the police then. The dispute was, however, resolved after the intervention of the police. Biharsharif SDPO Shibli Nomani said 10 people have been named as accused in the FIR lodged with the Bind police station in connection with the incident. “Raids are on to arrest the accused,” he added. Police personnel had to face the ire of the locals as they did not allow them to lift the bodies for postmortem. The locals were demanding a compensation of Rs.50 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased. SHO of Bind police station Abhay Kumar said the bodies were sent to the sadar hospital at Biharsharif for autopsy after intervention of senior police officers. Meanwhile, taking a swipe at the state government for the fast deteriorating law and order in the state, LJP spokesperson Sanjay Paswan said the members of the Dalit community were feeling unsafe due to frequent attacks on them. “The government has failed to discharge its duty properly. CM Nitish Kumar should resign on moral grounds,” he said. Notably, the state government has made provisions for payment of compensation to the members of the Mahadalit community in the case of their murders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-red-faced-as-two-bros-killed-in-nalanda/articleshow/80617553.cms||Farrukh Nadim
February 1, 2021||Vadodara||Sanitation worker dies hours after vaccination in Vadodara||VADODARA: A 30-year-old sanitation worker of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) died hours after taking the Covid-19 vaccine on Sunday. While the family members of the deceased Jignesh Solanki alleged that he died due to side-effects, authorities of state-run SSG Hospital asserted that he had been suffering from cardiac problems for years. Solanki, a resident of Vadsar Road, was working in ward 9 of VMC and had taken the vaccine on Sunday as a part of the drive where all frontline corona warriors were given the jab. His family members claimed he wasn’t willing to take the vaccine, but someone from his workplace pressurised him to get vaccinated. Municipal commissioner P Swaroop did not respond to calls and messages sent by TOI. “Solanki had left his workplace but someone from his office called him back. After getting vaccinated, he returned home, and within two hours his health started deteriorating,” claimed his brother Ganesh. Solanki was rushed to SSG Hospital where he was declared dead on admission. The family members also created ruckus at the hospital and alleged that he lost his life due to the vaccination. Dr Ranjan Aiyer, superintendent of SSG Hospital, said, “He became unconscious three to four hours after the vaccine was administered. Had there been any reaction due to the vaccine, it would have happened within the first 30 minutes.” He added that Solanki had a history of cardiac problems as he had undergone angiography in 2016 and he had often complained of chest pain. However, we will know the exact reason of the death once we get his postmortem report,” he said. Aiyer also said that Solanki had died on the way to the hospital, so the body was sent directly for postmortem. Dr Devesh Patel, VMC medical officer (health) said, “Only postmortem will reveal the cause of death. History of the deceased shows that he was suffering from compensated heart disease since 2016 and his heart was very badly affected by it. The Adverse Events following Immunization (AEFI) committee will look into the death and submit a detailed report. In the meantime, we are expecting a preliminary report from the SSG Hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sanitation-worker-dies-hours-after-vaccination/articleshow/80617376.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: IMA asks its members to serve rural masses||PATNA: The state unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday asked its members to adopt at least one village each and provide free treatment to all residents of the adopted village. The IMA members were also asked to assess the area-specific health issues and send their reports to the association for chalking out broad strategies for special healthcare measures in those places. Announcing the new initiatives at a meeting here Sunday, newly-elected IMA-Bihar president Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar said the association was committed to working for the welfare of the masses in rural areas. “Being familiar with the place of their working either as government doctor or in private practice, these IMA members will also assess whether people of those areas are exposed to specific problems like arsenic and fluoride-caused diseases. Dr Amar said there were 11,000 life members in the state IMA unit though the total number of doctors in the state is around 30,000. “We are making a general appeal to the remaining 19,000 doctors to get registered with the IMA and contribute in building up a healthy Bihar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-asks-its-members-to-serve-rural-masses/articleshow/80617463.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 11-day training of BJP workers from February 4||GAYA: The BJP will organise training programmes for its activists at all the 1,099 mandals across the state from February 4 to 14, party’s state president Sanjay Jaiswal said at Bodh Gaya on Sunday. Jaiswal made the announcement at a daylong division-level training workshop of party activists from Gaya, Jehanabad, Arwal and Aurangabad. Jaiswal inaugurated the workshop jointly with Aurangabad MP Sushil Kumar Singh and Gaya town MLA Prem Kumar. The workshop was aimed at imparting personality development training to the activists, developing leadership skill in them and apprising them about the fundamentals of the party. Jaiswal said those who attended the workshop would now train grassroots workers of the party. “Training programmes will be organised for the party workers from mandal to state levels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11-day-training-of-bjp-workers-from-feb-4/articleshow/80617614.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Former woman mukhiya held for Rs 93 lakh fraud||PATNA: A former woman mukhiya has been arrested for allegedly embezzling Rs 93.58 lakh of public money during her tenure. The accused, Sarojini Devi (45), was mukhiya of Maheshpur panchayat in Suryagarha block of Lakhisarai district till 2016. Sarojini was arrested from her residence at Gaarhi Vishanpur under Piri Bazaar police station area on Saturday after Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar issued a show-cause notice to the present investigating officer (IO) two days back for sitting on the case for the last one and a half years. Police sources said her husband Ranjeet Mandal was earlier a block level political leader. Then Suryagarha block development officer (BDO) Dharmvir Kumar Prabhakar had lodged an FIR with Piri Bazaar police station on October 20, 2016 against her and former panchayat secretary Vinod Kumar Bhagat, who is still evading arrest. Piri Bazaar police station SHO Prajesh Kumar Dubey told TOI over the phone on Sunday that both were accused of embezzling Rs93.58 lakh between financial year 2014-2015 and 2015-2016. He said out of the total embezzled amount, the duo had withdrawn Rs75.93 lakh, which was meant for disbursal of pensions under various government schemes. “The Rs17.65 lakh of the embezzled amount was meant for two other government schemes allotted under the 13th Finance Commission for infrastructure development in the panchayat,” he said. “Sarojini was evading arrest. On receiving information that she was at home, police conducted a raid and arrested her from her residence,” he said. In reply to another query, he said police had not moved the court for procuring arrest warrant or getting property attachment order against the duo. “We will soon move the court to get arrest warrant followed by property attachment order against Bhagat,” he added. The SP told TOI over the phone that the present IO has been directed to reply against show-cause within three days why he didn’t take any action in the case till now. “He was handling the case for the last one and a half years,” he said. Kumar said action would be surely taken against the erring officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-mukhiya-held-for-rs-93-lakh-fraud/articleshow/80617630.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 1, 2021||Business||Diesel demand moves to used car market, rural customers||Chennai: Diesel’s share in used car sales has more than doubled in the last 5 years as buyers in smaller towns prefer this fuel coupled with not so stringent environmental laws in these locations, a study said. In 2015, 36% of all used car sales were diesel vehicles. In 2020 that has jumped to 65%, a study by Droom, a used car buying portal said. Used car marketers say the rise in numbers is because of a sudden increase of diesel vehicle supply in the used car pool as metro markets move towards petrol and also because diesel has a solid presence in hinterland and rural markets. Used car marketers say diesel rules the used car market because post BS6 a diesel used vehicle is simply a better bargain. “Diesel vehicles have far more compelling pricing than petrol. In 2020 the average selling price of used diesel vehicles on our platform declined 15% year on year as diesel lost shine in the new car market,” said Sandeep Aggarwal, founder chief executive officer(CEO), Droom. For non-metro customers this meant they could now buy their dream SUVs at a more affordable price in the used mart. “Customers in non-metros prefer diesel to petrol because the price differential between petrol and diesel versions make them more economical,” agreed Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, OLX Autos. The diesel demand is also a reflection of hinterland markets joining the SUV craze. “The share of diesel cars in the used car pool has been increasing especially in SUVs in the period 2013-2017 from where most used cars come into the market currently. SUVs which are gaining customer preference and share are largely diesel powered and the demand for SUVs is so strong in the used car market that there is a demand-supply mismatch for popular models,” said Ashutosh Pandey, CEO Mahindra First Choice Wheels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/diesel-demand-moves-to-used-car-market-rural-customers/articleshow/80618845.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
February 1, 2021||Patna||22-year-old girl arrested with 18 bottles of liquor in Patna||PATNA: In a first-of-its-kind case in dry Bihar, a 22-year-old girl was arrested with smuggled India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in her scooty in Patna around Friday midnight. She was sent to jail on Saturday. Liquor is banned in Bihar since April, 2016. The girl, identified as Bulbul Kumari, was arrested with 18 bottles of IMFL in his scooty during the vehicle checking drive in Mahmood Shah Lane under Pirbahore police station area, sub-inspector Irfan Hussain, who is investigating the case, told TOI on Sunday. “The liquor was manufactured in Haryana,” he said. He said Bulbul was interrogated for several hours but she did not reveal the source of consignment. Hussain said the two-wheeler was registered in Bulbul’s name. He said police quizzed several people in the area on Sunday to gather details about Bulbul and her family. “The locals told the police that Bulbul’s father Dilip Rajak irons clothes in a shop. However, the shop was closed when police reached there,” he said. The SI said her parents live in Kadamkuan area of Patna and efforts were on to trace them for interrogation. A senior IPS officer, preferring anonymity, said women in rural areas and young boys in urban areas are usually engaged in liquor smuggling, but its for the first time that a young girl has been caught in liquor smuggling. “Liquor smuggling has become highly lucrative in dry Bihar. It earns quick money and thus easily allures youths,” he added. Recently, police had arrested an MBA graduate Amit Singh (28) and two of his associates for running a liquor smuggling racket from Patrakar Nagar police station area in Patna. Police had seized liquor from his rented accommodation, two bikes, a high-end car and passbooks of more than half a dozen bank accounts having large sum of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-year-old-girl-arrested-with-18-bottles-of-liquor-in-patna/articleshow/80617429.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 1, 2021||Business||Fingers crossed: Dalal Street on the edge||MUMBAI: Investors on Dalal Street are bracing for a volatile week with the Budget on Monday and an RBI policy meet on Friday. Historical data show that most of the leading indices suffered sharp swings on Budget day as investors reacted to the finance minister’s proposals during the speech. And as a quick-reaction to the overall Budget proposals, both the sensex and the Nifty either closed higher or lower for the day. As it happens ahead of every Budget, this time too market players are keeping their fingers crossed. The FM had said earlier that this fiscal event would be unlike anything that was seen in a century. Traders, however, warned that — given the pandemic-induced economic hardships — the FM has to walk a tightrope, mainly between spending to rejuvenate the economy and reining in high government borrowings. As for the RBI, at its monetary policy meeting which will conclude on Friday, the central bank is expected to hold key interest rates. According to Samco Securities senior research analyst Nirali Shah, a bold Budget might rejuvenate the benchmark indices and keep the exuberance going. “If the Budget fails to steer, or beat expectations, then the bruises will deepen as the market is low on liquidity,” Shah said. After scaling a record intraday peak of 50,184 on January 21, the sensex has lost nearly 3,900 points in six straight sessions before ending at 46,286 on Friday. This has put a large number of investors on the back foot. Stretched valuations are also an issue. “If we look at the larger picture, the market is resting at the top end of its valuation metrics in the short term and the corrective phase is likely to continue either by time or price… this correction might stay for a little longer than what the Street might expect,” Shah said, indicating that the leading indices are at crucial junctures and could go either way after the Budget. Government borrowing, one of the main determinants for the rate of interest in the economy, could be much lower than the over Rs 13 lakh crore in fiscal 2021 because of higher GST collections, a report by SBI recently said. On Sunday evening, the government said that GST collection for January was a record Rs 1.20 lakh crore. This might bolster the government’s cash balance, which could be used either to finance a part of the fiscal deficit or to spend and pay back all dues of FY21, the report said. From the stock market’s point of view, brokers and investors are expecting the FM to lower or abolish long-term capital gains tax on equities & equity mutual funds, allow indexation benefits for equity MFs, reduce dividend distribution tax and allow fund houses to launch debt-linked savings schemes on the lines of equity-linked savings schemes, investments in which are tax deductible under section 80c of Income Tax Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fingers-crossed-dalal-street-on-the-edge/articleshow/80619269.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||116 more test positive for Covid in Bihar, toll rises to 1,501||PATNA: With 116 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the state’s virus tally rose to 2,60,719 on Sunday. Two fresh deaths, on the other hand, have taken the state’s Covid toll to 1,501. However, with 2,58,018 people recovering from the virus in the state so far, there were 1,198 active cases on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate rose to 98.96% on Sunday as 162 more people defeated the virus in the last 24 hours. As per the health department, Patna and Vaishali districts recorded one death each on Sunday. With this, Patna’s Covid toll has risen to 416. AIIMS-Patna has reported two fresh deaths and the victims included a 52-year-old man from Rajiv Nagar in Patna and a 70-year-old woman from Chandwara in Muzaffarpur. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 10 patients were admitted to the hospital and six discharged on Sunday. Among the new patients, three are from Punaichak and one from Patliputra in Patna. Of the 116 fresh cases in the state, Aurangabad accounted for 40 and Patna 36. The Covid tally in Patna has now increased to 52,272. However, with 51,172 recoveries and 416 deaths, there were 683 active cases in Patna on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/116-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-bihar-toll-rises-to-1501/articleshow/80617409.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Passengers’ body demands funds for new railway lines||PATNA: Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association hopes the Union Budget on Monday will have provisions of adequate funds for the new railway projects in the state. Association’s secretary Shoaib Quraishi said there has been a long pending demand for a third line between Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction and Jhajha while the fate of proposed Bihta-Aurangabad and Neora-Daniyawan lines is also hanging in the balance. Besides, the Budget should also allocate funds to lay new lines between Buxar and Balia and declare Patna-Buxar, Patna-Gaya, Patna-Muzaffarpur, Patna-Jhajha, Patna-Rajgir, Patna-Islampur, Patna-Siwan, Patna-Bhagalpur and Patna-Barauni routes as suburban areas in railway parlance to provide more amenities to passengers at these places, he said. Association’s general secretary Nand Kishore Prasad demanded increase in the frequencies of Patna-Puri Express, Patna-Jammu Tawi Archana Express, Patna-Ajmer Ziyarat Express, Patna-Ahmedabad Express and Patna-Indore Express. He said the Lucknow-Patliputra Junction Express, Bengaluru-Danapur Sanghmitra Express and Lokmanya Tilak-Patliputra Junction Express must be extended up to Patna Junction. Likewise, the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Howrah Express (12351/12352), Patna-Howrah Janshatabdi Express (12023/12024), Patna-Kolkata Express (12359/12360) and Saharsa-Patliputra Junction Express (13205/13206) must be extended up to Danapur and Kashi-Patna Express and Howrah-Haridwar Express should be given stoppages at Danapur. While Farakka Express should stop at Samastipur, Danapur-Tata Express and Danapur-Rajgir Intercity Express should have stoppages at Phulwarisharif and Barmar-Guwahati Express at Ara, Prasad said, adding Ganga Damodar Express and Palamu Express should have stoppages at Tehta and Danapur-Tata Express at Athmalgola. The association has demanded introduction of Buxar-Howrah superfast, Danapur-Howrah superfast, Patna-Gwalior superfast trains and new MEMUs on the Patna-Siwan, Patna-Chhapra, Patna-Muzaffarpur, Patna-Siwan and Patna-Barauni routes. Railways must restore all suspended mail and express passenger train services, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passengers-body-demands-funds-for-new-railway-lines/articleshow/80617505.cms||Kumod Verma
February 1, 2021||Patna||Sedentary lifestyle can lead to spinal injury, say experts||PATNA: Sedentary lifestyle, sitting for a long time in the same position on uncomfortable furniture and too much physical exercise without proper supervision can lead to spinal injury, health experts said here on Sunday. As per the data released by the Association of Spinal Surgeons of India (ASSI), one million people die and 20 million are hospitalized in India every year due to spinal and traumatic brain injuries. Taking into consideration negligence towards spinal injury prevention, the ASSI has launched a nationwide awareness programme in 20 cities, including Patna. While the programme was officially launched on Friday, ASSI will start its awareness campaign in the city on Monday in collaboration with educational institutions and industry bodies. ASSI president and chief of spine services at a Delhi-based hospital, Dr H S Chhabra, said community-based prevention programme was a cost-effective way to reduce the burden of such injuries. “People will be told about spine-healthy lifestyle, posture correction techniques and proper exercise during the awareness drive,” he added. Dr Vishvendra Sinha of Patna Medical College and Hospital said a dedicated approach focusing on increasing use of safety measures, effective law enforcement and awareness could go a long way in reducing the burden of spinal injury. A statement issued by the joint secretary and treasurer of ASSI, Dr Gautam Zaveri read, “Contrary to what many may assume, it is not just mishaps or accidents that result in spinal injuries. Simple everyday habits, such as poor posture, carrying heavy bags, inadequate furniture, unsupervised or excessive physical training or not wearing helmets are major contributors to injuries.” Dr Zaveri further said even simple interventions could prove beneficial in reducing such injuries. He advised people not to miss small precautionary measures like wearing seat belts and helmets and asked them to use ergonomic furniture in offices and schools, while adopting a correct posture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sedentary-lifestyle-can-lead-to-spinal-injury-say-experts/articleshow/80617560.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Boy kidnapped for Rs 25 lakh ransom rescued, four held||BAGAHA/PATNA: West Champaran police with the help of special task force rescued 14-year-old Prince Kumar after an encounter with the kidnappers in a sugar cane field at Tesarhia Diara under Bathwaria police station area of Bagaha on Sunday. Four persons involved in the kidnapping were arrested. Two bike-borne criminals had kidnapped the boy from near his residence at Nawalpur under Yogapatti police station area in Bettiah at around 4.30pm on Friday. Bettiah Sadar SDPO Mukul Parimal Pandey said Prince’s grandfather Vinod Yadav had received a ransom call of Rs 25 lakh. He said kidnappers had threatened to kill Prince in case the ransom amount was not paid. Pandey said those arrested were identified as Santosh Chaudhary (23) of Dharhwa, Rajesh Chaudhary (24) of Piparpati, both under Nawalpur police station area, Laxman Chaudhary (21) of Saraiya Chaudhary Tola under Bairia police station of Bettiah and Jitendra Chaudhary (24) of Nawka Tola under Bathwaria police station area. The SDPO said Santosh was the mastermind. He was arrested from Dharhwa with a countrymade pistol and a live cartridge. “He worked as the tractor driver of Vinod for ten days for recce. The family owns a market complex, more than 40 bigha land and other properties in Bettiah,” he said. He said one bike, two countrymade pistols, five live and two empty cartridges, five cellphones, two blankets, eatable items and potable water were recovered from the arrested kidnappers. The seized cellphones also include the one used for making the ransom call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boy-kidnapped-for-rs-25l-ransom-rescued-4-held/articleshow/80617668.cms||Thirthraj Kushwaha
February 1, 2021||Kanpur||Etawah BJP MLA gets death threats from Pakistan||KANPUR: BJP MLA from Etawah Sadar Sarita Bhadauria received multiple death threats within a few hours on WhatsApp from a number with ISD code of Pakistan. The MLA told police she received eight messages on WhatsApp. The messages with the logo of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the intelligence agency of Pakistan, also threatened to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior BJP and RSS leaders sending police officials into a tizzy. Police increased security outside the MLA’s residence while cyber sleuths are tracking the source of the hate messages. BJP MLA Sarita Bhadauria, a resident of Sadar area of Etawah, was preparing to sleep around 11pm on Saturday when she received first WhatsApp message from mobile phone number with ISD code +92. The sender threatened to kill her, besides also targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior BJP and RSS leaders, the MLA said. “Starting late Saturday night till Sunday morning, total eight WhatsApp messages with ISI logo were sent to me from a number with +92 ISD code of Pakistan, threatening to kill me, our respected Prime Minister, BJP and RSS leaders,” said Bhadauri. However, I want to tell these anti-national elements that I am not going to be intimidated by their threats and will fight them at every front, she told reporters. She said that she immediately informed Etawah district magistrate Shruti Singh and SSP Akash Tomar about the death threat messages. “We have come to know about threatening WhatsApp messages to BJP MLA Sarita Bhadauria. She has lodged a complaint today. We have taken the details from her and have launched an investigation and technical surveillance,” said SSP Akash Tomar. Security has been heightened and a team from local police station has increased patrolling near the MLA’s residence, the SSP added. Sarita Bhadauria had won 2017 Assembly election by defeating Kuldeep Gupta of Samajwadi Party by 17,342 votes. She came into politics after the murder of her husband Abhayveer Singh Bhadauria in 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/etawah-bjp-mla-getsdeath-threats-from-pak/articleshow/80619915.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 1, 2021||Allahabad||UP STF busts CTET rigging racket, nabs 7||PRAYAGRAJ: Sleuths of Special Task Force (Prayagraj unit) on Sunday busted a cheating racket during Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) exam conducted by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) New Delhi and arrested seven members including four teachers and one solvers\ proxy candidate from two separate spots including Prayagraj and Gorakhpur districts. While six racketeers were arrested near Colonelganj area in Prayagraj, another was held in Gorakhpur. The police have also recovered seven admit cards, two photo copies of registration papers, 43 mobile screenshots, three forged Adhar cards, two forged PAN cards, eight mobile sets, two cheque books, a cheque of Rs 4 lakh, two bikes, one car, and Rs 13,500 cash from their possession. The arrested persons were identified as Prashant Singh of Mau (currently posted at Government Inter College, Amroha), Dharmendra Singh of Kaushambi (Primary teacher at Usri – Raibareilly disrict), Shiv Pujan Patel of Haridwar ( proxy candidate\ solver and currently posted at RSPL, Haridwar), Munesh Kumar Chauhan of Amroha (teacher at a private school at Amroha district), Aditya Shahi of Deoria (solver \ proxy candidate), Puja Devi of Fatehpur ( posted at Primary school, Amauli in Fatehpur district) and Yatendra Kumar Singh of Gorakhpur (solver\ proxy candidate). Additional SP ( STF) Neeraj Kumar Pandey told TOI that, “Acting upon specific tips off, the teams of STF have raided separate sites and arrested seven persons including four teachers who were in cheating racket cum solvers gang.” He further added that arrested Prasant Singh and Dharmenda Singh were kingpins of the racket who used to prepare forged admit and aadhar cards of candidates and arrange proxy candidate \ solvers and providing them Rs 50,000 for per person. ASP said that the racketeers were charging Rs two lakh from candidates and were also expert in photo-mixing to dodge exam conducting agencies. STF said a primary teacher posted in Kaushambi district was involved in arranging candidates and a person staying in Holland Hall was also involved in making admit and adhar cards. A case under section 419, 420, 467, 468, and 471 of IPC, section 3, 6 and 10 of Uttar Pradesh Sarvajanik Pariksha Adhiniyam was registered with Colonelganj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/stf-busts-cheating-racket-in-ctet-exam-7-arrested/articleshow/80619513.cms||Kapil Dixit
February 1, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh gets 58% below normal rainfall in January||SHIMLA: In January, Himachal Pradesh recorded a total of 37.6mm precipitation, which was 58% below normal rainfall. Dry weather conditions have already left farmers, especially apple growers, worried. There were two spells of rainfall and snowfall in the state which were started from January 2 to 7 and from 24. Rest of the days were dry during the month. According to Shimla meteorological centre officials, in recent years, highest rainfall of 157.6 mm was recorded in Himachal Pradesh in January 2017. It was 62% above normal, while lowest rainfall of 0.1 mm was recorded in 2007, which was 99% below normal. Missing rain and snow has left farmers, especially apple growers, worried as the required chilling hours will be affected by dry weather. Apple is the most important fruit crop of Himachal Pradesh, which constitutes about 49% of the total area under fruit crops and about 74% of total fruit production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-gets-58-below-normal-rainfall-in-jan/articleshow/80619837.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||‘Social stigma attached to Covid now a thing of past’||PATNA: Forty-five-year-old Anitha Vinod, who was among the first three to have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on March 22 last year, shares with TOI’s Sheezan Nezami the horror she went through while fighting the virus and the social stigma associated with it. Anitha was also the first to recover from the virus in the state. Excerpts: When you look back to the horrible days, how do you feel?That was one of the most difficult times in my life. I was very scared. After my report came positive, I was shifted to an isolation ward at AIIMS-Patna. I remained there for 11 days away from the family for the first time. The state’s Covid tally has now gone up to over 2.6 lakh. Do you find any difference with the passage of time?Since I was the first one to contract the virus in the state, the experience was really horrible. Even after I recovered, people kept maintaining distance with me and my family. Things have changed now. The stigma attached to the virus is no longer visible these days. Initially, I used to get many calls from people for plasma donation. As I have thyroid problems, I could not give plasma to anyone. What was your experience in hospital?In the hospital, I used to read the Bible to get inspiration. Even after returning home, I was in isolation and so were my family members. Cops from Digha police station were of great help to us. They used to provide us the necessary items. Now that vaccines have been rolled out, what is your feeling?The vaccines will definitely help the country fight the deadly virus. Your suggestions for people Everyone should wear mask and take other precautionary measures to keep the virus at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/social-stigma-attached-to-covid-now-a-thing-of-past/articleshow/80617458.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||University likely to issue corrigendum on PH quota||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University might issue a “corrigendum” for amending its notification for teachers’ recruitment to introduce quota for physically handicapped (PH) candidates. A committee formed to examine the issue will submit its report on Monday. The report will then be sent to the state government for approval, following which the “course correction” will be done. In September last year, LU had issued an advertisement inviting applications for 180 vacant teaching posts without provision for providing horizontal reservation to PH candidates. “The inadvertent error occurred because there was no specific mention of such quota in government guidelines for appointments,” said a senior officer. Recently, he added, the office of the commissioner of the person with disabilities asked LU to make provision for reservation of physically challenged candidates in the recruitment process. Subsequently, the officer said, a committee was formed to recommend modalities for introducing the PH quota in 180 posts without disturbing the ongoing overall recruitment drive. Sources said that as per rules, at least six posts are likely to come under PH reservation — three for assistant professor, two for associate professor, and one for professor. LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “Based on the committee’s report and subject to government approval, a corrigendum will be issued to resolve the issue. The process will affect posts in only a few departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/university-likely-to-issue-corrigendum-on-ph-quota/articleshow/80620237.cms||Mohita Tewari
February 1, 2021||Varanasi||Martyr’s memorial at Chauri Chaura back in limelight||GORAKHPUR: The Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to hold yearlong celebrations to mark 100 years of the ‘Chauri Chaura’ incident — a landmark event in the country’s fight for independence — promises tobring a big change at the memorial, which had been lying in neglect for years. Besides the beautification of ‘Chauri Chaura Shaheed Memorial’, the government also plans to develop it as a heritage tourist spot on the lines of India Gate, Jallianwala Bagh and Cellular Jail in Andaman. The Chauri Chaura incident took place on February 4, 1922, when nearly 3,000 protesters were challenging the oppressive British government’s regulations like the Rowlatt Act through non-violent resistance Satyagraha. While the demonstration was on, police opened fire on protesters, killing three. Enraged by the killings during peaceful protest, the demonstrators attacked the police station and set it on fire, killing 23 policemen. The incident shook the foundations of the British Empire and played a decisive role in the freedom movement. Around 228 Indians were persecuted and 172 of them were sentenced to death by the British. Shockingly, on February 6, 1982 — after 35 years of independence — the foundation of Shaheed Smarak for the freedom fighters was laid by ex-PM Indira Gandhi. For 35 years, there was no memorial for Indian freedom fighters who were hanged, but the policemen killed in the incident were kept in the category of martyrs. It took another 11 years for the memorial’s inauguration when former PM PV Narasimha Rao did the honours on July 19, 1993. After construction of Shaheed Smarak, there were two memorials in Chauri Chaura, one inside the police station for the policemen, and another a few yards away in remembrance of Indian martyrs hanged by the British Government. The condition of the Shaheed Smarak started deteriorating after some years due to lack of maintenance and pieces of broken statutes were kept at memorial museum. The government’s plans for heritage tourist spot will also change the fortunes of the town and its people, who are pleased with the yearlong centenary celebrations that will kick off on February 4 with PM Narendra Modi’s virtual address and unveiling a postal ticket. CM Yogi Adityanath will honour the family members of martyrs’ and freedom fighters. “The day will start with Prabhat Pheri in Chauri Chaura as people will reach the martyr’s memorial holding banners and posters and raising slogans after which there will be mass recital of Vande Mataram,” ADM finance and revenue, Rajesh Kumar Singh told TOI. “Many cultural programmes, including a Kavi sammelan ‘Ran Bheri’, will be held. On February 5, two plays, one on the incident and other ‘Bidesia’ will also be staged,” Singh added. Books, photos and documents related to the incident will be displayed on the occasion. The programs will continue the whole year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/martyrs-memorial-at-chauri-chaura-back-in-limelight/articleshow/80619594.cms||Arjumand Bano
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Raise health budget to 2.5% of GDP, says experts||PATNA: Experts and common people expect special attention to health sector in the Union Budget to be presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the need of strengthening the health infrastructure in the country. Both state IMA as well as the Indian Doctors for Peace and Development (IDPD) demanded increase in the health budget this time. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said spending on the health sector should be at least 2.5% of the GDP this year and needs to be raised up to 5% by 2024. “IMA also expects that modern medicine should get a proper place in the Budget. It played an important role in fighting the Covid-19 and now two vaccines have also come. We are against ‘mixopathy’,” said Dr Ajay. The IDPD, in a press statement, demanded three times increase in the health budget. “IDPD notes with concern the growing inequities in healthcare to our population. This has become more evident after the Covid-19 pandemic and has exposed the lack of government preparedness to deal with such situations,” reads the joint statement by its president Dr SS Soodan, senior vice-president Dr Arun Mitra and general secretary Dr Shakeel Ur Rahman. IDPD members pointed out the loopholes in outsourcing and roping in private players in the field by giving them subsidy, saying it degraded the country’s capacity to deal with the pandemic. They further stated that the National Health Policy 2017 had committed to raising public health spending to 2.5% of the GDP, but it was still hovering around 1.2% of the GDP. Safdar Ali, working in the field for more than a decade, said the government Budget should emphasize on the need of improving health infrastructure and allocate sufficient funds to fulfil the need of manpower. “From sub-centre level in villages to district hospitals, there should be all possible equipment, trained doctors and paramedics so that people need not move to bigger health institutes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raise-health-budget-to-2-5-of-gdp-experts/articleshow/80617416.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 1, 2021||Business||‘Digital to help make insurance more efficient’||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Covid has not resulted in a trend change in the insurance industry, it has only mandated covers that sell in India in the non-health segment, says Bajaj Allianz MD & CEO Tapan Singhel… With more people buying insurance, has non-life done well during the pandemic? Most of the non-life insurance purchases in India are because the cover is mandatory. Even in health, only individual policies are taken by choice. While the industry did not go into a tailspin because of Covid, its fortunes depend on auto sales and growth in GDP, and the initial months reflected that. Health has recorded good growth, but if you take out the short-term Covid cover, there is no substantial shift in trend. Demand for insurance, particularly health, is up... I have a different view. The corona product addresses all the issues which are factors inhibiting the sale of insurance. It is simple, costs a few rupees per day, and everyone is aware of corona’s risks and costs. Yet, the sales numbers do not click. The human brain is wired to be optimistic, so people do not buy insurance, although the fact that we are paying thousands of crores of claims indicates that there is a need. I feel government and insurance collaboration is required. If businesses bought insurance, banks would not have same level of defaults. If businesses bought policies to cover ‘standing charges’, they would have paid labourers and we would not have seen the same kind of labour migration. If pandemics become a regular feature like floods, there will be a need for a social safety net. How has the claims ratio been during Covid? Right now, the lower non-Covid claims are balancing the cost of Covid claims, which have gone through the roof. But even the non-Covid claims could rise in future as many people have postponed procedures. Has the lockdown resulted in any structural changes that have improved efficiency? There has been substantial saving on the reduction of documentation cost as the regulator has allowed issuing policies in electronic form. When Covid hit, we managed to issue one crore policies without paper and 30-40 lakh claims digitally. Grievance ratio dropped by 90%. The police, too, have been accepting soft copies. It is this kind of acceptance of digital that will improve efficiencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-to-help-make-insurance-more-efficient/articleshow/80473617.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar Board exam 2021: 13.5 lakh students to appear in Intermediate exams from today||PATNA: The Intermediate examinations being conducted by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) is beginning on Monday with strictly following the Covid guidelines at 1473 centres across the 38 districts. BSEB chairman Anand Kishore said on Sunday that all the examination centres were directed to ensure sanitisation of the venues after every sitting. Altogether 13,50,233 examinees are enrolled for the examinations, which will conclude on February 13. All the examination centres will have CCTV cameras and arrangements for videography of the examinations have also been made. The BSEB has created a WhatsApp group with all DMs, district education officers and its own officials for faster exchange of information on the examinations. He said the examinees would have to pass through frisking and mobile phone is banned for examinees and invigilators as well. Considering the prevailing cold wave condition as an extraordinary situation, the BSEB has allowed the examinees to wear shoes and shocks for their safety from the biting cold. Kishore said there were 85 examination centres in Patna where over 80,000 students will appear in the examinations. The Patna district administration has made all arrangements for the peaceful and fair conduct of the examinations. Following the BSEB direction, it has directed all the examination centres to follow the Covid guidelines and sanitise the venues after every sitting. The examination centres will also conduct thermal scanning of examinees and ensure that they maintain social distancing while entering or leaving the examination venues. Patna DM Dr Chandrasekhar Singh and SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, in a joint order issued to all officials concerned, directed them to ensure the use of mask by examinees and sanitisation of their hands before entering the examination halls. The DM said of the total centres in the district, the maximum 40 were in the Patna Sadar area. An adequate number of magistrates with police force have been deputed at all the examination centres. SDOs and SDPOs were directed to supervise the law and order situation. Direction has also been issued to SDOs to promulgate Section 144 around the examination centres and order closure of all photocopy shops around as a measure to check unfair means. The SDOs and police stations would check the gathering of people around the examination venues, the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-5-lakh-pupils-to-appear-in-inter-exams-from-today/articleshow/80622811.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Ottapalam railway station gets a mural makeover||PALAKKAD: The 117-year old Ottapalam railway station has got a makeover with mural paintings that pay tribute to the freedom fighters and great personalities from the region. The paintings and wall murals, done as part of the beautification of the railway building, also depict the first conference of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee held in Ottapalam in 1921 that electrified the freedom movement and resulted in the formation of united Kerala with the amalgamation of Malabar-Kochi-Travancore. Artists Ambili Thekkedath and T S Sanu of Deva Creations, who became famous with their mural paintings in Chinakkathur Bhagvathy Temple, Koratti Sreekrishna Temple and Hubli airport in Karnataka, have done the work after Palakkad railway division approved the themes. There are portraits of great personalities like Chettur Shankaran Nair, the first Malayali president of Indian National Congress; V P Menon, who unified the princely states to form the union of India; and late President K R Narayanan, who represented Ottapalam Lok Sabha constituency till he became the first citizen of the country. The other attractions are the portraits of Carnatic music doyen Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar, who died a few minutes after his concert in Ottapalam Poozhikunnu temple; poet Kunchan Nambiar and his Killikurissimangalam house, Mani Madhava Chakyar, poet P Kunhiraman Nair among others. Among the murals are the heritage buildings in the region, including Varikkaserri Mana, where many Malayalam films were shot; the old building of Ottapalam court; major festivals in Ottapalam like Chinakkathur pooram and art forms like Kathakali, Ottamthullal, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ottapalam-rly-stn-gets-a-mural-makeover/articleshow/80617384.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Now, call 139 only for all railway enqueries||PATNA: Irked at frequent complaints, railways has integrated its all helpline numbers into 139 for passengers seeking any information. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has made 139 as integrated inquiry helpline number to inquire not only about arrival and departure of passenger trains but to also register any complaint about catering services and coach maintenance. Besides, passengers can seek medical assistance by dialling this number in emergency, he said, adding the 139 number also gives information about PNR status and availability of berths in trains. The helpline number is also available to know about berth confirmation and disruption in traffic operations in case of mishaps on tracks. People need not dial any other number to get authentic information, he said. According to sources, railways had floated half a dozen helpline numbers like 182 for railway security, 1072 for rail accidents, 9717630982 for registering complaints through SMS, 138 for medical emergencies, 58888 for cleaning coaches, 155210 for lodging complaints with railway vigilance against corruption and 1800111321 for catering services. Now, railways has discontinued all these helpline numbers. Besides, railways has improved its face-to-face inquiry system at Patna Junction and other major stations under the ECR. High power electronic gadgets have been installed at all major and crowded stations to provide inquiry about running trains through ‘face-to-face enquiry system’ (FTFES) to passengers on railway platforms, sources said, adding that this facility is available at railway stations in addition to electronic display board inquiry system. Meanwhile, commissioner of railway safety (CRS), eastern circle, A M Choudhary inspected the 67-km stretch of the new line between Darbhanga and Sitamarhi. Electric locomotive made a successful run on the new tracks at a speed of 100kmh. Railways will run passenger trains on this route soon after getting the CRS final approval, the CPRO said, adding railways is considering a proposal to run more MEMU/DEMU trains on other routes of the ECR to facilitate local commuters and vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-call-139-only-for-all-railway-enqueries/articleshow/80617531.cms||Kumod Verma
February 1, 2021||Patna||LJP part of NDA, says Bihar deputy CM Renu Devi||PATNA: Deputy CM Renu Devi on Sunday said there was no conflict in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and both HAM(S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi and LJP led by Chirag Paswan are part of it. The deputy CM’s remark came a day after a row erupted over the BJP’s invitation to Chirag to attend an online meeting of the NDA, which the latter skipped citing health reasons. The meeting was called to discuss the ruling bloc’s agenda for the Budget session of the Parliament. Manjhi had earlier attacked the BJP for inviting Chirag to the NDA meeting, saying the latter had harmed the alliance by fielding candidates against the JD(U) in the recently concluded assembly elections. “This is not appropriate at all,” HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan had quoted Jitan Ram Manjhi as saying on Saturday. Rizwan added the invitation letter was probably sent to Chirag by mistake. The BJP’s move has also irked the JD(U). Without taking the name of Chirag, JD(U) national president R C P Singh said, “I don’t know where he stands now. He was not in the NDA. He was not present at Friday’s meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-part-of-nda-says-deputy-cm/articleshow/80617586.cms||Ramashankar
February 1, 2021||Goa||Over 50% cyber crime cases closed due to lack of evidence||Panaji: The Cyber Crime Cell (CCC) of the Goa police has closed over half of its cases due to lack of evidence. Not a single person has been convicted in the state for cyber crime. Since 2014, 118 cases have been registered at the CCC and closure reports have been filed in 61 cases. A senior police inspector said that the primary reason for cases remaining unresolved is the state’s lack of infrastructure to investigate cyber crimes. Most of the accused used foreign networks to cheat the people. Another major problem faced by police in investigating cyber crime cases is lack of skilled manpower, sources said. CM Pramod Sawant in his written reply to the assembly said that chargesheets have been filed in 31 cases and that most of the cases pending investigation are those registered in 2020. Sawant said that in two cases there court acquitted the accused while trials have been conducted in 29 cases. The Centre has approved Rs 1.4 crore for a cyber training lab under the Cyber Crime Prevention Against Women and Children (CCPWC) Scheme. The process of finalising a bidder to set up the lab is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-50-cyber-crime-cases-closed-due-to-lack-of-evidence/articleshow/80620573.cms||Murari Shetye
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Over one lakh new passengers likely to take Mumbai locals today||MUMBAI: Over a lakh new commuters are likely to travel by local trains on Monday with services commencing for general passengers during non-peak hours. In another boost for citizens, the railways decided to offer an extension of season pass for days lost due to the lockdown last year. “Extension of season passes for suburban train travellers will be permitted from Monday for the unused or lost days after closure of suburban services in March. This can be done at ticket counters at the station,” said central railway chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar. He said commuters can also generate a ticket using UTS mobile app which will be functional for general passengers during non-peak hours. The UTS app was non-operational for over 10 months after train services were stopped for general passengers in March 2020. Meanwhile, the biggest challenge will be crowd control and maintaining Covid-19 norms. To ensure this, CR and WR will operate additional ticket booking counters, open up FOBs, lifts and escalators which were shut during the pandemic, widen the entry/exit gates and have RPF and GRP across the station and on platforms to monitor crowds and ensure people wear masks and maintain social distancing. Both CR and WR are operating 2,985 services and the ridership has already crossed 20 lakh commuters lately. The pre-Covid ridership was 80 lakh. Sources said at a few busy stations, the RPF may regulate commuter traffic and even organise queues for boarding trains, if required. “But there will be no restrictions on people entering trains with valid tickets during non-peak hours. They can occupy every seat and there will be standees as well. We need to just check that people are not standing very close to each other like the packed trains witnessed in the past,” another official said. “The Railways will also take the help of local police to ensure there is no crowding outside the station area. BMC marshals will keep tabs on commuters who enter or exit stations without masks, and will impose fines,” Sutar said. “We are prepared to handle the situation. And, being non-peak hours, we do not expect overcrowding of trains or on platforms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-1-lakh-new-passengers-likely-to-take-locals-today/articleshow/80619898.cms||Somit Sen
February 1, 2021||Meerut||Seven-ft python rescued from roadside in Bijnor, set free||Bijnor: Bijnor forest department staff rescued a seven-foot-long python from Najibabad-Kotwali road on Sunday and released it into the forest area. Confirming the rescue operation, ranger Ravindra Shrivastava said Bijnor district is crisscrossed by hundreds of small and big canals and a dozen rivers. Water currents carry pythons to sugarcane fields adjacent to canals and river. These reptiles live amid the cane stalks preying on rats, rabbits, deer, goats, dogs and other small creatures. Due to cane harvesting, which is in full swing now, they are forced to venture near populated areas in search of prey. Though considered farmer-friendly as they devour rodents and other animals that destroy crops, pythons pose a threat to children, said villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/seven-ft-python-rescued-from-roadside-in-bijnor-set-free/articleshow/80616815.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh calls all-party meeting tomorrow||CHANDIGARH: In view of the incidents on Republic Day in Delhi and developments in the farmers’ agitation, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has called an all-party meeting on February 2 to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the three contentious farm laws and the ongoing agitation against them. The meeting will be held at 11am at Punjab Bhawan here to discuss the situation arising out of the recent developments in the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the national capital, the attack on farmers at Singhu border and the vilification campaign against farmers. Capt Amarinder said the crisis triggered by the three laws was a matter of concern for the entire state and its people. He urged all political parties to join the meeting in a spirit of unity, in support of farmers and in the interest of Punjab. “This is not the time to let ego stand in the way (of finding a consensus), but to come together to save our state and our people,” he said. This crisis can be tackled effectively and farm interests protected only through collective efforts of all Punjabis and all political parties of the state, he added. “Our farmers have been dying on the Delhi borders for more than two months now. They are being beaten up by police and assaulted by goons. They are being harassed by being deprived of basic amenities,” said Amarinder. It is imperative for all parties to come together to evolve a cohesive strategy on the issue, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-calls-all-party-meeting-tomorrow/articleshow/80619907.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid cases down in Ludhiana, but fatality rate above state average||LUDHIANA: Even as the number of daily cases of Covid-19 has gone down to a great extent in Ludhiana, a considerably high Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is a cause of concern for the health authorities. As per the state Covid bulletin issued on Saturday evening, the CFR—the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people afflicted with it during a specific period—for the district stood at 3.9%, and it has been almost the same for most part of January. The CFR for Ludhiana on Saturday was 0.7% higher than the average value for Punjab, while the national CFR was about 1.44% on the day. An analysis of the fatality rate data since August 1 last year suggests that on that date, the rate in Ludhiana district was 3%, which increased to 3.5% by mid-month before rising further to 3.8% at the end of August. The next day, it was recorded at 3.9%, which rose to 4.3% by September 10, but dropped to 4.1% by September 18. The CFR remained at the same level till October 3, after which it had increased to 4.2% the next day and stood at that level till October 23. By November 13, it had dropped to 4.0% and remained there till December 1. By the end of the year, it slipped to 3.9% and since then, it has been around the same value. The health department’s data shows that with 3.9% fatality rate on Saturday, Ludhiana was at seventh position in the state in terms of CFR, sharing the spot with Amritsar. Tarn Taran recorded the highest 5.1% CFR, while Ropar was at second position with 4.8% and Sangrur at third with 4.63%. Fazilka had the lowest fatality rate of 1.82%. While civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar could not be contacted for his comments on the latest CFR data, a health official said it has been high mainly because people, especially those with co-morbidities, get their tests done late despite emergence of signs of contracting the infection, due to which it becomes difficult to save their lives. He said they have been trying to educate people to get Covid test done immediately after they notice the symptoms, so that treatment could be started at an early stage. Another health expert opined that since obesity is common among the people of the state, including in Ludhiana, they are vulnerable to contracting the coronavirus infection. “As people here are obese, compared to the southern states of the country, they suffer from diabetes and hypertension, which increases the chances of their death in case they catch the infection. Such people and also others should get their tests done immediately after emergence of symptoms. Delay in treatment could result in higher fatality rate among patients with severe symptoms,” said IMA Ludhiana president Dr Saroj Aggarwal. Mortality rate is also high as Ludhiana has a high population and a large section of people live in slum areas, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-cases-down-in-ludhiana-but-fatality-rate-above-state-average/articleshow/80618455.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 1, 2021||Goa||Govt statement on Mhadei untrue, didn’tobject on state instructions: Sr counsel||Panaji: In a major embarrassment to the state government, senior counsel Arvind Datar, who appeared for Goa in the Supreme Court in the Mhadei case, told TOI on Sunday that it was only on the instructions of the state government that they did not object to the notification of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal award. In a written reply, water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues had told the assembly that “the counsel did not oppose the notification of the award on his own accord”. Datar refuted the claim that he made the statement without the consent of the Goa government. “No. It is completely wrong (the state government claim). The statement is not true. Nothing was done on advocate’s accord,” Datar told TOI. “My memory is two years old. Three water resources department officials had come from Goa and the matter was duly discussed. It was on clear oral instructions after discussion in Delhi before the hearing (that we did not object to the notification),” Datar said. In a late-night statement, chief minister Pramod Sawant reiterated that the state government had not given any instructions for opposing the Mhadei notification. “The government instructions are always in writing,” he said. Datar said even if it was the case that the advocate did on his own accord, as made out by the Goa government, hearings had taken place after that and no one from the state government had raised any objections. “Suppose there was something drastically wrong, even after that hearings have taken place. They should have said this is without the consent of the state government, but nobody has done that till date,” Datar said. “If a concession is made without instructions, which rarely happens, you can retrieve the concession saying that this concession was (made) without authorisation,” Datar said. “It is really unfair of them to make a statement like this,” he said. In February 2020, the Centre notified the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal’s final award, that was given on August 14, 2018. “The award has to be notified (after) the award has been passed. Only if the award is notified can the Supreme Court pass interim orders,” Datar said. Referring to the answer given in the assembly, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, who had raised the starred question, said that going by the assembly reply, it looked like there was some match-fixing in the apex court. “Why have you kept such advocates to represent the state,” Sardesai asked. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, too, pointed out in the assembly that because Goa and Maharashtra did not object, the Supreme Court passed an order to notify the Mhadei award. Following the demand from the opposition to remove the advocates, chief minister Pramod Sawant said the counsel who did not object in the apex court is now not on the panel of advocates representing the state. Sawant said the government had immediately changed the lawyer and former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the state. “Now, former additional solicitor general P S Narasimha appears for us. This fact is already in the public domain for more than a year,” he said. Datar told TOI that he had stopped appearing for Goa as he had “too much of constitutional and taxation work and I have no time to spare for the state government cases”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-statement-on-mhadei-untrue-didntobject-on-state-instructions-sr-counsel/articleshow/80620566.cms||Murari Shetye
February 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana: Scribe released after ‘won’t speak to media’ assurance||ROHTAK: A freelance journalist, who was detained at Singhu border on late Saturday evening by the Delhi Police, was released hours later after a written undertaking that he would not speak to the media on this issue. Speaking to TOI on Sunday morning, Dharmender Singh, who belongs to Ahiri village in Haryana’s Jhajjar district and works for a news portal, said cops picked him up when he tried to get their sound bite on problems faced by the local residents following heavy barricading at the border after the violence on Friday. However, another freelancer, who was picked by the cops from the same spot around the same time, was produced before the magistrate and sent to judicial custody. Mandeep Punia from Kudhan village in Jhajjar district works for a monthly magazine. According to an FIR was registered at Alipur police station, Mandeep was arrested after some people, including him, misbehaved with the police personnel when told to stop trying to remove the barricades placed at the border. He has been booked under sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing a public servant in the discharge of his public functions) and 353 (assaulting a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. However, an eyewitness claimed that Mandeep was on an assignment and was recording the issues faced by local residents due to barricades placed by the Delhi Police. A video of the incident, showing cops manhandling Mandeep has gone viral on social media. Expressing shock at Mandeep’s arrest, his wife Lila Shree said, “He has been arrested by the security forces for doing his duty.” On Friday at the Singhu border, there were clashes between farmers and a large group of men claiming who hurled stones at each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/scribe-released-after-wont-speak-to-media-assurance/articleshow/80619923.cms||Sat Singh
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: More villages pass resolutions to strengthen farmers’ agitation||LUDHIANA: Some more villages in Ludhiana district have passed resolutions to send their residents to the farmers’ agitation site on Delhi borders. Convoys of vehicles have been leaving for Delhi borders in the past few days. Mushkabad and Samaspur had recently passed resolutions to send villagers to dharna site on a regular basis. Now more villages, including Pabbiyan, Akhara of Jagraon and Khirniyan, Kadoon, Rupalon, and Ghumadi in Khanna, have resolved to send their men. “We held a meeting of villagers and decided to send about 10 villagers every five days. When they return, the next group will go. We also decided to collect Rs 500 per general family and Rs 100 and Rs 200 from Scheduled Caste and Backward Class families. If the latter cannot pay, they may not. If a villager is unable to go once, we will give him second chance and if he still doesn’t go then he will have to pay an additional Rs 1,500. With the money we collect, we will buy ration and send it with the groups,” said Parminder Singh, sarpanch of Kaddon village. Heads of the villages said they had to pass such resolutions on the insistence of villagers. “There is enthusiasm among villagers to go to the dharna sites to support farmers. We called a meeting of villagers to chalk out plans and discuss the penalty,” said Sarabjit Singh, sarpanch of Khirniyan village in Machhiwara block. A village in Samrala also passed a similar resolution. “We have decided that six members from the village will go to the protest site for a week and then another group will replace them. If a family doesn’t send a member, then a penalty of Rs 2,500 will be imposed on them,” said Gurjit Kaur, sarpanch of Rupaloon village. She said already 10 farmers from the village were at the site. In Jagraon, too, many villages are following suit. “Jathas are going from every village, and our preparations are in full swing. Everyone has contributed towards it. There are around 50-60 persons from our village at the spot and they say there is no disturbance there. From every home, one member has to go to Delhi. Eight persons left the village at 8am on Sunday. If a member from any family doesn’t go, a penalty of Rs 2,500 will be imposed. Also if anyone, who after getting his name registered, refuses to go, Rs 3,000 fine will be imposed and his account with the Cooperative Society will be closed,” announced a Akhara villager in a large gathering. Farmers’ organization leaders said there was an overwhelming response from the farmers to the call for Delhi borders to support the agitation. “About 10 villages in Khanna and Amloh have passed resolutions to send villagers to the dharna site. Villagers from Baalon, Salaudi, Rajewal, Panjrooka, Issanpur, Roran Kalan, Roran Khurd, Chakohi, Ekolahi, Ekolaha, Pagla Neecha, Goslaan, Goh, Nawan Pind Ramgarh, Manupur, Malakpur, Padhi, Kotla Ajner, Ratanheri, Boothgarh, Smailpur will be leaving for Delhi borders in a day or two and many have already left. On Sunday, a convoy of 20 cars left from Khanna. On Monday, we will be sending 100 cars from Khanna at 8am,” said BKU (Punjab) leader Rajinder Benipal. “We are getting great support. The government played its tricks, but now they will give up. They will have to repeal the anti-farmers’ laws,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-villages-pass-resolutions-to-strengthen-farmers-agitation/articleshow/80618459.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 1, 2021||Goa||Govt admits loss of revenue if Parl passes major ports bill||Panaji: Admitting that the Major Port Authorities Bill, which has been tabled in Parliament, will supercede Goa’s planning laws, the state government said that it is examining the bill so that Goa’s concerns could be raised before the Centre. Town and country planning minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, also admitted that Goa would lose revenue ideally owed to the state for the development that is undertaken in certain zones. “The likely implications include redundancy of Goa Town & Country Planning Act and the Regional Plan or outline development plans, Goa Municipalities Act, Goa Panchayat Raj Act, Goa Land Development and Building Construction Regulations, 2010 and Goa Land Revenue Code,” said Kavalekar. “The matter is being examined by the government for apprising the Union government,” Kavalekar told Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco in a written statement. Kavalekar said that areas in the periphery of Mormugao Port Trust could come under the “ownership” of the Board which will be constituted under the Major Ports Authorities Bill and this in turn will lead to “revenue loss” for the state government. Lourenco claims that the Major Port Authorities Bill has the potential to “usurp powers” of the Goa government and local bodies, particularly powers related to land use and planning. Vasco-based activist, Savio Correia has raised similar apprehensions and his concerns, which were submitted in writing to the state government were conveyed to the Captain of Ports. “The government has examined its likely impact on the powers of state and local bodies,” said Kavalekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-admits-loss-of-revenue-if-parl-passes-major-ports-bill/articleshow/80620578.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Singh Badal honours Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur, offers support||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal honoured farmer leader Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border on Sunday by presenting him with a ‘siropa’ as well as ‘amrit’ from Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar and assured him of the complete support of his party to ensure the farmers’ agitation succeeded in all its goals. Sukhbir said the kisan leader had made the farming community proud by following in the footsteps of his father Mahendra Singh Tikait, a towering farmer leader of his time. The SAD president also recalled joint battles that Tikait Senior and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal had fought for welfare of the farmers. Tikait told Sukhbir that he would visit Badal village to meet the five-time chief minister Badal Senior. The SAD president requested all political parties to leave aside petty differences and unite for the greater cause of the peasantry and said it now was clear that the farmers of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh besides those from different parts of the country had formed a united front. The SAD president also met the families of the farmers whose next-of-kin are still missing since January 26 and also the farmers whose relatives have been incarcerated for supporting the agitation. He assured the families that the SAD would take up all their cases and ensure appropriate legal remedies were made available to them. Sukhbir also asked Delhi SAD unit president Harmit Singh Kalka to establish a control room in Delhi to ensure aggrieved families were given instant assistance as and when required. He said the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) would also contest all such cases free of cost even as he assured the families that a committee of lawyers had been established in Chandigarh and across all districts in Punjab to ensure a coordinated effort in this direction. Sukhbir also released a helpline number for Delhi — 93105 10640 — which will complement the three helpline numbers released in Chandigarh on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-honours-tikait-at-ghazipur-offers-support/articleshow/80619913.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University adopts four-level online screening in teachers’ recruitment||LUCKNOW: To minimise manipulation and errors, the Lucknow University has adopted a four-level screening and verification process for ongoing recruitment of teachers on 180 vacant posts. LU has received 5,087 applications for the posts of assistant professor, associate professor and professor in various departments. This is the first time that the entire process is being held online with four-level screening process. All the data and documents provided by the applicants along with their self-assessed academic scores have been already uploaded on the recruitment portal. The eligibility and documents submitted by applicants will be first screened by a three-member departmental committee comprising the head of the department concerned and two professors. It will then be cross-checked by another committee at faculty level, comprising the faculty dean under whom that particular department comes, a nominee of the registrar and a member of the internal quality assurance cell. This will be followed by another round of verification by a university level team led by dean, recruitment and assessment cell (RAC), Prof Manuka Khanna. Finally, the names of the candidates along with their academic scores will be uploaded on the university recruitment website. The applicants will be given 48 hours to go through the scores, and if unsatisfied, they may file an objection which will be addressed by LU officials. All these four steps will be online after which applicants will be called for interview for final selection. “Earlier, when the recruitment process was offline, the applications were collected by university staff and sent to departments for screening and shortlisting of candidates for interview. The process was manual due to which candidates often used to allege that their documents were stolen, torn or misplaced during collection process resulting in errors in screening. But the new four-step process will leave no scope for any complaint of influence or manipulation,” Prof Khanna told TOI. “In the first round, the departmental screening committee will check all claims and eligibility. A special software will flag a change made by the committee against the name of a candidate in red. For example, if the committee finds that a research publication submitted by a candidate is not valid and removes it from academic score, the change will appear in red. The committee will have to write down its justification for making such a change,” she said. “In the second round, this change will be easily visible to faculty level committee which will cross-check it. The same process of re-checking will be followed in the third round by the dean RAC team,” she added. Every departmental committee will have separate login IDs and passwords with access to information only about its department. Similarly, a faculty level committee will be able to see information only of the departments under its jurisdiction. “LU teachers who themselves have applied for senior posts have been kept out of the screening and verification process,” Prof Khannna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-level-online-screening-for-transparent-selection/articleshow/80620334.cms||Mohita Tewari
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Gold heist with sanitiser gun, victim numb||LUCKNOW: In a first of its kind incident, a gang knocked a woman out of her senses by spraying a chemical saying it was sanitizer and fled with her gold bangles in Thakurganj police station area of city. The victim, identified as Vaishali Kapoor, 39, of Newajganj, informed police in her complaint that she was alone at home when the doorbell rang and saw two men at the gate when she opened the door. The two miscreants told her that they had to deliver a parcel that had been sent for her husband and asked her to collect it on his behalf. Not suspecting anything fishy, Vaishali stepped out and went to the gate to take the parcel when one of them asked her to get her hands sanitized citing Covid-19 protocol. He took out a bottle and sprayed some chemical on her hands and in the air following which she fell unconscious, she said. When Vaishali regained consciousness later, she found both her gold bangles missing. “I rushed out to see if I could spot the two miscreants but could not find them as they had fled. I asked for help from some people passing by, but they did not hear me,” she stated in the FIR. Assistant commissioner of police, Chowk, I P Singh, said an FIR has been registered and the footage of CCTVs installed in the nearby areas is being checked. Such an incident has been reported for the first time in the city, he said. Singh said it seems the miscreants were aware that the woman was alone in her house at that time. Vaishali’s husband Amit owns a paint shop, while her 12-year-old son had gone to play outside when the miscreants struck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gold-heist-with-sanitiser-gun-victim-numb/articleshow/80620339.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hussain Sagar Express derails near CSMT||MUMBAI: One of the wheels of a coach of 02701 CSMT-Hyderabad Special Hussain Sagar Express derailed while departing from CSMT station at 10 pm Sunday. Officials said none of the passengers suffered any injury. “Relief trains have been moved to the site for restoration. Up and Down fast line trains between CSMT and Byculla section have been affected,” an official said. The train, which had just left CSMT before it derailed, will be delayed by over an hour, sources said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hussain-sagar-exp-derails-near-csmt/articleshow/80619969.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Mann ki Baat: Modi invokes miracle of strawberry cultivation in parched Bundelkhand||Jhansi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi invoked a miracle in Bundelkhand, where strawberries were being grown in the parched, arid region during his Mann ki Baat programme on Sunday. He lauded the innovative skill of a law student, who steered the month-long strawberry festival in Jhansi and praised the spirit of Bundelkhand farmers, who were breaking stereotype to open new avenues in agriculture. Innovation and technology were used to cultivate strawberries, which otherwise grows in hills, the prime minister said. “When I mention Bundelkhand, what comes to your mind? Those inclined to history will connect the area with Jhansi’s Rani Lakshmi Bai or serene environs of Orchha, while others will relate to the extreme heat conditions, but something different is happening here. A month-long strawberry festival was organized in Jhansi. Everyone was surprised. Strawberry and Bundelkhand? But this is the truth,” the PM said. He particularly referred to a Jhansi-based woman law student, Gurleen Chawla, who grew the fruit on her terrace, before taking it to the farm. Overwhelmed by Modi’s praise, Gurleen told to TOI she was thankful to the PM, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Jhansi MP Anurag Sharma and district magistrate Andra Vamsi for helping her in the venture. Talking to TOI, Vamsi said, “we are promoting horticulture crop along with mixed dry land farming in Bundelkhand with technological help from Central Agroforestry Research Institute and Grassland Research Institute to raise income of farmers. They are being trained with latest agri-technology.” The Jhansi strawberry festival was virtually inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on January 17 and will continue till February 16. Yogi had said, “the festival will change people’s perception about Bundelkhand. By sheer hard work and innovation, farmers will make history.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mann-ki-baat-modi-invokes-miracle-of-strawberry-cultivation-in-parched-bundelkhand/articleshow/80620363.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Meerut||‘Will not let stature of PM diminish, but he should protect farmers’ self-respect’||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he was “just a phone call away”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait told TOI on Sunday that “the protesting farmers will not let the stature of PM diminish, but he should talk in farmers’ interest for a respectful solution”. The farmers are also committed to protecting their own self-respect and the PM should talk about their benefits, the farm leader, who led a massive 'mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar recently, said. "It will be our honour to meet the PM, if he calls us," he added. Tikait also appealed to the government to release the detained farmers and prepare an environment conducive for talks. "A middle path should be found. Talks should be held and a respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure." Farmers and citizens are suffering, a long protest is not good in anyone's interest and so the suffering of the people must end soon, Tikait said. On the injured Delhi cops, Tikait said that those who got hurt in the violence during the Republic Day tractor parade "are our sons too and farmers are ready to give blood for them, if needed". Tikait had earlier said, "I am really sorry for them [policemen who got hurt]. The Red Fort violence was a blot on our nation which cannot be washed away. The culprits should be arrested. Our National Flag is above everything, and we will never let anyone disrespect it. It will not be tolerated by farmers. But now, it is time to move on and we all should speak in the country's interest and the farmers' interest." He also demanded a fair investigation into the "conspiracy", and had asked the government to take back the FIRs against the protesting farmers. Tikait had presented a proposal before the Centre on Saturday to stay the three farm laws till the end of government's tenure. “Principally, we want the three farm laws to go. However, the government is adamant. We are ready for a compromise where neither of us wins or loses. As they have already suggested not to implement the laws for 18 months, they can extend it till 2024,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/will-not-let-stature-of-pm-diminish-but-he-shouldprotect-farmers-self-respect-says-bku-president/articleshow/80616833.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Polio can return to country from Pakistan, Afghanistan: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said though India was declared polio free in 2014, the debilitating disease could return to the country from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nigeria, where polio is yet to be eradicated. He was speaking at the launch of the pulse polio campaign, which aims to vaccinate 3.4 crore infants, a mammoth exercise which will run parallel to the Covid vaccination drive. A team of health officials would reach out to 69,000 households in the state over the next six days to vaccinate children. UP health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh took part in the campaign by administering vaccine to an infant in Siddharthnagar. The chief minister said, a child was not only a priceless ‘dharohar’ (legacy) of a family, but of the nation. Exhorting people to get their children vaccinated at the nearest booth, the CM stressed on the need to launch an exhaustive campaign against polio. He also made an appeal to people to shun orthodox ideas associated with administering polio drops. At least 3.30 lakh vaccinators, 23,000 supervisors, 6,500 transit teams and 1,700 mobile teams were deployed on Sunday for smooth conduct of the campaign. Yogi reiterated that the state government was working to improve health infrastructure under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi. He said, it was because of the untiring efforts of health workers that the state was able to control the pandemic. He said, his government was not only working to increase the number of hospitals in the state, but also expanding their capacity and providing ambulance services in all districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/polio-can-return-to-country-from-pak-afghanistan-yogi/articleshow/80620260.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||65,000 frontline workers to get jabs in 2nd phase in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: An estimated 65,000 frontline workers in the city will be vaccinated against coronavirus in the second phase of the mass immunization drive starting February 5. These frontline workers include police personnel, paramilitary forces, home guards, revenue officials, Panchayati Raj employees and sanitization workers, among others. “A list of 52,500 beneficiaries has been prepared so far. It includes 33,998 security personnel including police, 10,328 employees of civic and urban development agencies like Lucknow Municipal Corproation and Lucknow Development Authority and 8,000 employees of revenue department. About 12,000 Panchayati Raj employees will also be added in the list in a day or two,” district immunization officer Dr MK Singh said. While 10% of these frontline workers will get the shots in the first round on February 5, the remaining will be distributed equally for vaccination in three subsequent rounds on February 11, 12 and 18, respectively.  The leftover beneficiaries will get the vaccine shot in the mopup round on February 22. Dr Singh said meetings would be held on Monday and Tuesday to decide the roadmap for the drive. “We are hopeful of achieving the target by using our full capacity of inoculating 18,000 people daily,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/65k-frontline-workers-to-get-jabs-in-2nd-phase/articleshow/80620343.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Law minister lauds chemists’ role in lockdown||LUCKNOW: Law and justice minister Brajesh Pathak on Sunday lauded pharmacists and medical shop owners for valuable services rendered by them during the Covid induced lockdown. Speaking as chief guest at a function organised by the Dawa Vikreta Welfare Samiti at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee convention centre here on Sunday, he said, “We all are indebted to medical shop owners who worked tirelessly in the pandemic to ensure medicines reach the needy persons. The minister said that the president of the association Vinay Shukla worked round the clock with the district administration and did not allow anybody to suffer for want of medicines. Later, praising the minister for extending full support to chemists, Shukla said that Pathak was proving to be a great asset for the people of Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/law-min-laudschemists-rolein-lockdown/articleshow/80620312.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Time to end UP’s caste & communal politics: AAP||LUCKNOW: Aam Aadmi Party MP and UP in charge Sanjay Singh said that it was time to end the communal and caste politics in UP, saying that his party would campaign on the basis of its Delhi model of development. The party has recently announced its plans of contesting elections in six states over the next two years, including UP, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. Singh says that with Congress weakened significantly, AAP is being seen as an alternative at the national level, having delivered on its promise of development in Delhi. Elaborating on the party’s strategy for UP, Singh said that the upcoming zila panchayat elections would be crucial for it, after which it would prepare for the 2022 assembly polls. “Caste and communal politics have been dragged to their extreme end and when that happens, such issues fail to enthuse people. Employment is a major issue in UP, as are farmers and corruption. If one looks at issues like law and order, caste, Covid corruption, AAP has played the role of the Opposition in these matters and there is positivity among people towards the party,” he said. As an example, he said, when Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited UP a few days earlier, he had come to speak about education but was stopped by the government because it had no foundation in development issues to debate on. “We will speak on our agenda of water, power and education. Religion is one’s personal belief and politicizing it is not right. UP’s people have to decide. We will give them free power and education. If we convince them about our agenda then they will vote for us,” he said. Expressing confidence about AAP’s chances in UP, Singh said that BJP is currently going through a phase of deep dissatisfaction with at least four to five power centres including two deputy CMs and the entry of Modi aide AK Sharma. “What does it say of a party whose 200 MLAs sit in protest against their CM at the Vidhan Sabha. AAP is likely to get some advantage from BJP's internal fight. Secondly, the so called established parties of UP like SP, Congress or BSP are not playing their role of the Opposition, a space which we have occupied successfully over the past few months,” Singh said. AAP, which is still in the process of developing its organization in UP, will be banking on party chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the elections. However, Singh says that it will not be a disadvantage for it. “Every party has a leader and our leader is Kejriwal. In Delhi, there are 17 MLAs who have UP links and all of them will campaign here. In 2017, when Yogi Adityanath became chief minister, BJP fought the election in Narendra Modi’s name. BJP fights all elections, even local ones, on Modi’s name so why should we have a problem,” he said. He added that the recent spree of joinings in the party, including a large section of Congress and SP members, would only strengthen AAP at the grassroot level. Adding that the party still had a long way to go to have a strong organization in place, it had managed to achieve significant progress over a short period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/time-to-end-ups-caste-communal-politics-aap/articleshow/80620359.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 1, 2021||Chennai||V K Sasikala discharged from Bengaluru hospital||BENGALURU/CHENNAI: Former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala was on Sunday discharged from Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru where she was treated for Covid-19. On January 27, while she was in hospital for Covid treatment, Sasikala, was released from the Bengaluru prison where she completed four years of imprisonment following her conviction in a disproportionate assets case. An AIADMK flag fluttered on the bonnet of the car in which Sasikala left the hospital. She headed to a resort near Nandi Hills, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, where she’s expected to recuperate for a week. Around 11.30am, she walked out of the hospital to cheers and slogans from about 300 supporters. They showered flower petals as she got into the front seat of her car, a Toyota Land Cruiser Prado, which was part of an eight-car convoy. Sasikala’s release turned on the heat in Tamil Nadu politics, coming as it does ahead of the April-May assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Among the supporters waiting to welcome her was her nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran. “She will return to Chennai after February 7,” he said. The plan, as of now, is that she’ll go by road to Tamil Nadu in a massive show of strength and support. Dr Ramesh Krishna K, medical superintendent, Victoria Hospital, said, “Sasikala Natarajan is asymptomatic, is stable in all vital parameters and blood sugar is under control." AIADMK flag on Sasikala's car creates flutterThe AIADMK flag on the car carrying V K Sasikala to a farmhouse in Bengaluru outskirts drew sharp reactions from party leaders in Tamil Nadu. Law minister C Ve Shanmugham warned legal action would be taken against anyone, who is not a member of the party, misusing the flag. Minister D Jayakumar said, “She is not associated with the party in any way. She is not even a primary member of the AIADMK. How can she use the party flag?” AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said, “I strongly condemned Sasikala for using our party’s flag in her car."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/80618502.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Plastic picker to PM Modi’s pick, Rajappan wants to do better||KOTTAYAM: This would have been a dream as far-fetched as the extent to which he goes to do his job. Every day 72-year-old Rajappan, alias Raju, scours Vembanad lake and the tributaries of Meenachil river for plastic waste discarded by tourists. Rajappan is usually home after sunset, only to resume his duties the very next morning. This has been his routine for the last 15 years and he earns his living by selling the collected plastic to scrap dealers. And on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ address, lauded Rajappan for his efforts to keep the ecologically sensitive Vembanad lake plastic-free. Rajappan is physically challenged with both his legs paralyzed from birth. A bachelor, he lives with his sister Vilasini in Manchadikkari in Arpookkara panchayat. Some local BJP party workers, who were alerted to the possibility of Modi mentioning Rajappan’s name, took him to a nearby house to watch the PM’s speech on television. Expressing happiness on being recognized by the PM, Rajappan said he will continue the work he has been doing. When asked whether he fears that more able-bodies persons would disrupt his livelihood, Rajappan said it is unlikely as nobody will be willing to do his job. “I would like to get a bigger motorized boat so that I can travel to more places and collect more plastic waste,” said Rajappan. Apart from this his only wish is a small house. Rajappan is a familiar face to the people on the banks of Kaippuzha and Pennar tributaries of Meenachil river and Vembanad lake. Fuelled by just a cup of black coffee prepared by his sister every morning he ventures out in his small country boat in search of plastic waste, which has become a curse for the ecology of the lake. After a ‘good catch’ he relaxes by sipping tea from a riverside shop. On days when he feels hungry he drops into one of his relatives’ houses by the waterbodies. Otherwise, the only food he has is when he returns home in the evening. The plastic is piled up on a plot of land belonging to a relative and he sells it for a meagre earning. Watch Kerala: Hailed by PM Modi for lake cleanup, 72-year-old divyang man wants to continue his solo effort||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plastic-picker-to-modis-pick-rajappan-wants-to-do-better/articleshow/80617431.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
February 1, 2021||Kochi||‘VIBGYOR’ to assist travellers in Munnar||Idukki: The district administration has developed mobile app named ‘VIBGYOR’ for sustainable tourism development in Munnar. The app and website for the special project ‘Code4Munnar’ were developed in a three-day hackathon which concluded here on Sunday. According to officials, the app will help travellers who reach Munnar to find out popular tourist spots, accommodation facilities, nearby hospitals, etc. The app includes seven main routes that connect from Munnar. The routes are Munnar-Koviloor-Vattavada, Munnar-Eravikulam National Park-Marayoor, Munnar-Suryanelli- Kolukkumala, Munnar-Anachal-Adimali, Munnar-Mankulam, Munnar- Mattuppetty and Munnar town-Old Munnar CSI Church. Designer Cyril Cyriac developed the logo for ‘Code4Munnar’. The app will also include details of Neelakurinji and Nilgiri Tahrs. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said that the mobile application would become functional by February second week. “There is no need for any mobile network to access the app and this facility would be helpful for travellers especially while going to remote areas in Munnar,” said Premkrishnan The district administration will provide training to guides through District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and will include the name of authorized guides in the app in the second phase. “The mobile app is expected to market tourism in Munnar to international level,” said Premkrishnan. The project is being implementing in association with an NGO, Kites Foundation, and DTPC. The quick response (QR) code will be displayed in all major tourism centres of Munnar. When a tourist scans the QR code, s/he will get all details regarding the destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vibgyor-to-assist-travellers-in-munnar/articleshow/80617421.cms||Sandeep Thomas
February 1, 2021||Puducherry||Will win more than 23 seats in Puducherry, says JP Nadda||PUDUCHERRY: BJP national president J P Nadda on Sunday said the party will win more than 23 seats in the assembly polls in the Union territory of Puducherry. The territory has 30 seats. The BJP, which contested 18 seats in the last assembly polls, had lost all the seats. However, the BJP-led Centre nominated three local BJP functionaries as members of the legislative assembly. Nadda was here on Sunday to address a public meeting. He said the party will end corruption and ensure development in Puducherry. "The enthusiasm I see here gives me a clear indication that we are going to win more than 23 seats in Puducherry. You will see Puducherry will come up. There will be development. We will give a corruption-free government. The Centre will give adequate funds," he said. He said the party will hold local body polls, reopen the closed textile mills after modernizing them, enhance the employment opportunities for the educated unemployed youth by setting up industrial parks and pay pending salaries to the employees of the corporations for the last four years. He said the party will improve the road infrastructure and decongest traffic by constructing flyovers in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/will-win-more-than-23-seats-in-puducherry-says-nadda/articleshow/80618508.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK flag on Sasikala car creates flutter||The AIADMK flag on the car carrying V K Sasikala to a farmhouse in Bengaluru outskirts drew sharp reactions from party leaders in Tamil Nadu. Law minister C Ve Shanmugham warned legal action would be taken against anyone, who is not a member of the party, misusing the flag. Minister D Jayakumar said, “She is not associated with the party in any way. She is not even a primary member of the AIADMK. How can she use the party flag?” AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said, “I strongly condemned Sasikala for using our party’s flag in her car." tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-flag-on-sasikala-car-creates-flutter/articleshow/80618504.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Howrah rally: TMC charges BJP with ‘insulting’ national anthem||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Sunday criticised BJP leaders for their “incorrect rendition” of the national anthem at Howrah’s public rally. TMC also dubbed its defections “inconsequential”. Immediately after BJP’s rally ended, TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee posted a video on Twitter showing excerpts of the national anthem, and wrote, “Those preaching patriotism and nationalism can’t even sing our national anthem correctly. This is the party which claims to uphold India’s honour and pride! Shameful!" He then asked if the PM, Union home minister and BJP “will apologise for this anti-national act?” State education minister Partha Chatterjee said: “Shockingly when they should have sung Jana-Gana-Mangaldayak-Jaya-Hey, they repeated Jana-Gana-Mana-Adhinayaka-Jaya-Hey. For all their patriotism, only BJP can insult national anthem.” The video was also posted by TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien, who termed the incorrect rendition as “one more weekly blooper from the tourist gang”. Party MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar wrote, “BJP cannot even sing national anthem properly. The nation is stunned.” Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Nobody will believe so many BJP leaders on the dais did an incorrect rendition of the anthem. The allegation that all of them sang the incorrect version is baseless.” On the defections, Trinamool MP Saugata Roy termed them to be “inconsequential”. Chatterjee, addressing party workers in Behala, said: “In this political season, the tree is shedding leaves, but the tree is unaffected. Trinamool Congress cannot be bought with money. The defectors have different priorities, it isn't for people but themselves.” On Union home minister Amit Shah’s dynasty politics barbs, Roy said: “I do not know why he reiterates ‘bhaipo’ each time. We have never said that we are nominating Abhishek (Banerjee) as the chief minister. We want Mamata Banerjee to become the CM of West Bengal.” Roy also denied Shah’s allegation of not sending the list of the beneficiaries for Kisan Samman Nidhi. “Let them approve the list first. We will surely send the details.” TMC minister Chandrima Bhattacharya pointed out how Bengal's Krishak Bandhu scheme gave farmers Rs 5,000 per acre against PM-Kisan’s Rs 1,214 per acre. The state scheme, she said, benefited all farmers whereas the central scheme benefited only small and marginal farmers with up to 2 hectares of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-charges-bjp-with-insulting-national-anthem/articleshow/80619973.cms||Rohit Khanna
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||AIMIM man in Mumbai booked for duping Surat businessman of Rs 1 crore||MUMBAI: The city crime branch has booked AIMIM functionary Imran Qureshi for allegedly posing as garment trader and duping a Surat-based businessman of over Rs 1 crore. His brother and father are also named in the FIR. Imran had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Chandivli and lost. Qureshis’ lawyer Wahab Khan claimed it was a bogus case that was politically motivated as Imran’s candidature “had eaten into the votes of a major party in the 2019 polls”—four-time Congress MLA Arif Nasim Khan had lost to Sena’s Dilip Lande by just 409 votes. But police said there are criminal cases pending against Imran. Complainant Rajesh Jain said in September 2020, an agent introduced him to “Shravanlal Chouhan (Imran) and his brother” who owned Infax Trading, a garment trading firm in Ghatkopar. “Till November, they placed several orders, but made only few payments. When the pending bills touched Rs 1.2 crore, Jain called up ‘Chauhan’ who said they were facing financial problems,” said a cop. Jain told TOI that later he came to Mumbai and found the office locked, and ‘Chauhan’s’ phone switched off. After making enquiries, Jain learnt that ‘Chauhan’ was Imran. When he reached the Qureshis’ place in Andheri, Imran, Irfan and their father Akram allegedly threatened him saying they have ‘political connections’, while their men waved choppers at him. Khan said, “The court has granted interim relief to Akram; Imran and Irfan’s anticipatory bail hearing is on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aimim-man-booked-for-duping-surat-bizman-of-rs-1cr/articleshow/80620031.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Apathy of past govts led to groundwater depletion: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday accused the previous governments of neglecting the issue of groundwater recharge which led to the creation of 200 dark zones in the state since 1994. Inaugurating a groundwater web portal and dedicating 278 projects (166 check dams and 112 ponds) to the people, the CM said, “Had previous state governments taken note of the problem, groundwater shortage would have not occurred.” The CM also spoke to the representatives of rural local bodies and farmers to get their feedback on measures to conserve and recharge groundwater. He also sought response from representatives of companies on the web portal for seeking NOC for use of groundwater and recharging it through suitable measures. He said there was a ban on installation and use of tube-wells in dark zones and no NOC was granted to industry having heavy water use. “The efforts taken were inadequate. It is unfortunate that a state blessed with natural resources was having groundwater shortage,” the CM added. He said after the BJP came to power in 2017, voluntary organisations helped the government in addressing the problem to a great extent. “Existence of diseases like Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, besides the problem of arsenic and fluoride in groundwater projects people’s callousness towards proper use of groundwater and its management,” he added. The CM said the implementation of Swacch Bharat Mission and supply of safe drinking water to households, especially in east UP districts, brought down the death rate due to JE/AES by 95%. “The Groundwater Management Act, 2019, also helped in implementation of requisite measures, including linking of all government buildings with rainwater harvesting, to recharge groundwater. Earlier, only 10 districts were selected under Atal Bhujal Yojana but our government decided to implement the scheme in all 75 districts, given the vital use of water and the rising demand for it,” Yogi said. “Problems are bound to arise whenever there is any mismatch between demand and supply. Though the efforts taken by the government in revival of ponds has changed the situation, the challenge of implementing rainwater harvesting persists,” he said. The CM said that the Rs 15,000-crore Har Ghar Yojana was being expedited to ensure adequate availability of potable water, essentially in Bundelkhand and Vindhyachal regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/apathy-of-past-govts-led-to-groundwater-depletion-cm/articleshow/80620249.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Covid: Myths busted, lessons learnt||By: Rajneesh Dube While fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, Uttar Pradesh has busted several myths and learned many lessons. Four lessons were discussed in the Part-I of this article. Here are the remaining three lessons in the concluding part: Lesson 5: Use technology and embrace new practices: There was an initial hesitancy when the Covid portal of UP that was launched initially for surveillance was proposed to be integrated with medical college testing labs and Covid hospital admissions and deaths. Concerns raised by doctors ranged from data integration problems with ICMR lab portal leading to vital delays in testing to some seasoned persons suggesting that so much of transparency in hospital outcomes might put the state at a disadvantage in media coverage which was highlighting the number of deaths. We resolved to go ahead nevertheless and the results were striking. Not only the government but the teams sitting at district level and the individual hospital could monitor each case and take corrective action within a much shorter response time, be it delay in testing process or transmission of testing results or uploading of deaths. Result? Huge efficiency gains, containment of case positivity rate and a fall in the Case Fatality Rate. Another instance was the eCCS, a doctor-to-doctor electronic Covid Care Support system operating on hub and spoke model, which enabled the doctors in smaller medical colleges to gain timely access to expert medical advice on management of complex comorbid patients from the top institutes of the state electronically. After a lot of foot dragging initially by the doctors sitting in spokes, the system stabilized later on and saved many lives by initiating appropriate therapies quickly before patients became critical. What SGPGI. KGMU and IMS, BHU, the three institutes guiding as hubs had learned in the first two months of pandemic was a key lesson — once a patient goes on ventilator, chances of recovery are minimal. Avoiding the ventilator was vital. Around 10,000 calls and emails have been attended so far. UP was among the first few states in India to experiment with convalescent plasma therapy in Covid patients; KGMU being the first public hospital in the country to do so. The results appeared to be encouraging and we went for upscaling of blood banks, bought equipment and trained pathologists and physicians. GIMS, Greater Noida – a medical school set up two years ago — emerged as the front runner in the state. Its death rate of admitted patients has been contained well and despite the ICMR and some other studies coming out with inconclusive evidence on the therapeutic efficacy of plasma therapy, the Institute among others went ahead with the therapy. And succeeded. Embracing this practice boldly has helped this small institution in keeping its Covid deaths low and the lesson learned is that in times of crisis, we cannot afford to wait for definitive evidence to emerge. Lesson 6: Human behaviour can be changed if monitored right: One nagging problem we faced in the early days was the all-round complaint by the admitted patients that the food being served was not up to the mark, bathrooms were dirty, linen was not being changed regularly, and senior doctors were not taking rounds. This was, of course, unacceptable. However, we realized that part of the problem emanated from the chronic neglect of public hospitals and the prevalent work culture of staff, which used to cater mostly to BPL patients but now were handling patients from the well-educated and middle class strata of the society. CCTV cameras were installed, kitchens overhauled and GOs issued. However, it didn’t seem to work. Then came an idea from a young officer in the CM office and regular telephonic feedback from patients admitted in Covid hospitals was started. Cellphones are permitted to be carried by the patients inside the wards since they are in complete physical isolation otherwise. The direct conversation was revealing, what all was being reported by the colleges were mere paper reports and it was only when the principals were confronted with these observations from ground zero that their inertia was broken. Senior doctors in many hospitals moved into the isolation wards wearing PPEs, sweeper duties were geared up and not only the quality of food served but also the punctuality of delivery went up drastically. It became a common saying in Delhi government hospital circles by patients admitted there that please make the food as good as what is being served in neighbouring Noida and Ghaziabad! The key lesson was: monitor-mentor-monitor. Relentlessly. Our barometer was the towering Rajdhani Covid Hospital set up at the SGPGI, Lucknow whose team of doctors and paramedics rose to the occasion in a big way early — establishing protocols of patientcare at par with the best in India. Another imaginative and highly effective exercise which was carried out on a daily basis was the concurrent death audit, on a crisp format, of Covid patients expired that day. This was in addition to the prevalent practice of hospital-based regular death audit, which was more detailed but took weeks to complete. The concurrent audit report was religiously scrutinized at all levels — the hospital, the DG office and most rigorously at the Team 11 meetings chaired by the CM. Each case was analysed for probable deficiencies, trends identified and corrective action monitored. Teams of officers and specialists were sent from Lucknow without wasting time, sometimes repeatedly, to highly affected cities like Agra, Meerut and Kanpur. The strategy succeeded. Myth busted: inertia in government sector is impossible to change. Lesson 7: Public-private partnership can deliver: A living testimony to this commandment is the massive network of 24 government plus 28 requisitioned private medical colleges in the state with dedicated Covid hospitals having in all close to 25,000 beds, which we managed to set up in a state generally known for its weak health infrastructure. Many people expected UP to become the epicentre of Covid deaths in the country with its vast population and weak resource base. This was not only belied, but the very perception was turned around. Interactive meetings were held with the management of these private colleges and their principals and staff were subsequently brought into the video conference rooms at par with those of the government colleges. It was like one big family. The CM’s vision that all Covid hospitals, government or private, have to be treated on the same footing as they provided treatment free of cost, demolished many bureaucratic rigidities. The package included reimbursement at Ayushman rates, free lab testing and free of cost PPEs. Complimentary hotels for staff quarantine were also offered, but it was heartening to note that many private colleges volunteered for their own accommodation. Later, when high flow oxygen therapy came up as an effective treatment modality, HFNC machines in addition to ventilators were provided by government to the private colleges on loan basis. We also actively coordinated with NABL and ICMR their proposals for establishment of level-2 Bio Safety Labs and today every college has one. An example of the impact it has had at the grassroots is the Moradabad division of the state, a vast area with no government medical college so far. The lone college with a multi-disciplinary medical team is that of the Teerthankar Mahaveer University. A level-3 Covid hospital with more than 100 ICU beds was set up there with government facilitation and as on date, it has treated successfully, at zero cost to the patient, more than 3500 patients, the largest number for any medical college in the state. And most of the admissions were seriously ill patients. Imagine what could have happened if this facility was not on board. Ditto for the vaccination drive. Hope it’s a happy ending. (Writer is additional chief secretary, medical education, Uttar Pradesh govt)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-myths-busted-lessons-learnt/articleshow/80620319.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kanpur||‘1984 riot victim’s kin shared horrific details of pogrom’||KANPUR: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Kanpur visited Chennai last week and recorded statements of a family of two Sikhs killed in Chakeri’s J K Colony area during the pogrom. The SIT went to Chennai since the family had migrated after the riots. “Our team members spoke to Harvinder Kaur, wife of deceased Surendra Singh, and their two daughters, who are married now. Surendra and his brother Narendra were brutally killed by a mob at JK Colony in Chakeri,” said SP SIT Balendu Bhushan. “Surendra’s wife shared the horrific details of the incident and said a mob of nearly 200 to 250 people barged into their and dragged out her husband and brother-in-law Narendra and then brutally battered them to death with bricks and stones on the street,” said sources in SIT. Harvinder told the SIT eam that Narendra’s wife later migrated to London, they added. “Now, SIT will approach Narendra’s wife, who lives with her children in London, and will record her statement through video conferencing,” added a senior SIT official. The state government had set up SIT on February 5, 2019, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the Supreme Court had issued a notice to the state government in August, 2017 on a petition seeking SIT probe into the riots. The four-member SIT, headed by retired UP DGP Atul, includes retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary. In November 2020, the state government gave another six-month extension to the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/1984-riot-victims-kin-shared-horrific-details-of-pogrom/articleshow/80619976.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh expects funds for bullet train, def corridor sops||LUCKNOW: All eyes In Uttar Pradesh are on the Union Budget to be presented on Monday, resting hopes on new projects and sops being announced for the state which will be going to the polls next year. Most expectations are on budgetary sanctions for the ambitious Varanasi-Delhi bullet train project, besides certain sops for the Defence Industrial Corridor and the manufacturing sector in NCR. There is conjecture that Centre may increase Kisan Samman Nidhi from Rs 6,000 every year to Rs 8,000 or above keeping in mind the ongoing agitation of farmers against the three new farm laws. The Union budget may focus on more agri-infrastructure and may offer concessions and subsidies on warehouses and cold-chain. The central government had announced Varanasi-Delhi bullet train project and the state is expecting some budgetary provisions for the financial year 2021-22 since Varanasi is the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Considering the Prime Minister’s growing emphasis on ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India), UP is also expecting some announcements for the defence industrial corridor to lure more investment. Since the next assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled to be held within a year, Prime Minister Modi has been himself making announcements for the state under various projects and welfare programmes, and hence the Yogi Adityanath government and the people of the state at large are expecting some good news from the Union budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-expects-funds-for-bullet-train-def-corridor-sops/articleshow/80620306.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 1, 2021||Meerut||UP: Constable, 26, shoots at woman colleague, then tries to kill self||AMROHA: A police constable allegedly opened fire at a woman colleague and later shot himself too after a brief argument in UP’s Amroha district on Sunday evening. They were admitted to a Moradabad hospital in a critical condition. Manoj Kumar, 26, barged into the residence of constable Megha Chaudhary, 25, and shot at her. He later shot at himself too. The reason is yet to be known. Amroha’s superintendent of police Suniti said that both of them were from the 2018 batch and knew each other. The woman constable lived in a rented house at Avantika Nagar colony of Gajraula in Amroha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/constable-26-shoots-at-woman-colleague-then-tries-to-kill-self/articleshow/80617432.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 1, 2021||Goa||Tillari canal repair works to be complete by Wednesday||Bicholim/Saligao: After water supply from the Tillari irrigation project was cut-off to parts of Bicholim and Bardez due to damage to a canal, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has made alternative arrangements for supply to fields under cultivation in these parts of North Goa. WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil said that water supply from the irrigation project will be restored by Wednesday. In the meantime, for agricultural land in Sal and Hansapur in Bicholim taluka and Guirim in Bardez taluka, WRD has started supplying water through various mediums, including tankers. Patil said that water from various places is being pumped in and piped to the farms. The department has pressed into service 80 pipes of 160mm and 10 pipes of 200mm diameter to supply water to the affected agricultural fields, Patil said. The Tillari irrigation project canal carrying water from the reservoir in Maharashtra to Goa was damaged last week. “A team from WRD has been dedicated to make alternative arrangements to ensure that water is supplied to the affected fields,” said Patil. Last week, a team from the WRD had also carried out inspection of agricultural land in Assonora after the farmers complained that lack of water supply had left their fields parched. The farmers belonging to Charode Khazan Association have raised concerns over the lack of water supply from an irrigation canal coming from the Tillari reservoir. The farmers said they will suffer immense losses due to the lack of water to irrigate their fields. The farmers have demanded that the water supply should be restored immediately. The WRD engineers who visited the spot heard the grievances of the farmers and assured that a solution would be found soon. Farmer Buburao Gurav said that the flow of water should be maintained evenly through the week. “The WRD officials should immediately fix a pump or construct a pump house so that there is regular supply of water from the canal,” said Gurav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tillari-canal-repair-works-to-be-complete-by-wednesday/articleshow/80620551.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||2.5k healthcare workers vaccinated, no new Covid-19 cases in seven hill districts||Dehradun: The novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 96,129 as 61 new infections were recorded from across the state on Sunday. According to the data provided by the health department, seven hill districts reported no new cases on Sunday. The state currently has 1,175 active cases. Among these, the maximum of 212 active Covid-19 cases are in Nainital, followed by 206 in Dehradun, 180 in Haridwar, and 117 in Udham Singh Nagar. Apart from the fresh cases, 86 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Sunday, taking the recovery tally in the state to 91,966. The Covid-19 death toll reached 1,644 as one more fatality was recorded on the day. Meanwhile, 2,437 healthcare workers were inoculated in 50 vaccination sessions held across Uttarakhand on Sunday. The state has, so far, managed to vaccinate 31,228 healthcare workers, nearly 40% of the total target, since January 16. In yet another significant development, Uttarakhand’s director general (health), Dr Amita Upreti, was awarded with the ‘corona warrior’ award by Union minister Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi on Sunday. Dr Upreti was awarded on the occasion of 29th National Women’s Day. She dedicated the award to all the health department staff workers in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-5k-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-no-new-covid-19-cases-in-seven-hill-districts/articleshow/80617435.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||SHO among 4 cops suspended for laxity in rape attempt case||Lucknow: Four policemen, including a station house officer and a sub-inspector, were suspended on Sunday for laxity and failing to act on the complaint of rape attempt lodged by a teacher of a government primary school in Sitapur. Cops swung into action when a video of policemen trying to delay the lodging of FIR went viral. The teacher was returning from her school on January 28 when a man forcibly took her to the fields and sexually assaulted her. He also looted her bag, earrings and Rs 2,000 before fleeing the spot. When the teacher approached Sandana police station, she was kept waiting for lodging of her complaint despite there being a women helpdesk. Senior police officials took cognizance of the matter when the video highlighting the laxity went viral. Circle officer, Misrikh, Mahendra Pratap Singh said, “Sandana police kept the woman waiting though there is a women helpdesk at every police station. A video also surfaced where the cops are seen asking a number of questions to the woman and telling her to wait outside the police station.” He said though the FIR under the charges of sexual harassment, attempt to commit robbery and loot was lodged the same day but the process was delayed. Taking strong note of the incident, the Sitapur SP suspended SHO, Sandana, RB Suman, sub-inspector Vijay Shankar, head constable Surya Pal Singh and lady constable Rekha Sharma. Six teams were formed to investigate the matter after which the accused, Ram Sajeevan, was arrested on Saturday. Police said the accused ran a rickshaw in Lucknow and had been stalking the teacher to know about her routine. He would be booked under the Goonda Act, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sho-among-4-cops-suspended-for-laxity-in-rape-attempt-case/articleshow/80620295.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kanpur||Strawberry cultivation in parched Bundelkhand a miracle: PM Modi||JHANSI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi invoked a miracle in Bundelkhand, where strawberries were being grown in the parched, arid region during his Mann ki Baat programme on Sunday. He lauded the innovative skill of a law student, who steered the month-long strawberry festival in Jhansi and praised the spirit of Bundelkhand farmers, who were breaking stereotype to open new avenues in agriculture. Innovation and technology were used to cultivate strawberries, which otherwise grows in hills, the prime minister said. “When I mention Bundelkhand, what comes to your mind? Those inclined to history will connect the area with Jhansi’s Rani Lakshmi Bai or serene environs of Orchha, while others will relate to the extreme heat conditions, but something different is happening here. A month-long strawberry festival was organized in Jhansi. Everyone was surprised. Strawberry and Bundelkhand? But this is the truth,” the PM said. He particularly referred to a Jhansi-based woman law student, Gurleen Chawla, who grew the fruit on her terrace, before taking it to the farm. Overwhelmed by Modi’s praise, Gurleen told to TOI she was thankful to the PM, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Jhansi MP Anurag Sharma and district magistrate Andra Vamsi for helping her in the venture. Talking to TOI, Vamsi said, “we are promoting horticulture crop along with mixed dry land farming in Bundelkhand with technological help from Central Agroforestry Research Institute and Grassland Research Institute to raise income of farmers. They are being trained with latest agri-technology.” The Jhansi strawberry festival was virtually inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on January 17 and will continue till February 16. Yogi had said, “the festival will change people’s perception about Bundelkhand. By sheer hard work and innovation, farmers will make history.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pm-strawberry-cultivation-in-parched-bundelkhand-a-miracle/articleshow/80619983.cms||Arindam Ghosh
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Teen rape survivor delivers baby boy, juvenile accused held||LUCKNOW: A 14-year-old girl, who was being sexually exploited by her 16-year-old neighbour for the last one year, gave birth to a baby boy at the Unnao district hospital on Friday. The matter came to light on Friday when the girl’s maternal grandfather lodged an FIR at Kotwali police station. Cops said the girl got pregnant in April last year but the family did not lodge a complaint due to stigma and societal pressure. The police produced the accused, a high school dropout, before a Juvenile Justice Board which sent him to a shelter home on Saturday. The samples of the accused youth will be sent for DNA profiling after taking consent from his parents. Circle officer, Unnao (city), Gaurav Kumar Tripathi told TOI, “We conducted a preliminary investigation and found that the survivor and her two younger siblings had been living with their maternal grandfather. The girl’s mother had passed away two years ago after which her father, a drunkard, left them at the house of his father-in-law,” he said. “The complainant alleged that a boy living in his neighbourhood lured his granddaughter and started sexually exploiting her in his absence. The girl got pregnant in April last year but the family did not report the matter to the police due to social stigma,” said Tripathi. “In her statement to police, the girl also disclosed the name of her neighbour. The accused was produced before Juvenile Justice Board and sent to a shelter home. DNA profiling of the accused will be done after taking his family’s consent,” the CO added. District child welfare officer, Unnao, Sanjay Mishra said the girl required blood which was transfused on Sunday evening. “Both the mother and the child are doing fine,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-rape-survivor-delivers-baby-boy-juvenile-accused-held/articleshow/80620327.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: SP miscalculation enables BJP to have its own protem chairman||LUCKNOW: Has Samajwadi Party’s political miscalculation paved way for the BJP to have its nominee Manvendra Singh as protem chairperson of legislative council. Manvendra Singh, a BJP veteran, was sworn in as pro-tem chairman by Governor Anandiben Patel in Raj Bhawan at 10.45 am on Sunday. The Raj Bhawan had not issued any press release in this regard till late Saturday evening and had also not invited media for the function. The post of the council chairman fell vacant on Saturday after the completion of the term of incumbent chairman Ramesh Yadav. The BJP hurriedly decided to have Manvendra Singh, a member of the council, as protem chairman and a letter by the SP made the task of the ruling party easier. Though Ahmed Hasan, an SP MLC, was senior to Manvendra Singh, a letter issued by the SP on June 29 to the outgoing chairman for nominating Hasan as leader of the opposition in legislative council paved the way for the ruling party to have Manvendra as protem chairman. Hasan took oath of the member of the house and also leader of the opposition on Sunday afternoon. “Ideally, the SP should have sent the letter for Hasan after the election of the pro-tem chairman and not on January 29,” says a political observer. Since the SP itself had asked for the post of leader of opposition for its member, the BJP did not lose any time in seeking the post of protem chairman for Manvendra Singh. “If the Opposition would say that the senior most member has not been made pro-tem chairman of the council we would produce the SP’s letter that the party itself had sought the post of leader of opposition for its senior most member,” said a senior MLC of the BJP. The SP has accused the BJP of violating the Constitution by elevating a member to the post of pro-tem chairman. Now, it will be seen whether the BJP would go for chairman’s election or prefer to run the council with a pro-tem chairman till it attains majority in Lower House. The SP is also determined to fight for election and have its chairman as it has a majority in council. The SP has petitioned the governor for the election. However, the ball is in the court of the protem chairman who will now decide if election is required or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-miscalculation-enables-bjp-to-have-its-own-protem-chairman/articleshow/80620300.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt digitizes PDS to check corruption in ration distribution||LUCKNOW: The state government has implemented online ration card management system through digitization of public distribution system to ensure transparency and check corruption. Under the system, data of all nearly 3.2 crore ration card holders and over 40 lakh beneficiaries of Antyodaya Scheme has been digitised. A government spokesperson said the department of civil supplies has scaled up monitoring and vigilance of ration shops (11,000 in urban and 68,850 in rural areas). “The data of all these shops have been digitised and the entire PDS is being run with the help of e-POS machines,” he said. The state government has also put in place Aadhaar verification and OTP certification to curb corruption. Computerised supply chain management system has also been linked to lifting of food grain from godowns and public distribution of ration. According to the data of department of civil supplies, more than 3.3 crore transactions were done through e-POS machines by November 2020. At the same time, nearly 3.3 crore transactions were done through Aadhaar card verification. The spokesman said the state government would also ensure doorstep delivery of ration to the elderly, ill and differently-abled people. The ration shop operators will supply ration to the homes of such people. “The scheme would be closely monitored by officials of civil supplies department and district administration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-digitizes-pds-to-check-corruption-in-ration-distribution/articleshow/80620289.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Varanasi||Commuting on Godowlia-Maidagin road to be a challenge for 5 months||VARANASI: The officials claim to complete the Godowlia-Dashashwamedh pedestrian road with heritage look by February-end, but the Godowlia-Maidagin road project will leave the people and pilgrims heading to Kashi Vishwanath temple struggling for next five months. Reason for it is the compulsion of keeping this road open for commute as not only major markets are located along it, but construction material for the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project is also transported through it. When TOI contacted divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal on Sunday, a day after he inspected both projects, he said, “The Godowlia-Maidagin road construction in heritage style has been delayed for over a year as the traders’ bodies had some objections on its design earlier. The road cannot be closed completely as major markets are located along it and it is also used for transporting construction material for the KV Dham project.” The work is being done in coordination of integrated power development scheme (IPDS), under which underground cabling has been done, and other departments like UP Jal Nigam to avoid any damage to underground cables or pipes during road cutting, he said. “Due to these complexities, work will be done in 300mt area at a time on one lane, and as a result, this project, under Smart City, will complete by June end only,” he said. But, the Godowlia-Dashashwamedh road will be completed by February end, said commissioner, though work on the stretch from Chitranjan Park to old Dashashwamedh Ghat has not been started even. The project of converting the Godowlia-Dashashwamedh road into a pedestrian route for pilgrims and tourists by giving it a heritage look had started in 2019. “Under Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) of the Government of India and Smart City project, a project of Rs 8.96 crore had been sanctioned to convert Godowlia-Dashashwamedh strtch into pedestrian route having heritage look. The Rajkiya Nirman Nigam was assigned the project and had to complete it by September 2020,” said Agrawal. However, the initial deadline was missed due to Covid-19 lockdown and the project was started immediately after the stalled projects were allowed to start again by the state government. The surface of this road is being covered with thick Vindhya stone plates with beautifully carved railings used as dividers. To support this project, a multi-level parking is also being constructed for two-wheelers only at a cost of Rs 26 crore at Godowlia crossing and will be complete in a month or two, Agarwal said. The basic plan is to use this route exclusively for pedestrians as it gets maximum footfall of pilgrims and tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/commuting-on-godowlia-maidagin-road-to-be-a-challenge-for-5-months/articleshow/80619659.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Parents welcome move to reopen schools in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Parents and school managements welcomed the state government’s decision to reopen schools from February 1. Parent associations expressed satisfaction over the guidelines issued by the education department which has been engaged in preparing the academic calendar and proposing cancelling summer holidays to complete the year’s syllabus. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, officials had declared holidays for schools since March 24 last year. Examinations had been cancelled and all students were promoted. With cases increasing till October, holidays were continued. School had started for students in higher classes in November in adherence with Covid-19 guidelines, a move which has been seen as a success. With Covid-19 cases coming down further, education minister Adimulapu Suresh directed authorities to start classes for primary students beginning Monday, February 1. District education officers have issued guidelines to private and government schools on conducting classes for primary students starting from Monday onwards. “Parents should take a call on sending students to classes. One should fill an undertaking to send their children to schools. Many parents are still not willing to send their children to schools and online classes will continue for them. Meanwhile, classes will be conducted with only 20 members per section. Washrooms and other common areas will be sanitised regularly. Teachers should be more careful and evaluate the health condition of students,” said Krishna DEO, Rajyalakshmi. Many parents who were initially hesitant to send their children to school, are now welcoming the move. “Class work is very important for kids. Online classes and e-learning have helped for a while but they are not equivalent to classroom learning. The number of daily Covid-19 cases is very less now and it is the right time to reopen schools,” said Sai K Ramana, a parent committee member at AKTP Municipal School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parents-welcome-move-to-reopen-schools/articleshow/80605381.cms||Venu Lanka
February 1, 2021||Goa||Govt to pvt hosps: Follow rules or no vaccines||Panaji: The state government has threatened to “stop providing vaccines to private hospitals and institutions” that inoculate persons who are not healthcare workers. Reacting to a TOI report on how the kith and kin of family-run hospitals’ management get the jab out of turn, the directorate of health services has said this violation is being viewed “seriously by the central government as well as the state government”. In its Sunday edition, TOI reported how these private hospitals listed and vaccinated their relatives and friends, and how this went unnoticed even after the beneficiary lists were uploaded to the Co-Win portal. Immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar wrote to the Goa chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to look into the matter and raise it with individual hospitals and clinics. He also asked the IMA to raise it with all seven of its branches. He said that if the state is forced to stop distributing vaccines to private institutions, “the whole programme of Covid vaccination may get disturbed”. IMA-Goa president Dr Vinayak Buvaji, in a letter to members, expressed his “unpleasant feelings” towards the “misuse and deflection” of the system. Slamming the “unprofessional way” in which some members acted, Buvaji advised them to go through the proper channels. “We along with active members of the IMA have been trying hard to get all healthcare workers under coverage of vaccination, working in harmony with the government system,” he wrote in his letter. He said that deviating from these guidelines would get IMA members and the state branch “in bad taste with the government system”. “This could be a serious matter amounting to loss of symbiotic relations with the government health system.” Buvaji also told IMA-Goa members that in the Covid crisis, inputs and participation from most of the private medical fraternity has been “negligible and we are at the receiving end”. “So, please don’t bypass the system, (or) some stringent action may be taken by the government system,” he said, adding that he hoped “good sense prevails”. Central guidelines state that in phase one, healthcare workers and only those registered on Co-Win are to be vaccinated. Lists of who are to be vaccinated on a particular day are shared by the directorate of health services with the hospitals concerned. However, if those on the list fail to report for vaccination, they get a chance to vaccinate people beyond the list. This relief is given so that hospitals meet their target, but it is suspected that some of the vaccinated people were not registered on the Co-Win portal. Before the drive was launched, IMA-Goa had called on both district collectors with a request for smooth registration of names submitted by respective private hospitals on the portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-pvt-hosps-follow-rules-or-no-vaccines/articleshow/80620554.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||CIMAP logo signifies goals & achievements||Lucknow: The new logo of Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) represents the amalgamation of India’s traditional knowledge with modern scientific discoveries and highlights quality research work and major achievements. The logo was launched at Kisan Mela organized by the institute on Sunday. CIMAP director PK Trivedi said, “The logo indicates new aspirations of the institute. It begins with supporting hands attached to two leaves that denote CIMAP scientists and technical officers holding leaves of medicinal plant mentha. It shows how CIMAP’s efforts have made India a leading exporter for mentha.” The logo tagline is ‘Towards better health and life’. It was selected after a national logo design competition that saw 20 participants from across the country. The logo designed by CIMAP’s senior technical officer Anil Maurya was finally selected. Maurya was felicitated on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cimap-logo-signifies-goals-achievements/articleshow/80620348.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||Is Lucknow heading towards herd immunity against Covid-19?||LUCKNOW: The steep decline in Covid-19 cases over the past one month could be a sign of the city moving towards herd immunity, say doctors. Reason: Since no significant change is visible in public behaviour with regard to safety protocols to check transmission, it seems a notable section of the population got exposed to the virus but remained asymptomatic and developed immunity without even knowing about it, they say. Times ViewIt has been scientifically proven that immunity, be it acquired through infection or by vaccination, against Covid-19 does not last long. Hence, safety protocols are must till the virus is eradicated. Precautions are also important because deaths continue to be relatively high despite steep decline in the transmission. As every life matters, only prevention from infection can reduce deaths till all in the vulnerable group are vaccinated.The decline in the transmission is also reflected in Lucknow’s positivity rate (positive cases in per hundred samples tested) which has come down from 3.2 % at the start of January to 0.5% at January end. In August-September, when pandemic was at its peak, the rate was 12-14%. It declined gradually thereafter. Herd immunity develops when 70-80% of the population has antibodies against a virus. “It seems that we are inching towards herd immunity. A serological survey report released in November last year had found about 22% population in Lucknow with antibodies against the novel coronavirus. Now, two-and-a-half-months later, the possibility of 50-60% population developing antibodies cannot be ruled out” said Prof Virendra Atam, head medicine, KGMU. A serological survey checks the presence of antibodies in people. It is conducted among those people who have not experienced any Covid-19 symptoms and never got tested for the infection. The presence of antibodies in such people shows that they got infected, remained asymptomatic and cured after developing antibodies without even knowing that they were carrying the virus. Lucknow’s population is around 50 lakh. The number of recorded Covid cases is above 81,000. This means that over 1.6% of the population is infected. If the survey findings, which found 22% of the population had antibodies, are taken into account, 11 lakh people had already been infected by November. Dr Anil Kumar Gulati, former director of microbiology department, Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU, said, “Herd immunity first develops in densely populated pockets. The number of such pockets increases with time and gradually covers the entire city population.” In the case of Lucknow, it appears that an increasing number of people are acquiring immunity, but only a fresh serological survey with a large sample size can help us reach a definite conclusion. Agreeing that declining trend could be because of immunity developed by many in urban areas after getting exposed to the coronavirus, Prof Ujjawala Ghoshal, head of microbiology, SGPGIMS, said that another reason as per “Hygiene Hypothesis” could be that our (Indians) immune system responded in a better way to the novel coronavirus in comparison to the western countries. “As per this hypothesis, tolerance among people exposed to microorganisms since childhood due to unhygienic surroundings is more as compared to those living in hygienic conditions. This also offers an explanation why Covid mortality remained lower in India than the western world,” she added. However, she said, people should still get vaccinated. “Vaccination will ensure immunisation of 70-90% of people at a time which is crucial to break the transmission chain.” Inoculation is also important because even if a person develops immunity after getting infected, the antibodies don’t last beyond 4-6 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/is-city-heading-towards-herd-immunity-against-covid-19/articleshow/80620341.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Hisar: Student’s body found hanging in hostel||HISAR: The body of a student of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar was found hanging by a fan in room number 112 of the varsity boys’ hostel. The students’ hands were tied with a rope, which makes the case suspicious. The deceased has been identified as Mahendra Singh, 26, a resident of Bhiradana village in Fatehabad district. Hisar police said a case has been registered on the complaint of Balbir Singh, father of the deceased student and resident of Bhirdana village in Fatehabad district against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. In his police complaint, he said his son was studying mass communication at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology and lived in room number 112 of the boys hostel. On Saturday evening, his body was found hanging by the fan in the hostel room. A suicide note was also found, which referred to his love affair, he said. The complainant said Mahendra’s hands were tied with a rope and knotted over twice or thrice, which suggested that he did not commit suicide but was murdered. Also, the skylight and window panes of his room were broken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-body-found-hanging-in-hostel/articleshow/80620054.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Five returning from cremation killed after car falls into gorge||Dehradun: Five persons — who were returning after attending a cremation of a relative — died after the car they were travelling fell into a deep gorge at Saknidhar near Devprayag in Tehri district of Uttarakhand on Sunday. The vehicle with five persons on board — all of whom died in the accident — was on its way to Rishikesh from Arkani village in Pauri district. The victims had gone there to attend the cremation of a relative, according to the District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC). On receiving information, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) from Dhalwala and an additional team from Jolly Grant rushed to the spot for rescue operation, according to the SDRF. "After several hours of rescue operation, the bodies of the victims were recovered from the gorge. Ropes and other equipment were used for pulling up the bodies," according to Alok Praveen, spokesperson of SDRF. The victims have been identified as Ajeet, resident of Jhajjar in Haryana; Sanjeev Kumar, resident of Rishikesh; Pawan Singh, resident of Gurugram; Yogendra Singh Bhandari, resident of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad; and Dheeraj Singh Rawat, resident of Pauri Garhwal, according to SDRF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-returning-from-cremation-killed-after-car-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/80617484.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||‘Service to humanity core of every religion’||LUCKNOW: The primary pillar of every religion is service to humanity, said religious and educational leaders who shared the stage to indicate the strong secular fabric of the society. The occasion was the 21st seminar of all religions and national unity held in the city on Sunday. Speaking in the seminar, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahal said, “India is a bouquet of colourful flowers, with each of them having a unique fragrance which spreads across the country,” and added that “all religions press on service to humanity as the biggest worship”. Cabinet minister Brajesh Pathak, who was also present on the occasion, said, “The presence of so many religious heads on one stage shows the social fabric of our country and is a mirror of our unified society.” Head of Aashiana Parivar, RD Dwivedi, said, “Hinduism seeks respect for all religions of the world and puts the service of humanity at the highest pedestal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/service-to-humanity-core-of-every-religion/articleshow/80620354.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan civic body polls: Congress gets thin majority, independents to play key role||JAIPUR: Congress took a lead over the BJP in terms of the number of wards won in the municipal elections held in 20 districts when the results were declared on Sunday. But the BJP retained the Ajmer Municipal Corporation with a big margin. The ruling party would, however, have to depend on independent candidates to form governing boards in many of the 90 municipal bodies for which elections were held on January 28. Elections could not be held in one of the 3,035 wards in the 90 urban bodies due to the demise of a Congress candidate in Bhilwara’s Gulabpura Nagar Palika. Of the 3,034 wards for which results were announced, the Congress won 1,197 and the BJP got 1,140. The ruling party got a clear majority in 19 municipal bodies compared to BJP’s clear majority in 24 bodies, but senior Congress leaders claimed their party would form governing boards in over 50 of the 90 municipal bodies with the support of Independents and smaller parties. Independents stand in clear majority in nine urban bodies and will be a deciding factor in 37 bodies. Voting for electing chairpersons and governing boards would be held on February 7. Even as the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) was seen as the third big political force in the state after Congress and BJP because of its performances in the last assembly and general elections, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) sprung a surprise by surging past RLP and getting majority in two municipal bodies — Newai Nagar Palika in Tonk district and Nokha Nagar Palika in Bikaner district. The contest to form the governing body would be interesting in Nagaur’s Mundwa Nagar Palika where Congress and RLP have won 11 wards each, while BJP has pocketed two wards and the remaining one has gone to an independent. RLP broke ties with BJP recently over the stir on the three Union farm laws. Cong ahead in BJP bastions: MakenChief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “The vote percentage and the number of winning candidates, both are higher (than the BJP) for the Congress. In most places, the Congress will form the governing boards.” AICC general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken tweeted, “Congress is ahead in 48 of the 90 bodies that were considered BJP bastions. Independents have come in support of Congress in four cities. Possibility of (Congress) forming boards in 52 municipal bodies.” In terms of total number of municipal wards won, Congress finished third after BJP and independents in Tonk district, the political turf of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Of the five municipal bodies that went to polls in the district, BJP got majority in two, while NCP and Independents are in majority in one each. In the fifth body, Congress and independents have a tie by winning 10 wards each. The ruling party might turn the tables on BJP in Tonk district by winning the support of NCP and independents in three of the five municipal bodies to form the governing boards. Of the seven ministers in whose assembly segments the municipal elections were held, the Congress emerged victorious in constituencies of just two — health minister Raghu Sharma and sports minister Ashok Chandana. Congress got a clear majority in Kekri and Sarwar Nagar Palika, both of which fall in Sharma’s constituency. Similarly, the ruling party has a clear majority in Nainwa Nagar Palika, which comes under Chandana’s constituency. In Sikar’s Lakshmangarh Nagar Palika, which was the centre of attraction for being PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra’s constituency, the Congress and the BJP finished in a tie by winning 14 wards each. The 11 independents and one CPM ward member would now play the key role in forming the governing board there. Similarly, Congress would have to rely on independents and other parties to form governing boards in municipal bodies falling in constituencies of higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, minorities affairs minister Saleh Mohammad, forest minister Sukhram Vishnoi and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary. Of the five municipal bodies in the four constituencies where bypolls are due, Congress and BJP captured one each while independents got majority in three. Rajsamand went to Congress, Sahada to BJP, Bhinder in Udaipur and Sujangarh and Bidasar in Churu voted for independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/thin-majority-for-cong-in-raj-local-polls-independents-key/articleshow/80621516.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan civic body polls: Congress gets thin majority, independents to play key role||JAIPUR: Congress took a lead over the BJP in terms of the number of wards won in the municipal elections held in 20 districts when the results were declared on Sunday. But the BJP retained the Ajmer Municipal Corporation with a big margin. The ruling party would, however, have to depend on independent candidates to form governing boards in many of the 90 municipal bodies for which elections were held on January 28. Elections could not be held in one of the 3,035 wards in the 90 urban bodies due to the demise of a Congress candidate in Bhilwara’s Gulabpura Nagar Palika. Of the 3,034 wards for which results were announced, the Congress won 1,197 and the BJP got 1,140. The ruling party got a clear majority in 19 municipal bodies compared to BJP’s clear majority in 24 bodies, but senior Congress leaders claimed their party would form governing boards in over 50 of the 90 municipal bodies with the support of Independents and smaller parties. Independents stand in clear majority in nine urban bodies and will be a deciding factor in 37 bodies. Voting for electing chairpersons and governing boards would be held on February 7. Even as the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) was seen as the third big political force in the state after Congress and BJP because of its performances in the last assembly and general elections, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) sprung a surprise by surging past RLP and getting majority in two municipal bodies — Newai Nagar Palika in Tonk district and Nokha Nagar Palika in Bikaner district. The contest to form the governing body would be interesting in Nagaur’s Mundwa Nagar Palika where Congress and RLP have won 11 wards each, while BJP has pocketed two wards and the remaining one has gone to an independent. RLP broke ties with BJP recently over the stir on the three Union farm laws. Cong ahead in BJP bastions: MakenChief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “The vote percentage and the number of winning candidates, both are higher (than the BJP) for the Congress. In most places, the Congress will form the governing boards.” AICC general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken tweeted, “Congress is ahead in 48 of the 90 bodies that were considered BJP bastions. Independents have come in support of Congress in four cities. Possibility of (Congress) forming boards in 52 municipal bodies.” In terms of total number of municipal wards won, Congress finished third after BJP and independents in Tonk district, the political turf of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Of the five municipal bodies that went to polls in the district, BJP got majority in two, while NCP and Independents are in majority in one each. In the fifth body, Congress and independents have a tie by winning 10 wards each. The ruling party might turn the tables on BJP in Tonk district by winning the support of NCP and independents in three of the five municipal bodies to form the governing boards. Of the seven ministers in whose assembly segments the municipal elections were held, the Congress emerged victorious in constituencies of just two — health minister Raghu Sharma and sports minister Ashok Chandana. Congress got a clear majority in Kekri and Sarwar Nagar Palika, both of which fall in Sharma’s constituency. Similarly, the ruling party has a clear majority in Nainwa Nagar Palika, which comes under Chandana’s constituency. In Sikar’s Lakshmangarh Nagar Palika, which was the centre of attraction for being PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra’s constituency, the Congress and the BJP finished in a tie by winning 14 wards each. The 11 independents and one CPM ward member would now play the key role in forming the governing board there. Similarly, Congress would have to rely on independents and other parties to form governing boards in municipal bodies falling in constituencies of higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, minorities affairs minister Saleh Mohammad, forest minister Sukhram Vishnoi and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary. Of the five municipal bodies in the four constituencies where bypolls are due, Congress and BJP captured one each while independents got majority in three. Rajsamand went to Congress, Sahada to BJP, Bhinder in Udaipur and Sujangarh and Bidasar in Churu voted for independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/thin-majority-for-cong-in-raj-local-polls-independents-key/articleshow/80621515.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan civic body polls: Congress gets thin majority, independents to play key role||JAIPUR: Congress took a lead over the BJP in terms of the number of wards won in the municipal elections held in 20 districts when the results were declared on Sunday. But the BJP retained the Ajmer Municipal Corporation with a big margin. The ruling party would, however, have to depend on independent candidates to form governing boards in many of the 90 municipal bodies for which elections were held on January 28. Elections could not be held in one of the 3,035 wards in the 90 urban bodies due to the demise of a Congress candidate in Bhilwara’s Gulabpura Nagar Palika. Of the 3,034 wards for which results were announced, the Congress won 1,197 and the BJP got 1,140. The ruling party got a clear majority in 19 municipal bodies compared to BJP’s clear majority in 24 bodies, but senior Congress leaders claimed their party would form governing boards in over 50 of the 90 municipal bodies with the support of Independents and smaller parties. Independents stand in clear majority in nine urban bodies and will be a deciding factor in 37 bodies. Voting for electing chairpersons and governing boards would be held on February 7. Even as the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) was seen as the third big political force in the state after Congress and BJP because of its performances in the last assembly and general elections, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) sprung a surprise by surging past RLP and getting majority in two municipal bodies — Newai Nagar Palika in Tonk district and Nokha Nagar Palika in Bikaner district. The contest to form the governing body would be interesting in Nagaur’s Mundwa Nagar Palika where Congress and RLP have won 11 wards each, while BJP has pocketed two wards and the remaining one has gone to an independent. RLP broke ties with BJP recently over the stir on the three Union farm laws. Cong ahead in BJP bastions: MakenChief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “The vote percentage and the number of winning candidates, both are higher (than the BJP) for the Congress. In most places, the Congress will form the governing boards.” AICC general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken tweeted, “Congress is ahead in 48 of the 90 bodies that were considered BJP bastions. Independents have come in support of Congress in four cities. Possibility of (Congress) forming boards in 52 municipal bodies.” In terms of total number of municipal wards won, Congress finished third after BJP and independents in Tonk district, the political turf of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Of the five municipal bodies that went to polls in the district, BJP got majority in two, while NCP and Independents are in majority in one each. In the fifth body, Congress and independents have a tie by winning 10 wards each. The ruling party might turn the tables on BJP in Tonk district by winning the support of NCP and independents in three of the five municipal bodies to form the governing boards. Of the seven ministers in whose assembly segments the municipal elections were held, the Congress emerged victorious in constituencies of just two — health minister Raghu Sharma and sports minister Ashok Chandana. Congress got a clear majority in Kekri and Sarwar Nagar Palika, both of which fall in Sharma’s constituency. Similarly, the ruling party has a clear majority in Nainwa Nagar Palika, which comes under Chandana’s constituency. In Sikar’s Lakshmangarh Nagar Palika, which was the centre of attraction for being PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra’s constituency, the Congress and the BJP finished in a tie by winning 14 wards each. The 11 independents and one CPM ward member would now play the key role in forming the governing board there. Similarly, Congress would have to rely on independents and other parties to form governing boards in municipal bodies falling in constituencies of higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, minorities affairs minister Saleh Mohammad, forest minister Sukhram Vishnoi and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary. Of the five municipal bodies in the four constituencies where bypolls are due, Congress and BJP captured one each while independents got majority in three. Rajsamand went to Congress, Sahada to BJP, Bhinder in Udaipur and Sujangarh and Bidasar in Churu voted for independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thin-majority-for-cong-in-raj-local-polls-independents-key/articleshow/80620060.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan civic body polls: Congress gets thin majority, independents to play key role||JAIPUR: Congress took a lead over the BJP in terms of the number of wards won in the municipal elections held in 20 districts when the results were declared on Sunday. But the BJP retained the Ajmer Municipal Corporation with a big margin. The ruling party would, however, have to depend on independent candidates to form governing boards in many of the 90 municipal bodies for which elections were held on January 28. Elections could not be held in one of the 3,035 wards in the 90 urban bodies due to the demise of a Congress candidate in Bhilwara’s Gulabpura Nagar Palika. Of the 3,034 wards for which results were announced, the Congress won 1,197 and the BJP got 1,140. The ruling party got a clear majority in 19 municipal bodies compared to BJP’s clear majority in 24 bodies, but senior Congress leaders claimed their party would form governing boards in over 50 of the 90 municipal bodies with the support of Independents and smaller parties. Independents stand in clear majority in nine urban bodies and will be a deciding factor in 37 bodies. Voting for electing chairpersons and governing boards would be held on February 7. Even as the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) was seen as the third big political force in the state after Congress and BJP because of its performances in the last assembly and general elections, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) sprung a surprise by surging past RLP and getting majority in two municipal bodies — Newai Nagar Palika in Tonk district and Nokha Nagar Palika in Bikaner district. The contest to form the governing body would be interesting in Nagaur’s Mundwa Nagar Palika where Congress and RLP have won 11 wards each, while BJP has pocketed two wards and the remaining one has gone to an independent. RLP broke ties with BJP recently over the stir on the three Union farm laws. Cong ahead in BJP bastions: MakenChief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “The vote percentage and the number of winning candidates, both are higher (than the BJP) for the Congress. In most places, the Congress will form the governing boards.” AICC general secretary in-charge Ajay Maken tweeted, “Congress is ahead in 48 of the 90 bodies that were considered BJP bastions. Independents have come in support of Congress in four cities. Possibility of (Congress) forming boards in 52 municipal bodies.” In terms of total number of municipal wards won, Congress finished third after BJP and independents in Tonk district, the political turf of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Of the five municipal bodies that went to polls in the district, BJP got majority in two, while NCP and Independents are in majority in one each. In the fifth body, Congress and independents have a tie by winning 10 wards each. The ruling party might turn the tables on BJP in Tonk district by winning the support of NCP and independents in three of the five municipal bodies to form the governing boards. Of the seven ministers in whose assembly segments the municipal elections were held, the Congress emerged victorious in constituencies of just two — health minister Raghu Sharma and sports minister Ashok Chandana. Congress got a clear majority in Kekri and Sarwar Nagar Palika, both of which fall in Sharma’s constituency. Similarly, the ruling party has a clear majority in Nainwa Nagar Palika, which comes under Chandana’s constituency. In Sikar’s Lakshmangarh Nagar Palika, which was the centre of attraction for being PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra’s constituency, the Congress and the BJP finished in a tie by winning 14 wards each. The 11 independents and one CPM ward member would now play the key role in forming the governing board there. Similarly, Congress would have to rely on independents and other parties to form governing boards in municipal bodies falling in constituencies of higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, minorities affairs minister Saleh Mohammad, forest minister Sukhram Vishnoi and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary. Of the five municipal bodies in the four constituencies where bypolls are due, Congress and BJP captured one each while independents got majority in three. Rajsamand went to Congress, Sahada to BJP, Bhinder in Udaipur and Sujangarh and Bidasar in Churu voted for independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/thin-majority-for-cong-in-raj-local-polls-independents-key/articleshow/80621514.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Centre’s directive on global webinars raises concerns among scientists, doctors||MUMBAI: The Centre’s directive asking public-funded institutions, including educational institutions, PSUs or any organisation, to seek prior approval from the Ministry of External Affairs for participating in and conducting virtual international seminars has raised concerns among academicians, scientists and doctors. Many see it as a move to curtail democratic space and are wary about the broad classification mentioned in the circular. Aniket Sule from Homi Bhabha Institute of Science Education, TIFR, said that informing the government about conferences where international speakers are invited was always the norm. “But there were concerns of security breach, about them physically visiting sensitive locations. But now no participants are visiting the country physically and therefore, it should not be a problem,” he said, adding that academicians visiting abroad for events or even attending online never needed approval. “The respective departments will be flooded with requests and they will not be able to process on time,” he said. “Humanities will probably suffer more than science.” Soumitro Banerjee from IISER, Kolkata, said the institute is yet to get the directive, but added that he has apprehensions on how it will impact the open exchange of ideas in science. “If there are security concerns it is understandable. But science is international and any kind of roadblock will be detrimental for its growth. In most online seminars, the link is open to all and one cannot control who attends these sessions. Also, for online international conferences, delays in getting approvals from the government will effectively impact our participation in events,” said Banerjee. The order has come as a surprise to the medical fraternity as well. Doctors said online forums have become the primary source of information and knowledge exchange during the pandemic. Amar Jesani, editor, Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, called the decision “absurd”. “It is another unfortunate instance of closing down democratic space and scientific interaction,” he said. “Cyberspace is a free space where people discuss work and research freely. India will become a laughing stock with such decisions.” He questioned how such controls can be exercised on Facebook and YouTube where anyone can participate or ask a question. Bhopal-based Dr Anant Bhan, a researcher in bioethics, said science thrives through international academic exchange and discussions. “In today's world, this includes both physical and online modes. Already, government scientists and doctors have to take clearances for participation in meetings at institutional and other levels. To add another level of bureaucracy to this, especially procedural, is creating another barrier for Indian scientists,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centres-directive-on-global-webinars-raises-concerns-among-scientists-docs/articleshow/80620063.cms||Yogita Rao
February 1, 2021||Bengaluru||V K Sasikala discharged, to stay in Bengaluru for a few days||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK leader VK Sasikala was on Sunday discharged from Victoria Hospital where she was treated for Covid-19. An AIADMK flag fluttered on the bonnet of the car in which Sasikala left the hospital. She headed to a resort near Nandi Hills, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, where she’s expected to recuperate for a week. Supporters cheer SasiOn January 27, while she was in hospital, Sasikala was released from Central Prison after four years. Around11.30am,she walked out of the hospital to cheers from 300 supporters. They showered flower petals as she got into a Toyota Land Cruiser Prado. Sasikala’s release upped the heat in Tamil Nadu set to witness polls in April-May. Nephew TTV Dhinakaran said she would return to Chennai after February 7. The AIADMK flag on Sasikala’s car in Bengaluru drew sharp reactions from party leaders in TN. Minister D Jayakumar said, “She is not even a primary member of AIADMK. How can she use the party flag?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sasikala-discharged-to-stay-in-bengaluru-for-a-few-days/articleshow/80620857.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited’s exclusive second LCA plant to open on Tuesday||BENGALURU: Buoyed by the recent Cabinet Committee on Security approval for procurement of 83 Light Combat Aircraft Tejas Mark-1A aircraft worth Rs 47,000 crore, defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Limited will soon make operational a dedicated second LCA plant here. The new plant at Doddanekkundi, according to HAL sources, will be inaugurated on February 2. Rajnath Singh may inaugurate plantThe new plant is likely to be inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh. “The commissioned plant will be able to produce 16 LCAs every year. We’ll make the Tejas Mark-1A and trainers here,” a source said. At present, HAL can manufacture eight LCAs every year. The first dedicated LCA plant and HAL’s Aircraft Division are both producing them. “The plant to be inaugurated by the defence minister will technically be the third,” the source said. The 83 Tejas Mark-1A aircraft — 73 fighters and 10 trainers — will have 43 improvements over the Tejas Mark-1 jets for which the IAF has placed orders. The new order is expected to be placed during the upcoming edition of Aero India. “From the date of the signing of contract, HAL will have 36 months to deliver the first batch of aircraft,” the source added. There was no immediate confirmation on investment in the second plant, or when it will be commissioned fully. “The first phase of operations will start in a few months after Tuesday’s inauguration,” another source said, adding that existing manpower will be used at the plant. Programme may generate 5,000 primary jobsHAL estimates that the LCA Mark-1A programme will generate around 5,000 primary jobs across the country. It will foster local industry and drive skill development of young Indian workforce, HAL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hals-exclusive-2nd-lca-plant-to-open-on-tuesday/articleshow/80620858.cms||Chethan Kumar
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Mixed response to reopening of schools for Classes VI-XII from next month||Dehradun: A day after the Uttarakhand cabinet approved the proposal to reopen the schools for Classes VI-XII from February 8, the decision has received a mixed response. While the private school associations have welcomed the decision, the parent community has expressed its disappointment. Lave Chaudhary, president of the United Parents’ Association, said, “The decision taken by the state government may put the lives of our children at risk. Schools should remain closed until more people have access to Covid-19 vaccines. Currently, it is only available for a section of the frontline workers. Besides, it is impossible for any school to complete the syllabus within two months as this academic year concludes in March. The decision may cost the incumbent state government in the upcoming assembly elections.” Meanwhile, the school managements have welcomed the order. “I think it is a welcome step. The interaction of the students with their peers is necessary. Schools should implement the SOPs strictly. In the initial phases, I believe that the attendance will be around 50%,” said Lokesh Ohri, member of the CBSE Sahodaya Schools Society, Dehradun. “Most of the facilities have reopened now and I don’t see the point in not allowing the schools to reopen for secondary class students. We are extremely glad that our long due demand has been accepted by the government,” said Prem Kashyap, president of Principal Progressive Schools Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mixed-response-to-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-vi-xii-from-next-month/articleshow/80617533.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation lies to NGT about biomed waste||CHENNAI: While TOI photos clearly show that medical waste was dumped along Cooum River in Anna Nagar, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has concealed this fact and misled National Green Tribunal (NGT) by stating that it was mere paper waste. The civic body, without addressing the actual problem, had gone ahead to file a police complaint against a scrap dealer who runs a waste paper shop in the locality. It all started in September 2020 when TOI exposed how burning of hazardous bio-medical waste was causing problems to Anna Nagar residents. NGT took suo motu cognizance of this issue and constituted a joint committee to identify violators and take steps to curb this menace. Corporation officials told this joint committee that it was not biomed waste and showed papers found by workers while cleaning the waste from the site. According to the committee’s report, the papers belonged to TVS Sundaram Clayton Limited. During the inspection, officials found out that G Ravi, a scrap dealer in Anna Nagar, dumped waste and similar discarded documents were found in his shop. Since he was unavailable at his shop and phone, GCC filed a police complaint against Ravi. Further inquiry with TVS revealed that they had outsourced the waste disposal process in their unit to a private transporter named Baskar Lorry Service, who hired a call-on driver. This driver disposed of waste through the dealer. So Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) had penalised Baskar Lorry Service of Rs 11,690, the committee report said. Though the joint committee wanted GCC’s Kodambakkam Zonal Officer to collect CCTV footage to submit details about which vehicle was used to dump the waste, there was no mention of this later. So the committee suggested that GCC should install CCTV cameras in hot spots (potential points where such illegal dumping could happen) soon as a preventive measure. Counsel appearing for GCC told the tribunal that they have identified 200 such hot spots in Chennai city and cameras have been installed at 50 points so far and remaining work will be completed within four months to up the vigil. Based on the findings and actions, NGT Southern Zone January 25 disposed of the case. When TOI photos clearly show Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks and other medical waste, the joint committee has concealed this. NGT SZ members — Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta — in several instances in the past have told government authorities to contact the newspapers while filing such reports in such suo motu cases. Once again, GCC has shown urgency in getting the case disposed of and in not acting against the actual offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-lies-to-ngt-about-biomed-waste/articleshow/80618617.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 1, 2021||Goa||Institutes should voluntarily adopt NEP: Parsekar||Saligao: Former CM Laxmikant Parsekar, who heads the state task force for higher education on the new National Education Policy (NEP), has urged higher education institutes to voluntarily adopt provisions of the new policy. “The time has come to change the educational system, which was imposed on Indians, since the British rule,” said Parsekar. Parsekar was addressing teachers during a special camp on NEP organised at Siolim. Minister for rural development Michael Lobo and former Siolim MLA Dayanand Mandrekar were also present. Parsekar said the government’s focus in implementing the NEP would be to ensure that more and more local students pursue higher education. “If India, which has the world’s youngest population, wants to raise the standard of education, it has no choice but to adopt the NEP’s provisions,” said Parsekar. Lobo expressed confidence that the NEP would pave the way for a new future taking. “In order to propagate salient features of the NEP, the educational institutions in the villages will have to play an active role,” said Mandrekar. At the higher education level, the NEP proposes sweeping changes, including introduction of a four-year multidisciplinary undergraduate programme with multiple exit options, and discontinuation of the MPhil programme. The policy also calls for phasing out of all institutions offering single streams and that all universities and colleges must aim to become multidisciplinary by 2040.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/institutes-should-voluntarily-adopt-nep-parsekar/articleshow/80620556.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||T-117 gives birth to cubs outside protected area in Dholpur region||JAIPUR: Tigress T-117 gave birth to two cubs (pic) in the Sarmathura forest range of Dholpur in an area developed for social forestry. This is the first incident in the state in which a tigress has given birth outside the protected area. The mother with two-month-old cubs were spotted near Richda village in an area known to be infested and 'preserved' by bandits. “The tigress mated with T-115 and gave birth to the cubs. Teams have been deployed to conduct extensive monitoring in the area,” a senior forest official said. This is the second birth of cubs recorded in Kailadevi and Dholpur region in the past one week. But the area surprisingly still does not come under the Critical Tiger Habitat (CTH) category. Experts believe that the forest area has enormous potential and the state government should immediately include it as a protected area. Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist, told TOI, “For the first time, a tigress has given birth to cubs in a social forestry area. The previous standing committee on wildlife, headed by former DGP Ajit Singh, had held discussions to include the region in the protected area. The state government should once again consider the proposal. There are nine big cats in the Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary and adjoining forest areas. The state government should chalk out a conservation plan for this region.” While the movement of tigers from the overpopulated Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) to Kailadevi and nearby areas has been frequent, with several of them reportedly living at the sanctuary for several months, the recent birth of cubs has made the potential of sanctuary and adjoining areas evident as a haven for tigers. The forest department should focus on this area spread over approximately 770 square kilometers, experts said. “There is rampant illegal mining in many regions, which is a major threat to existing big cats. But despite the presence of bandits, poaching has never been reported in the area,” a forest official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/t-117-gives-birthto-cubs-outsideprotected-areain-dholpur-region/articleshow/80620085.cms||Ajay Singh
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Eight smugglers swallow 2.8kg gold, sent to hosp to recover it||Chennai: It took more than a week’s stay in hospital to extract 2.8kg of gold valued at Rs 1.3 crore that eight smugglers had swallowed in a bid to bypass Customs officials at Chennai international airport. Customs officials routinely encounter smugglers who hide gold paste wrapped in rubber in their rectums, but this lot who had flown in from Dubai and Sharjah on January 22 had swallowed the gold. They were intercepted on a tip-off and, when confronted, spilled the beans, customs officials said. The eight had between them swallowed 161 capsules of gold paste wrapped in polythene or rubber; each capsule was 1.1cm to 1.7cm in diameter and weighed 15-24 grams. Customs took the eight — Ganakavalli, 56, Nishanthi, 30, Kala Peradeep Kumar ,53, and Jayaraj, 55, all from Trichy, Jegatheesh, 37, and Ghabar Khan, 52, of Pudukottai, and Mohammed Hikkam, 25, and Thasleem Fathima, 34, from Ramanathapuram — to the Stanley government hospital where they were fed a heavy diet under medical supervision. Over eight days, they excreted all the capsules. Besides, the 2.8kg of gold recovered at the hospital, eight bundles containing 61 capsules weighing 1.2kg and valued at Rs 51.36 lakh and some gold jewellery were also recovered from them. In all, 4.2kg of gold valued at Rs 2.2 crore was seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eight-smugglers-swallow-2-8kg-gold-sent-to-hosp-to-recover-it/articleshow/80618643.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Two learn how to knock person out online, mug RBI man in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Two teenagers, one of them a minor, have been arrested for allegedly robbing a senior RBI official after knocking him unconscious along a desolate stretch at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). The boys had learnt the technique of rendering people unconscious from the Internet, the police said. The 53-year-old man, an assistant general manager with Reserve Bank of India, whose identity has been concealed, was taking an evening walk on January 24 where work on the metro rail is going on. The two accused—Furkan Amir Shaikh (19) and his 17-year-old accomplice sprung out of nowhere and accosted him, said the police. The two used a pair of scissors with which they suppressed a nerve at the back of the neck which made him lose consciousness for a few seconds, said the police. This made the banker pass out. After the bank officer blacked out, he remained in that state for at least 20 seconds, the police quoted the two arrested accused as saying. This gave the two enough time to frisk him. “They snatched his wallet which had Rs 2,000 besides his debit and credit cards and also grabbed his cellphone worth Rs 20,000,” said the police officer. “They crossed the road and jumped into a patch of mangroves near the Mithiriver and fled. In his complaint, the bank officer has said, “I fell on the road after someone hit me on the neck from behind. After that, the person pushed my head forward. I do not remember anything beyond that... After regaining consciousness, I realised I had been robbed.” He first went home before approaching the police. TOI tried repeatedly to contact the RBI official on Sunday and even sent text messages, but his phone was switched off. The police said that the mugging has left the RBI official in trauma due to which he has stopped taking his evening walk. Deputy commssioner of police Manjunath Singe supervised senior inspector of BKC police station Sachin Rane who led a team of assistant inspector Satish Borate, constables Manohar Borse and Ganesh Tumare who nabbed the accused five days after the incident took place.  Shaikh and his accomplice were tracked to Bharat Nagarin BKC after the police sifted through footage from at least 17 closed-circuit television cameras around the place, said a police officer.  “Shaikh has confessed that he found out on the Internet the technique of making a person unconscious for a few seconds by hitting a weak point on the neck. He planned to to target the RBI official whom he had seen taking walks daily,” said an officer. Shaikh is in police custody till February 2 while the minor has been sent to a correction home in Dongri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-learn-how-to-knock-person-out-online-mug-rbi-man/articleshow/80617555.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation’s street parking app a hit, brings Rs 1 lakh revenue a day||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation’s app-based on street parking management system is getting increasingly popular as it has earned the civic body Rs 30 lakh since its launch on January 1 this year, about Rs 1 lakh a day. The project cost is Rs 10 crore. Every day, around 6,000 cars are parked at designated spots on 35 streets. A total of 12,000 car spaces were planned, of which 9,200 are ready with security camera installation and other wiring work. People can download the GCC smart parking application on their phones and find slots for parking at available locations. Popular parking spots include the Marina service road, NSC Bose Road, Anna Nagar 2nd Avenue, Besant Nagar 6th Avenue and a few streets in Pursawalkam. Valet parking and customer service have also been enabled in T Nagar and will be extended in other locations as well in a month. Charges are Rs 5/hour for two-wheelers and Rs 20/hour for four wheelers and users can pay through the app. However in some locations, due to lack of knowledge about the app and some network glitches, payments fail and the attendees in the parking lots assist users by logging into their own version of the app and facilitating payments through digital modes. There is no cash collection. According to the consultancy managing the parking system, on an average, cars occupy the spots for about 8 hours every day. “We have seen an increase in people using the app. So far, around 500 have called the customer care. Most of those who use the parking spots are employees or owners of establishments in the vicinity,” said an official from the consultancy. R Latha, a resident of Anna Nagar, said the agency implementing the service should ensure that there is better transparency and also less manpower involvement. “When it was launched, a few workers at the Anna Nagar space sought parking fee. We weren’t sure if it was authorised since it was advertised as an app-based service. They should ensure it’s completely app-based,” she said. Corporation official said they have sought approval for cable work and CCTV installation in a few of the spaces to avoid technical issues. The project was proposed to ensure that illegal parking on the road sides is regularised. The civic body has also constructed a multi-level car parking facility in T Nagar, which will be soon inaugurated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ggcs-street-parking-app-a-hit-brings-rs-1l-revenue-a-day/articleshow/80618628.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Over 31 lakh children in Punjab to be immunised||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab health department aims to administer drops of oral polio vaccine (OPV) to over 31.54 lakh children in the age group of 0-5 years across the state in its e-day pulse police vaccination drive. The drive was launched by principal secretary of health and family welfare department, Husan Lal on Sunday, at Mohali district hospital. On the first day, vaccines were administered at booths, but house-to-house activity will be there on the second and third day. The health secretary said as many as 54,907 vaccinators have been deputed into service across the state and 3,219 supervisors will carry out sudden checks to monitor the immunisation programme. There are 14,112 booths across the state and as many as 837 mobile teams have been constituted. The health secretary appealed to the people to get their children vaccinated even if the child is born a few hours ago or is suffering from cough, cold, fever, diarrhea or any other disease as the polio drops have no harmful effects in these sick children. He said the country is already polio-free, however, the vaccination is must to sustain polio eradication from the country. Pointing out that the government was making all efforts to protect children from diseases, he said the vaccines under the programme must reach the last child of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-31-lakh-children-in-punjab-to-be-immunised/articleshow/80620112.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Inquiry on after constable, 26, dies by suicide in Mangadu||CHENNAI: A 26-year-old police constable hanged himself at Mangadu on Sunday morning. Police said Albert, of Villupuram, joined the force in 2016 and was living with his parents at a house in AGS colony, Mugalivakkam. Albert was employed at Delhi 8th battalion in the Tamil Nadu Special Police force (TSP) . He was transferred to 5th battalion in Avadi three days back. Police said his parents had left for their native village on Friday leaving Albert behind. He bunked duty on Saturday, following which an officer from the Avadi battalion called him over phone and asked the reason for him not turning up for. As Albert did not give him a proper reason, he was asked to report to a senior officer before joinging duty on Sunday. As he failed to show up on Sunday too and his phone was switched off, his colleagues alerted his relatives. His relatives rushed home and found him hanging. Police sent the body for postmortem. He did not leave a suicide note. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/inquiry-on-after-constable-26-dies-by-suicide/articleshow/80618647.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Meerut||Meerut civic body to set up portable covered dustbins across district||MEERUT: Meerut Municipal Corporation (MMC) has planned to set up portable covered dustbins in different parts of the district to ensure cleanliness and avoid littering. Besides, transfer stations will also be set up at different places from where garbage of small dustbins will be transferred to a dumping ground. Dr Gajendra Singh, MMC health officer, said, “For garbage disposal, transfer stations will be set up. The dustbins are designed in such a way that they will be closed as soon as they are filled to avoid spillover. The collected garbage will be moved to the dumping ground.” “Thus far, mini pick-up trucks used to collect and transport garbage to the dumping ground. However, garbage would spill out of the pick-up trucks and fall on the streets, but the portable covered dustbins will prevent the garbage from falling and spreading stench,” said Dr Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-civic-body-to-set-up-portablecovered-dustbins-across-district/articleshow/80616950.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 1, 2021||Meerut||Contribute to protests at Delhi borders, leaders exhort Baghpat mahapanchayat||MEERUT: A ‘sarvkhap’ mahapanchayat in solidarity with the ongoing farmers protest was organised at the tehsil premises in Baraut town of UP’s Baghpat district on Sunday. With over 5,000 farmers in attendance, the farm leaders gave a call to strengthen protests at the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders in the national capital. “There is a need of manpower and ration at the Singhu and Ghazipur borders. This is my request to you all to contribute wholeheartedly and participate in these protests,” one of the local farm leaders said from the stage. Heavy police force was deployed on and around the premises amid fears that the local administration might try to stop the mahapanchayat citing no prior permission. By afternoon, the numbers began to swell and it was a packed house by 3 pm. This is the third such mahapanchayat in the western Uttar Pradesh backed by prominent khaps in the region after an emotional speech by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait at the Ghazipur border revived the farmers’ stir. The alleged police brutality on protesting farmers in Baghpat a few days ago was also an important talking point at the mahapanchayat on Sunday. A day after Delhi violence of January 26, the local administration had forcibly removed protesting farmers from National Highway 19 in Baghpat and an FIR was also registered. “This mahapanchayat was also called to condemn the highhandedness of the local administration who misbehaved with elderly farmers during their bid to clear protests site in Baghpat on January 27,” Brijpal Chaudhary, a khap leader, said. Local police also addressed the crowd presenting their side of the story. “We are also sons of farmers and we are always with you. It was never our intention to hurt anyone,” Baghpat additional district magistrate Amit Kumar said addressing the mahapanchayat at the end. Earlier, a massive mahapanchayat was organised in Muzaffarnagar followed by one in Mathura where thousands of farmers, union leaders and political parties came together to voice their support for the farm p||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/contribute-to-protests-at-delhi-borders-farm-leaders-at-baghpat-mahapanchayat/articleshow/80616955.cms||Piyush Rai
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Newborn girl rescued from drain in Ponneri||CHENNAI: An newborn girl found wrapped in a towel was rescued from a drain in Ponneri in the early hours of Sunday. A team of panchayat officials, which received information about a baby in a drain, had to act quick and rescue her as a few stray dogs had surrounded the infant. Police said unidentified person(s) had wrapped the girl in a towel and thrown her in the drain. The child was rushed to the Ponneri government hospital where she was given first aid. Police said the child had survived since it was an open drain with very less water flowing through. Police said the baby appeared to be less than a month old. She was given new clothes and nursed by a lactating mother before she was admitted to a nearby orphanage. Police have registered a case and searching for the child’s parents by pursuing medical records and CCTV camera footage from the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/newborn-girl-rescued-from-drain/articleshow/80618650.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Schools ask for negative Covid tests from students||Hyderabad: Ahead of the reopening of schools for students of class 9 and above, few schools in the city are said to be asking parents to submit a Covid-19 test certificate to grant entry into the school premises. Parents said that asking a non-residential student to submit a Covid-19 certificate doesn’t make any sense as the child has to travel every day from residence to the school. “Instead of taking measures to keep students safe in schools, the managements are trying to put additional burden on parents by demanding Covid-19 certificate. How does it make any sense,” questioned Satyanarayana V, whose son is studying in class 9 at a private school in the city. He added, “Our residence is about 10km away from the school. The schools refused to provide transportation. So, my son either has to take public transport or skip online classes altogether.” Parents said the state should take stringent action against schools trying to come up with their own rules or those violating guidelines laid down by the state. Few parents demanded that the state should first direct schools to get all their teachers and non-teaching staff tested for Covid-19. “The chances of teachers spreading Covid-19 are very high as they move from one class to another. Instead of asking for students to submit a Covid-19 certificate, schools should first get their teachers and other staff tested,” said M Raja Reddy, whose son is studying in class 10. Few even took to Twitter to raise the issue. “... Many schools are now asking parents to get child’s Covid Test certificate before entering School. What do you guys do all day long, god knows,” read a tweet from activist Vijay Gopal in which @TSEduDept @SabithaindraTRS @SomeshKumarIAS were tagged. Parents also complained that several schools are making a shield, head cover and shoe cover among other things mandatory for students. Members of Telangana Recognised School Management Association (TRSMA) said that to keep children safe, state should treat teachers and non-teaching staff as frontline warriors and provide them with the vaccination at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-ask-for-negative-covid-tests-from-students/articleshow/80618654.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand madrassa teachers not paid salary for 5 years||DEHRADUN: Over 700 madrassa teachers of Uttarakhand have not been paid their salaries for past five years which has forced them to lead a hand-to-mouth existence with many taking up sundry jobs like electrician despite having BEd degrees and clearing Teacher Eligibility Tests (TET). The teachers had been trained under SPQEM (Scheme for Providing Education in Madrassas) which had been introduced by the UPA government in 2009. The scheme intended to modernise education in madrassas and introduce subjects like English, Maths, Science, Social Science among others in religious institutions. However, the scheme fell by the wayside after the NDA government took over and since 2016, the teachers say, they have not been paid their dues. A similar situation prevails in several other states like UP, MP and Jharkhand where the scheme was introduced. According to estimates, around 50,000 teachers employed in these madrassas have been impacted.  “Now I have lost all hope and have quit the job as there is no point in travelling 30-40 km daily for no monetary return,” said Shabeena Khatoon, a former Hindi teacher at a madrassa who is a B Ed degree holder as well as a post-graduate. Under the SPQEM in Uttarakhand, a post-graduate teacher who has a B Ed degree is paid Rs 12,000 per month while a graduate teacher with B Ed degree is given Rs 6,000 per month. “We have cleared our Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) and have B Ed degrees as well. Most of us have done masters in our chosen subjects too. Despite this, those employed in state government schools are getting their salaries on time and their pay is much higher than ours. Even though we are being paid a nominal amount, even that has not been coming to us for the past five years,” said Mohammad Firoz, a post-graduate and a social science teacher at a madrassa in Dehradun. He added that in order to make ends meet, he has now started working as an electrician. “The money that I earn while doing an electrician’s job is currently my only source of income. Earlier, the management body of a madrassa used to give its teachers Rs 2000-3000 monthly in the name of conveyance reimbursement but that, too, has stopped since donations have dried up post the Covid-19 lockdown,” added Firoz. Shabana Khatun, a post-graduate and an Urdu teacher, said that even the state government hasn’t helped them out. “ We have met several state government officers, ministers and politicians but no one has done anything. Even though our salary was given by the central government but states can also play their part like what happened in Uttar Pradesh during Akhilesh Yadav’s regime. They decided to add Rs 3000 from their own state budget to the salaries of the UP madrassa teachers which meant that the teacher's salary became Rs 15000 per month if they had done post-graduation. But nothing has been done by the Uttarakhand government.” The teachers say that “while on one hand, the government speaks of modernising madrassas, on other hand, they are losing teachers appointed for teaching modern subjects due to non-payment of salaries.” Mohammad Imtiaz, another teacher currently forced to work as a helper in a small ration shop located in the outskirts of Dehradun, said that a lot of people have “very stereotypical ideas regarding madrassas.” “A lot of people think that the madrassas are meant exclusively for religious studies. However, the reality is that children of all faiths are admitted here and there are a large number of madrassa teachers who are non-Muslims. Apart from one period of Islamic studies, which is not meant for non-Muslim students, all other periods are the same as that of any other orthodox school of the country,” said Imtiaz. According to the figures provided by the Uttarakhand Minority Commission, 253 madrassas were part of the SPQEM in 2016 but after the non-payment of staff salaries for the past five years, only around 190 madrassas are left which are still running the scheme in their respective institutions. Also, of the over 700 teachers who haven’t been paid their salaries, nearly 200 have submitted their resignation. According to the commission’s data, nearly 56,000 children currently study in the various registered madrassas in the state. Uttarakhand Madarsa Education Board (UMEB) officials said that the Centre owes the state government nearly Rs 48 crore — from 2016 till date — in the context of SPQEM. “We have requested the Centre, on numerous occasions, for release of the funds and to solve the payment issue of the teachers,” said Zameer Ahmed, deputy registrar of the UMEB. When TOI spoke to Yashpal Arya, Uttarakhand minority affairs minister, he said, “The matter will be solved based on the availability of the budget with us. We are having talks with the Centre to address the issue soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-madrassa-teachers-not-paid-salary-for-5-years-forced-to-lead-hand-to-mouth-existence-take-up-sundry-jobs-despite-being-bed-grads/articleshow/80617623.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Battery-run garbage pickup vehicles now registered as ‘e-cart’||CHENNAI: A contentious legal issue that threatened the use of battery operated vehicles (BOV) for collection of garbage across Chennai has been finally resolved by Greater Chennai Corporation after follow-ups with the transport department. The BOVs, being used by private conservancy operator Urbaser Sumeet as well as GCC, were caught in a regulatory no-man’s land. There was no clarity on its registration, while conservancy workers who were driving the vehicle did not have a proper license from the regional transport offices (RTOs). This was picked up by activist ‘Traffic’ Ramasamy, who labelled the vehicles a ‘traffic menace’ with potential to cause accidents and nuisance. “If these vehicles cause accidents, who will be held responsible,” was his pertinent question. Now, GCC has started registering the vehicles under a separate category of the transport department, titled ‘E-cart’. A senior official said earlier, the vehicles was grouped under the light motor vehicles (LMV) section. However, all LMV drivers have to get a mandatory licence from RTOs. “This was objected to by GCC,” the senior official said. Despite the legal issue, however, more than 1,500 BOVs were rolled out in the city. Urbaser has planned to roll out 3,000 BOVs totally, while GCC will have 2,000. GCC had put registration of the vehicles on hold until the regulatory issue was cleared up. It took detailed follow-ups with the transport wing to sort out the issue. “Now, we will start training our conservancy workers for getting a simple licence, where they can just go to the RTO with the BOV and get it after a test. This will be completed within two weeks,” a senior official said. With a modification in the e-vehicle policy, the cost of BOVs has also considerably reduced, the official added. “Earlier, government bodies had to shell out Rs 13,500 and private bodies Rs 22,000 as tax. This has been completely removed, only Rs 3,500 is to be paid for fitness certificate and other procedures,” the official added. Though the issue has been resolved, the change has not yet reflected on the VAHAN portal due to issues at the back end of National Informatics Centre, a GCC official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/battery-run-garbage-pickup-vehicles-now-registered-as-e-cart/articleshow/80618655.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Shivalik Arboretum inaugurated in Nainital||Dehradun: Dehradun: Uttarakhand forest department inaugurated an arboretum to showcase the floral diversity of Shivalik hills in Jeolikot of Nainital district on Sunday. Known as “Shivalik Arboretum”, the botanical collection is spread over 3 acres of land that consists of 200 species of flora. Talking to TOI, Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests, said that the Shivalik mountain range is one of the longest mountain chains in the world that spreads from Sindhu river in Jammu and runs 2,400 kilometres till Brahmaputra river. This range is extremely rich in flora and fauna. “The arboretum has more than 200 species and placards have been put on trees to display related information in a story format. It is one of the largest arboretum of the state and a first-of-its-kind facility to showcase the floral diversity of Shivalik hills, which stretches from Kashmir to the northeast and form the outer Himalayas,” added Chaturvedi. He said that the idea of sharing the identity of the trees in story form aims to connect people with the plants emotionally. The placards also have the ‘ghazals and poetries of Gulzar, Dushyant Kumar etc’ — who have used the name of the trees inside the arboretum — in their creations. The tree species include — Kaphal (myrica esculenta), Tejpat (cinamomum tamala), Buransh (rhododendron arboreum) and Toon (toona ciliata). The botanical garden also has Selaginella bryopteris, popularly known as ‘sanjeevani’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shivalik-arboretum-inaugurated-in-nainital/articleshow/80617613.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Cleanliness drive conducted on Rajpur-Jharipani trek route||Mussoorie: The tourism department organised a cleanliness drive on the Rajpur-Jharipani trek route on Sunday. A large quantity of waste was collected from this 5-km stretch. Locals were asked to pitch in their suggestions for the development of the trek as a hiking trail. “Keeping in mind, the historical significance and the scenic beauty around this trek route, we are keen to develop it as a hiking trail by constructing restroom and viewpoints while involving the local communities in this initiative,” secretary tourism, Dilip Jawalkar said. “Before motor roads reached up to Mussoorie, residents used to take up this route to reach their destination. We want it to be developed in an aesthetic manner,” said the chairman of Mussoorie Municipal Council, Anuj Gupta. President of Rajpur Community Initiative, Reenu Paul, said movement of bikes would be banned on this route and it would solely be reserved for hiking. "Tourism department said that they were planning to install railings along the trek route, but residents refuted that suggestion saying it would destroy the natural ambience,” Paul added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cleanliness-drive-conducted-on-rajpur-jharipani-trek-route/articleshow/80617628.cms||Anmol Jain
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||How will schools function without sanitation: Teachers||Hyderabad: With about 10,000 schools all set to reopen from Monday for class 9 and class 10 students, teachers working in government schools questioned how the schools are going to run without sanitation workers. They said the state is completely neglecting the sanitation of government schools and is risking the lives of students and teachers during a pandemic. “On one hand, the state is highlighting the importance of sanitation during the pandemic, on the other, there is no one to take care of sanitation work in government schools. This shows that the state is not serious about getting schools sanitized,” said K Ramana, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation. In the state, there are 26,000 government schools, of which, 4,661 are high schools. In private sector, there are 6,000 high schools. They said students, especially girls, will have to face a lot of trouble as there is no one to clean washrooms, classrooms or school premises. “Who is going to clean washrooms, classrooms and take care of other sanitation work? How will schools run,” questioned M Ravinder of TPTF, adding that principals and teachers had to use personal funds to get schools cleaned and sanitised for reopening on February 1. Over 400 government junior colleges along with private ones will also reopen on Monday for intermediate students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/how-will-schools-function-without-sanitation-teachers/articleshow/80618682.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Cases against four pubs in Chennai after Saturday night raids||CHENNAI: In a Saturday night raids at a few bars and pubs in the city, police registered cases against four establishments for violating Covid-19 regulations. The places were open beyond the stipulated cut-off time and were crowded. The raids were conducted by a team headed by Triplicane deputy commissioner Krishnaraj and prohibition enforcement wing officials. Police registered cases against Slate Resto bar, Lords Of the Drinks, Haddows Club and Barracuda Brew. The clubs, open after stipulated closing time, also didn’t ensure the guests followed physical distancing norms and admitted customers beyond the 50% capacity. “We had already asked the clubs to ensure they followed the protocol, but we received several complaints of violation and thus had to conduct the raids,” said Krishnaraj. The pubs were instructed to close kitchens, bars by 10pm and serve the last of the drinks by 10.30pm. But all four establishments were serving liquor past deadline. Violations spiked during weekends putting all customers, staff at risk. Cases were registered under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and section 269 of the Indian Penal Code (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-against-4-pubs-after-sat-night-raids/articleshow/80618683.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Centre scouts for Jammu and Kashmir tourists in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Centre has urged the Tamil Nadu tourism department to increase promotional activities with the Jammu and Kashmir tourism board. Tamil Nadu and Jammu and Kashmir are sister states under the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ programme, which aims at promoting a mutual understanding between people of different states and Union territories in learning culture, traditions & music, tourism & cuisine, sports and sharing of best practices. Currently, the activities are largely not connected with tourism aspects. The development comes as Tamil Nadu is one of the largest markets for Jammu and Kashmir in south India. Tamil Nadu tourism department sources said increasing tourist activity was highlighted during a virtual interaction organised by the Union tourism ministry a fortnight ago. Several people from TN fly from Chennai to Srinagar and the promotional activities are likely to encourage people from Srinagar to fly down to the southern state to explore heritage and spiritual tourism. J&K has emerged as a top post-Covid destination. Sriharan Balan, chairman of a sub-committee, Travel Agents Association of India - Southern Region, said of every 100 people travelling from the southern states to Jammu and Kashmir, 30 to 35 are from TN. “J&K is both a leisure and spiritual destination. While youngsters throng the valleys, senior citizens visit Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine,” he said. While tourists from TN to J&K had dropped over the past two years, it is on the rise again, he added. A Jammu and Kashmir tourism official said steps are being taken to instil confidence among tourists in Tamil Nadu about safety at the destinations. “With summer ahead, people from Chennai can visit the country’s northern tip.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-scouts-for-jk-tourists-in-tn/articleshow/80618661.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman health worker in Telangana dies 11 days after vaccination||HYDERABAD: A 55-year-old woman healthcare worker in Telangana, who received the Covishield vaccine on January 19 died late on Saturday, the third such death in the state since the vaccine rollout, but authorities said the woman had co-morbidities. So far, four such deaths have occurred in the twin states, with one reported from Andhra Pradesh and all four had received the vaccine on January 19. Health authorities said the woman was given the vaccine on the afternoon on January 19 at a primary health centre at Kasipet in Mancherial. “On January 29, she complained of shortness of breath and giddiness for which she was admitted to a hospital in Mancherial. She was later referred to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) in Hyderabad on January 30 by 6 pm and she died a few hours later at 11 pm,” an official statement from the state health department said. Speaking about her death, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health (Telangana) said, “She had developed complications 10 days after receiving the vaccine. Usually in vaccines, the side effects will be immediate. It is clearly indicative that death is due to underlying morbidities and not due to Covid vaccination.” He said the death occurred due to cardio-respiratory arrest triggered by multiple morbidities such as restricted lung disease, respiratory infection with type 2 respiratory failure and accelerated hypertension with left ventricular failure. Earlier, a 42-year-old ambulance driver from Telangana, who was vaccinated on January 19, died after he complained of chest pain the next day. Another 45-year-old woman healthcare worker, who was administered the Covid-19 vaccine on January 19 at Shayampet in Warangal urban district, died on January 23. In Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, an accredited social health activist (Asha) worker, B Vijaya Lakshmi (42), died of brain stroke on January 23, four days after she received the Covid-19 vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-health-worker-in-state-dies-11-days-after-vaccination/articleshow/80618698.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 1, 2021||Thane||Dombivli: Ex-neta’s 84-year-old father stabs wife to death, torches body||KALYAN: An 84-year old man, whose son is a former corporator of KDMC, has been arrested for allegedly stabbing his wife at their bungalow in Dombivli on Sunday. The police said that the arrested accused, Baliram Patil, had a heated argument with his 80-year old wife Parvati. The octogenarian, who is of a short-tempered nature, alleged stabbed her with a knife in a fit of rage, said the police. The elderly couple’s son Ramakant was a corporator of the civic body. The incident which took place in Pandurangwadi locality in Dombivli where the Patil family resides. The murder came to light on Sunday morning when Ramakant’s wife Pratibha woke up around 8 am and noticed smoke billowing out of her in-laws’ bedroom. She informed her husband and other family members who also live in the same bungalow. The broke open the door and were shocked to find the elderly woman lying motionless on the bed. She had partial burns and several stab injury marks on the body. Her husband was missing. While the family tried to put out the family, the local police were also informed. Baliram was later nabbed from the neighbourhood. He has been booked for murder and for trying to hide evidence by setting his wife on fire. Senior inspector D K Choure of Manpada police station said that their primary investigation has revealed that Baliram was “extremely short-tempered” and frequently quarrelled with his wife. “Early on Sunday, the two had one such dispute during which Baliram stabbed Parvati to death and set her on fire to hide evidence,” said inspector Choure. Ramakant has told the police that his father often got had arguments with his mother and others at home over petty issues, but he had never imagined it would end up like this, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ex-netas-84-yr-old-father-stabs-wife-to-death-torches-body/articleshow/80618811.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Two-day state police conference to begin on Feb 1||Dehradun: A two-day state police conference, where personnel will share insights on how to better policing in Uttarakhand, will begin on February 1. District police heads, commandants of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and reserve battalions will be part of the event. Chief minister Trivdendra Singh Rawat will address officers on the inaugural day of the conference and interact with senior cops, who will apprise the CM on the current challenges faced by the police department. On the first day, all district police heads will give a presentation on the work they have done and intend to do for the improvement of policing in their respective jurisdictions. On the second day, challenges like cyber crime and drug menace will be discussed. Ways to make Uttarakhand police a “smart” force is also on the table. Field officers from across the state will also participate. “The purpose of the conference is to bring all senior police officers, including the ones working in the field, under one roof and deliberate on the steps to be taken to make policing more effective and responsive,” said Ashok Kumar, director general of police (DGP) Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-day-state-police-conference-to-begin-on-feb-1/articleshow/80617664.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 1, 2021||India||MP women rice mill come in for praise||GUWAHATI: In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday highlighted the revival of ‘Mon Shugu’ — the thousand-year-old traditional, handmade paper of Arunachal Pradesh — used in Buddhist monasteries for religious scriptures. In his radio programme, Modi said: “For centuries, a type of paper called ‘Mon Shugu’ is made in this hilly region (Tawang) in Arunachal Pradesh. The locals make this paper from the bark of a tree named Shugu Sheng, hence trees do not have to be cut. Besides, no chemical is used in the making of this paper. Therefore, it is safe for the environment and health too.” He further said: “There was a time when this paper was exported, but with modern techniques, a large amount of paper started getting made and this local art was pushed to the brink of closure. Now, a local social worker, Maling Gombu, has made an effort to rejuvenate this art. This is also giving employment to tribal brothers and sisters there.” PM shares the story of MP’s rice mill ‘owners’: When the pandemic resulted in the rice mill they worked for shutting down, a group of tribal women who faced a loss of livelihood decided to form a “self help group”, collected money from their savings and set-up their own rice mill in Chichgaon in Jabalpur, MP. Whatever amount of money was short, was sourced under the aegis of Ajivika mission in the form of a loan from the bank. This example of women empowerment was shared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ of 2021. “Now see, these tribal sisters bought the same rice mill in which they once worked! Within this very period, this mill has also earned a profit of about Rs 3 lakh,” the PM said. He also spoke of an elderly person with disability, N S Rajappan from Kottayam in Kerala. Desite paralysis taking away his ability to walk, Rajappan is deeply committed to cleanliness. “For the past several years he has been going by boat in Vembanad lake and taking out the plastic bottles thrown into the lake,” the PM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-women-rice-mill-come-in-for-praise/articleshow/80620749.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB to assess cleanliness in Cantt, declare winner||Secunderabad: Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials are making efforts to attain the top 10 rank in the Swachch Survekshan-2021 survey. Secunderabad Cantonment, the second largest Cantonment in the country, was ranked the worst performer among all 62 Cantonments in the country in Swachh Survekshan-2020 survey. SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy on Sunday said that a committee will be formed and its members will make surprise visits to various places in the Cantonment, such as residential colonies, schools, hotels, hospitals, market associations and government offices to assess the cleanliness, following which reports will be prepared to declare the winner. The Swachhata Rankings will be declared on the basis of overall cleanliness, hygiene, sanitation, maintenance of toilets, waste processing, segregation of waste into wet and dry, zero waste, 4-R principles of reduce, reuse, recycle and refuse or any other innovative practice related to clean environment, pollution or waste management. “The committee’s decision is final,” said the CEO. The resident welfare associations (RWA), schools, hotels, hospitals, market associations and government officials have to send their entries to: ceo.scb2009@gmail.com by quote ‘Swachhata Ranking’ with details of the RWA, organisation or institution name, address, contact person and mobile phone number. SCB senior superintendent M Devender has been appointed as in-charge for the task. He may be contacted on 9490611186 for doubts and queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-assess-cleanliness-in-cantt-declare-winner/articleshow/80618702.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||Part of Aquem go powerless over weekend||Margao: Residents in a part of Aquem had no power supply over the weekend. The unplanned power outage took place on Saturday evening and power was restored only on Sunday afternoon. The underground cable failed and the department staff struggled to restore it on Saturday. “Normally when one cable fails we provide power supply through another cable via ring circuit, but that that cable also failed. It was strange and has not happened before,” a department engineer said. The fault was found in the cable joints near the transformer in the vicinity of Vishant theatre. Residents made do without the fan and with candlelight. The department said that the fault in one cable occurred at the cable joints and that they are yet to ascertain the reason for the fault in the other cable. Most of the time the faults happen due to digging and excavation works where JCBs are used. The machines puncture the underground cables. “Most of the time the parties don’t inform the department when they puncture the cable because they will have to pay for it,” the engineer further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/part-of-aquem-go-powerless-over-weekend/articleshow/80620568.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Covid effect: 42% junior college seats remain vacant in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Blame it on Covid or coaching classes, admissions for city’s junior colleges wound up for the academic session with around 42% seats remaining vacant. The 24,000-odd vacant seats is higher than the average 19,000 which don’t find any takers each year. In Nagpur city, junior college admissions are done only through the online Common Admission Process (CAP). While the reason for increase in vacant seats can at best be speculative, an education official cited Covid-19 pandemic as the major cause. Not wanting to be named as he is part of the team which organizes CAP, the official said, “In Nagpur city, many students come from rural parts and even from districts like Bhandara, Gondia, Wardha and Gadchiroli. At least 7,000-8,000 students did not take admissions in city colleges this year because of the pandemic. Parents are worried about keeping their children at PG accommodations and hostels.” Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers’ Association (VJUCTA) said there could be another reason for the decline in the number of admissions. “There are many city students who take admission in colleges located just outside city limits. Since the mandatory online admission process does not apply in that jurisdiction, students flock there as advised by coaching institutes,” said Gavhankar. The allegations from city colleges have continuously been about the ‘tie-up’ between coaching classes and junior colleges. Here colleges exempt students from attending physical classes while coaching institutes reciprocate by pushing all their students to take admissions in that institute. In fact, it is parents themselves who insist that their child must focus only on competitive exams, say college principals. “Parents create that demand, which is then fulfilled by willing institutes and colleges. No matter what rule you bring in, if there is a demand then supply will follow,” said a college principal from East Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/c-effect-42-junior-college-seats-remain-vacant-in-city/articleshow/80620171.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Couple dedicates wedding to protest||RUDRAPUR: Sivaljeet Singh and Sandeep Kaur tied the knot at a simple ceremony on Saturday night in a gurudwara in Bazpur, Udham Singh Nagar, an area which has seen thousands of farmers leave for Ghazipur border to join the protest against the Centre’s agri reform laws. As the couple had decided to dedicate their wedding to protesting farmers, songs supporting the farmers’ cause played at the venue and the attendees raised slogans for the cause. A video of the newlyweds returning from the wedding venue on a tractor instead of a car — a symbolic gesture to show solidarity with farmers — has since gone viral on social media. “We did not spend lavishly on the wedding. The money we saved will be donated to gurdwaras arranging langar for protesting farmers,” said Tarsem Singh, the bride’s father. Groom Sivaljeet Singh, a resident of village Tanda Dabhaura in Kashipur, told TOI that he had gone to Ghazipur border last week and was deeply pained to see farmers camping in biting cold. “Thousands of farmers have been protesting for two months at various Delhi borders for the past two months and are yet to be heard. I narrated their ordeal to my fiancée and as both of us hail from farmers’ families, we decided to show them support through our wedding,” said Singh. Bride Sandeep Kaur, a resident of Keshowala village, Bazpur, echoed her husband’s concerns. “It’s appalling to see elderly persons, men, women and kids in dire straits over the last two months. They are protesting not just for themselves. If these draconian laws aren’t repealed, the entire country will bear the brunt. We wanted to extend our support,” she said. State president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Karm Singh Padda, told TOI over the phone that even though he couldn’t be at the couple’s wedding as he was camping at Ghazipur border, he wished the couple a happy married life. “All of us agitating at Ghazipur border have sent the couple our blessings. The way they have shown support is invaluable. I will meet the couple personally once the laws are repealed and I am back in US Nagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sikh-couple-dedicates-wedding-to-farmers-protests-plays-songs-supporting-their-cause-goes-back-from-venue-on-tractor-to-show-solidarity-with-protesters/articleshow/80617675.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Youth held for rape of minor cousin in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: A 20-year-old man was arrested on the charges of raping his seven-year-old cousin on Sunday. The victim’s father, resident of a village in Nanakmatta town of Udham Singh Nagar, told the police that his brother’s son, Akshay Rana, committed the crime on Saturday. According to SHO Nanakmatta Kamlesh Bhatt, the father of the victim told the police that his daughter narrated her ordeal. He added that the accused warned them to not approach the police and also threatened to kill them. The police have registered a case under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 504 (provocation to break the public peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the India Penal Code (IPC) and section 5/6 Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, against the accused, who was produced in a court before being sent to jail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-held-for-rape-of-minor-cousin-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80617683.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||SHRC seeks report from civic body on two Miyapur lakes||Hyderabad: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the commissioner, GHMC, to submit a report on the condition of two lakes in Miyapur by March 8. The orders followed a complaint filed by an activist regarding pollution in the lakes amounting to a human rights violation. Residents have been complaining about the poor water quality of the Meedhikunta lake and Kaidhammakunta in Miyapur with authorities for long, but in vain. In his petition, activist Vinay Vangala, also a resident of the area, alleged that ‘untreated sewage water’ was being let into the lakes. His complaint says, “There are illegal sewage discharge points (allowing waste water) directly into the lakes and both the lakes have been turned into an open drain.” He also states that a large waste transfer station in the area is behind the lakes being blocked with debris, which prevents rains during the monsoon from entering them. This has increased mosquitoes, sewage smell and denigrated the habitat causing harm to humans, animals and plants, residents say. Calling this a violation to the right to life, which includes a clean environment, under Article 21 of the Constitution, Vangala pleaded for urgent action to stop the suffering of thousands of people in the neighbourhood. Elaborating on how people in the neighbourhood are getting affected, Goli Venugopal Reddy, another resident said, “stench aside, the pollutants from the sewage seep into the groundwater causing health issues to people living nearby.” He said the SHRC remained people’s last resort. When contacted, M Venkanna, executive engineer, Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB), was unaware of the plaint to SHRC. He said he will look into the pollution analysis of the lakes. An assistant executive engineer of the irrigation department also echoed similar views, stating he will visit the site soon to check for any problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-seeks-report-from-civic-body-on-two-miyapur-lakes/articleshow/80618710.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Man held with explosives||Hyderabad: Police said that they found gelatin sticks and detonators in the residence of a person at Rallaguda. Operating on a tip-off, they conducted a raid and found these explosives. The accused was taken into custody and sent to judicial remand by RGIA police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-with-explosives/articleshow/80618707.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Top doctor in Maharashtra ‘harassed’ by minister in former govt||MUMBAI: Levelling charges of harassment against a minister, Dr TP Lahane, director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), while speaking at a function in Ahmednagar, said he had suffered mental harassment during the erstwhile Fadnavis government. Lahane, however, did not name the then minister Vinod Tawde who was in charge of the medical education department. He said he had to suffer mental harassment during his tenure as dean of JJ Hospital. Asked about type of harassment, Lahane said, “I do not want to get into details but former opposition leader Dhananjay Munde and former minister Girish Mahajan helped me. After their request, then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis handed over the medical education portfolio to Mahajan,” said Lahane. On Saturday, Lahane was speaking in the presence of minister for social justice Dhananjay Munde. Lahane also clarified that the mental harassment was not by the Fadnavis government, but a minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/top-state-doc-harassed-by-minister-in-former-govt/articleshow/80620180.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Union Budget today: Dehradun residents express wish-list||DEHRADUN: The pandemic saw an unprecedented economic slowdown with one of the worst hit sectors being tourism, Uttarakhand’s mainstay for revenue generation. The hill state’s residents from different walks of life shared their expectations from the Union budget which is to be tabled on Monday by the Union finance minister. Sadhna Sharma, an activist and homemaker who heads a non-government social organisation ‘Uttarakhand Women’s Association’, said, “The budget this year will have to deal with a lot of firsts, given the extraordinary circumstances of the last 10 months. With prices of groceries going up, the cost of cooking for the family went up dramatically and job losses made it even tougher to make ends meet.” She added, The cost of petrol skyrocketed, causing a ripple effect on other necessities. Apart from taking care of these concerns, the government should also allocate funds for women’s safety.” Dr Dinesh Saxena, retired principal of Dehradun’s DAV College, said, “The central government’s budget contributes 25% to 30% to Uttarakhand’s economy, so a major relief can be expected from this budget. The hill state hardly has any industries and we mainly rely on tourism, a sector which needs special care at this time.” Saxena, who used to teach Economics, added, “The GST levied on service providers like chartered accountants and lawyers should also be reduced to 5% from 18%. With the hike in GST levied on them, their charges have increased, leading to lesser clients.” Mahesh Bhandari, a resident of Dalanwala and the president of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, said, “A major part of state capital Dehradun’s population comprises retired persons and they want the government to make their fixed deposits, saved from pensions, tax free. ” SP Sharma, a resident of Tula Greens Apartment on Rajpur Road, said “The pandemic has affected people from all backgrounds but middle class families have probably been the worst hit, with many borrowing to meet daily needs.” He added that “the government must invest in tourism, develop unexplored destinations of the state, so tourists start coming to the state in large numbers again and help revive its economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/union-budget-today-doon-residents-express-wish-list/articleshow/80617706.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC applies for ‘water plus’ cert||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has applied for the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission Water Plus City’ certification. According to Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, a city can be declared as ‘water plus’ if all wastewater released from households, commercial establishments, etc is treated satisfactorily before being releasing into the environment. Declaration of eligible cities as ‘water plus’ is in line with the central government’s focus on water conservation and reuse under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan. The initiative/programme also aligns with the sustainable development goals on clean water and sanitation. The GHMC has been retaining the ODF++ (open urination free and scientific treatment of fecal sludge through sewage treatment plants)certification for three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-applies-for-water-plus-cert/articleshow/80618706.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Promise of ‘education’ lures 13-year-old girl to go meet online friend in Bihar||NAGPUR: A 13-year-old girl left home at Katol on January 25 with just Rs70 in her pocket, to meet an unknown person in Bihar. She had been promised higher education and a job afterwards, by a person she had befriended on Instagram. Just two months ago, the girl’s father had given her the mobile phone to attend online classes, and she had started chatting with the stranger before stepping into his trap. The girl, whose father owns a pan kiosk, was unsure whether the family could bear the expense of her studies. After being rescued, she told police that her ‘friend’ at Samastipur in Bihar had assured to help her get higher education and later a respectable job, which her family may not be able to afford her. She has a younger brother too. The girl had left home on the pretext of filing online form at an internet café, with only Rs70 in her pocket. The Std IX girl headed to Nagpur railway station in a bus, from where she took a Bihar-bound train. She managed to travel without ticket till Uttar Pradesh (UP) on the following day. The girl was rescued at Gonda in Uttar Pradesh (UP) through the collaborative efforts of Katol police, Railway Protection Force (RPF), UP police and Government Railway Police (GRP). Katol police team of assistant sub-inspector Prabhakar Ghormade, woman head constable Panchphula More, constables Dheeraj Khante and Ashish Hirudkar was instrumental in bringing the girl back. SP Rakesh Ola, who praised the efforts of Senior police inspector (Sr PI) of Katol MP Achrekar, said swift action was initiated after receiving a missing complaint considering the sensitivity of the situation. “We had to proactively act as it was a teenage girl heading towards an unknown destination in UP or Bihar. She could have been trapped in the dragnet of traffickers,” he said. “After the complaint was received on January 25, police spent sleepless nights coordinating the rescue with counterparts from UP and railways simultaneously. Even during the Republic Day parade, officers responded and ensured the rescue,” said Ola. Senior PI Achrekar said the girl’s father had told the police station that his daughter left home at 2.30pm and was not responding to their repeated calls on her cell phone. “The cyber cell of Local Crime Branch (LCB) informed that the cell phone location of the girl was at Budni in Hoshangabad (Madhya Pradesh) but it was changing fast. Later, the cyber cell realized that the girl was in some train passing through UP. We found out the train to be Ernakulam Express, and alerted the railway security forces by sending her picture on their WhatsApp,” he said. “Finally, the girl was traced in the general coach. She had been hungry all along. She was fed and counselled by the railway police,” said the PI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/promise-of-education-lures-13-yr-old-girl-to-go-meet-online-friend-in-bihar/articleshow/80620176.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Active Covid cases in Ahmedabad dip below 1,000 after 10 months||AHMEDABAD: One of the national epicenters for Covid-19 pandemic finally showed the signs of slowing down – on January 31, the active cases went below 1,000 for the first time since beginning of April last year. It was also the third day for the city in January to record zero deaths of Covid-19 patients, also a first since April last year. To put the figure in perspective, the active cases on May 31 had reached 4,030 and 3,683 on September 30. Between December 31 and January 31, the city recorded dip of 60% in active cases - from 2,417 to 955. As of Sunday, Gujarat had 3,450 active patients, the lowest since end of April. While the state health department’s Covid-19 dashboard was not updated on January 31, the figures available on the website showed that Ahmedabad was the only district with over 1,000 active cases. Other major districts in terms of total cases such as Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot had 472, 313 and 471 active cases respectively. “It’s surely not an overnight change,” said a city-based health expert. “It can be seen in context of breaking the chain. After the surge in post-Diwali period, the city has witnessed a steady dip in the cases. If hypothetically we assume that one positive person infected seven persons, if the number dips from 100 to 50, the infected persons also go down from 700 to 350.” Experts also pointed at the measures such as night curfew and action on citizens flouting norms of social distancing and wearing masks. “The logic behind the night curfew is to reduce the unnecessary travel and social gatherings. But it cannot work in isolation – on-ground awareness and punitive action is also required,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-covid-cases-in-city-dip-below-1k-after-10-mnths/articleshow/80620243.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Techie dies in road accident, driver booked||Hyderabad: A 24-year-old software employee died and six others sustained injuries when the SUV they were travelling in overturned at Bacharam village in Dharoor mandal of Vikarabad district on Sunday. The deceased, Divya, 24, was a native of Visakhapatnam in AP. According to Dharoor SI Suresh, Divya was working at a software company in Hyderabad. On Sunday, Divya along with five of her friends including two women, went on a pleasure trip to Anantagiri forest in a rented SUV. “The accident occurred when they were travelling from Anantagiri towards Kotipally reservoir. At Bacharam village in Dharoor mandal, the driver of the SUV failed to negotiate a right turn due to speeding. The vehicle veered off the road and overturned,” the SI said. The driver and the six passengers sustained injuries in the accident. “While they were being shifted to a nearby hospital, Divya succumbed to her injuries. The other victims are out of danger,” the SI said. A case was registered against the driver, Shiva Sai, under Sections 304-a and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-dies-in-road-accident-driver-booked/articleshow/80618713.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Schools reopen for class 9, 11 students in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, nearly 1,500 city schools will witness a raised volume of teenage chatter on their campuses with class 9 and class 11 students being allowed to attend schools along with their counterparts in class 10 and class 12. But just 25% of the total class 9 and 11 students have received consent from their parents to attend school, claims Ahmedabad, rural district education officer (DEO) Rakesh Vyas. Tuition classes on the other hand have shown a lukewarm response as class 10 and class 12 students will be busy preparing for preliminary exams by February 15 and there being no point beginning tuitions classes. Manan Chowksi, president of the progressive school management association, said that there is considerable excitement among class 9 and class 11 students. “But it will be at least two weeks before more parents allow their children to attend school.” In case of tuition classes, centre head, S K Vijay of Aakash classes says, “We have not received the SOP from the government yet and we may not start from Monday.” Another tuition class operator Rakesh Bothra claims that he is considering sessions from February 28, since many children will be preparing for preliminary exams now. Allen school’s Pankaj Baldi said, “Only 60% of students’ parents have consented. We plan to reduce our class size from 200 in a session to 60 per classroom.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-reopen-for-class-9-11-students/articleshow/80620205.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Worker hit with bricks to death||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old construction worker was bludgeoned to death by a fellow worker at a construction site in Jagadgirigutta on Saturday night. Police said the incident happened when the two had an argument while they were under the influence of alcohol. The victim was identified as Purushottam, 40, a native of Nalgonda, while the accused, Ajay, is a native if Bihar. According to Jagadgirigutta police, Purushottam died on the spot and Ajay fled from the scene. On Sunday morning, other workers saw the body of Purushottam and alerted police. The body of the victim was shifted for postmortem and a murder case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-hit-with-bricks-to-death/articleshow/80618715.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Courts must comprehend couple’s fin position before granting alimony: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: While granting relief to a woman, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has held that trial courts must comprehend financial position of a couple before granting permanent alimony in mutual consent divorce cases. “In such cases, the party claiming right of permanent alimony must bring before the court financial status of the other side and other relevant circumstances for consideration. The court should be able to comprehend the financial position and conduct of both parties to pass any order of permanent alimony,” justice Pushpa Ganediwala said. Remanding back the case to trial court, the judge said as the issue of permanent alimony wasn’t decided, both husband and wife should appear before the judge on February 15. “The trial court shall decide the issue on its own merits, in accordance with law and without getting influenced by any of HC observations.” The Buldhana-based wife had challenged Khamgaon first appellate court’s verdict of December 7, 2018, dismissing her appeal for permanent alimony while deciding the case of divorce by mutual consent. This court had upheld an earlier order of a senior division civil judge rejecting her demand on December 20, 2017, while dissolving their marriage. She contended that both courts failed to consider her prayer under Section 25 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. According to her, she didn’t give up her right to alimony and maintenance. She pointed out that her husband was earning Rs1 lakh per month salary and also additionally gets over Rs20 lakh per month through his irrigated land. Earlier, the Khamgaon court had granted her interim maintenance of Rs2,000 per month that was stopped after dismissing her appeal citing absence of any relationship after her separation from husband. “It’s very shocking that the wife’s prayer for permanent alimony was not considered in accordance with law. The appellate court not only failed to read the bare text of provision, but also to rely on any authority of HCs before rejecting her prayer. Given the circumstances, the judgment and decree of appellate court needs to be set aside,” justice Ganediwala held. The judge added that in the opinion of this court, the ‘application’ as referred to in Section 25 of the Act implies any application either in writing or oral for the prayer of permanent alimony and maintenance. “The mode and form of the application is immaterial. The court can’t pass any order of permanent alimony and maintenance in vacuum. It has to consider the parameters as guided in provision itself,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/courts-must-comprehend-couples-fin-position-before-granting-alimony-hc/articleshow/80620188.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 1, 2021||India||Rajasthan civic polls: Congress leads, will need backing of Independents||JAIPUR: Congress took a lead over BJP in terms of number of wards won in the municipal elections held in 20 districts, though BJP retained the Ajmer Municipal Corporation with a big margin on Sunday. The incumbent party will, however, have to depend on independent candidates to form governing boards in many of the 90 municipal bodies for which elections were held on January 28 and the results declared on Sunday. Polls could not be held in one of the 3035 wards in the 90 urban bodies due to the death of a Congress candidate in Bhilwara’s Gulabpura Nagar Palika. Of the 3,034 wards for which results were announced, Congress won 1,197 while the BJP won 1,140. Congress got a clear majority in 19 municipal bodies compared to BJP’s clear majority in 24 bodies, but senior Congress members claimed their party would form governing boards in over 50 of the 90 municipal bodies with the support of independents and smaller parties. Independents stand in clear majority in nine urban bodies and will be a deciding factor in 37 bodies. Voting for electing chairpersons and governing boards would be held on February 7. Even as the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party was seen as the third big political force in the state after Congress and BJP because of its performances in the last assembly and general elections, NCP sprung a surprise by surging past RLP and getting majority in two municipal bodies — Newai Nagar Palika in Tonk district and Nokha Nagar Palika in Bikaner district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-civic-polls-congress-leads-will-need-backing-of-independents/articleshow/80620756.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||SC bench in south India, demand gets louder||Hyderabad: The demand for a Supreme Court bench in south India is growing louder with each passing day. While organisers, who brought together chiefs of five state bar councils to speak in one voice about the need for a southern bench of the apex court, are now busy in chalking out their next plan of action, there are scores of others who are joining the debate and are pressing for it. They are even stating that such demands from the four corners of the country would actually help the apex court in emerging as a constitutional court rather than remaining largely a court of appeals as is the case now. “The Supreme Court must retain the constitutional issues with it and delegate the appellate issues emanated from various high courts to its appellate branches, which should ideally be set up in the four corners of the country,” said K Sravan Kumar, an advocate practising at the Supreme Court. Quoting the contents of a research report of Nick Robinson, a senior researcher at Centre for Policy Research, he said that appeals to the Supreme Court do not come to it evenly from high courts throughout the country. Those high courts situated in areas near Delhi or that are wealthier are, on an average, more likely to generate more appeals. For example, in 2011, 18.6% of the court’s admission docket was from Punjab and Haryana, while 10.6% was from Delhi itself. Thus, even if compared in absolute numbers, appeals from these two high courts represented a larger portion of the Supreme Court’s docket than high courts such as Bombay, Uttar Pradesh, or Madras that hear far more cases. The analysis shows the court has disproportionately been accessed by those close to Delhi and with more resources. More benches of the SC in all four corners of the country might be a progressive answer to this problem, he said. “People giving up the idea of knocking doors of justice on account of their inability to afford the costs and also the inaccessibility on account of distance, cultural differences, etc, is nothing short of a denial of fundamental rights,” Tamil Nadu Bar Council chairman Amalraj said. “Division would actually help the Supreme Court to resolve the more important constitutional issues. And the appeals that are preferred against the high court orders can be transferred to appellate branches of the SC. These appellate benches should be set up one each in south, west, and east. This brings justice closer to the people”. --K SravanKumar, Supreme Court advocate The demand for a bench in the south is timely and urgent: Justice A Ramalingeswara Rao “The Supreme Court should be geographically accessible to all. The location of the court in the northernmost part happened in a hurry. We can remedy the inaccessibility by establishing SC benches on three more sides or at least on the southern side, to begin with. We aren't able to bridge the digital divide by going online. Apart from the language barrier between south and north, the climate and culture is another factor that must justify a separate bench. The proximity makes northern clients rush to the apex court easily than others. A look at the geographical profile of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) or other committees being formed by the apex court itself to study various issues would clearly bring out the disparity. It is also necessary for everyone to look to the geographical backgrounds of heads of judicial tribunals located in the capital to assess the representation of the south. The demand for a bench in the south is timely and urgent." - Justice A Ramalingeswara Rao, former judge of the common high court at Hyderabad for the states of AP and Telangana CJI Can Do it With the Consent of President: AP Bar Council chairman “Article 130 of the Constitution clearly says the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court with consent of the President can decide the place of Supreme Court. Not just the bench of it. When such wide powers are given to CJI, it should be exercised to erase regional disparities, particularly when people of a region are asking for it. People from south India are finding it difficult to reach a faraway Supreme Court and are relinquishing the idea of filing an appeal because it is simply not affordable for them. Leaving a whole lot of states and their people like that is unfair. A bench of the apex court in any of the southern states would resolve this problem to a great extent. Delhi is too far away and expensive for our people. The distance is 1,506 KMs from AP, 2,073 KMs from Karnataka, 2,574 KMs from Kerala, 2,118 KMs from Tamil Nadu, and 1,525 KM from Telangana. A number of Law Commission Reports had recommended that SC benches at four corners of the country are an effective answer to make justice accessible to people. Law Commission chairman Justice A R ,Lakshmanan in his 2009 report, had suggested that the principal seat of the Supreme Court at Delhi must retain cases of constitutional importance with it and delegate all other cases to SC benches to be set up at Mumbai, Kolkatta and Chennai or Hyderabad. Setting it at Tirupati would make it more central to AP, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Calling them as western, eastern and southern benches, Justice Lakshmanan had even called for a constitutional amendment for the purpose. Now, on account of lack of access to the apex court, hardly 1% appeals are preferred in SC from the entire south India. When one compares it with Delhi's 9.3%, Uttaranchal and Punjab with 5% each and even a tiny state like Himachal Pradesh preferring 3% appeals would drive home the point more clearly. Southern states with their huge area and population could not even reach 1%. Even the current attorney general’s recent recommendation for setting up four zonal benches of the SC with appellate jurisdiction and 15 judges each would reduce the burden on the apex court. Citizens can then use the Article 32 effectively because it allows people to use higher courts to get their fundamental rights enforced. This paves way for a vibrant democracy. —Ghanta Rama Rao, chairman, AP Bar Council||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-bench-in-south-india-demand-gets-louder/articleshow/80618734.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||City’s residential market picks up pace||Hyderabad: After a prolonged lull, the city’s residential sector is finally picking up pace, show latest industry reports. A Knight Frank survey released on Wednesday indicated that India’s south zone – including Hyderabad — hit a ‘future sentiment’ score of 66 (anything above 50 points indicates a rise) by the end of 2020, which is among the highest in the country. The finding is corroborated by city’s realty players. “Contrary to expectations, property sales have touched 80% of pre-Covid figures. This upswing has been visible since last quarter of 2020 (October to December). Also, with 70% to 80% of the migrant workforce returning to the city, there is increased momentum in the market,” said Ashwin Rao, director, Manbhum Constructions. He added: “The fact that work is also normalising across most sectors – with IT doing exceptionally well – is also helping the residential segment.” According to sources, several top builders from the city sold anywhere between 150 and 300 units (on an average) over the last two months. The cost of property too saw a marginal increase of Rs 50 to Rs 100 per square feet (sft), they added. “While homes with a marginal rise in cost are doing very well, developers quoting exorbitant rates – cost escalations of Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per sft – aren't getting buyers. And this is only natural. We need to keep the market accessible to customers,” said Sumanth Reddy, president, National Association of Realtors. What continues to be slow, however, is the rate of new launches in the city with developers still treading cautiously. In fact, a recent report hinted at a low 4% growth in rate of new launches in the second half of 2020, when compared to the same period in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-residential-market-picks-up-pace/articleshow/80618728.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Chances of 2nd wave in winter end, Jan sees fewer deaths, cases than Dec||Nagpur: Contrary to projections by the government and experts, the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 in winter has ended, with fewer positive cases and deaths in January than in December. Cumulative cases and deaths for November, December and January are fewer than those registered in September, which was the peak of first wave of the pandemic Another silver lining in January was that recoveries were slightly more than new positive cases. Similar situation was witnessed in October, after the first wave (last two weeks of August and entire September month) in monsoon. The district registered 1,465 fatalities and 48,457 positive cases in September. From November to January, there were 755 deaths, and 31,488 positive cases. January also witnessed roll out of vaccine beginning from health care workers. First dose of doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc working in government and private hospitals is likely to be completed by February 14 followed by second dose. Frontline workers are likely to get the jab from first or second week of February followed by people above 50 and below 50 with comorbidities. The government and experts had cautioned that any viral or infectious disease has tendency to increase during winter season. Also, there was a fear about transmission of disease with festivals in November and marriage ceremonies in large numbers in last two weeks of December and first two weeks of January. All commercial, social and religious activities also resumed in last three months. Education activities too resumed in phased manner. Contrary to this, city registered zero deaths on three of last six days. New cases were between 128 and 355 in last 15 days in the district. Active cases were 3,335 on January 31, which was 2.48% of total positive cases. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Cases declined in winter probably due to herd immunity. Also, it seems virus became weak. Line of treatment is very clear for Covid-19 and availability of beds is no more an issue due to less number of cases, which helped in controlling deaths. People should continue following guidelines like wearing mask in public places, maintaining social distancing etc for further decline in number of cases.” Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Fortunately, virus did not mutate in winter here, so second or multiple waves were not seen. Vaccination should be expedited before more mutations or transmission of new variants from UK and South Africa here. Cases are likely to go down further with increase in temperature so there seems to be not much worry till monsoon.” Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad have continued to operate testing centres with 10.63 lakh tests conducted between March 11 and January 31 in the district. The government has implemented standard operating procedures (SoPs) for all types of activities and continued lockdown till February end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chances-of-2nd-wave-in-winter-end-jan-sees-fewer-deaths-cases-than-dec/articleshow/80617688.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: AAP launches door-to-door campaign for municipal bypolls in five wards||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has launched a door-to-door campaign for the municipal by-elections in five wards less than a month away. “The Election Commission of India has decided the by-elections of these five municipal seats and AAP welcomes this decision. To intensify the campaign, the party has started a door-to-door campaign from today,” AAP functionary and corporation in-charge Durgesh Pathak on Sunday said. “Here we aim to reach out to the maximum number of people and apprise them about the real picture of the BJP-led civic bodies,” he said. Pathak said that AAP will fight this election based on two issues — corruption and garbage problem. “In the last 15 years, BJP has transformed the corporations into a den of corruption and made them completely bankrupt. Due to the rampant corruption of the party, today the civic bodies have no money to pay salaries of their own employees,” he said. “Looking at the Kejriwal government and Kejriwal model of development the citizens of Delhi are confident that today Aam Aadmi Party is the only political party, which will be able to provide justice to the people,” he said. He added that from January 7, AAP has also started mohalla sabhas across Delhi, where he claimed that citizens spontaneously discussed how the BJP-led corporations harass them every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-launches-door-to-door-campaign-for-municipal-bypolls-in-five-wards/articleshow/80618750.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Phase I & II vaccinations to end this week?||AHMEDABAD: Senior IAS and IPS officers of Gujarat got the Covid-19 vaccine shots on Sunday, starting the second phase of the vaccination drive in the state. In the first phase, which was reserved for the healthcare workers, 58% of the 4.33 lakh doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, etc. have so far got vaccinated. A total of 54,825 of the frontline workers, primarily consisting of the state police officers and personnel, got vaccinated on Sunday, covering 8% of 6.9 lakh identified frontline workers. Top sources close to the development said that the state health department intends to complete the majority of the Phase I and II of the drive by end of the week. “The state had received 5.4 lakh shots of Covishield and 1.5 lakh shots of Covaxin. The new stock will also arrive shortly. As of Sunday, 3 lakh shots have been administered. According to the protocol, an equal number of shots will be reserved for the second shot, to be administered 28 days after the first one,” said a health department official. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that the Medicity campus on Sunday recorded vaccinations of 774 beneficiaries. “Top officials including the Ahmedabad city police commissioner, district collector and DDO got the shots. None have reported any side effects,” he said. Sanjay Srivastava, city police commissioner, said that after eight hours of the shot, there is no side effect. “I was working almost the entire day. I can say that the vaccine is safe, and it should be taken by all. My octogenarian mother will also take it when her turn comes,” he said. In the state capital Gandhinagar, state DGP Ashish Bhatia, collector Kuldeep Arya and other senior officials got vaccinated. Dr Niyati Lakhani, medical superintendent of Gandhinagar Civil Hospital, said that 587 persons got vaccinated at the centres, including 25 top government officials. “None have reported any side effects,” she said Government officials said that the start of second phase will work as a confidence booster for the next phase in which 1 crore persons above 50 years of age will be covered. “The phase is likely to be launched by mid-February,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phase-i-ii-vaccinations-to-end-this-week/articleshow/80620220.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man ends life after wife dies of corona in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 69-year-old man from the Satellite area of city on Saturday committed suicide around one and a half months after his wife died of corona. According to police, he was completely shattered after the death of his wife. Satellite police have registered a case of accidental death. The deceased was identified as Piyush Desai, a resident of Azad Apartment-1 in Satellite. “The incident came to light on Saturday evening when some neighbours found him unresponsive. They looked from a window and found him hanging from a ceiling fan,” said an officer of Satellite police. Investigating officer of the case, sub-inspector M G Limbola of Satellite police said that Desai’s wife had died around one and a half months ago after which he was left alone. “He did not have any kids or relatives who could live with him. So after his wife’s death, he was lonely which triggered the extreme step,” said Limbola. He said that Desai had retired around nine years ago and he and his wife were living a happy life till coronavirus took her life. “We have been facing trouble in investigating the issue as he did not have any family member who could tell us about his condition. So, we are relying on his neighbours’ accounts,” said a cop of Satellite police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-ends-life-after-wife-dies-of-corona/articleshow/80620212.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur university researchers get patent for breast cancer drug||KOLHAPUR: Researchers at the Shivaji University Kolhapur (SUK) have received a patent for the chemical complex (molecule) drug synthesised in a university lab which showed anti-breast cancer properties. Prakash Bansode, now an assistant professor, under the guidance of professor Gajanan Rashinkar synthesised the drug molecule for over three months. The molecule has a Ferrocene compound, which shows anti-cancer properties, however, most of the times it kills not just cancer cells but also normal cells during chemotherapy. The researchers coupled the compound with carbene structure to which they attached the metallic components such as gold, silver and platinum. As many as 10 derivatives of the compound were synthesised and tested at various levels. Rashinkar told TOI: “We screened the drug at the advanced cancer research centre of Tata Memorial Centre in Mumbai. We found the drug showing activity against human breast cancer cells and more importantly showed much less toxicity during the treatment process which is a new thing since in most chemotherapy processes the drugs or medicines used are highly toxic causing further pain to the patient in some way or the other. We had filed for the patent in March 2018 and now after reviewing the drug complex, we received the ‘product patent’ for 20 years.” The Patents Office has issued the certificate with patent number 356463 to both the researchers. University vice-chancellor D T Shirke has lauded their efforts. The research was carried out with financial help from the SUK. Bansode said, “Breast cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed malignancies and the leading cause of death among females worldwide. It is one of the most aggressive cancers. We expect more in-vivo testings of this drug complex and pharmacodynamic studies are carried out.” Bansode was a PhD student when he was conducting the research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-univ-researchers-get-patent-for-breast-cancer-drug/articleshow/80620207.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||160 Covid-19 cases, one death in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 163 new cases of Covid-19 and one death, even as the number of active cases in the state dropped to 2,240. With the latest numbers, the state has recorded 2,94,469 cases so far and a total of 1,599 Covid-19 deaths. The recovery rate in the state has been on a constant improvement and has now touched 98.69%, placed better than the country average of 96.9%. So far, a total of 2,90,630 patients have recovered in the state from the coronavirus infection. Currently, just 880 patients are under hospitalized treatment. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is currently 0.54%. This is better when compared to the country average of 1.4%, which means that Telangana is recording 1 death in every 200 people whereas the country average is three deaths for every 200 positive cases. On Sunday, 37,372 samples were tested across the state. Telangana has now completed testing 78.6 lakh samples and has reached 2,11,213 sample testing per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/160-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-state/articleshow/80618762.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||100 satellites designed by students to be launched on February 7||MUMBAI: On January 25, Space X broke a world record by launching 143 satellites in one go. Now, India is set to break another type of record. Come Sunday February 7, 100 tiny satellites called Femto satellites designed and developed, not by space scientists or engineers, but 1,000 students across India will be launched at the birthplace of APJ Abdul Kalam, Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu. Femto satellites are tiny ones with a low mass and are used for scientific and training purposes. Dedicated to Kalam, it is a joint project by APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation, Chennai-based Space Zone India and another organisation called Martin. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, general secretary of the Kalam International Foundation, Milind Chaudhari, said that of the 1,000 students, 380 are from Maharashtra, making it the second highest after Tamil Nadu. Of the 100 satellites, 38 are from Maharashtra which includes one of Children’s Academy in Mumbai. Chaudhari said that initially the students were given on line training by Space Zone India and on January 19 were provided hands on experience at Jaywant Rao College of Engineering and Polytechnic at Pune. He said all the districts of Maharashtra were represented. The femto satellites measure 4 cms X 4 cms X 4 cms and are made of composite material. According to him, the launch of the 100 satellites in the high altitude scientific balloon at Rameshwaram will be around 10.30am on February 7, and it will attain altitude of 35,000 metres to 38,000 metres. He said the total mission span is for five to eight hours and the femto satellite are equipped with sensors to study areas like ozone, cosmic ray, carbon dioxide and humidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/100-satellites-designed-by-students-to-be-launched-on-feb-7/articleshow/80620223.cms||Srinivas Laxman
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Three of a family die by suicide in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Three members of a family died by suicide by taking a plunge into the backwaters of the Vainganga river at Ambhora in Nagpur rural around 73km away from the city. Their bodies were fished out on Sunday by local divers and Veltur police. The deceased, residents of Anmolnagar in Wathoda, were identified as Shyam Narnaware (46), his wife Savita (35) and their 12-year-old daughter Samita alias Sameeksha. The girl’s hand was found tied to her mother’s body with a scarf. The reason behind the drastic decision is yet to come to the fore. No suicide note was found, said the police. Shyam was a cashier with a cooperative credit society. Police have not ruled out financial constraint or dispute. Police said the family had come to Ambhora on a bike. They first visited the temple and later asked a hotel owner for direction to the washroom. The couple and their daughter were never seen again at the temple. Police said local residents spotted the bike on the bridge. It had a lady’s sweater and shawl on it. A pair of chappals too was spotted in the vicinity. Police found a mobile phone at the spot through which it could establish contact with the family of the deceased and collect information about their identities. A case of accidental death has been registered, said asst inspector Anand Kaviraj of Veltur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-of-a-family-die-by-suicide/articleshow/80620213.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Trichy sanitation drive a damp squib||Trichy: The 11-day mass sanitation drive launched by Trichy corporation in all the 65 wards here a week ago has turned out to be a damp squib as the frequently littered spots have remained the same. Aimed at making vacant plots and roadside space clean and free of piled-up garbage mounds, the drive failed miserably in finding a solution in Ponmalai and K Abishekapuram zones. The corporation had announced the sanitation drive in all parts of the city from January 20 to 30. Touted to identify 25 most littered locations in each of the wards in the four zones here, it was aimed at eliminating littering. However, there was no visible change. Parts of Reynolds road, Heber road and Bhima Nagar continue to have multiple garbage mounds. Waste collection vehicles continue to be irregular in door-to-door collection forcing esidents to dump their waste on roads. Although the civic body dredged and desilted drainage and stormwater drain including near Gandhi market through the sanitation drive that concluded on Saturday, residents said that it was untimely. “If the corporation was serious about cleaning the drains, the work must have commenced before monsoon, not after the rains were over. Waste collection is still worse,” H Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai, adds. Even when the mass sanitation drive was active, residents were complaining of littering in Officers colony and even behind the main office of Trichy corporation and the official quarters of corporation mayor. “We have cleared vegetation in the drainage canals in the recent weeks. The drive had also focussed on the littered spots, the complaints will be addressed,” an official with Trichy corporation added. Residents opined that a proper and streamlined waste collection system at the doorstep will eliminate littering on roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-sanitation-drive-a-damp-squib/articleshow/80620208.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Only 21% health staff of GMCH take jab; 53% turnout at 15 other centres||Nagpur: Only 440 (20.79%) of 2,116 health care workers at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), only centre for Covaxin in six districts of Nagpur division, have been administered Covid-19 vaccine in 10 days of the programme. The turnout is 52.91% (5,484 out of 10,364) in other 15 centres in the city, where Covishield is being administered. GMCH along with IGGMCH had started admission and treatment of Covid-19 patients along with regular patients since the city registered first positive case on March 11. GMCH also comprises highest number of beds for novel coronavirus patients and likely to continue services till end of the pandemic. Total 5,210 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc from GMCH had registered with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for vaccination programme. They also submitted documents and other details. The number of registered staff from GMCH is highest among all hospitals in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Considering the importance of GMCH, the civic body had selected the institute as one of the five centres when vaccination programme was launched on January 16. After getting approval to increase the number of centres, NMC opened one more centre in GMCH. As per NMC data, scheduling of 2,116 health care staff of GMCH was done on 10 days between January 16 and 29 for the inoculation. Only 440 turned up despite medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande, head of pharmacy department Dr Vijay Motghare and others taking the jab. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “State government has selected GMCH as one of the centres in state for Covaxin which is whole virion and inactivated coronavirus vaccine. It is safe and number of minor Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) cases for Covaxin is lower compared to Covishield. Still, there seems to be apprehension at GMCH due to mandatory undertaking, submission of AEFI details and Covaxin being in trial phase. Government had recommended Covaxin after detailed study. Therefore, we are time and again requesting them to avail the benefit.” Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “I would personally prefer Covaxin above Covishield, if given the option. Covaxin has less reactogenicity so there should be no apprehensions, especially when it comes to health care workers.” NMC will schedule remaining 3,094 health care workers of GMCH for the inoculation at two centres till February 14. On January 15, the government had sent 2,000 doses to GMCH. The government delivered another 3,200 doses for GMCH on January 28. Now, doses available with GMCH are sufficient to cover first dose for all registered health care staff of the institute. In 10 days of vaccination programme in the city, NMC had scheduled 12,480 health care workers for the inoculation. As per NMC’s data, 5,924 (47.47%) have taken the jab. Remaining 6,556 did not turn up. The authorities have claimed the achievement as 65.82%, calculating the turnout against 9,000 registrations. The authorities across the state are calculating the achievement as against 100 per centre despite scheduling 120-150 at each central, and also allowing more on-the-spot vaccination of registered health care workers. At remaining 15 centres in the city, 5,484 (52.91%) of total scheduled 10,364 have got the vaccine, which is also low turnout. NMC officials said, “It is voluntarily and not mandatory. Apprehension is among only 10% health care workers and others did not turn up for various reasons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-21-health-staff-of-gmch-take-jab-53-turnout-at-15-other-centres/articleshow/80617700.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Farmers create own security ring||NEW DELHI: With the number of protesters at Singhu border swelling on Sunday, many staying in tents near the highway said they had their task cut out. A barricade had been set up near the highway mall to keep a lookout for miscreants as the farmers claimed that this end was devoid of police presence. On guard for 24 hours, the volunteers even check identity cards of people they find suspicious. On Sunday, large trucks from Haryana, Delhi and Punjab carrying milk, water bottles, food and other items started to arrive at the protest site despite police barricading making it difficult for vehicles to reach the place. There were also a large number of tractors and cars from Haryana that had come “in support and solidarity with the farmers.” Deepak, a protester, said, “More people from Haryana have started to come here since the attack on us on Friday. They are riled up by the attempts to dismantle our genuine and peaceful protest.” However, the rising numbers have also raised security concerns, especially since the attack on farmers by outsiders claiming to be locals. Cars coming from Delhi have to travel through kuccha roads of Singhu village to reach the protest site, where they are checked by farmers as part of the security drill. One such lane leads to Kessel Grand Mall where several kabaddi players have been residing for over two months. Mangi Bagga, a national-level kabaddi player, said they had food there that could feed thousands for two months. “Around 100 of us secure the mall in shifts,” he added. Since there is no internet, the volunteers use walkie-talkies to communicate with each other. “We took matters in our own hands because we have lost trust in politicians. The policemen are just doing their job, so we cannot be angry at them. There are many factories nearby, so we have to be cautious,” said Bagga. A group of young protesters from Haryana and Punjab were seen standing guard at barricades near the factories. Vipin Deep Singh from Jalandhar, one of the guards, said, “We work in 8-hour shifts. Since the attack on us, the number of volunteers has increased tenfold even at langar sites. We don’t allow entry to people who look suspicious and ask them to show their identity cards. We know the factory workers very well as we have been seeing them for over two months and they eat at our langars too.” His fellow security volunteer, Rohit from Sonipat, said, “We also stop people who have an odd body language and the manner in which they look in our direction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-create-own-security-ring/articleshow/80618792.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 1, 2021||Goa||Two succumb to Covid-19, death toll touches 769||Panaji: A 53-year-old man from Navelim admitted at Goa Medical College on December 26 for non-Covid related issues passed away on Sunday of Covid. He tested positive for Covid-19 on the sixteenth day of treatment at GMC. “The patient contracted Covid while undergoing treatment at GMC for an underlying condition of chronic kidney disease and chronic hepatitis C infection,” GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar said. The man also had liver cirrhosis, chronic obstructive disease and diabetes. “The patient contracted Covid-19 on January 11,” Bandekar said. The second death was of a 74-year-old man from Pomburpa who had hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He died of bilateral Covid pneumonia a day after being admitted at GMC. These two deaths have taken the death toll to 769. Twenty persons were hospitalised and 29 opted for home isolation. There are presently 750 active Covid cases in the state. Majority of these are in Margao, 92, followed by Panaji with 76, Porvorim, 49, Ponda, 45, and Curchorem, 37, among others. Only one among the active cases was a traveller to the state. A total of 60 persons recovered over the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-succumb-to-covid-19-death-toll-touches-769/articleshow/80620575.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Rise in population of canines behind killings: Activists||Trichy:As the population of stray dogs has been rapidly increasing in Trichy city in the absence of sterilisation by the Trichy Corporation, animal activists opined that violence against stray canines is gradually surfacing in the city. Trichy Corporation was making attempts since October 2020 to resume the animal birth control (ABC) drive, but no decisive action was taken so far in this regard.Since August 2019, the corporation has suspended the sterilisation drive and the animal birth control centre established at Konakkarai at a cost of Rs 93 lakh remains unutilised. The absence of sterilisation drive that usually neuters at least 1,000 dogs a year has left the stray population to surge drastically, particularly during the lockdown. Animal activists said that they have already started receiving calls from Woraiyur and Thiruverumbur about violence against stray dogs as dogs were causing troubles to the local people. “Sterilisation drive must resume at the earliest. We are already getting calls from people about violence against stray dogs in parts of the city,” Antony Charles, animal welfare activist, added. While the corporation floated tenders twice inviting NGOs to resume sterilisation drive in 2020, it is learnt that no one was identified to carry out the task. The civic body has not accepted the condition of the NGOs that the corporation should provide manpower for catching stray dogs. “Sterilisation drive has not resumed yet as we could not identify a suitable organisation to take up the neutering process,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rise-in-population-of-canines-behind-killings-activists/articleshow/80620228.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Local polls verdict against Congress government, says Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia has called the verdict in 90 local body polls against the ruling Congress government. In a press conference held at the BJP office in Jaipur on Sunday, Poonia said that 64.70% voters having voted against the Congress party makes it evident that people are fed up with the misgovernance of the Gehlot government. “Out of 24 lakh votes polled, 14.32 lakh votes went against the Congress. They have a clear mandate in just 19 local bodies, which means they were rejected in 71 local bodies. The BJP has a clear mandate in 23 bodies even after the former used their powerful influence in the polls,” said Poonia. Taking on PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra’s statement that they have a clear mandate in 19 local body polls and they would able to form boards in 50 local bodies, Poonia said, “The statement clears that the ruling government is going to use government machinery and their influence in forming boards. Or will they be performing any magic to shoot up the number from 19 to 50?” He added that their party workers are ready to face this challenge and would not let them use their power to influence independents and others in forming the boards. Talking about BJP’ performance, Poonia said they won 1,140 wards against 1,019 five years ago. “Our tally has improved against the popular myth that the ruling party is always preferred in the local body polls,” said Poonia, who expressed confidence that BJP will form its board in a good number of local bodies. “At several places, independents have approached us and extended support to form the board. Out party leaders are working on the ground to see our boards at all possible places,” Poonia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/local-polls-verdict-against-cong-government-says-poonia/articleshow/80618786.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||In Gujarat, net addition of mobile subscribers declined by 3.5 lakh||AHMEDABAD: With telecom tariffs on the rise, many have done away with the habit of keeping more than one mobile sim card. Since the lockdown, telecom operators have lost some 3.5 lakh mobile subscribers in Gujarat, according to data by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI). The latest telecom subscriptions report released by TRAI on Thursday suggests that the net addition of mobile subscribers declined by 3.5 lakh connections from April to November 2020. “Ever since the tariff revision was implemented, people stopped using multiple sim cards and have stuck to a single connection that served them well,” said a telecom industry source. During the said period, a maximum of 11.16 lakh subscribers declined in April. “The decline in April was primarily due to non-serviceability of customers due to the ongoing lockdown, as retail counters account for big business, which were shut. Moreover, people who faced income shortfalls also chose not to keep two connections,” the source further added. Except for September, the number of mobile connections are growing every month, but the growth has been fairly slow. “Migrant workers accounted for a lot of newer connections getting added. However, due to the pandemic, those working in Gujarat had moved towards their hometowns while few returned. Moreover, people are being frugal when it comes to taking new connections and they stick by a service provider that suits their budget and serviceability. This is also one of the reasons for slowed addition of new connections,” said another source in the telecom sector. Even though the total number of connections have declined, since October, the net additions have grown with 5.36 lakh added in October 2020 and 2.5 lakh added in November 2020. According to the telecom subscriptions report released on Thursday, Bharti Airtel gained some 3.92 lakh subscribers, whereas Reliance Jio gained some 62,823 subscribers in Gujarat in November alone. On the other hand, Vi lost 2.09 lakh subscribers whereas state-owned telecom operator, BSNL, lost some 273 subscribers and Reliance Communications lost some 46 subscribers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-state-net-addition-of-mobile-subscribers-declined-by-3-5-lakh/articleshow/80620233.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||‘India offers space buffs a bright future’||MUMBAI: “Don’t look toward Nasa. Look toward Isro.” This advice to students came from none other than director of Nasa Florida Space Grant Consortium (FSGC), Jaydeep Mukherjee. Mukherjee made this point while interacting with students and staff of Muktangan, an NGO which runs municipal schools in the Worli-Prabhadevi area on Saturday. The nearly 90-minute presentation was jointly organised by Space Geeks Mumbai and Muktangan. Mukherjee told students India offered a bright future with a number of new aerospace organisations mushrooming. “The culture of Isro has changed and it has become open to students. You don’t have to come to Nasa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-offers-space-buffs-a-bright-future/articleshow/80620240.cms||Srinivas Laxman
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Info commissioner slaps penalty on 3 govt officials for delaying information under RTI||JAIPUR: The state information commission on Saturday slapped penalties on three government officials for deliberately delaying information under the Right to Information Act. The chief medical health officer, Jhalawar has been slapped with Rs 10, 000 penalty for not releasing information since 2018. The amount will be deducted from his salary. The appeal was filed by one Navneet Kumar Rathore of Khanpur (Jhalawar) who had sought information related to the Rajasthan Medical Relief Society in 2018. Till date, the information officer has neither provided the required information nor given a single reply. Acting on the appeal, information commissioner (IC) Narain Bareth observed that delay is a deliberate attempt and goes against the rules of the RTI. “The applicant should be provided the information he sought in the next 15 days,” observed Bareth. Similarly, IC slapped penalty of Rs 5,000 against information officer of CMHO Kota for not providing information to one Satya Narayan Sharma of Kota. Sharma had sought information in March 2019. In another case, Jayanti Lal of Udaipur sought information in November 2018 from the divisional joint labour commissioner on welfare schemes being run by the labour department but received same treatment like others. The labour commissioner office argued that due to the pandemic the information was not processed, however, this reason was rejected by IC Bareth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/info-commissioner-slaps-penalty-on-3-govt-officials-for-delaying-information-under-rti/articleshow/80618783.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||3.76 lakh children get polio dose in Nagpur district||Nagpur: Pulse polio drive received a good response despite Covid-19 fears on Sunday, with more than 3.76 lakh kids under 5 years of age receiving polio dose at various booths in district. However, this number is way less than the target, which was more than 4.71 lakh in the district. Those who missed the dose will get it in the next door-to-door campaign phase, which will start from February 2. Officials from the health department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation informed that 1,92,387 kids have received polio dose in city at 1,529 booths across the city. This is nearly 70% of the target for Nagpur city, which was 2,76,413. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, who formally inaugurated the drive by immunizing baby Ananya Pathak in Mahal health centre, said NMC will cover entire 100% target of the kids in next few days. “Booths were installed in hospitals, schools, temples, public places and community centres across the city on Sunday. From February 2 onwards, our health workers will pay house-to-house visits and ensure that every eligible child gets immunized,” he said. Deputy mayor Manisha Dhawade, additional commissioner Ram Joshi, officials of NMC health department, and local corporators were present at the formal inaugural function. In Nagpur rural, 1,52,616 children were immunized by the district health officer (DHO) while 31,408 kids were given polio dose under the civil surgeon’s office. Total 1.84 lakh kids got the polio dose. Including Nagpur city, total 3,872 booths were set up in the district. Total 8,487 employees and staffers of the health department worked through the day. As far as Nagpur city is concerned, 18 mobile vans, and 88 transit teams ensured the immunization. From February 2 to 6, health officials will visit more than 7.42 lakh houses in the city and immunize kids who have missed the vaccine on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-76-lakh-children-get-polio-dose-in-nagpur-district/articleshow/80618842.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Farmers destroy onion crops damaged in rain||Trichy: With small onion crops raised on hundreds of acres damaged in the recent rain and affected by root rotten disease in Perambalur district, farmers have started destroying the remaining standing crop by ploughing their fields. Meanwhile, horticulture department officials have advocated taking up alternative crop method to avert such such diseases and pests. Perambalur district is known for its small onion cultivation which is highly preferred for its good quality. Farmers usually cultivate the crop during the Tamil months of Chithirai, Vaikasi, Purattasi and Ippasi. Those who took up cultivation during Purattasi and Karthigai (October - November) had to suffer heavy loss due to incessant rain in December and January. “Most of the crops were affected by root rotten disease forcing us to destroy the disease-hit crop on the fields since we could not reap anything,” said Nehru, a farmer from Alathur. “I have cultivated onion on 4 acres of my 7-acre land. I lost almost all the crops on 3 acres due to root rotten disease after the rain. We spent Rs 30,000 an acre to raise the crop but could not get yield,”, he told TOI. Though the affected farmers administered the prescribed pesticides and fertilizers, nothing could safeguard the crop, said P Raj, another farmer. Horticulture officials said that had the farmers done summer ploughing to get around such natural disasters as they have been advising, they could have minimized the loss. Rain triggered by Burevi cyclone destroyed small onion on about 12,500 acres out of the 20,000 acres on which it was cultivated in the district, said A G Fathima, deputy director of horticulture. “The government has sanctioned Rs 10.96 crore as compensation to 8,729 onion farmers in the district. Enumeration of damage caused to the onion crops is going on and we hope to complete it in two days,” she told TOI. She said officials have been asking farmers to adopt alter crop method to avert diseases such as twister and root rotten.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-destroy-onion-crops-damaged-in-rain/articleshow/80620218.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Local polls verdict against Congress government, says Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia has called the verdict in 90 local body polls against the ruling Congress government. In a press conference held at the BJP office in Jaipur on Sunday, Poonia said that 64.70% voters having voted against the Congress party makes it evident that people are fed up with the misgovernance of the Gehlot government. “Out of 24 lakh votes polled, 14.32 lakh votes went against the Congress. They have a clear mandate in just 19 local bodies, which means they were rejected in 71 local bodies. The BJP has a clear mandate in 23 bodies even after the former used their powerful influence in the polls,” said Poonia. Taking on PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra’s statement that they have a clear mandate in 19 local body polls and they would able to form boards in 50 local bodies, Poonia said, “The statement clears that the ruling government is going to use government machinery and their influence in forming boards. Or will they be performing any magic to shoot up the number from 19 to 50?” He added that their party workers are ready to face this challenge and would not let them use their power to influence independents and others in forming the boards. Talking about BJP’ performance, Poonia said they won 1,140 wards against 1,019 five years ago. “Our tally has improved against the popular myth that the ruling party is always preferred in the local body polls,” said Poonia, who expressed confidence that BJP will form its board in a good number of local bodies. “At several places, independents have approached us and extended support to form the board. Out party leaders are working on the ground to see our boards at all possible places,” Poonia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/local-polls-verdict-against-cong-government-says-poonia/articleshow/80621762.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 3 fraudsters arrested for Rs 2.22 crore scam||NAGPUR: Economic offences wing (EoW) of the crime branch on Saturday arrested three alleged fraudsters, including Puroshattam Bele, president of Vishwakarma Gramin Baigar Sheti Cooperative Limited, Kharbi, at Wathoda, for their role in duping investors to the tune of Rs2.22 crore. It’s learnt that Bele, along with vice-president of the cooperative Naresh Dandekar, had lured more than 1,100 members to deposit in their schemes, which were to help them procure various loans in future. Dandekar was also arrested. The third person to be nabbed in the case was Vasudev Hirudkar. Police said Bele, Dandekar and their co-accused embezzled the deposits of the cooperative society on the pretext of availing various loans and floating different schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-fraudsters-arrested-for-rs2-22cr-scam/articleshow/80620226.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bootleggers spirit themselves away||AHMEDABAD: “We received an input that a liquor-laden vehicle was supposed to pass through our jurisdictional area. When we reached the spot, we found a vehicle with a sizable amount of liquor bottles but the accused had fled.” These words comprise the common theme in many FIRs filed by Gujarat Police whenever a large cache of liquor is recovered. In the recent past police have registered, on average, four cases a week in which only liquor was found. In all these cases, the accused had either managed to flee from the cops or were not present when the cops got to the liquor trove. Sources in police said that people smuggling liquor into dry Gujarat or illegally selling alcohol in the state usually have a relay system to evade capture. One person parks the booze-carrying vehicle at a specific place. The vehicle is then picked up by another person at an opportune time. Bootleggers share information only on the need-to-know basis, curbing leaks in the operation. “People involved in smuggling liquor into Gujarat do not know who will be the last person to receive the consignment,” a police officer said. “There are chains of people who do not know about each other.” However, the question remains why cops cannot reach the main smugglers, who usually belong to states such as Haryana, Rajasthan, and Punjab. Cellphones and vehicles used in the illegal business are also routinely seized; but though such seizures can yield a wealth of intelligence, not many bootleggers seem to be nabbed. “If vehicle registrations and cellphone data are thoroughly checked, cops can expose the illegal liquor business,” said a retired police officer. He said it is probable that bootleggers have contacts in the police force and get “inputs” about an impending action. So when bootleggers smell trouble, they dump the booze and flee. Meanwhile, the small fry are frequently apprehended. On average, 10 cases are filed daily in every police station of the state relating to women carrying about 2 litres of country-made liquor. Each haul is worth only Rs 40, said an officer of the prevention of crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bootleggers-spirit-themselves-away/articleshow/80618745.cms||Ashish Chauhan
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lens on illegal parking fee collection in Sector V||KOLKATA: To tackle the menace of unauthorised parking and prevent motorists from being fleeced by illegal parking agents at Sector V in Salt Lake, cops and officials of Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) will hold a meeting this week, for redress of the parking extortion issues that have been rampant since the various stages of Unlock during the pandemic. NDITA officials said that there is no fee parking zones in Sector V at present, so taking parking fee from people is illegal till the authorities renew the old system of parking fee collection or engage new parking agents in consultation with the police. “At present, there are no authorized agents to collect parking fees in Sector V. If anybody is collecting parking fees, that is illegal and we have also informed the police about the matter. The fee parking zones were there before the pandemic last year. After the lockdown the parking fee collection system has not been renewed,” said an NDITA official. The meeting to be held by the authorities comes after the complaints regarding the illegal collection of parking fees in Sector V poured in. The parking fees demanded illegally by the agents also go up four times the original rate, especially during night. “The problem is worse at night and during weekends. The worst zone is the area near RDB Boulevard where people stay back till late night at workplaces or come out of restaurants and bars. During Christmas eve, we had to spend Rs 200 for keeping our car for one-and-half-an-hour at a parking zone near RDB Boulevard,” said Mithoon Ghosh, a resident of Jadavpur. NDITA authorities said they are planning to re-introduce parking fee collection system in Sector V very soon in consultation with the police. “We had sought opinion from the police about the streets or stretches that could be identified as parking zones. They have recently shared an opinion on the roads which could be earmarked for parking. We will discuss on the issue with the police in the meeting,” said an official. The parking rates that NDITA had previously fixed were Rs 10 per hour for four-wheelers and Rs 5 per hour for two-wheelers. A senior officer of Bidhannagar city police said they would ask for a parity in parking rates and would urge the NDITA to have provisions for a helpline number and a grievance redressal cell to tackle the parking menace. “We have already instructed our officials to check the license and other credentials of those who are collecting the fee. In case of any discrepancy, specific cases of extortion would be slapped against them and penal actions will be taken,” said a senior police officer. The officer said that a few days ago, the NDITA authorities had also sought a fresh list of zones to be tagged as fee parking zones. “We have sent them a detailed list. At the meeting we will also discuss if they have any plan to increase the fee parking zones in the recent future,” added the officer. NDITA is working on the last stage of the under-construction multi-storied car parking plaza in Sector V where over 700 cars can be accommodated. “The problem of car parking on roads will be solved once this parking plaza is opened,” said the officials. The authorities are also working on plans to turn Street No. 25 — the busiest street of the IT hub — into a no-vehicle zone. (With inputs from Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lens-on-illegal-parking-fee-collection-in-sector-v/articleshow/80618788.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Cong loses AMC election, BJP will form board in 3 civic bodies||AJMER: The Congress again failed to form the Ajmer Municipal Corporation board after it got only 18 seats out of 80. The party was left behind in Kishangarh and Bijay Nagar, though it somehow fared better in Kekeri and Sarwar Nagar Palika. Out of the five corporations, the BJP managed to form board in three. In Ajmer, the BJP managed 48 seats while the Congress won 18 and independents bagged 13 seats. For the firtst time, the RLP bagged a seat in Ajmer. The last time, the BJP had its board in Ajmer, Kishangarh, Kekeri and Sarwar but this time the party lost in Kekeri and Sarwar because of the influence of health minister Raghu Sharma. The Congress, which formed the board in Bijay Nagar the last time, lost it this time. While Neeraj Jain of BJP won the  by a margin of one vote, Gyan Saraswat won with the highest margin of 2,247 votes. There were rallies and processions everywhere in the city after the results were declared and mostly BJP supporters were enjoying their victories. In the last elections of Ajmer Municipal Corporation, there were 60 wards which increased to 80 this time. In Kishangarh, out of 60 seats, BJP managed 34 and the Congress 17 while on 8 seats went to independents. In Bijay Nagar, out of 35 seats, the BJP managed 19, the Congress (14) and 2 seats went to independents. In Sarwar, out of 25 seats, the Congress won 15, BJP (8) and independents (2). Out of 40 seats in Kekeri, the Congress managed 21, BJP (17) and independents (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-loses-amc-election-bjp-will-form-board-in-3-civic-bodies/articleshow/80618801.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Four-storey building collapses near Delhi's Turkman Gate, no one injured||NEW DELHI: A four-storey building near Turkman Gate collapsed on Sunday around 11.15 am. No injuries or loss of life has been reported so far. The structure, near Chitli Qabar, was spread over 70 sq metres. The building was in a dilapidated condition and was vacated before the collapse. A North Delhi Municipal Corporation spokesperson said that the civic body received a call from SDM office Kotwali around 11.30 am on Sunday, informing them about the collapse. “The field staff of the building department reached the site with tools and labourers. The building was very old and the load of the entire structure was on floor slabs constructed with I-girders and Agra stone,” the official said. The building department of City Sadar Paharganj zone filed a status report into the incident. Local inquiries revealed that the building had developed cracks in the morning and was vacated immediately. Adjoining structures were also evacuated. “After approximately 1 hour, the structure collapsed,” the report said. The report claims that no construction activity was noticed at the site. “No casualty or injury was reported at the site. The adjacent buildings were not found to be in imminent danger,” it added. At the time of the status report being filed, two bulldozers and three dumpers along with 30 labourers had been deployed to remove the malba from the road. Watch Delhi: Four-storey building collapses in Turkman Gate area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-storey-building-collapses-near-turkman-gate-no-one-injured/articleshow/80618808.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Two held for killing man over affair in Karur||KARUR: A 32-year-old man was found murdered on the bank of Kattalai Mettu canal near Lalapettai in Karur on Sunday. The police arrested two people accused of the murder later in the night. The deceased was identified as M Kathirvel of Vittukatti locality in Lalapettai. His body was spotted near the canal with his throat slit and his private parts cut. On being alerted, the Lalapettai police took up the investigation. The preliminary investigation revealed that Dharmadurai, 27, from Mettu Mahadhanapuram and B Krishnan, 26, from Pillapalayam, committed the murder. Police said that the duo murdered Kathirvel over his alleged affair with a woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-killing-man-over-affair-in-karur/articleshow/80620245.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||BJP moves its winning members to undisclosed location till Feb 7||Ajmer: After the results to the AMC elections were declared, the BJP moved its winning candidates to an undisclosed location in a bid to lay claim to the mayor’s post.This time, the seat of mayor in Ajmer Municipal Corporation is reserved for SC woman category and the name of Brajlata, who won from ward 51, is doing the rounds. Brajlata is the wife of BJP city president Dr Priya Sheel Hada.BJP leaders are hopeful of bagging the mayor and deputy mayor’s seats this time as the party won 48 of the 80 seats. Congress will have to break away atleast 22 members to do a turnaround. BJP is hopeful that they will get posts and there are other names like Sheelam Berwa and Kusum Lata Chandawat. BJP leaders said that no name has been declared for the mayor’s post yet and they have started training camp for the new members.Sources said some of these members will remain in isolation till February 7, the day of voting for the mayor. For the first time in 20 years, the mayor of Ajmer Municipal Corporation will be from Ajmer south assembly constituency as no SC candidate won from Ajmer north assembly constituency.BJP leaders said their booth management worked and people came out to vote for the party. Secondly, there was no open revolt in BJP and the party managed deal with the dissidents. But in the Congress, the party was divided into many groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-moves-its-winning-members-to-undisclosed-location-till-feb-7/articleshow/80618796.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||With projects nearing completion, Metro eyes enhanced allocation||Kolkata: With the East-West Metro and sections of three other corridors headed for completion in the coming fiscal, implementing agencies are hoping for an enhanced allocation in the 2021-22 Budget. Officials are also keeping their fingers crossed, because the economy has been badly hit by Covid-19. The new year unfolds with a much-awaited 4km extension of the north-south corridor till Dakshineswar. The section is all set for commercial commissioning. But the biggest boost to Kolkata’s connectivity quotient came in October, last year, as the Cabinet revised the East-West Metro budget at Rs 8,575 crore. East-West Metro currently runs a truncated 7km stretch till Phoolbagan. The line may extend to Sealdah by the year-end. By March, the entire 16km Sector V-Howrah Maidan, via the Hooghly river, may be operational. The Cabinet nod also allows Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) to finally start disbursing the rest of the loan amount. Jica, that’s lending 48% of the total cost, held back the third tranche of loan as the revised cost was not approved by the Cabinet after it rose nearly 76% from Rs 4,875 crore. A senior official of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), that is implementing the corridor, said, “Till now, the finance ministry was disbursing funds in anticipation of the Cabinet sanction. But now the block Jica loan will be released as per the revised cost.” The 32km Airport-New Garia is headed for a truncated 5km Garia-Ruby commissioning in December. Officials of implementing agency Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) are anxiously hoping the government will give a realistic outlay for 2021-22. The last land hurdle for the Metro hub at New Garia was cleared last week. The 120m gap at Abhiskhta crossing is also being addressed. In 2020, the Airport-New Garia link received less allocation compared to 2019. The other project to look forward to is the Joka-Esplanade link. Majerhat Metro station work is on in full swing. “We have a December 2022 target for Phase 2 (the 2.6km Taratala-Mominpur stretch) and a December 2021 deadline for the 8.5km Joka-Taratala section,” a senior RVNL official said. Joka-Esplanade received Rs 99 crore last year. The 7km Noapara-Airport section of the Noapara-Barasat line (2km is underground), too, stares at a December 2021 deadline. “Work is on despite the pandemic. The top slab of the Airport station is done,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-projects-nearing-completion-metro-eyes-enhanced-allocation/articleshow/80618810.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 1, 2021||Ajmer||Cong loses AMC election, BJP will form board in 3 civic bodies||AJMER: The Congress again failed to form the Ajmer Municipal Corporation board after it got only 18 seats out of 80. The party was left behind in Kishangarh and Bijay Nagar, though it somehow fared better in Kekeri and Sarwar Nagar Palika. Out of the five corporations, the BJP managed to form board in three. In Ajmer, the BJP managed 48 seats while the Congress won 18 and independents bagged 13 seats. For the firtst time, the RLP bagged a seat in Ajmer. The last time, the BJP had its board in Ajmer, Kishangarh, Kekeri and Sarwar but this time the party lost in Kekeri and Sarwar because of the influence of health minister Raghu Sharma. The Congress, which formed the board in Bijay Nagar the last time, lost it this time. While Neeraj Jain of BJP won the  by a margin of one vote, Gyan Saraswat won with the highest margin of 2,247 votes. There were rallies and processions everywhere in the city after the results were declared and mostly BJP supporters were enjoying their victories. In the last elections of Ajmer Municipal Corporation, there were 60 wards which increased to 80 this time. In Kishangarh, out of 60 seats, BJP managed 34 and the Congress 17 while on 8 seats went to independents. In Bijay Nagar, out of 35 seats, the BJP managed 19, the Congress (14) and 2 seats went to independents. In Sarwar, out of 25 seats, the Congress won 15, BJP (8) and independents (2). Out of 40 seats in Kekeri, the Congress managed 21, BJP (17) and independents (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cong-loses-amc-election-bjp-will-form-board-in-3-civic-bodies/articleshow/80624122.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC upbraids cops for ‘designed FIRs’||The Gujarat high court had in May 2018 criticized police’s inability to stem the flow of liquor in the state. The court had directed the state government to act against the cops who shield bootleggers. The court had then observed that investigators often file “designed FIRs” in bootlegging cases, which show the accused escaping when the liquor is seized. The court said that the state government’s failure to check such “designed FIRs” would make the Prohibition Act just a showpiece. The HC had also raised doubts about the cops’ failures to nab bootleggers. “The court wonders whether police have prior information of the movement of liquor or the accused have prior information of prior information with police,” the court had said. “Is it the incompetence of police in failing to nab the accused despite having prior information or something else?” The HC had observed that Section 97 of the Gujarat Prohibition Act provides for punishment of officers who abet bootlegging and the government ought to act against officers under this provision. “Such provisions are meant to take action qua such ‘designed FIRs’. The free flow of liquor leads to many cases of serious bodily injury, apart from other health and social issues,” the court had said. The court had made these observations while granting pre-arrest bail to Lakhan Chavda, who was booked by Bhavnath police station in Junagadh after IMFL worth Rs 4.81 lakh was seized. The HC had then granted Chavda anticipatory bail because he ostensibly had managed to flee and was not caught with the liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-upbraids-cops-for-designed-firs/articleshow/80618782.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Classes 6 to 8 will reopen on February 8||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to open classes 6 to 8 from February 8 while following the protocol laid down for Covid-19. This decision was taken at a meeting held by CM Ashok Gehlot on Sunday after the state has reported a steady decrease in the number of daily Covid cases with two dozen districts reporting zero cases. Government and private schools reopened last month for students of classes 9 to 12. According to the guidelines issued by the department, permission of parents is mandatory for allowing any student to attend school. If any parent is not interested in sending his ward, no pressure should be exerted on them by the school. During the meeting, it was also decided that cinema halls/multiplexes and swimming pools can open with 50% occupancy while a gathering of maximum 200 persons will be allowed for functions/events with strict following of the guidelines. Gehlot said vaccination for health workers need to be sped up and while in majority of the districts, the process is being done well, in Jaipur as well as Jodhpur, the vaccination is at slower rate which needs to be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/classes-6-to-8-will-reopen-on-feb-8/articleshow/80618802.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Ranking for dists in Jaipur div, Sikar tops||JAIPUR: Sikar (72.44) tops among five districts in Jaipur division as divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Sunday introduced a district-wise monthly assessment and ranking system based on the performance of 10 key departments. The districts will be evaluated on 53 different parameters. Jhunjhunu (71.89) secured second place after the first assessment of districts and Alwar (70.49) was in the third position. Jaipur (65.61) was in the fourth position and Dausa (64.69) was in the fifth position. Sharma informed that evaluation will be done based on their performance in education, medical and health, social justice and empowerment, revenue, labour department, rural development and panchayati raj, local bodies, planning, Rajasthan Sampark and E-mitra services. Districts with 80 or more marks will get A+ grade (excellent); between 70 and 79 will secure A grade (very good); between 60 and 69 would be B+ (good); on securing marks from 50 to 59, the districts will get B grade (satisfactory). If any district gets less than 40, then this performance will be considered unsatisfactory (C). “After this, the schemes and programmes of the state government will be completed within the stipulated time and timely redressal of the public’s work and grievances will be ensured,” said Sharma. “These indicators are designed to achieve the sustainable development goals for which data has been collected from software applications and portals of the departments for monitoring,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ranking-for-dists-in-jaipur-div-sikar-tops/articleshow/80618814.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Embracing reform, Maharashtra jails give hope to convicts’ kids||MUMBAI: A programme in Maharashtra prisons that allows children under 16 to meet their incarcerated parent, touch and hug him/her has had a profound impact on both the inmate and the child, a study has shown. The programme, 'Galabhet', which means 'to embrace', has facilitated the prisoners to think about acquiring new skills, pursuing education and mentally exploring possibilities of productive areas of work after their release, the study found. 'Galabhet' was initiated as a pilot in the Yerwada Central Prison, Pune, in 2016 for convicts serving life imprisonment. It was later extended to other prisons in state. The study conducted by Tata Trusts and Prayas, a field action project of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, covered 291 prisoners, family members and administrative staff at seven central prisons in state. Ordinarily, the protocol for family visits involves bi-monthly meetings where kin sit across a ziz-zag fence in a room. The restrictive and overcrowded atmosphere belies all hopes for a prolonged conversation or a simple hand shake in the midst of crowds of visitors. Disheartened by the conditions, some families reduce visits and many children grow up without actually knowing their incarcerated parent. "I had come across a case where a prisoner hadn't seen his eight-year-old child even once since birth. As a result of not interacting with their children, some prisoners would show signs of depression or violence," said former additional director general, prisons, BK Upadhyaya who mooted the programme. For 'Galabhet', families are informed a fortnight or month in advance which helps plan the visit when they are commuting from distant areas. They are provided a separate space even if it's in a common room and critical elements of time and touch are factored in. By the end of July 2018, 366 'Galabhet' meetings were facilitated in state prisons. Researchers found that an affectionate touch by the incarcerated parent meant a lot to the child. Some children held dear the memory of being given a snack by their parent; one child particularly remembered his father hugging him while patting other siblings. Even basic inquiries about the child's daily routine, food intake, health, school, friends, went a long way in enabling the child to know that the parent cared. Children repeatedly told researchers about assurances given by an incarcerated parent, particularly when the parent had been the sole breadwinner. For one of the children, soon to complete her schooling, her father's assurance that money would be sent from his prison wages, was the greatest news. For another child, best wishes from his mother for his computer exams meant she cared wherever she was. Not all interactions are one-way; children are often the first to ask their parent if he/she has had lunch. One child was disappointed that his father had so much to offer and he had not been able to get anything in return. He left with a promise of making a special card for his father on the next visit. Researchers also noticed children glancing at kids of other inmates with surprise when they realised they were not the only ones whose parent had been incarcerated. Prison staff reported a marked improvement in the mental and physical health of inmates who had met their children. Their visits to doctors for minor ailments reduced. Arguments with prison staff and strife among prisoners themselves declined, the study showed. Prison staff also observed a sense of camaraderie developing among the inmates, more adherence to orders and timely completion of assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/embracing-reform-jails-give-hope-to-convicts-kids/articleshow/80620272.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Embracing reform, Maharashtra jails give hope to convicts’ kids||MUMBAI: A programme in Maharashtra prisons that allows children under 16 to meet their incarcerated parent, touch and hug him/her has had a profound impact on both the inmate and the child, a study has shown. The programme, 'Galabhet', which means 'to embrace', has facilitated the prisoners to think about acquiring new skills, pursuing education and mentally exploring possibilities of productive areas of work after their release, the study found. 'Galabhet' was initiated as a pilot in the Yerwada Central Prison, Pune, in 2016 for convicts serving life imprisonment. It was later extended to other prisons in state. The study conducted by Tata Trusts and Prayas, a field action project of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, covered 291 prisoners, family members and administrative staff at seven central prisons in state. Ordinarily, the protocol for family visits involves bi-monthly meetings where kin sit across a ziz-zag fence in a room. The restrictive and overcrowded atmosphere belies all hopes for a prolonged conversation or a simple hand shake in the midst of crowds of visitors. Disheartened by the conditions, some families reduce visits and many children grow up without actually knowing their incarcerated parent. "I had come across a case where a prisoner hadn't seen his eight-year-old child even once since birth. As a result of not interacting with their children, some prisoners would show signs of depression or violence," said former additional director general, prisons, BK Upadhyaya who mooted the programme. For 'Galabhet', families are informed a fortnight or month in advance which helps plan the visit when they are commuting from distant areas. They are provided a separate space even if it's in a common room and critical elements of time and touch are factored in. By the end of July 2018, 366 'Galabhet' meetings were facilitated in state prisons. Researchers found that an affectionate touch by the incarcerated parent meant a lot to the child. Some children held dear the memory of being given a snack by their parent; one child particularly remembered his father hugging him while patting other siblings. Even basic inquiries about the child's daily routine, food intake, health, school, friends, went a long way in enabling the child to know that the parent cared. Children repeatedly told researchers about assurances given by an incarcerated parent, particularly when the parent had been the sole breadwinner. For one of the children, soon to complete her schooling, her father's assurance that money would be sent from his prison wages, was the greatest news. For another child, best wishes from his mother for his computer exams meant she cared wherever she was. Not all interactions are one-way; children are often the first to ask their parent if he/she has had lunch. One child was disappointed that his father had so much to offer and he had not been able to get anything in return. He left with a promise of making a special card for his father on the next visit. Researchers also noticed children glancing at kids of other inmates with surprise when they realised they were not the only ones whose parent had been incarcerated. Prison staff reported a marked improvement in the mental and physical health of inmates who had met their children. Their visits to doctors for minor ailments reduced. Arguments with prison staff and strife among prisoners themselves declined, the study showed. Prison staff also observed a sense of camaraderie developing among the inmates, more adherence to orders and timely completion of assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/embracing-reform-jails-give-hope-to-convicts-kids/articleshow/80621547.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Shopping complexes, malls at 5 locations in Nashik soon||NASHIK: To mop up more revenue following the scarcity of funds, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is planning to develop shopping complexes and malls at its five owned spaces in the city on an experimental basis. If the project is successful, it will be implemented at other locations too. The NMC has its own vacant plots and old properties spread across the city. The five locations that the NMC is mulling to build shopping complexes and malls include Shalimar, Dwarka and other prime localities. The civic body will either lease out the shopping complexes or sell them. The NMC is expecting to generate around Rs 100 crore revenue through these shopping complexes and malls which are to be developed on public and private partnership (PPP) basis. “We have already given instructions to civic officials concerned for chalking out a detailed project report (DPRs) about the proposed shopping complexes and malls in the city. We will invite expressions of interests (EoI) from the agencies concerned to develop the shopping complexes at these places,” said municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. “The NMC will need to make some investment as the project will be developed on PPP basis. NMC will either lease out or sell the complexes as per the decision taken later on but, such projects will fetch revenue for the civic body,” said Jadhav. “We already have our properties at various prime locations in the city. In the first phase, we will develop shopping complexes at five locations and we will develop more in the next phases,” said Jadhav. Nashik: January 31 2021 In a bid to mop up more revenue following the scarcity of funds, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is planning to develop shopping complexes and malls at its own spaces in the city at five locations on an experimental basis. If the project is successful, then it will implement the same projects at its own spaces in other locations in the city. NMC has its own vacant plots and old properties in the city. The five locations the NMC is mulling to build the shopping complexes and malls include Shalimar, Dwarka and other prime locations in the city. NMC will either lease out the shopping complex or sell them. NMC is expecting around Rs 100 crore revenue to be generated through the shopping complexes and malls, which are to be developed on public and private partnership (PPP) basis. “We are already given instructions to the civic officials concerned for chalking out Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) about the proposed shopping complexes and malls in the city. We will invite expressions of interests (EoI) from the agencies concerned to develop the shopping complexes at these places,” said Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. “NMC will need to make any investment as the project will be developed on the PPP basis. NMC will either lease out or sell the complexes as per the decision we take out later on, but such projects will fetch the revenue for the civic body,” said Jadhav. “We already have our properties at various prime locations across the city. In the first phase, we will develop shopping complexes at five locations and we will develop more in the next phases,” said Jadhav. The revenue of the civic body through various taxes like property, water and town planning have been badly affected due Covid-19 pandemic. NMC has estimated the drop of Rs 450 crore in the revenue it projected for the current financial year due to Covid-19 pandemic Moreover, the NMC administration is also expecting that the impact of the pandemic will continue during the coming financial year 2021-22. Hence, the civic body has started taking new measures to generate more revenue to accomplish the development works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shopping-complexes-malls-at-5-locations-in-city-soon/articleshow/80617749.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Electrician befriends, rapes woman in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 31-year-old woman from Anandnagar on Saturday filed a police complaint alleging that a 25-year-old man had befriended her and allegedly raped her after promising marriage. An officer of Anandnagar police said that the woman, who had separated from her husband about five years ago, has a 14-year-old son. “She has stated that the accused, identified as Ramzan Ghanchi from Juhapura, had first visited her house about two years ago when she needed an electrician,” said the police officer. “At that time, he had given his cellphone number to the complainant and they began talking and became friends.” The woman stated that the accused had taken her to several places in the city where he allegedly raped her. According to police, the accused also raped her frequently at her home. The officer said that about two months ago, when she asked him if he would marry her or not, he threatened her. She told her family members about her ordeal. They took her to the police station on Saturday and filed a complaint of rape and criminal intimidation. Police have detained the accused and have sent him for the pre-arrest Covid-19 test. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/electrician-befriends-rapes-woman/articleshow/80618789.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Thane||Embracing reform, Maharashtra jails give hope to convicts’ kids||MUMBAI: A programme in Maharashtra prisons that allows children under 16 to meet their incarcerated parent, touch and hug him/her has had a profound impact on both the inmate and the child, a study has shown. The programme, 'Galabhet', which means 'to embrace', has facilitated the prisoners to think about acquiring new skills, pursuing education and mentally exploring possibilities of productive areas of work after their release, the study found. 'Galabhet' was initiated as a pilot in the Yerwada Central Prison, Pune, in 2016 for convicts serving life imprisonment. It was later extended to other prisons in state. The study conducted by Tata Trusts and Prayas, a field action project of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, covered 291 prisoners, family members and administrative staff at seven central prisons in state. Ordinarily, the protocol for family visits involves bi-monthly meetings where kin sit across a ziz-zag fence in a room. The restrictive and overcrowded atmosphere belies all hopes for a prolonged conversation or a simple hand shake in the midst of crowds of visitors. Disheartened by the conditions, some families reduce visits and many children grow up without actually knowing their incarcerated parent. "I had come across a case where a prisoner hadn't seen his eight-year-old child even once since birth. As a result of not interacting with their children, some prisoners would show signs of depression or violence," said former additional director general, prisons, BK Upadhyaya who mooted the programme. For 'Galabhet', families are informed a fortnight or month in advance which helps plan the visit when they are commuting from distant areas. They are provided a separate space even if it's in a common room and critical elements of time and touch are factored in. By the end of July 2018, 366 'Galabhet' meetings were facilitated in state prisons. Researchers found that an affectionate touch by the incarcerated parent meant a lot to the child. Some children held dear the memory of being given a snack by their parent; one child particularly remembered his father hugging him while patting other siblings. Even basic inquiries about the child's daily routine, food intake, health, school, friends, went a long way in enabling the child to know that the parent cared. Children repeatedly told researchers about assurances given by an incarcerated parent, particularly when the parent had been the sole breadwinner. For one of the children, soon to complete her schooling, her father's assurance that money would be sent from his prison wages, was the greatest news. For another child, best wishes from his mother for his computer exams meant she cared wherever she was. Not all interactions are one-way; children are often the first to ask their parent if he/she has had lunch. One child was disappointed that his father had so much to offer and he had not been able to get anything in return. He left with a promise of making a special card for his father on the next visit. Researchers also noticed children glancing at kids of other inmates with surprise when they realised they were not the only ones whose parent had been incarcerated. Prison staff reported a marked improvement in the mental and physical health of inmates who had met their children. Their visits to doctors for minor ailments reduced. Arguments with prison staff and strife among prisoners themselves declined, the study showed. Prison staff also observed a sense of camaraderie developing among the inmates, more adherence to orders and timely completion of assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/embracing-reform-jails-give-hope-to-convicts-kids/articleshow/80621546.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 1, 2021||Udaipur||Congress will form boards in over 50 municipal bodies: Dotasra||JAIPUR: PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Sunday claimed that the Congress would form governing boards in more than 50 of the 90 municipal bodies that went to polls, while BJP will be limited to just 30. “In the 2015 municipal polls, BJP had formed governing boards in 60 urban bodies and Congress could form in only 25. Compared to the 2015 tally, we are now going to double our numbers and the BJP will get reduced to half its previous numbers,” Dotasra said addressing the media at the party headquarters here. Dotasra added, “After what they did to farmers by passing the farm laws, to Congress by destabilising its elected government and by indulging in negativity during the corona times, the people of Rajasthan have taught a lesson to BJP.” Dotasra said, "Ever since the Congress government was formed in the state, the party has formed governing boards in 35 of 49 urban bodies that went to polls in November 2019, in four out of six municipal corporations where elections were held in November 2020 and in 36 out 50 urban bodies in December 2020." The PCC chief objected to BJP state president Satish Poonia’s alleged statement over the legal dispute on the Congress-BSP merger in the state. "How can the BJP state president say that the Supreme Court will soon decide against the Congress-BSP merger?" Dotasra said the Congress strategy of not fielding candidates in some of the municipal wards paid off. "In Nokha, we did not give Congress symbols and the party supported candidates have won," he said. The NCP got clear majority in Nokha municipal body. AICC general secretary in-charge of the state Ajay Maken would be coming on February 2. "He will discuss how more Congressmen can be assimilated in the government and the organisation," said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cong-will-form-boards-in-over-50-municipal-bodies-dotasra/articleshow/80626146.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Congress will form boards in over 50 municipal bodies: Dotasra||JAIPUR: PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Sunday claimed that the Congress would form governing boards in more than 50 of the 90 municipal bodies that went to polls, while BJP will be limited to just 30. “In the 2015 municipal polls, BJP had formed governing boards in 60 urban bodies and Congress could form in only 25. Compared to the 2015 tally, we are now going to double our numbers and the BJP will get reduced to half its previous numbers,” Dotasra said addressing the media at the party headquarters here. Dotasra added, “After what they did to farmers by passing the farm laws, to Congress by destabilising its elected government and by indulging in negativity during the corona times, the people of Rajasthan have taught a lesson to BJP.” Dotasra said, "Ever since the Congress government was formed in the state, the party has formed governing boards in 35 of 49 urban bodies that went to polls in November 2019, in four out of six municipal corporations where elections were held in November 2020 and in 36 out 50 urban bodies in December 2020." The PCC chief objected to BJP state president Satish Poonia’s alleged statement over the legal dispute on the Congress-BSP merger in the state. "How can the BJP state president say that the Supreme Court will soon decide against the Congress-BSP merger?" Dotasra said the Congress strategy of not fielding candidates in some of the municipal wards paid off. "In Nokha, we did not give Congress symbols and the party supported candidates have won," he said. The NCP got clear majority in Nokha municipal body. AICC general secretary in-charge of the state Ajay Maken would be coming on February 2. "He will discuss how more Congressmen can be assimilated in the government and the organisation," said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cong-will-form-boards-in-over-50-municipal-bodies-dotasra/articleshow/80626149.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ajmer||Congress will form boards in over 50 municipal bodies: Dotasra||JAIPUR: PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Sunday claimed that the Congress would form governing boards in more than 50 of the 90 municipal bodies that went to polls, while BJP will be limited to just 30. “In the 2015 municipal polls, BJP had formed governing boards in 60 urban bodies and Congress could form in only 25. Compared to the 2015 tally, we are now going to double our numbers and the BJP will get reduced to half its previous numbers,” Dotasra said addressing the media at the party headquarters here. Dotasra added, “After what they did to farmers by passing the farm laws, to Congress by destabilising its elected government and by indulging in negativity during the corona times, the people of Rajasthan have taught a lesson to BJP.” Dotasra said, "Ever since the Congress government was formed in the state, the party has formed governing boards in 35 of 49 urban bodies that went to polls in November 2019, in four out of six municipal corporations where elections were held in November 2020 and in 36 out 50 urban bodies in December 2020." The PCC chief objected to BJP state president Satish Poonia’s alleged statement over the legal dispute on the Congress-BSP merger in the state. "How can the BJP state president say that the Supreme Court will soon decide against the Congress-BSP merger?" Dotasra said the Congress strategy of not fielding candidates in some of the municipal wards paid off. "In Nokha, we did not give Congress symbols and the party supported candidates have won," he said. The NCP got clear majority in Nokha municipal body. AICC general secretary in-charge of the state Ajay Maken would be coming on February 2. "He will discuss how more Congressmen can be assimilated in the government and the organisation," said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cong-will-form-boards-in-over-50-municipal-bodies-dotasra/articleshow/80626152.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Congress will form boards in over 50 municipal bodies: Dotasra||JAIPUR: PCC chief and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Sunday claimed that the Congress would form governing boards in more than 50 of the 90 municipal bodies that went to polls, while BJP will be limited to just 30. “In the 2015 municipal polls, BJP had formed governing boards in 60 urban bodies and Congress could form in only 25. Compared to the 2015 tally, we are now going to double our numbers and the BJP will get reduced to half its previous numbers,” Dotasra said addressing the media at the party headquarters here. Dotasra added, “After what they did to farmers by passing the farm laws, to Congress by destabilising its elected government and by indulging in negativity during the corona times, the people of Rajasthan have taught a lesson to BJP.” Dotasra said, "Ever since the Congress government was formed in the state, the party has formed governing boards in 35 of 49 urban bodies that went to polls in November 2019, in four out of six municipal corporations where elections were held in November 2020 and in 36 out 50 urban bodies in December 2020." The PCC chief objected to BJP state president Satish Poonia’s alleged statement over the legal dispute on the Congress-BSP merger in the state. "How can the BJP state president say that the Supreme Court will soon decide against the Congress-BSP merger?" Dotasra said the Congress strategy of not fielding candidates in some of the municipal wards paid off. "In Nokha, we did not give Congress symbols and the party supported candidates have won," he said. The NCP got clear majority in Nokha municipal body. AICC general secretary in-charge of the state Ajay Maken would be coming on February 2. "He will discuss how more Congressmen can be assimilated in the government and the organisation," said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-will-form-boards-in-over-50-municipal-bodies-dotasra/articleshow/80618809.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Two fire incidents in Nashik, no loss of life||NASHIK: Two fire incidents were reported in the Satpur and Ambad industrial estates of Nashik city on Sunday. No loss of life was reported in both the incidents. The first fire incident took place at a factory manufacturing toys in the Ambad MIDC area at around 6.45 am. Soon after the fire incident was reported, two fire tenders were rushed to the spot from different parts of the city. Fire fighters toiled for more than two hours to bring the blaze under control. While various articles including raw material, CCTV cameras, machineries and electrical wires were destroyed in the fire, there was no loss of life. The second fire incident took place on an open plot in the Satpur MIDC area at around 12.30 am. A part of the plot spread over approximately 10 acres caught fire from unknown reason. Wild grass spread around one third part of the open plot had caught fire. After the incident was reported to the fire brigade, fire tenders from fire stations from across the city were rushed to the incident spot to bring the blaze under control. It took the firemen more than two hours to douse the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-fire-incidents-in-nashik-no-loss-of-life/articleshow/80617754.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Targeting more than 1 crore children, polio vaccination campaign launched in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday launched the Polio Immunization Day by administering polio drops to children less than five years old at his residence targeting 1.1 crore children of the state. Gehlot in presence of health minister Raghu Sharma launched the National Polio Immunisation Day also known as ‘Polio Ravivar.’ “For children who missed polio drops on Sunday, teams of the health department will visit door-to-door across the state to administer the drops in the next two days (Monday and Tuesday),” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, family welfare. Vaccination teams have also been deployed at bus terminals, railway stations, airports and ferry crossing to vaccinate children in transit to ensure no child misses the life-saving dose. The Centre had directed to the states that all measures should be taken to ensure safety during the times of the pandemic by maintaining Covid appropriate practices, such as preventing overcrowding at booths, maintaining physical distance of 2 metres, wearing masks, washing hands and administering polio drops in well ventilated-settings. The country has already been declared polio-free by the World Health Organisation with the last case of wild poliovirus reported on January 13, 2011. The country, however, continues to remain vigilant to prevent re-entry of the poliovirus into the country from neighbouring countries of Afghanistan and Pakistan, where wild poliovirus continues. One nationwide national immunization day and two sub-National Immunization Day (SNIDs) for polio every year to maintain population immunity against wild poliovirus and to sustain its polio-free status. CM hails two hosps for organ transplantJAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday congratulated SMS Hospital and EHCC Hospital for conducting organ transplant on Friday. “It is a matter of pride that SMS Hospital & EHCC in #Jaipur have performed successful organ transplants, two kidney & liver transplants at SMS & heart transplant at EHCC. I appreciate the team of doctors behind these transplants heartily. #Rajasthan,” Gehlot tweeted. He further tweeted, “I congratulate team SMS medical college for their outstanding efforts for promoting organ donation in Rajasthan and convey my best wishes for 40th transplant in #Rajasthan.” On Friday, relatives of a 35-year-old woman had donated her organs after she was declared brain dead in Jaipur. Her organs - heart, liver and kidneys - were harvested and four patients were benefitted. Kiran, a resident of Malakheda of Alwar, had met with an accident on January 19 and was rushed to Sawai Man Singh Hospital where her condition deteriortaited on January 25. A team of doctors examined her as she was unconscious and did not regain consciousness despite efforts made by the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/targeting-more-than-1-crore-children-polio-vaccination-campaign-launched/articleshow/80618839.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Independents to be king maker in Pokhran civic polls||JAISALMER: After the counting of municipality elections at Pokhran, the independents will play the role of king maker. In counting of 25 wards, BJP won 10 and Congress won 9 seats and six seats were won by independent candidates. Both parties have kept their candidates in camps and have started luring independent candidates. The main objective is to defeat the present municipality chairman Anandi Lal Guchia. The election results came on Sunday. Manpura Puri is incharge for BJP, while minister Saleh Mohammad is the Congress incharge. The polling took place on January 28 and the counting took place at 9am on Sunday. Manish Purohit is the candidate of BJP while Narayan Das Ranga is Congress candidate for charima's post. Voting for chairman and vice-chairman will take place on February 7 and 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/independents-to-be-king-maker-in-pokhran-civic-polls/articleshow/80618817.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Health dept receives 399 applications from private hospitals for empanelling under AB- MGRSBY||JAIPUR: The state government, which launched the revised Ayushman Bharat- Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya BimaYojana 2021-2023 (AB-MGRSBY), has 78 private hospitals empanelled under it. The state government claimed that they will add more private hospitals to the list in the coming days to give benefit to 1.10 crore families eligible under the scheme. Health department officials said they had received 399 applications from private hospitals for empanelling, but they all came in just a week before launching of the scheme. On the directions of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the health department officials are taking measures to take a call on the pending applications of private hospitals soon. Out of 78 private hospitals empanelled under the scheme, only 17 are in Jaipur. Besides, the health department has prepared a network of 719 government-run hospitals which are impanelled under the scheme and will provide cashless treatment to eligible beneficiaries. The government hospitals empanelled under the scheme are above primary health centre levels, including community health centres, sub-district hospitals, district hospitals and hospitals attached to medical colleges. In Jaipur, 68 government hospitals are empanelled. Under the scheme, provisions of initiating de-empanelment process of empanelling hospitals by Rajasthan State Health Assurance Agency (RSHAA) after conducting proper disciplinary proceedings against empanelled hospitals. The RSHAA reserves the right to suspend or de-empanel an EHCP from the AB-MGRSBY. The RSHAA reserves the right to terminate the services of the empanelled hospital (with immediate effect if the later is found to be involved in malpractices, fraud, misrepresentation, if at any point of time during agreement it is found that hospital does not fulfill the criteria of agreement and empanelled guidelines, charging money from the beneficiaries, equipment deficiencies, man-power deficiencies, violation of MOU, resorting to unwanted and unwarranted medical and surgical procedures mechanism as decided by the competent authority/RSHAA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-dept-receives-399-applications-from-private-hospitals-for-empanelling-under-ab-mgrsby/articleshow/80618823.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||Will resolve Kumeri farmers issues within a week: CM||Poinguinim: The Kumeri farmers of Gaondongrim in Canacona met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday, seeking his intervention in the ongoing work of demarcation of reserved forest by the forest department in the area. The farmers fear that the land in the forest being used by them for generations for cultivation may be marked as reserved forest. The tribal farmers submitted a petition with relevant documents to the chief minister Pramod Sawant to claim possession of a part of the forest land in the village being used for cultivation for at least the last 55 years. The Gaondongrim villagers along with Canacona MLA and deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes met the CM at the secretariat. The villagers alleged that during the work of demarcating reserved forest, the officials had erected poles in properties which are in the possession of locals. Sawant assured forest land claimants that their matter would be resolved within a week. Ulhas Gaonkar, one of the members, said Kumeri land was allotted to them during the tenure of Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar. Fernandes said that Sawant immediately instructed deputy conservator of forest, South, Anil Shetgaonkar and Canacona territory range forest officer Anant Velip to visit the site and resolve the matter for which a week’s time has been allotted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-resolve-kumeri-farmers-issues-within-a-week-cm/articleshow/80620281.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Trichy||2 injured as Amma clinic’s wall caves in after min opens it||Karur: Two children were injured when the supporting wall at the entrance of an Amma clinic in a community hall at Kosur near Kulithalai caved in moments after it was inaugurated by transport minister M R Vijayabaskar on Saturday night. The video of the incident has been doing the rounds on social media. Scheduled as the last programme of the day, the transport minister visited the venue crowded with AIADMK party men and some local people including children. When he was at the entrance of the centre, the small ramp with a supporting wall was cramped with nearly 30 people. As soon as the minister inaugurated the centre, the supporting wall collapsed and everyone at the entrance fell down one after another. The incident left a seven-year-old girl and an eight-year-old girl injured. A senior health department officer said the girls were rushed to the government hospital in Kulithalai and that both of them were discharged on Sunday morning.The district administration had allotted the community hall to set up the clinic while the public health department made arrangements for the function. The officer said that the building was over 10 years old, but the supporting wall was constructed recently by the local body. The officer said that the building was over 10-years-old, but the supporting wall was constructed recently by the local body administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-injured-as-amma-clinics-wall-caves-in-after-min-opens-it/articleshow/80620292.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rs 10 crore spent on benches, boards||AHMEDABAD: An analysis of the data available on the AMC website reveals that corporators spent Rs 3.55 crore for putting up benches in various parts of the city in 2019-20. In the same period, they spent Rs 6.27 crore on installing society boards and on road signages. An RTI activist, Santoshsinh Rathod of Jagrut Yuvaseva Samiti, said that he had filed an application under the RTI Act and the information commissioner had directed the AMC to make voluntary disclosures. Rathod said that according to Clause IV of the RTI Act, the corporation has to release these details but had not done so. He said that the corporation has eventually given out details of 176 corporators for the financial year 2019-2020. Rathod said that for the past two years, a clause has been in place which stipulates that not more than 10% of the budget can be used for putting up benches in an area. But 11-odd corporators have spent more than the stipulated amount on benches. “I analyzed the money spent by the corporators and found that a big part of the funds was used for putting up benches and boards for societies,” Rathod said. “The corporators have even allocated budgets for the gates that are constructed just ahead of societies’ entry points.” He said that boards and benches carry the names of the respective corporators. He said the spending, therefore, was to reap benefits in the elections. The corporation allocates Rs 27.50 lakh per year per corporator for welfare projects. Rathod said that the corporators of Nava Vadaj spent most of their budgets on benches and boards. Navrangpura corporators were next on the list. The data reveals, however, that in the Walled City and minority areas, not much was spent on benches and boards. Only Rs 1.95 lakh was spent on boards in the Jamalpur ward while Rs 6.69 lakh was spent on benches. Jamalpur was the ward with the lowest spending on benches and boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-10-cr-spent-on-benches-boards/articleshow/80618806.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kozhikode||UDF’s ‘Aishwarya Kerala Yatra’ flagged off in Kasaragod||Kozhikode: Protection of beliefs in Sabarimala, youth unemployment, politics of murder, CPM’s attempts to create communal divide and corruption will be the key focus areas of UDF’s campaign for the assembly election. All the front leaders who gathered to flag off the ‘Aishwarya Kerala Yatra’ at Kumbala, Kasaragod, on Sunday made it clear that these will be the issues that will be discussed in the campaign. Launching the yatra, led by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy said if voted to power the UDF will enact legislation to ensure the protection of beliefs in Sabarimala. “The government had enough time after the Supreme Court’s intervention in the case. But it did nothing. The order on Sabarimala was the result of government action. By withdrawing the affidavit filed by the UDF government and issuing a fresh one the LDF government challenged devotees,” he said. Chandy said the government showed haste in implementing the order on Sabarimala. But now they are not doing anything even though there is no stay in the case. If voted to power, UDF will issue a new affidavit that would reflect the aspirations of believers, he said. IUML national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty said CPM is parroting the allegations of BJP. “CPM is waiting at the gate of the Panakkad house to report on those visiting Thangal. Many will come to the house, which is the embodiment of secularism,” he said. Kunhalikutty accused CPM of trying to create a rift between Congress and IUML, on the one hand, and between the minority communities in Kerala, on the other. Chennithala said the LDF government has become the hub of all antisocial elements. All the development projects being celebrated by the LDF, including Kannur airport, Gail pipeline, Alappuzha and Kollam bypasses, are actually the contribution of the UDF. Chennithala said had LDF shown any interest it could have constructed the Kasaragod medical college hospital which would have been of great help to the people and healthcare system battling Covid-19. He accused CPM of trying to stoke communal tensions in the state. This, he said, will have dangerous consequences. “Pinarayi Vijayan is trying to create a schism between Muslims and Christians in Kerala,” he said. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, UDF convener M M Hassan, and leaders of other UDF constituents attended the meeting. On Monday morning, UDF leaders will visit Periya where two Youth Congress workers were murdered in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/udfs-aishwarya-kerala-yatra-flagged-off-in-kasaragod/articleshow/80617775.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Chorus grows for semi high-speed rail route||Aurangabad: While official correspondence has started to establish a rail link between Aurangabad with Pune, activists are now seeking a semi high-speed route between the two cities — on the lines of the rail route proposed between Pune and Nashik. Railway activist Anant Borkar said the semi high-speed line would be a win-win situation for the passenger community and the Indian Railways. “There is tremendous revenue potential on the Aurangabad-Pune rail route as there is very heavy flow of passengers between two cities. The rail route passes via Ahmedagar, which is another advantage. Establishing a high-speed rail route can help tap the revenue potential in an effective manner,” said Borkar. The Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC) Limited, a joint venture of the Maharashtra government and the railway ministry, had announced a survey for a new railway line between Aurangabad and Pune in November last year. The MRIDC has proposed a semi-high speed 233-km-long corridor between Pune and Nashik at a cost of Rs 16,039 crore. Billed as the first low-cost semi high-speed corridor in the country, the rail route is expected to see trains running at a speed of 200kmph, with its design allowing for an upgrade up to 250kmph in the future. Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad, who is following the demand for rail route between Pune and Aurangabad, on Sunday said the demand for a semi high-speed rail route connecting the two cities has been formally raised before Union railway minister Piyush Goyal. “Upon instructions from the railway minister, the authorities from MRIDC and the Central Railway recently carried out field visit in the context of laying down a rail route between Pune and Aurangabad. We are confident that both the cities will get connected with the semi high-speed rail route in the near future,” said Karad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chorus-grows-for-semi-high-speed-rail-route/articleshow/80617026.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Pulse Polio campaign slows down Covid vax drive in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While health department officials remained busy in Pulse Polio campaign, Covid vaccination drive in the state has slowed down in the last two days. On Sunday, vaccination was done at 34 sites in which 1,186 healthcare workers were inoculated. Only eight districts including Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur held vaccination sessions, while rest of the districts did not organise the drive. On Saturday, the number of persons vaccinated against Covid were 4,638. In the last two days (Saturday and Sunday), 5824 healthcare workers received Covid jabs. “The vaccination drive has slowed down due to Pulse Polio,” said a senior health department official. So far, 3,30,797 healthcare workers have received the vaccine since the day of launch of the drive on January 16. Government-run Mahila Chikitsalaya is one of the leading hospitals in the city, which has completed its drive. The turn of each and every registered healthcare worker for vaccination in the hospital has already been completed. There are those healthcare workers who have not appeared for vaccination despite their turn due to certain reasons. “Out of 723 registered healthcare workers, 124 have not been vaccinated and 80% of these are contraindicated for vaccination in pregnant women, lactating mothers or they are undergoing fertility treatment or planning pregnancy. The coverage of vaccination is 83% in our hospital,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, Covid-19 vaccination incharge, Mahila Chikitsalaya. The adverse event following immunization stood at 143 out of 3.3lakh healthcare workers who received the vaccine, which is 0.04%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pulse-polio-campaign-slows-down-covid-vax-drive/articleshow/80618848.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Jodhpur||Pulse Polio campaign slows down Covid vax drive in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While health department officials remained busy in Pulse Polio campaign, Covid vaccination drive in the state has slowed down in the last two days. On Sunday, vaccination was done at 34 sites in which 1,186 healthcare workers were inoculated. Only eight districts including Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur held vaccination sessions, while rest of the districts did not organise the drive. On Saturday, the number of persons vaccinated against Covid were 4,638. In the last two days (Saturday and Sunday), 5824 healthcare workers received Covid jabs. “The vaccination drive has slowed down due to Pulse Polio,” said a senior health department official. So far, 3,30,797 healthcare workers have received the vaccine since the day of launch of the drive on January 16. Government-run Mahila Chikitsalaya is one of the leading hospitals in the city, which has completed its drive. The turn of each and every registered healthcare worker for vaccination in the hospital has already been completed. There are those healthcare workers who have not appeared for vaccination despite their turn due to certain reasons. “Out of 723 registered healthcare workers, 124 have not been vaccinated and 80% of these are contraindicated for vaccination in pregnant women, lactating mothers or they are undergoing fertility treatment or planning pregnancy. The coverage of vaccination is 83% in our hospital,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, Covid-19 vaccination incharge, Mahila Chikitsalaya. The adverse event following immunization stood at 143 out of 3.3lakh healthcare workers who received the vaccine, which is 0.04%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pulse-polio-campaign-slows-down-covid-vax-drive/articleshow/80621569.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Udaipur||Pulse Polio campaign slows down Covid vax drive in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While health department officials remained busy in Pulse Polio campaign, Covid vaccination drive in the state has slowed down in the last two days. On Sunday, vaccination was done at 34 sites in which 1,186 healthcare workers were inoculated. Only eight districts including Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur held vaccination sessions, while rest of the districts did not organise the drive. On Saturday, the number of persons vaccinated against Covid were 4,638. In the last two days (Saturday and Sunday), 5824 healthcare workers received Covid jabs. “The vaccination drive has slowed down due to Pulse Polio,” said a senior health department official. So far, 3,30,797 healthcare workers have received the vaccine since the day of launch of the drive on January 16. Government-run Mahila Chikitsalaya is one of the leading hospitals in the city, which has completed its drive. The turn of each and every registered healthcare worker for vaccination in the hospital has already been completed. There are those healthcare workers who have not appeared for vaccination despite their turn due to certain reasons. “Out of 723 registered healthcare workers, 124 have not been vaccinated and 80% of these are contraindicated for vaccination in pregnant women, lactating mothers or they are undergoing fertility treatment or planning pregnancy. The coverage of vaccination is 83% in our hospital,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, Covid-19 vaccination incharge, Mahila Chikitsalaya. The adverse event following immunization stood at 143 out of 3.3lakh healthcare workers who received the vaccine, which is 0.04%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/pulse-polio-campaign-slows-down-covid-vax-drive/articleshow/80621568.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Chhagan Bhujbal’s help sought in recruitment of personnel, underground parking||NASHIK: Mayor Satish Kulkarni has sought the intervention of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on two different issues related to the Nashik Municipal Coroporation (NMC). Around 2,370 of the total 7,082 approved posts in the civic administration are vacant for many years following the retirement of officials and employees. Kulkarni said the NMC had prepared a proposal with new additional posts and had submitted it to the state government a few years ago but is yet to get approval for recruitment of personnel for the vacant posts. As a result, the existing officials and employees are getting overburdened. The mayor said he recently met Bhujbal and sought his intervention in the issue. Bhujbal assured to take up the matter with state urban development minister Eknath Shinde. Moreover, the mayor has also reiterated the demand of developing a two-storey underground parking lot with a capacity to accommodate 800 cars at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharashtra stadium located in the heart of the city. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has proposed the underground parking project at the stadium at an estimated cost of Rs 121 crore. The Nashik zilla parishad, which owns the stadium, has denied giving away the ground for the construction of the underground parking lot. This has delayed the proposed parking project for the past three years. According to Kulkarni, the proposed parking project will sort out parking issues to a great extent. Bhujbal assured the mayor that he would look into the issue and hold a joint meeting with the zilla parishad, the public works department and the NMC for discussing the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbals-help-sought-in-recruitment-of-personnel-underground-parking/articleshow/80617767.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Literary meet campus to be named after ‘Kusumagraj’||NASHIK: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday announced that the venue for the 94th Akhil Bharatiya Sahitya Sammelan to be held in Nashik would be named after eminent poet, playwright, novelist and Dyanpeeth Awardee Vishnu Waman Shirawadkar who was better known as ‘Kusumagraj.’ “We are glad that the literary festival is being held in Nashik. We are proud that Nashik is the home town of the eminent poet and playwright whose contribution to the field of literature has been recognized by Dnyanpeeth Award. Today, we have decided to announce that the venue will be named as ‘Kusumagraj Nagri’,” said Bhujbal during a meeting held at the campus of Gokhale Education society. The meeting was held in the presence of various government officials, members of the ‘reception’ committee which is being chaired by Bhujbal. Mayor Satish Kulkarni, MLA Hiraman Khoskar, former MP Sameer Bhujbal, former MLA Jaywant Jadhav, NMC additional commissioner Suesh Khade, deputy collector Nitin Mundaware were among the dignitaries present. Bhujbal said that macro planning for the sammelan will have to be carried out. And, for that, every government agency, including police, district administration, zilla parishad, health department, Nashik Municipal Corporation, will appoint a coordinating officer for better planning and execution. Nashik The District Guardian Minister Chhagan Bhujbal today announced that the venue for 94th Akhil Bharatiya Sahitya Sammelan to be held in Nashik would be named after eminent poet, playwright, novelist Dyanpeeth Awardee Vishnu Waman Shirawadkar who was better known as ‘Kusumagraj’ and who belonged to Nashik. “We are glad that the literary fest is being held in Nashik. We are proud that Nashik is the home town of the eminent poet and playwright whose contribution to the field of literature has been recognized by Dnyanpeeth Award. Today we have decided to announce that the venue will be named as ‘Kusumagraj Nagri’,” said Bhujbal during a meeting held at the venue of the Sammelan – the campus of Gokhale Education society. The meeting was held in the presence of the various government officials, the members of the ‘reception’ committee which is being chaired by Bhujbal. Mayor Satish Kulkarni, MLA Hiraman Khoskar, former MP Sameer Bhujbal, former MLA Jaywant Jadhav, NMC additional commissioner Suesh Khade, Deputy Collector Nitin Mundaware and others were present. Pointing out that as a president of reception committee of the Sammelan, he would be the primarily responsible in ensuring all the arrangements for the litterateurs, the lovers of literature and culture who will be coming to Nashik, Bhujbal pointed out that macro planning for the sammelan would have to be carried out for which every government agency – police, district administration, zilla parishad, health department, Nashik Municipal Corporation, would appoint a coordinating officer for better planning and execution. Bhujbal also underlined that the intensity of Covid-19 may have gone down but the threat is still very much alive. “We will have to ensure that the Covid-19 health issues are adhered to everytime during the organizing of the programme,” Bhujbal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/literary-meet-campus-to-be-named-after-kusumagraj/articleshow/80617762.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||It’s not a cake‘walk’ for pedestrians along city’s dilapidated footpaths||Kochi: Dilapidated footpaths, open drains, broken drainage slabs, encroachment by vendors, parking along footpath, etc. make walking through city roads a nightmare. The condition of footpaths and walkways remains pathetic despite the fact that there are numerous agencies and plenty of funds for ensuring better facilities for pedestrians. Broken drainage slabs and open drains are common scenes along Vyttila-Tripunithura Road, Banerji Road, MG Road, etc. “Poor quality is one of the reasons why slabs get damaged within a couple of years after being placed over drains. The contractors may not add adequate quantity of crusher metal, sand, cement and iron rods while concreting the slabs. There should be proper mechanism to ensure quality,” said traffic expert and Indian Institute of Road Safety director Upendranarayanan. At the same time, officials with the agencies like PWD blame the local bodies for damaged slabs. “It is up to the local bodies to clean the drains. When the contractors deployed by the civic bodies open the slabs for cleaning, they do it in rash and negligent manner. This causes damage to the slabs,” sources with PWD said. But the corporation officials have another version. “When drains were renovated as part of Kochi metro rail project, the metro agency covered the slabs with tiles. They didn’t provide manholes for cleaning purpose. This makes it difficult for the workers to remove the slabs and clean the drains,” a former corporation councillor said. Illegal parking, which is rampant in the city, is another hurdle for the pedestrians. The agencies like police, Kochi corporation, etc. fail to book the offenders and so owners continue to park their vehicles on footpaths. Vehicles can be seen parked on the footpath on either side of the road in front of Kochi corporation office. The same is the situation along Park Avenue Road near Ernakulam General Hospital. Besides, autorickshaw drivers use the footpath along Hospital Road and the remaining area is occupied by two-wheelers. Street vendors occupy many of the footpaths in the city leaving little space for pedestrian movement. “A few days ago, I saw an old woman walking on the road with the support of a walker. She was walking on the footpath along Park Avenue Road near BSNL office. There was a petty shop on the footpath. So, she was forced to walk on the road. This is the situation in many areas in the city,” said Ernakulam Vikasana Samithi president K S Dileep Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/its-not-a-cakewalk-for-pedestrians-along-citys-dilapidated-footpaths/articleshow/80617769.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 1, 2021||Goa||Land acquired from two govt depts for Chorao-Saloi bridge approach road||Panaji: The land for approach road for the proposed Chorao to Salvador do Mundo (also known as Saloi) bridge has already been transferred from the two government departments of education and fisheries to the public works department. The state government has now decided to approach the high court for transfer of land belonging to Serula comunidade for the bridge project. It is a long-pending demand of the Chorao residents to be connected to the mainland through a bridge. “The report is submitted for approval in principal for procurement of land under the Right to Fair, Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, for the approach road for the Chorao-Salvador do Mundo bridge proposed by PWD, Mapusa,” the PWD minister Deepak Pauskar stated in a reply tabled in the assembly. “The proposal to obtain consent from the high court to permit Comunidade of Serula to transfer the land owned by it for the approach road is under process. The land for the approach road owned by education department and directorate of fisheries is already transferred to the PWD. The land belonging to three persons who are not traceable will be procured by the government under Right to Fair Compensation Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013,” Pauskar has stated in the House. The PWD minister said that while no time-frame to complete the land acquisition process has been set, it will be completed in the ‘shortest possible time’. Chorao residents face several problems since there is no land connectivity between Chorao and Salvador de Mundo. The villagers have to depend entirely on the ferry service to the other side. If a bridge is constructed, it would help not only the people of Chorao, but also those from Bicholim and surrounding areas, reducing the distance between Chorao and Panaji to just about 15 minutes. For years now, the Chorao villagers have been facing the problem of commuting; be it to Panaji, Bambolim or Porvorim and surrounding areas as it lacks a direct access to both the Tiswadi mainland and Bardez. To get into the ferry every morning and evening, there is a serpentine queue at the Chorao-Ribandar jetty and Ribandar-Chorao jetty. The four ferries operating at this stretch are overused as they cater to commuters coming not only from Chorao, but, as far as Bicholim and Sattari taluka. The daily travel by the Ribandar-Chorao ferry over the River Mandovi is extremely time-consuming. Being an island village, the demand for the bridge is more imperative for the natives of Chorao than the people of the mainland like Salvador do Mundo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/land-acquired-from-two-govt-depts-for-chorao-saloi-bridge-approach-road/articleshow/80620293.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ajmer||Pulse Polio campaign slows down Covid vax drive in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While health department officials remained busy in Pulse Polio campaign, Covid vaccination drive in the state has slowed down in the last two days. On Sunday, vaccination was done at 34 sites in which 1,186 healthcare workers were inoculated. Only eight districts including Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur held vaccination sessions, while rest of the districts did not organise the drive. On Saturday, the number of persons vaccinated against Covid were 4,638. In the last two days (Saturday and Sunday), 5824 healthcare workers received Covid jabs. “The vaccination drive has slowed down due to Pulse Polio,” said a senior health department official. So far, 3,30,797 healthcare workers have received the vaccine since the day of launch of the drive on January 16. Government-run Mahila Chikitsalaya is one of the leading hospitals in the city, which has completed its drive. The turn of each and every registered healthcare worker for vaccination in the hospital has already been completed. There are those healthcare workers who have not appeared for vaccination despite their turn due to certain reasons. “Out of 723 registered healthcare workers, 124 have not been vaccinated and 80% of these are contraindicated for vaccination in pregnant women, lactating mothers or they are undergoing fertility treatment or planning pregnancy. The coverage of vaccination is 83% in our hospital,” said Dr Shalini Rathore, Covid-19 vaccination incharge, Mahila Chikitsalaya. The adverse event following immunization stood at 143 out of 3.3lakh healthcare workers who received the vaccine, which is 0.04%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pulse-polio-campaign-slows-down-covid-vax-drive/articleshow/80621570.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Trichy: Woman takes pills to abort baby, dies of complications||TRICHY: A 40 -year-old woman died of complication after delivering a stillborn baby at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital in Trichy on Thursday. The deceased was identified as M Sumathi, 40 of 7th Cross Street in Ponnagar in Trichy. The Sessions Court police have booked a case based on the complaint from her husband V Murugesan. Police said that Sumathi’s husband was unaware that she had been taking pills without consulting a doctor for more than a week. The doctors cited excessive use of the pills as reason for the death of the foetus and the woman. Going by the complaint, the couple have a daughter aged 15 years. He is a coolie by profession. On knowing about her pregnancy, Sumathi decided to abort the foetus under the impression that having a baby now could be an embarrassment as their first child is 15 years old. She was taken to the hospital after developing severe pain on January 28. SI K Sridhar, who took up the inquiry with family members and the doctors, told TOI on Sunday that the woman had taken the pills for more than one week. “Her husband and the family members had no idea from where the woman got the tablets to abort her foetus,” he said. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-40-takes-pills-to-abort-baby-dies-of-complications/articleshow/80620297.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||BJP pushing state into debt trap: AAP||Panaji: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday said the BJP government is pushing the state into a debt trap because of its financial mismanagements. BJP believes in borrowings to mitigate its failures, it said. AAP Goa convener Rahul Mhambre highlighted CAG’s report which indicated that the government is playing with funds and even found purchase of equipment for GMC to be done incorrectly without checks and balances. “The borrowing of funds to tide over a crisis will result in increase of debt of the state and make all Goans debt ridden,” he said while pointing out that CAG has also noted that there is a heavy loss of revenue from luxury tax. The CAG report, he said, has pointed out that pending revenue collection by some principal departments on March 31, 2019, was Rs 2,836 crore of which collection of Rs 861 crore has been pending for more than five years. “What is happening at present due to the heavy spending by the government is that there is a tax outgo and to cover that up, the government is borrowing,” he said, disclosing that as on December 31, 2020, the debt of Goa stood at Rs 18,800 crore. “This means that as on date every Goan has a debt of Rs 1.25 lakh on his or her head,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-pushing-state-into-debt-trap-aap/articleshow/80620299.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Budget boost hope for river transport and electric buses||KOLKATA: Riverine transport along the Hooghly and electric buses in intra- and inter-city routes are two areas where the city expects a solid budgetary boost on Monday. There has been major thrust on riverine transportation as an alternative to already saturated road and rail transportation. Bengal in general and Kolkata in particular expect a further budgetary boost in the inland water transportation along National Waterway (NW)-I or river Hooghly. A boost to these two transport sectors will take a huge load off the city roads. Already, vehicles, edible oil, coal, fly ash are being transported along the NW1 in a huge quantity and the lucrative tariff and low freight cost has attracted a lot of industries to transport things on vessels rather than on trucks and rail. One of the key issues is three-metre guaranteed draft dredging all along NW-I to allow smooth sailing of barges from Haldia to Allahabad. NW-I is holding a huge promise for the hinterland of Haldia, Kolkata, Patna, Varanasi and Allahabad because of new industrial resurgence along the river bank. “The dredging along the river course is important as siltation is threatening the riverine transportation at various points in the course. Now, going beyond Farakka looks impossible for large vessels. But it is needed urgently,” said Shyam Singh, a vessel transporter. Faster adoption and manufacturing of electric vehicles (FAME-II) focused on electrification of city buses (intra-city). Green activists hope the forthcoming Union budget focuses on electrification of inter-city bus operations (600-800 kms per day of travel), including those owned by the STUs as well as private operators. This is commercially viable provided there’s adequate charging infrastructure in highway corridors, capital expenditure support and single-window clearance, said Alekhya Datta, fellow and area convenor, electricity and fuels division, TERI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/budget-boost-hope-for-river-transport-and-electric-buses/articleshow/80618832.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Call for action: RTI activists plan statewide protest||AHMEDABAD: A meeting of RTI activists to protest against two orders of the Gujarat state information commission (GSIC) was held at the Mahiti Adhikar Gujarat Pehel (MAGP) office at Vejalpur on Monday. In two separate orders, the GSIC has barred four applicants, including one being banned for life, from filing applications under the provisions of the Right to Information (RTI) Act before the state authorities, stating that the RTI Act “cannot be used as a tool for taking revenge”. The GSIC had taken refuge in Article 19 of the Constitution while denying the right to the individuals. “We will hold a state-wide communique of various RTI activists and organize a joint protest against these orders. These orders are against the spirit of the law,” said convener of MAGP, Pankti Jog. Former CM Suresh Mehta, environment activist Mahesh Pandya, chief executive and secretary at Janpath Network, Harinesh Pandya, RTI activists Alpesh Rathod, Pankaj Bhatt and several others were present at the meeting. Mehta claimed that eight other citizens have submitted a memorandum to the commission requesting it to ‘re-think’ the orders or to constitute a full-bench to review the same. The meeting at length also discussed ways for legal recourse in the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/call-for-action-rti-activists-plan-statewide-protest/articleshow/80618813.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Counselling for those who avoided vaccine: Eatala||Hyderabad: The Telangana government will set up a counselling mechanism for those who had registered as beneficiaries for the vaccine but have withdrawn due to alleged fears said state health minister Eatala Rajender, while delivering a virtual talk on Covid vaccine organized by Telangana State Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Trade. “It is true that some people are afraid to take the vaccine due to fears spread by unreliable and unscientific rumours. We must all work to dispel myths and alleged fears through discussions in mass and social media. To dispel these fears, I have volunteered to take the vaccine,” he said adding that 25% to 30% health workers are still sitting on the fence. Rajender said that it is the duty of the medical fraternity to dispel those fears. “They must use social media and mass media to spread awareness about the efficacy of the vaccine. Even after so many years of penicillin and saving millions of lives, we still check if there are any reactions before it is given,” he said. “As we all know penicillin G procaine is an antibiotic that is given by injection into a muscle, approved to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body and has been in use since the year 1928. But, still we keep reading here and there about common allergic reactions to penicillin including rashes, hives, itchy eyes and swollen lips, face, and yet we are using it,” he said. The minister said that the state is committed to make the vaccine available to everybody but it is the Centre, which is in full control of the matter. “We have requested the Union health minister to allow us to get more doses as the vaccine is developed here in Hyderabad. We are looking forward to the permission. We have got 8 lakh doses so far,” said Eatala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/counselling-for-those-who-avoided-vaccine-eatala/articleshow/80618878.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Tractor rally protesters booked for murder bid||Trichy: Opposition parties including DMK, Congress, Communist and Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi organized a protest at Tiruvarur on Sunday condemning the police action of registering attempt to murder case against farmers and party leaders who conducted a tractor rally on Januray 26 in support of the protesting farmers in Delhi.  Headed by DMK state deputy general secretary K Ponmudi, CPI state secretary R Mutharasan and Congress leader Jeyakumar, MP, a large number of cadres, farmers and members of Tamil outfits gathered at South Street and raised slogans against the police demanding withdrawal of the cases. During the protest held on January 26, farmers who arrived with tractors broke police barricades and conducted the rally in Tiruvarur. Subsequently, attempt to murder cases were booked against farmers and political leaders including DMK MLA Poondi Kalaivanan, CPI district secretary Sivapuniyam, CPM’s Sundharamoorthi and Congress leader Durai Velan. Addressing the protest, R Mutharasan accused a police officer without naming him of inciting the police against farmers. K Ponmudi said everyone should realize that the farmers’ protest is for the entire society. The police later tried to explain to the leaders why attempt to murder was invoked. CPM’s farmers’ association secretary Shanmugam, Nagapattinam MP M Selvaraj, and MLAs Poondi Kalaivanan , U Mathivanan, P Adalarasan and TRB Rajaa and other leaders participated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tractor-rally-protesters-booked-for-murder-bid/articleshow/80620302.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||Goa is ODF says govt, oppn differs||Panaji: Poking holes in the state government’s claim that Goa is open defecation free (ODF), the Opposition said that the toilets required to achieve the ODF status have not been installed. What is perhaps more shocking is that the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) states that mobile toilets were temporarily installed for 30 days so that Goa could claim to be ODF by August 2019. Though the government insists that it has no record of open defection in the state, MGP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar said that along the Verna to airport road, many families use the highway or roadside to answer nature’s call. “In Madkai, there is open defecation and toilets are still required. About 1,000 people paid for toilets but they haven’t been given anything. I don’t know why,” Dhavalikar said. “There are people who cross BITS Pilani early in the morning with a jug of water. I wonder where they are going since the minister says that Goa is open defecation free.” Panchayati raj minister Mauvin Godinho and urban development minister Milind Naik in written replies have stated to the assembly that no cases of open defecation have been reported in panchayat areas and in the municipal ones. Their statements contradict the GWMC statement. “Construction of individual household toilets was affected due to heavy monsoon in 2019 and therefore in order to achieve ODF status by August 31, 2019, mobile toilets were installed for period of 30 days at those proposed community locations where construction of permanent IHHLs could not be completed before August 31, 2019,” the GWMC stated. The government data shows that mobile toilets were installed at 325 community locations and at each location two toilets were installed for period of 30 days. The GWMC was supposed to install bio-digester based toilets across the state with total of 18,990 beneficiaries identified for construction of individual household toilets. The GWMC issued the work orders in June 2019 for construction of household toilets, but was subsequently asked to construct community toilets “so as to achieve Open Defecation Free (ODF) status,” the panchayat department’s statement read. The GWMC also said that construction of the toilets was affected due to the “heavy prolonged monsoon” and the lockdown imposed to restrict spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, the Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) provided funds for building 44 toilets to the urban local bodies. The government claims that panchayat-wise inspection was conducted through self-help groups, while inspections are regularly conducted by municipal bodies through supervisors or municipal inspectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-is-odf-says-govt-oppn-differs/articleshow/80620305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||GTU startup’s waste wonder||Ahmedabad: Can there be bricks and paver blocks made of municipal plastic waste from Pirana dump site? The Gujarat technological university (GTU) has successfully initiated an effort where municipal plastic waste, mixed with coal ash is amalgamated into deep-grey slabs under pressure and temperature to form interlocking tiles that can withstand pressures of up to several tonnes. GTU has backed one of its students through it’s incubation centre towards the development of these tiles. Kisan Pateĺ, 23, is a first-year student of masters in entrepreneurship programme at GTU.  Patel says that his company had purchased a huge stock of plastic waste from the AMC dumping site at Pirana. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-startups-waste-wonder/articleshow/80618816.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||Drugs case: Nigerian footballer gets 10 years in jail||PANAJI: A sessions court has sentenced Nigerian national Amachukwu Okeke, 37, to 10 years imprisonment and fined him Rs 1 lakh under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possessing commercial quantity of narcotics. “…prosecution has succeeded in proving that the report of the expert confirms presence of LSD in the exhibits and that it was commercial quantity,” the court held. Okeke was caught red-handed with LSD liquid worth Rs 2.7 lakh, in Siolim, in 2015. The court gave him the minimum penalty required for possessing commercial quantity of narcotics. The counsel for the accused argued that he is a footballer and has a few years to play and earn a livelihood for his family and is not convicted by any other court, but was falsely implicated by Kochi police in some other case. The court noted that this was his second case. He was arrested in 2005 for possessing cocaine, but was acquitted by the court. When released on bail, he left the state and was involved in another drug case filed before Chennai police, where investigation is going on. Counsel for the accused M D’Souza argued that the substance is liquid and could not be weighed in grams and there was no authorisation to investigate into the matter and investigating officer did not attach the accused’s clothes. Public prosecutor Anna Mendonza submitted to the court that the substance seized was commercial quantity LSD and the investigating officer complied with the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nigerian-footballer-gets-10-years-in-drugs-case/articleshow/80620615.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||MSRTC to evaluate bus demand||NASHIK: Against the backdrop of schools resuming classes, the Nashik division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has sought feedback from the block development officers (BDOs) on the requirement of bus services in rural areas. Schools for students of classes IX to XII had started on January 4, but that did not add much to the demand for buses in the rural areas. “When the secondary schools reopened physically, we thought the demand would go up. But it was lower than expectation. This is because the students were able to access education online and even the parents were content with the same. So we only had to add a bus servive here or another there. Most of the demands was met by adjusting the timings,” said Nitin Maind, the Nashik divisional controller of MSRTC. The officer said the demand would again be evaluated — given that classes V-VIII have also started now. “We have already got some demand from Dindori and other talukas where the decision to start ‘blue buses’ meant for transporting girl students free of cost in rural areas (under the Manav Vikas Mission) has been taken,” Maind said. The officer added that bus services on most routes, barring in Nashik city, had returned to pre-Covid levels. In Nashik city, 45 buses have been pressed into the service. “We will continue with the operation till NMC starts its services. Any decision to increase or decrease the fleet will be taken by the central office,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-evaluate-bus-demand/articleshow/80617773.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||Infotech corp denied loan for Porvorim IT park||Panaji: A delay in completion of Info Tech Corporation of Goa’s (ITG) audit has stalled the department of information technology’s move to set-up a Hybrid IT Cluster at Porvorim. The corporation had sought a Rs 125 crore loan from EDC and NABARD to set-up the Hybrid IT Cluster, but the loan was not sanctioned as EDC found it “difficult to assess the credit risk” of ITG and the project. According to the IT department, on June 23, EDC wrote to ITG and agreed to consider sanctioning a term loan of Rs 75 crore under the loan assistance to state government agencies category, but only if ITG met all the conditions. A month later, however, EDC wrote to ITG saying that the loan could not be granted as ITG had failed to meet certain norms. “The email states that since the latest financials of the corporation (ITG) are not available, and the audit is in arrears, it would be difficult to assess the credit risk for appropriate pricing of the loan. It further states that they regret the inability to offer ITG a suitable quote for the aforesaid project,” IT minister Jennifer Monserrate said in response to a question raised by former IT minister Rohan Khaunte. ITG plans to create a plug-n-play facility at Penha de Franca for IT companies and startups on 20,837 sqm of land. Khaunte had asked the IT department for a status report on the Hybrid IT park and the Chimbel IT park, both of which have virtually ground to a halt under the present government. A consultant appointed by ITG had estimated that the construction of the Hybrid IT park at Porvorim would require Rs 122.3 crore. In March and June of 2019, the Expenditure Finance Committee (EFC) had granted an in-principle approval. Based on the directions of the EFC, ITG decided to seek long-term funding for a period of eight years from EDC and NABARD Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/infotech-corp-denied-loan-for-porvorim-it-park/articleshow/80620301.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||India||First Indo-US combat drill of Biden era in Rajasthan next week||NEW DELHI: India and the US are all set to kick off a major combat exercise in Rajasthan next week, in the first such bilateral wargame after the Biden administration took charge in Washington and reiterated India’s role as a key partner in the Indo-Pacific as well as the need to strengthen the “Quad”. Indian officials say the ‘Yudh Abhyas’ exercise, which will be held at the Mahajan Field Firing ranges from February 8 to 21, will once again underscore the continuing upward trajectory in defence cooperation with the US, which enjoys bipartisan support among the Democrats and Republicans. The US contingent for Yudh Abhyas will include a brigade headquarters and a battalion group of around 250 soldiers from a Stryker Brigade Combat Team. India will also field an infantry brigade headquarters and a battalion group from the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry for the exercise. “The aim is to further enhance interoperability in counter-terrorist operations in a semi-urban, semi-desert terrain, along with attack helicopters and infantry combat vehicles,” said an officer. Yudh Abhyas, which comes after India conducted the 24thedition of the top-notch `Malabar’ naval exercise with the other Quad countries (US, Japan and Australia) in November, will be followed by the ‘Vajra Prahar’ land combat exercise in March. The Malabar, of course, sent a strong strategic signal to China amidst the continuing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh, with the Quad nations stressing their commitment to “support a free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific as well as a rules-based international order”. India, incidentally, also deployed a long-range Poseidon-8I maritime patrol aircraft and other personnel for the `Sea Dragon’ anti-submarine warfare exercise with the US, Japan, Australia and Canada from January 14 to 27 in Guam. The aim, interestingly, was to strengthen interoperability among partner nations for “regional contingencies”. The new US secretary of state Antony J Blinken, secretary of defence Lloyd J Austin and national security adviser Jake Sullivan, in their talks with their Indian counterparts and elsewhere last week, have all conveyed their intention to carry forward the Indo-Pacific strategy of the previous Trump administration. “The Biden administration’s overall policy towards China will, of course, be more nuanced. But defence cooperation between India and the US will continue to be the main driver of the bilateral strategic partnership,” said an official. India has inked four “foundational military pacts” with the US, with the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA) being concluded last year. Beginning with the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2002, the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) was inked in 2016, and the Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) in 2018. The US has also bagged lucrative Indian defence deals worth over $21 billion just since 2007, with latest ones for 24 MH-60 ‘Romeo’ multirole naval helicopters and six more Apache attack choppers for $3 billion being inked during former President Donald Trump’s visit here in February last year, as was reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-indo-us-combat-drill-of-biden-era-in-rajasthan-next-week/articleshow/80620936.cms||Rajat Pandit
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Residents, activists cry foul over killing of stray dogs||Trichy: Residents and animal welfare activists in Trichy have alleged that stray dogs are illegally killed in Navalpattu panchayat, which is 14 km away from Trichy city. Referring to the recent recovery of a carcass of a stray dog, which had deep wounds on its neck, the residents of Anna Nagar alleged that somebody has used a spear to kill it. Elcot IT Park, Anna Nagar (multiple phases), Police colony and Samathuvapuram are located in Navalpattu panchayat. In the last few days, residents who used to feed stray dogs say that the dogs are disappearing mysteriously. Residents have recently spotted a few professional dog catchers in the area using illegal methods to catch stray dogs. Claiming that their locality has no stray dog menace, the residents blamed the panchayat authorities for using unethical measures to kill stray dogs that were taken care of by the local people. “I had been feeding a female stray dog for over a year, which used to sleep beneath my car. Two days ago, we found the dog dead with a deep injury on its neck,” K Siva, a resident of Anna Nagar phase I, said. Stating that they welcome the sterilisation drive following the guidelines laid down by the animal welfare board of India (AWBI), the residents criticized the illegal method of killing stray dogs. The improper disposal of carcasses of stray dogs has also evoked concern among the residents. Close to two dozen stray dogs were suspected to be killed. Meanwhile, Navalpattu panchayat has denied the allegations of the illegal drive. “We are not conducting any such activity. Since we could not satisfy the norms of the AWBI, we are not even conducting the animal birth control drive,” A James, president of Navalpattu panchayat, told TOI. However, the civic body acknowledged that they are receiving a volley of complaints such as stray dogs mauling milch cows and even senior citizens. But, the residents accompanied by animal welfare activists have planned to approach police to find a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-activists-cry-foul-over-killing-of-stray-dogs/articleshow/80620309.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 1, 2021||Goa||Bids for Bainguinim plant extended for fourth time||Panaji: As the state government is unable to get more than a single bidder to set up the Rs 200crore solid waste management facility at Bainguinim, the time limit to accept contractor bids has been extended for the fourth time. Waste management minister Michael Lobo said, “The government has extended the time by 15 days to receive bids.” adding that on Monday the state government will review the Bainguinim plant issue and take a decision. In January 14, 2021, the government has extended the time limit for the bids for the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim for the third time. On November 24, 2020 the Goa waste management corporation (GWMC) extended the time limit for accepting bids for the second time after three earlier bidders raised many queries. Then again on November 9, 2020 the corporation extended the period to accept bids by another 15 days. Initially, on September 22, 2020 the corporation had invited bids for setting up the solid waste processing facility which will have a processing capacity of 250 tonnes per day. Lobo had said that the tender document was floated as per the guidelines of the central public works department (CPWD). “We will wait to see how many bidders qualify and then float a fresh tender. As per CPWD guidelines, nobody qualified,” he said. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired land at Bainguinim to set up the plant and in 2017 it was handed over to GWMC. A public hearing was also held by GWMC and the environment clearance was also obtained. Four companies - Organic recycling system, Hindustan waste treatment, 3R management and Landsky engineers - participated in the pre-bid meeting for the plant. The plant estimated to cost Rs200 crore and is expected to cater to the entire Tiswadi taluka. The corporation had also invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. GWMC has decided to undertake the project through a public private partnership (PPP) on a design-build-finance-operate-transfer (DBFOT) basis, wherein the plant infrastructure will be implemented by the concessionaire along with operations and maintenance for a period of 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bids-for-bainguinim-plant-extended-for-fourth-time/articleshow/80620308.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Nashik civic body conducts cleanliness drive at Thakkar’s Bazaar bus terminal||NASHIK: Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Sunday conducted a cleanliness drive at Thakkar’s Bazaar bus terminal in Nashik city with the help of an NGO, Ploggers’ group. The civic body has been conducting a cleanliness drive at various places in the city on every Sunday as part of the Swachh Survekshan-2021. The cleanliness drive has already been conducted at Godavari, Nandini and other tributaries and nullahs in the city.  Nashik has prepared for the Swachh Survekshan and is doing all the efforts to improve its ranking from the previous 11th rank to among top five clean cities in the country. “The teams from the Centre are likely to visit the city in a week or two for the Swachh Survekshan and the NMC had made all the efforts for the purpose,” said Kalpana Kute, director, solid waste department of NMC “We conducted a cleanliness drive in the busy Thakkar’s bazaar bus terminal here in the city with the help of Ploggers’ group, which consists of college students,” said Kute Apart from the cleanliness drive, the civic body has also intensified action against the erring city residents who are dumping garbage on the open spaces or roadsides. During the last week, the NMC has slapped fine on over 157 city residents for not segregating waste at source, littering in public places and roadsides, throwing garbage in rivers and nullahs in the past seven days. Fine of Rs 1.75 lakh was collected. As many as 56 residents were caught while depositing the waste without segregating the garbage and a fine amounting to Rs 16,800 has been collected during the drive last week. Moreover, 36 city residents were fined for littering in public places. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Sunday conducted a cleanliness drive at Thakkar’s Bazaar bus terminal here Nashik city with the help of the NGO- Ploggers’ group. NMC has been conducting a cleanliness drive at various places in the city on every Sunday as part of Swachh Survekshan-2021. The civic body has already conducted cleanliness drives at Godavari, Nandini and other tributaries and nullahs in the city. NMC has started a cleanliness drive in the city as part of Swachh Survekshan: 2021. Nashik has prepared for the Swachh Survekshan and is doing all the efforts to improve its ranking from the previous 11th to among top five clean cities in the country. “The teams of officials from the centre are likely to visit the city in a week or two for the Swachh Survekshan and NMC had made all the efforts for the purpose. “We conducted a cleanliness drive in the busy Thakkar’s bazaar bus terminal here in the city with the help of Ploggers’ group, which consists of college students,” said Kalpana Kute, director, solid waste department of NMC. Apart from the cleanliness drive, the civic body has also intensified action against the erring city residents who are dumping garbage or waste on the open spaces or roadsides. During last week, NMC has slapped fine on over 157 erring city residents for not segregating waste at source, littering filth in public places and roadsides, throwing garbage in city rivers and nullahs in the last seven days, collecting fines amounting to Rs 1.75 lakh. Fifty-six city residents were caught while depositing the waste without segregation to the garbage vans collecting a fine amounting to Rs 16,800 from them during a drive last week. Moreover, 36 city residents were fined for littering filth in public places and on the roads across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-conducts-cleanliness-drive-at-thakkars-bazaar-bus-terminal/articleshow/80617778.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination: 40,000 doses used on health workers in Mumbai, 2.25 lakh remain||MUMBAI: The civic body will dip into the remaining 2.25 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to start the second phase of immunizing other frontline workers. Of the 2.65 lakh doses that the city had received to vaccinate healthcare workers, around 40,000 doses have been used in the first ten days of the drive. State officials remained evasive on whether the next round of vaccinating frontline workers would begin from Monday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, only said through a text message that both healthcare workers and frontliners will be covered on Monday. However, district level officials told TOI that it was unlikely to start on Monday. Many struggled to send out messages to frontline workers on Sunday. Besides, immunization teams were occupied with the national polio drive that started on Sunday. Polio mop-up rounds will continue over the next two days. In Mumbai, the immunization of frontliners is likely to start on Tuesday or latest by Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that CoWIN features relevant to frontliners are likely to be available from Tuesday. “We have been told those features will go live only on February 2. We have over 2.25 lakh vaccine doses with us and we have been assured that more stocks would follow soon,” he said, adding that the civic body has planned to add four more vaccination centres to the dozen that are operational at present. The vaccination of healthcare workers would continue on Monday. Kakani said that there are over 1,300 trained vaccinators, so scaling up wouldn’t be a major problem. The state had received over 18 lakh doses of the vaccine from the Centre, of which 3 lakh doses have been exhausted so far. A senior official said that till the mop-round continues in the state, the number of vaccination sites may not be significantly increased. Currently, the vaccine is being administered across 540 centres in Maharashtra, while six centres are giving Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40000-doses-used-on-health-workers-in-city-2-25l-remain/articleshow/80618915.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Officials expect largesse for rail projects in West Bengal||KOLKATA: West Bengal is likely to feature in a big way, so far as railway projects are concerned, in Monday’s Budget to be tabled in Parliament by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, sources believe. Even if there isn’t too much of a mention in the actual Budget speech, new projects and plans will be announced soon thereafter by railway minister Piyush Goyal, a senior official in the ministry said. “We should not expect more trains. That is a thing of the past. Moreover, not even all regular trains are running at the moment due to the ongoing pandemic, so more trains won’t serve the purpose. But, there will be no paucity of funds for the ongoing Metro projects in Kolkata,” the official said. Key features for the railways are likely to be job creation, greater mobility and passenger amenities. The railways has already run a Kisan Rail Special from Tarakeswar in Hooghly towards Dimapur in Nagaland with 1,050 quintals of potatoes. Other produce was loaded along the way. Officials in Kolkata are also expecting some announcement for Dankuni, where a new coaching terminal is to come up. “Both coaching and goods terminals will be the key. This will help in generating more jobs,” another official said. There may be the announcement of more special trains along routes that have had regular ones cancelled over last few months. “There may be additional allocation for the new Santragachhi station that is being constructed and plans for upgraded facilities at Howrah and Sealdah,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/officials-expect-largesse-for-rail-projects-in-bengal/articleshow/80618882.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hit by pandemic, salaried middle class expects subsidies, tax relief||KOLKATA: Struck by Covid-19 as well as the financial turmoil triggered by it, hundreds of residents of Kolkata are still struggling to bounce back to life and are pinning their hopes on the Union budget. They expect more subsidies and tax relief for the middle class as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the Budget on Monday. Jobless since April last year — less than a month into the lockdown — Nagerbazar resident Rupam Das has tried in vain for a new job for several months before he thought of starting his own business. But even as his business started to take off, he and his wife were infected by Covid-19 in the month of September and the family suffered yet another setback. “I used to earn a salary of Rs 60,000 per month and with my wife’s salary combined, we had a decent lifestyle. But the last few months have been gruelling. I lost my job, we both got infected and had to spend the mandatory quarantine period at home. As a result, my new business took a hit. To make things worse, my daughter was barred from attending her online classes as we were unable to pay the school fees on time. Her exams are due this week and even as I have made a part payment, I don’t know, if the school authorities will allow my daughter to sit for the exam,” said Das, a former deputy general manager, facility management, at a private hospital. He now runs a business of selling surgical goods and is planning to set up a mineral water plant. Similar has been the situation for Behala resident Meghmallar Das, a former assistant manager, operation and maintenance at a leading mobile telecom company, who lost his job in July last year and is still looking for another job. “I always wanted to work in Kolkata so that I can take care of my elderly parents who live with me. But now, I am applying for any job — for some of which I am overqualified — across the globe, so that I can somehow run my family again. My appeal to the finance minister would be think of jobless middle class people like us while presenting the Budget and generate more jobs and at the same time, give us relief from the stringent taxations at least for this year,” said Das. Entrepreneur Suvajit Dutt, who had to give up his office space to survive the financial loss inflicted by the pandemic and also had to spend 14 days in home quarantine after all his family members, including his wife and daughter were tested positive to Covid-19, didn’t seek for large scale tax benefits, though. “The pandemic has crippled us mentally, physically and financially. However, we all are trying to fight our way out of it. Hence, my appeal to the finance minister would be not for tax relief, but for continuation of the existing subsidies and benefits at least for the next five years. I also expect the Budget to announce adequate middle-class friendly steps to help the country as well as the taxpayers like us to come out of this crisis,” said Dutt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hit-by-pandemic-salaried-middle-class-expects-subsidies-tax-relief/articleshow/80618879.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 1, 2021||Kochi||How long can Pinarayi Vijayan deceive people? He’s lost credibility: Oommen Chandy||KOTTAYAM: Oommen Chandy, who will lead the UDF in the upcoming polls, is upbeat about the front’s prospects. He says his own party has put its chronic factionalism behind and stands united, and remains unfazed by the resurfacing of certain old allegations against him. The former CM also dismisses the LDF govt’s achievements and claims that the incumbent CM has lost the people’s trust. Jaikrishnan Nair spoke to the 77-yr-old leader at length. Excerpts: Was Congress group politics behind the demand for your contesting from Nemom?No. Party leaders don’t have any role in it. It was the creation of some media persons. I immediately issued a press release to put an end to it. In the talks with the AICC leadership in Delhi too there was no mention of me contesting from any other seat. Who will decide the candidates and constituencies?A committee has been formed for election management and strategy. The media has read several meanings to it which has no political relevance. The committee is only a coordinated leadership that would face the elections. This committee, and not any individual, will decide everything related to the elections. Will group politics spoil the party for UDF?Differences within Congress will not affect seat-sharing or any other matters related to the elections. For Congress, this election is very important not only in Kerala, but at the national level too. AICC has given great importance to it. All state leaders have imbibed that spirit. Is there any visible change in the party after AICC intervention?This time there won’t be any group issues. AICC is closely monitoring everything and all are aware of that. The AICC’s intervention has yielded results and it is evident in the party’s functioning now. There is a qualitative change in the state unit. What difference can Tharoor make to the party and UDF for the elections?We hope to exploit Tharoor’s acceptance among a big section. The high command had expressed this wish and we supported it. Tharoor has a space of his own in politics. That space is different from pure politicians like us. Tharoor will meet youngsters, students and IT professionals, etc. He will interact with them and understand their aspirations and suggestions. He will travel to Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Palakkad to meet people. How do you look at the emergence of the Solar case ahead of the assembly polls?The LDF said they would arrest all as soon as they assumed office. They have been in power for five years. They charged a case against me under a non-bailable section. They could arrest me anytime. Many asked me to proceed legally. I took a stand that I will not go for anticipatory bail nor will move court to quash the FIR. My stand became an issue in Congress and A K Antony called me asking to take legal steps. I told him that I am not going to take any legal steps for a crime which I have not committed. After he compelled, I said that I would talk to my lawyer Kapil Sibal and act accordingly. Antony agreed to it. I told Sibal that I won’t go for any legal procedures. Let them arrest me. If I get arrested we will see whether I get legal protection then. Sibal agreed and said that it was the best option. Three DGPs had conducted probes and all three said there was no basis for the case. The government did not act for five years. The move for a CBI probe is to tackle questions from their rank and file. If CBI takes up the case, they can escape saying that CBI is probing and if CBI refuses, they will say it is because of a secret deal with BJP. I had questioned the Sivarajan commission in the high court of crossing its limits. The high court judge approved it. Why did the LDF government not go for appeal against this? Will this move by the LDF government backfire?Yes. Why couldn’t they take any action these five years? Nobody is absconding and all are in Kerala. The content of the letter by the complainant is itself a chargesheet against the chief minister, showing his inefficiency. She demanded a CBI probe as no action was taken on her complaint. Is the local body election results a pointer towards an advantage for the LDF?I don’t think so. The three elections have three different patterns. Local body elections have always been favourable for LDF. The selection of UDF candidates is one reason. Secondly, the number of rebels from UDF. However, the Jose K Mani factor did not affect the local poll results much. In Pala municipality, they had 17 seats when they were with us. But now they have only 10. Can UDF regain the confidence of some sections of the church?Pinarayi is trying to build bridges with both Orthodox and Jacobite factions. It has to be seen how long he can deceive people like this? He has lost his credibility. The UDF has an open stand on the issue. We want to settle it amicably. But there are several limitations. We want to make a sincere effort within those limitations. Development is the LDF’s main election slogan. How will the UDF counter it?Their claims about development are hollow. Take the example of Life Mission. It is a very good project and I support it completely. They are claiming 2.5 lakh houses. But they are spending more money for publicity. UDF government had constructed around 4.23 lakh houses during its five-year rule. We did not have any name like Life Mission. We carried it out with a major share from the Centre and using the housing schemes of various state departments. Seems distribution of free kits worked for LDF.When UDF came into power in 2011, we gave free rice within 100 days. We continued this for five years for all BPL families. Now they are charging Rs 2 per kg. For APL, we charged the same amount we paid to the Centre (Rs 8.9). The rest of the amount of Rs 2 was taken care of by the state. Now, the LDF government is charging the additional Rs 2 also from APL. LDF says that the UDF is making false claims about the Alappuzha bypass.It was due to the efforts of the previous UDF government that the bypass was completed. The UDF government had informed the Centre about its willingness to share 50% cost of the elevated structures. The Union transport ministry agreed to this and an order was issued on August 31, 2013. Regarding Vizhinjam, they can’t even provide the granite needed for the project. It was to be completed in four years. I had requested Adani at the foundation stone-laying function to complete it in 1,000 days. The first aircraft landed at the Kannur airport during UDF rule. During those times, they protested saying that the length of the runway was not enough. After being in power for over four years, they could not extend the runway by even one metre. Will P C George join UDF?There are a lot of objections from the local leadership. Will there be young and fresh faces among UDF candidates?Certainly. Fresh faces and youth will be given priority. Will Chandy Oommen be a candidate?It is not I who decides that. I am not averse to it. Presently, he is active in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/how-long-can-pinarayi-deceive-people-hes-lost-credibility/articleshow/80617800.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
February 1, 2021||Surat||Transplant ends 15 years of blindness||Surat: The joy that he is having for the past 15 days has obliterated the pain of blindness that this 98-year-old sadhu near Godhra town in Panchmahal district had been suffering for the past 15 years. Today, he can clearly see after regaining his lost eyesight, thanks to a successful cornea transplant. Cornea specialist Dr Sankit U Shah performed a successful cornea transplant surgery (ultrathin DSEK) successfully on the nonagenarian at the Kiran Multispeciality Hospital in the city a few days ago. “I assessed the patient’s eyes and found he had pseudophakic bullous keratopathy. His retina and optic nerve were healthy and cornea transplant could bring his vision back. So, we had sent a cornea donation request with its particulars to Lok Drashti Eye bank in the city. Luckily, we found a matching requirement in cornea donation of a donor below 40 years of age without any medical history on eye surgery,” Dr Shah told TOI. “We called the patient to come for cornea transplant in his left eye and performed the surgery successfully, he said, imploring people to also encourage eye donation as it can give vision to people in need like the sadhu, a prime example of beneficiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/transplant-ends-15-years-of-blindness/articleshow/80617792.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Government order soon on EWS quota for upper caste, says Telangana minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao||Hyderabad: Panchayat Raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao has sought to assure the economically weaker sections (EWS) from the upper caste communities that the TRS government will soon issue a GO for implementation of 10% EWS quota.He also sought to assure all BCs, SCs, STs and other minorities that their existing percentage of reservations will not be affected due to its implementation. Addressing a public meeting ‘Maha Garjana’ at Hanamkonda on Sunday, Rao said that the government is committed to providing equal opportunities to all the communities for overall development of the state. “I have already taken up the matter with CM KCR and municipal minister KT Rama Rao. I will ensure that economically weaker sections from Brahmin, Vysya, Reddy, Velama, Kamma and other communities get the 10% quota in education and jobs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/government-order-soon-on-ews-quota-for-upper-caste-says-telangana-panchayat-raj-minister-errabelli-dayakar-rao/articleshow/80620617.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: 20,000 two-wheeler users fined for riding without mirrors||PUNE: The city traffic police have in the past two weeks fined more than 20,000 two-wheeler riders for using their vehicles without rear-view mirrors. Police said they have collected at least Rs40 lakh in fines. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame said it was mandatory under the Motor Vehicles Act to install rear-view mirrors on vehicles. “Those riding without rear-view mirrors are liable to pay a Rs200 fine,” Shrirame said. The DCP said they initiated the ongoing drive after studying data from fatal road accidents, especially those last year. “The goal of the drive is to reduce fatal road accidents,” he said. “Rear-view mirrors are very important. We have observed that many two-wheeler riders remove the mirrors; this is very unsafe,” Shrirame said. Shrirame drove home the point, illustrating how rear-view mirrors were crucial, especially when changing lanes or taking U-turns on the road. “Rear-view mirrors help motorists keep an eye on the road behind them, especially when turning or changing lanes, or overtaking the other vehicles. Without mirrors, there is no way to see if vehicles are coming up behind you,” he said. The deputy commissioner further said mirrorless two-wheeler riders risk not only their lives, but also those of others. In 2020, 143 people died in accidents on the city roads. Eighty of these were two-wheeler riders. And out of the total fatalities on the roads, 80 were of two wheeler drivers. “We also observed that in 33 fatal accidents, two-wheeler riders cut directly in front of heavy vehicles — in many cases, after overtaking speeding vehicles. A majority of two-wheeler riders who met with accidents didn’t have rear-view mirrors on their vehicles,” Shrirame said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20k-two-wheeler-users-fined-for-riding-without-mirrors/articleshow/80618888.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||PM lauds innovative efforts at Bowenpally veggie market||HYDERABAD: Bowenpally Vegetable market received praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Maan Ki Baat programme on Sunday. During the first episode of the Maan Ki Baat programe of 2021, PM Modi said Bowenpally vegetable market has turned waste into wealth. Lauding the efforts of vegetable traders at the market as the power of innovation, he said usually the vegetables rot leading to unhygienic conditions. Terming the effort as “the journey of turning garbage into gold”, Modi said daily almost 10 tonnes of waste is collected at the market. “Also, 500 units of electricity is produced daily apart from about 30 kg biofuel”. Explaining the use of the vegetable market, he said that the electricity generated was being used to illuminate the market and the bio-fuel was used in the mandi canteen for cooking. Vegetables from nearly 20 districts across the state reach the market spread over 21 acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-lauds-innovative-efforts-at-bowenpally-veggie-market/articleshow/80618885.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: QR-code baits the new tool for cybercriminals||VISAKHAPATNAM: With smartphones now a common device and the advent of various payment modes through apps, cybercriminals are finding new ways to cheat users. In a new method of cheating, criminals are creating fake quick response (QR) codes to dupe people and steal their money. In a recent case, a youth was duped of Rs 80,000 in a QR code scam. The youngster had uploaded a classified to sell his phone at a price of Rs 6,000. He was contacted by one Kumar who showed interest in buying the phone. Kumar sent the youngster a QR code and asked him to scan it for payment. Upon scanning the code the first time for Rs 5, the youngster received Rs 10 in his account. However, after repeated scans, he realised that money was only being deducted and not received.  Speaking to TOI, cybercrime police station (CCS) inspector RVRK Choudhary said that they had received over 20 such complaints of QR-code scams from people who have lost their money within seconds to unknown criminals in such cases. The inspector said that in such scams, fraudsters share the QR-code over WhatsApp asking victims to scan them in order to receive money in their accounts. After scanning the code, the fraudster uses the data to withdraw from the victim’s account. In some cases, criminals also use screen-sharing apps on the pretext of making payments for products on classifieds or prize money. Preliminary investigation has revealed that criminals are operating from other states and that recovery of stolen amounts has become a big challenge for the police. Police said that no case of fraud has been reported from outlets, shopkeepers, and others who use the QR-code system for sale of their products or from consumers who directly purchase from these outlets using the QR-code. “We have been receiving complaints of QR-code fraud only when the victim posts on an e-commerce platform to sell their used products. We are appealing people not to believe those who ask them to scan the QR-code for payment,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/qr-code-baits-the-new-tool-for-cybercriminals/articleshow/80617539.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 1, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No consensus, govt may not table ‘love jihad’ bill in budget session||BENGALURU: The much-talked-about bill against ‘love jihad’ will not be introduced in the current legislature session, with the BJP government deciding to go slow on it. Party sources said it may not be tabled even during the budget session, scheduled to be held in March. Karnataka was set to be the fourth state after Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana to enact the anti-love jihad law that envisages stringent punishment to those involved in forceful religious conversions and using marriage as a means. Supporters of the proposed law include state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, party’s national general secretary CT Ravi and others who were vocal about the need to curb ‘love jihad’ in Karnataka. However, the government hasn’t even started drafting the legislation and it did not figure among the 11 draft bills enlisted for the weeklong session which began on January 28. “At present, we’re not looking at the option of tabling the bill in the legislature. Several factors, including legal issues, are to be considered before that,” said law and parliamentary affairs minister Basavaraj Bommai. The ‘love jihad’ ordinances promulgated by the UP and MP governments have been entangled in legal quagmire with the provisions being challenged in their respective high courts. A petition against the UP ordinance is pending before the Supreme Court. The Karnataka government wants to wait for the outcome of the case, Bommai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-consensus-govt-may-not-table-love-jihad-bill-in-budget-session/articleshow/80618594.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Heritage committee visits Matheran racecourse after locals raise concern||NAVI MUMBAI: Members of the Matheran heritage committee visited the Olympia racecourse ground in the hill station on Friday after locals complained about construction work being carried out there. The hill station municipal council had decided to construct walls around the ground by replacing the indigenous rocks with laterite rocks. This was being constructed at a cost of Rs 6 crore. However, this proposal did not get a final sanction from the heritage committee. Also, a new gallery and stage was to be constructed. But currently the council was just repairing the existing ones. This did not go down well with the locals. “Several events like horse riding, races and other sports activities take place at the Olympia racecourse. It is a heritage structure and construction works require an approval from the heritage committee. But there was no final approval from them,” said a resident Manoj Khedkar. “We visited the ground on Friday. The state government will be asked to retain the heritage status of the Olympia ground,” said Matheran heritage committee chairman Subarao Patil. Meanwhile, the committee has assured that indigenous stone will only be used and new galleries and stage will constructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heritage-committee-visits-matheran-racecourse-after-locals-raise-concern/articleshow/80620331.cms||Umesh K Parida
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Three held with narcotics worth around Rs 3 lakh||KOCHI: District anti-narcotic special action task force (Dansaf) in a joint operation with the Central police arrested three youths, including a woman, on Saturday night and seized narcotic substances worth around Rs 2.75 lakh, including MDMA, hashish oil and ganja from them. The arrested persons have been identified as Sameer V K (35) of Kasaragod, Ajmal Rassak (32) of Kothamangalam and Arya Chelat (23) of Njarackal. Police seized 46g of Methylenedioxymethamphetamine commonly known as MDMA or ecstasy from them. Officers also seized 1.28g of hashish oil and 340g of ganja from the accused. Police said Sameer used to work in Malaysia for years and was running a stationary store and a hotel in Kochi after returning to the state. According to police, the accused used his establishments as a front to peddle the contraband. He used to smuggle the contraband to the city directly from Goa and Bengaluru, police said. According to police, the accused used to sell MDMA at a rate of Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per gram and hashish oil was sold at Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per three grams. Police said the accused had a strong friend circle in the city to support his activities and that he even had the backing of goons. Police said the commissionerate is strongly enforcing the plan to make Kochi ‘drug free’ and are regularly busting drug rackets. In a special drive held in January, 45g of MDMA worth Rs 5 lakh was seized from Thrikkakara. Police also seized 10g of MDMA from Elamakkara and half kilogram of ganja from Kalamassery. As many as nine persons were arrested in January in connection with narcotic cases, police said. Police said a weeklong surveillance based on tip-offs received through Yodhav, the anonymous WhatsApp tip-line of police, was yielding results. Officers urged residents to send videos, images or texts that can lead to the arrests of drug runners to the Yodhav WhatsApp number, 9995966666. Police said the messages sent to these numbers are filtered before they reach the officer concerned so as to ensure anonymity of the informer. Yodhav project was implemented in Kochi last year. Police said residents can also tip the Dansaf though the number, 9497980430, and that the identity of the informers would be kept completely confidential. They said that Saturday night’s seizure was made by a team including central inspector Vijay Sankar and Dansaf SI Joseph Sajan. Officers of Dansaf as well as Central police were part of the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-held-with-narcotics-worth-around-rs-3-lakh/articleshow/80617811.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Children get polio shots through over 4,000 booths in Nashik||NASHIK: The pulse polio vaccination programme began in the district on Sunday with a token inauguration by the president of Nashik zilla parishad (ZP) Balasaheb Shirsagar in Niphad. Deputy director of health services of Nashik division P D Gandal, district health officer Kapil Aher and district epidemic medical officer Dinesh Patil were among those who attended the inauguration. Shirsagar said that the health department has done extremely commendable work during the Covid-19 phase and the health department has also been at the forefront of implementing all government’s health-related schemes. DHO Kapil Aher, in his introductory address, described the importance of pulse polio vaccination programme that is under way since 1995. P B Gandal also said that there was not a single case of polio in India for the past 10 years and it was important for everyone to participate in the pulse polio campaign to ensure that there is not a single case in the future as well. The district health department has received 6.60 lakh doses of polio for administering them to children aged between zero to 5. They have also set up 4,122 polio booths across the district for administering the doses to children. The population of the rural district and municipality areas is around 46 lakh and there are approximately 4.53 lakh children in the age group of zero to 5. The doses were administered to the targeted beneficiaries from 8 am to 5 pm. Nashik : The pulse polio vaccination programme got underway in the district on Sunday with a token inauguration of the programme in Niphad by the president of Nashik Zilla Parishad (ZP) by Balasaheb Shirsagar. Deputy Director of Health Services of Nashik division P D Gandal, District Health Officer Kapil Aher and District Epidemic Medical Officer Dinesh Patil were among others present for the inauguration. ZP President Balasaheb Shirsagar said that the health department has done an extremely good work during the Covid 19 pandemic and the health department has also been at the forefront to implement all the government’s health related schemes. DHO Kapil Aher in his introductory address described the importance of the pulse polio vaccination programme that is underway since 1995. P B Gandal also said that there was not a single case of polio in India for the past 10 years and it was important for everyone to participate in the pulse polio campaign to ensure that there was no case of polio in the future as well. The district health department has received 6.60 lakh doses of polio for administering them to children in age group of 0 to 5 years. The district health department set up 4,122 polio booths across the district under its jurisdiction comprising the rural areas and municipality areas. The population of the rural district and municipality areas is around 46 lakh and there are approximately 4.53 lakh children in the age group of 0 to 5 years to whom the polio dose have been planned. The doses of pulse polio were administered to the targeted beneficiaries from 8 am to 5 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/children-get-polio-shots-through-over-4k-booths-in-dist/articleshow/80617794.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Over 4,000 autos allotted IDs for easy tracking||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over 4,000 autorickshaws in Vizag city have been allotted a unique number as part of the city police’s initiative to enable easy identification of the vehicles. Under the new system, autorickshaws will be verified by traffic and crime wing police and allotted a unique number that can retrieve from a database the history of the autorickshaw driver and the owner of vehicle. Assistant commissioner of police (Central Crime Station), Vizag, D Sravan Kumar said so far, 4,637 autorickshaws have been allotted the unique identification number and the drive will continue for another two months. The new system aims to prevent crimes committed by a section of autorickshaw drivers. Once the process is complete, autorickshaws that have a unique number will also ply at night. Police added that an autorickshaw driver guilty of an offence against a passenger or any property offence would not be alloted a unique number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-4k-autos-allotted-ids-for-easy-tracking/articleshow/80617552.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: State election commissioner in native place to register on voters’ list||GUNTUR: In a bid to get registered as a voter in his native village, state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar paid a visit to his home in Duggirala in the district on Sunday. Local officials including Tehsildar K Malleswari received him at his residence. The SEC provided the details to the teshsildar. Ramesh Kumar said he wanted to visit tehsildar’s office to request enrolment of his vote after verification of his residence in the village. He said that he had been visiting the village every year and planning to stay back after retirement. Sources said the SEC submitted documents to show that he had surrendered his vote in Hyderabad. The SEC’s initial application was turned down by the tehsildar on grounds that he was not a resident of the village. Since the rules mandate that residing at a particular place is must for grant of vote, officials rejected his plea. Subsequently, the SEC filed an appeal with the district election authority seeking reversion of tehsildar’s decision. District in-charge collector Dinesh Kumar said that the enquiry into SEC’s appeal was ordered and he would take a final call on the issue upon receipt of the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-in-native-place-to-register-on-voters-list/articleshow/80617677.cms||Samdani MN
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||3,500 govt schools identified for piped water supply||VISAKHAPATNAM: The rural water supply department has identified 3,561 government schools among other public institutions for supplying tap water under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), a 100-day campaign launched by the Union ministry of Jal Shakti across the country. Primary, upper primary and high schools are covered under the scheme. Other institutions are 789 gram panchayats, 4,196 Anganwadi centres and 483 primary health centres. The government will lay pipelines to identified instituions. Speaking to TOI, department officials said they are concentrating on institutions that will require minimum efforts for supplying water as well as those in which facilities have to be developed. Schools identified in 511 villages, 29 gram panchayats, 761 Anganwadi centres and 33 primary health centres will require the full attention of the department. Here, basic works have to be taken up before water can be supplied. “The government is committed to taking up this task within 100 days. We are doing our best to reach the target. At present, pipelines are being laid,” said a senior water supply official to TOI. Student unions said the lack of water supply facility at schools is one of the reasons behind dropouts, susceptibility to diseases and one of the reasons why students do not use school toilets. “The department must concentrate on schools in remote areas where there is no proper road connectivity,” said a student leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-5k-govt-schools-identified-for-piped-water-supply/articleshow/80617691.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Cop raids to curb misuse of special stickers on vehicles||KOLKATA: Two back-to-back incidents, in which miscreants used defence and press stickers on their cars, have prompted the police to decide on sporadic checks on all vehicles, including those with stickers, in the coming weeks. Cops advised motorists to carry all relevant documents.  The Parnasree police nabbed three snatchers who allegedly used a defence sticker on their car to evade the police. A few days later, the accused of a kidnapping case in the city allegedly used a press sticker on his vehicle while committing the crime. Cops said several motorists, including bikers, were found using press, police or defence stickers on their vehicles. “This needs to be checked,” said an officer. Cops have decided to carry out special checks at night. “If anyone is found using such a sticker illegally, traffic sergeants will take up the matter with the local police station and a case of criminal impersonation will be lodged. The vehicle can also be confiscated,” said the officer. Lawyers said that while the Motor Vehicles Act has not specified anything on the misuse of such stickers, cops can prosecute the accused under the Indian Penal Code. “There have been a number of representations in courts earlier to protest against the misuse of such stickers,” said lawyer Badal Sen Chowdhury. He added that cops can book cases against motorists if the stickers obstruct the view of the road as well as the interior of the vehicle. The police will also fall back on a 2019 order that had instructed them to prepare a list of cops using two-wheelers and four-wheelers with stickers. Sources said cops are probing into the complaints that some fraudsters are using police stickers on their vehicles to fleece people. The stickers are easily available in the market and can be purchased for Rs 10 to Rs 15, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-raids-to-curb-misuse-of-special-stickers-on-vehicles/articleshow/80618889.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||ICG along east coast growing from strength to strength||VISAKHAPATNAM: Additional director general of Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and eastern seaboard commander Virendra Singh Pathania said that the ICG is likely to achieve targeted force levels of 200 platforms (ships) and 100 aircraft by 2025. The ADG said that following the 26/11 attacks, the ICG has been strengthened with three-fold enhanced platforms and the proposed Coast Guard Training Academy at Bangalore would be an asset. The land for the academy has been acquired and it will be completed within the next two years. Ahead of the 45th Coast Guard Raising Day, the flag officer in an interview with TOI said the ICG has installed 46 radar stations, including 17 in the eastern seaboard for surveillance. In the next phase, another 38 radar stations would come up including 17 more along the eastern seaboard. Pathania has served the Coast Guard through various assignments over the past three-and-a-half decades. An alumnus of the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington and Naval Defence College at New Delhi, ADG Pathania will exercise operational and administrative control along the east coast, from West Bengal to Tamil Nadu. The ADG said that as part of its measures to provide coastal security through island security and survey, ICG has surveyed as many 1,244 islands in first and second phases. The survey of another 46 islands will be conducted in the third phase. The ADG revealed that every year, six to seven ships are inducted into the force helping it to become the fourth-largest coast guard in the world. It will be establishing a Chetak squadron at the Air Enclave in Visakhapatnam in a year’s time. “We have got clearances and the necessary land for the Coast Guard Air Enclave. We are expecting aircraft such as Costa 95s, which are bigger than Dorniers. Six aircraft would be inducted in the next three to four years,” the officer from Himachal Pradesh said. He added that two pollution response vessels would also be inducted in the next one year. The ADG said the eastern seaboard would get recruit another 700 personnel within the next one year to add to the existing 7000-plus contingent. The recipient of the President’s Tatrakshak Medal said that colour-coding of fishing vessels as part of coastal security was almost complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/icg-along-east-coast-growing-from-strength-to-strength/articleshow/80617636.cms||Siva G
February 1, 2021||Lucknow||‘Swamitva’ tag: Drones to map village homes in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The state government has launched the Swamitva Yojana, provisioning documentary evidence of ownership of houses in 20 villages in each district in the first phase of the scheme. Modern technology, including drones will be deployed for mapping households. And this will remove prolonged property disputes in the rural heartland and enable owners to avail bank loans. “A survey has begun in 20 villages in each of the 75 districts on the lines of ‘khatauni’ (land record) and ‘dharauni’ (house record), which will be chalked out with use of technology, including drones,” a state government spokesperson said. The development comes just three months after the Centre’s decision to provide ownership to real owners in rural households. The scheme aims to address property disputes, which simmer even after partition of houses in rural areas, thereby prolonging litigation. “Once houses are demarcated, villagers can avail of bank loans. After conducting a survey of existing houses and its actual area, the list of house owners will be prepared. Finally, ownership will be declared after disposing of objections. Also, numbering of houses will also be done. Rural households do not have a unique ID and due to lack of legal ownership, these houses cannot be mortgaged in banks for availing loans,” the spokesperson said. Records of agricultural land, gram sabha and barren land are already with the revenue department and for ownership of agricultural land, a ‘khasra khatuni’ is prepared. However, there is no documentary evidence of ownership and the occupant is considered the house owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swamitva-tag-drones-to-map-village-homes/articleshow/80620323.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Coast Guard celebrates its 45th Raising Day||Visakhapatnam: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) will be celebrating its 45th Raising Day on Monday. Despite the hardships of the pandemic, the coast guard has maintained strict vigil along the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of over two million square kilometres by deploying 50 ships and 12 aircraft on a daily basis. The force, which had started with two former Indian Navy ships and five patrol boats from Customs, has now become a force with 20,000 personnel, 156 surface platforms, and 62 aircraft. Eastern seaboard ADG Virendra Singh Pathania said that on average, the ICG saves one life every second at sea. According to DIG PK Mishra, the ICG at eastern seaboard created maritime history when it doused the fire on a 33-metre-long crude carrier — MT New Diamond — with about three lakh tonnes of crude oil off the Sri Lankan Coast, thereby preventing a major ecological disaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/coast-guard-celebrates-its-45th-raising-day/articleshow/80617564.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Rajkot||Youths’ dance video on road goes viral||Rajkot: A video clip of two youth halting traffic on a busy road and dancing became viral in the city on Sunday. Police are trying to find the two men and are also investigating whether the video is doctored or original. In the video, the duo is seen parking their car and bringing the traffic to a halt. They then come out of the car and make dance moves. The audio being played in the background is a rap song on Rajkot. Police suspect that the person who shot the video are also involved with them as it seems they were shooting a video for the song.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youths-dance-video-on-road-goes-viral/articleshow/80617404.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Panchmahal reports zero Covid cases||VADODARA: In a first sign of weakening of Covid-19 virus, Panchmahal district reported no case on Sunday, for the first time since the first case was registered on March 31. The first case was of a 78-year-old woman, who had later succumbed to the virus. Since the first case, the district reported at least one case daily and gradually as the testing was ramped up the number of cases kept increasing. So far, 3,943 cases have been reported of which 3,775 patients have been discharged. “There used to be a minimum of couple of cases daily but on Sunday it is for the first time in 10 months that we had no positive case,” said Dr B K Patel, additional district health officer. While the district did not report any new case on Sunday, currently 28 patients are still under treatment. Urban areas in the district reported maximum cases (2,884) while 1,059 cases were reported in rural areas. On Sunday, the second phase of vaccination, too, began as the district collector Amit Arora, Panchmahal police range inspector general M S Bharada and superintendent of police Dr Leena Patil were vaccinated. During the second phase, 3,200 recipients from police and revenue departments and local bodies will be vaccinated from 32 vaccination centres of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/panchmahal-reports-zero-ncov-cases/articleshow/80617328.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Rajkot||Youths’ dance video on road goes viral in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A video clip of two youth halting traffic on a busy road and dancing became viral in the city on Sunday. Police are trying to find the two men and are also investigating whether the video is doctored or original. A video clip of two youth halting traffic on a busy road and dancing became viral in the #Rajkot on Sunday.Police… https://t.co/saBO2tPGUj— TOIRajkot (@TOIRajkot) 1612156520000In the video, the duo is seen parking their car and bringing the traffic to a halt. They then come out of the car and make dance moves. The audio being played in the background is a rap song on Rajkot. Police suspect that the person who shot the video are also involved with them as it seems they were shooting a video for the song.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youths-dance-video-on-road-goes-viral/articleshow/80617398.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Reports of contesting from Nemom false: Sivakumar||Thiruvananthapuram: Speculations are rife in Congress over several senior party leaders contesting from crucial seats in the upcoming assembly elections. When the speculation that former chief minister Oommen Chandy will be contesting from Nemom subsided, there are new reports that V S Sivakumar will be contesting from Nemom. However, the two-time MLA from Thiruvananthapuram has rubbished these reports. “If I am contesting, I will be contesting only from Thiruvananthapuram. The party has to decide whether I have to contest or not,” said Sivakumar. “Thiruvananthapuram is my seat and people of this constituency know about the contributions that I have made in the last ten years. I have personal bonding with the people here and hence I do not want to contest from anywhere else,” Sivakumar added. Besides, another speculation is that senior party leader V M Sudheeran will contest from Vattiyoorkavu. Sudheeran, who has been keeping away from parliamentary posts, is highly unlikely to contest. However, party sources suggest that if the party high command insists then he would agree to contest. Party leaders in the district are lobbying for Sudheeran to contest in Vattiyoorkavu to take on V K Prasanth the present CPM MLA. Prasanth had wrested the seat from Congress when K Muraleedharan had given up the seat to contest in the Lok Sabha elections. Meanwhile, UDF convener M M Hassan said that the party high command has to decide whether he should contest or not. He said no decision has been taken by the party on any of the candidates from any seat. All reports that are coming out now are just speculations, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/reports-of-contesting-from-nemom-false-sivakumar/articleshow/80617823.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Road design: Call for scientific approach||Kochi: Many problems associated with transport in Kochi stem out from the unscientific manner in which city roads are being designed. Pedestrians are at the receiving end of this. Most of the city roads are designed only to cater to the needs of the motorists. “In all the developed countries, footpaths are designed in a scientific manner. They are giving utmost importance to pedestrians’ needs and safety. We can replicate such models in Kochi too. Given the fact that the people here are educated, it would be easy to put a system in place,” said Indian Institute of Road Safety director Upendranarayan. “There should be a dedicated body with officials, people’s representatives and experts as members, to monitor the pedestrian facilities in the city,” he said. “Kochi corporation should take the initiative for constituting such an agency. There should be a permanent squad for removing the obstacles in footpaths. Petty shops and other obstacles should be removed on an everyday basis. Signals for smooth crossing of roads and pedestrian movement should be part of road furniture,” Upendranarayan said. There should be trained traffic wardens for regulating traffic and pedestrian movement. “Students of various colleges and other educational institutions can be deployed as traffic wardens. Authorities should train them besides giving the wardens reflective jackets. Such wardens can help the pedestrians, especially aged and ill to cross the roads,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/road-design-call-for-scientific-approach/articleshow/80617821.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 25-year-old tailor killed, body dumped in lake||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old tailor was strangled and bludgeoned to death at Raidurgam. The victim, who went missing on Saturday night from Manikonda, was found dead at a lake in Moinabad on Sunday. Police suspect the involvement of his in-laws. The victim, Sk Salman, of MD Lines in Tolichowki, was operating a tailor shop at Manikonda. On Saturday night, Salman’s brother, Sk Imran, 27, lodged a complaint with Raidurgam police stating that Salman called their younger brother, Rizwan, 16, at 10.30pm saying that he was starting from the tailor shop to pick him up from Hafeezpet. As Salman did not turn up, Rizwan informed Imran and both of them went to the tailor shop. The shop was locked and Salman’s phone was off. On Sunday afternoon, the body of Salman was found at Nakkalapalli lake in Moinabad. Police said the victim was strangled with a wire and then bludgeoned to death. During preliminary probe, police found that in December 2019, Salman had married Farhana and due to physical and mental harassment from Salman, she started staying with her parents. “We suspect that Salman’s in-laws along with their relatives might have kidnapped and killed him. As of now, one of the suspects, Dastagir, is in our custody,” Raidurgam inspector V Ravinder said. A murder case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-tailor-killed-body-dumped-in-lake/articleshow/80618921.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Girl gangraped, video of assault made public a month later||BAREILLY: A 17-year-old girl — a school dropout — was allegedly gangraped by two men, including a distant relative of her neighbour, who reportedly made a video of the assault public on social media in Fatehganj West area of UP’s Bareilly district. Police said the girl was gangraped on January 2, but she remained quiet as the accused had “threatened” her with consequences if she disclosed the crime to anyone. The girl’s father, a marginal farmer, however, lodged a complaint with Fatehganj West police on Sunday after the accused made the video of the crime public and relatives informed him about the assault, said police, adding that an FIR was registered in this connection. The accused — aged 20 & 25 years — were arrested and being questioned, said police. Fatehganj West SHO Ashwini Kumar told TOI, “We have recovered the video and arrested both the accused. We booked them under sections 376D (gang-rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act and the IT Act. We are trying to trace people who shared the video on social media. Action will also be taken against them. The girl was sent for a medical examination, and her statement will be recorded in the court on Monday.” It was the second such crime in the region where a woman was gangraped, and later the video of the crime was made public. Earlier, a Dalit woman was gangraped by six in Budaun and the video of the assault was sold for Rs 300 by one of the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-17-gangraped-video-of-assault-made-public-a-month-after-crime/articleshow/80616496.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Experts renew demand for water release for Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Experts have renewed the demand for releasing 23 TMC water for the Marathwada region after the integrated state water plan (ISWP) revealed excess consumption of 62 TMC water in the Krishna water basin. Shankar Nagare, the expert member of the Marathwada Development Board, said the Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation (MKVDC) should balance its act in order to avoid getting caught on the wrong foot. “As per ISWP details, MKVDC has planned a total consumption of 647 TMC, though the central tribunal has awarded it 585 TMC water. As the Centre has proposed a separate implementation board to oversee basin-wise utilization of water from key rivers against the actual award, MKDVC may face action from the regulatory body in future. The excess 62 TMC water utilization is towards construction of some dams, the works of which are still in progress and the same must be halted immediately,” he said. Nagare said the resources currently being used to provide the excess water to the Krishna water basin must be diverted and provisions should be made for fulfilling the demand of releasing 23 TMC water for the Marathwada region. “Long back, in 2000, the state government had approved the release of 23 TMC water for Marathwada. However, only 7 TMC of the total promised allocation is scheduled to get released. Moreover, the works required for this paltry release of water too have been pending for years. The MKDVC must provide funds for the projects in Marathwada,” he said. Notably, plans to draw water from the Ujjani dam to Marathwada have been facing funding issues with the state government seeking the help of National Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) for financial aid. The initial cost of the Krishna-Bhima stabilization project was Rs 4,932 crore in 2004, which escalated to over 8,000 crore recently due to inordinate delay. “The excess water storages being created by the MKDVC are bound to benefit the southern states of the country in future as excess water will have to be released for Karnataka and Telangana. It makes no sense to deprive parts of Marathwada of their water rights and carry out such release to the southern states,” said Nagare, a former executive director of the GMIDC. MKDVC authorities could not be reached for their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/experts-renew-demand-for-water-release-for-mwada/articleshow/80617055.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Goods movement hit on Petrapole border||Kolkata: Goods movement along the Petrapole-Benapole border was stalled on Sunday as the Petrapole Clearing Agents Staff Welfare Association and Petrapole Land Port Jiban Jeebika Bachao Committee started an indefinite strike. The associations shut down all business on the border, affecting the import and export of goods, said officials. The associations had been agitating in protest against the removal of 350 porters by the security agencies. A senior official said the porters were unauthorized, so they had been removed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/goods-movement-hit-on-petrapole-border/articleshow/80618980.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Two held over assault on traffic cop in Pune's Chakan||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police late on Saturday night arrested two men on the charge of assaulting a traffic constable in Chakan earlier in the day. Police said two men used an iron rod and inflicted severe head injuries on the constable, Ravindra Karavande (30), following a heated argument at Chakan-Talegaon Chowk. Bystanders rushed Karavande to a nearby hospital, where he is undergoing treatment. “He is out of danger,” inspector Shankar Babar said. He said the suspects, Rohit Salvi (20) and Harshdeep Kamble (22), both of Kalyan in Thane district, were fleeing towards Kalyan when they were caught in Mhalunge. At the hospital, Karavande told the police he was manning the chowk when, around 12.30pm, a container truck driven by Kamble overshot the stop line and halted for a red signal. “Karavande told Kamble to move the vehicle back, but it led to a heated argument,” a Chakan police officer said. Kamble drove away after the signal turned green. “After reaching Mhalunge, Kamble and Salvi returned to the spot on a motorcycle,” the officer said. Kamble hit Karavande on the head and fled the spot with Salvi. Sub-inspector Girish Chamle said, based on the description provided by the constable, they traced the truck to its owner, who gave them Kamble’s identity. “We sent a team, who nabbed the suspects in Mhalunge,” Chamle said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-over-assault-on-traffic-cop-in-chakan/articleshow/80618907.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Only 33% vaccinated in north Maharashtra||NASHIK: The immunization programme that rolled out from January 16 failed to meet its desired target in north Maharashtra as only 35,679 of the 1.09 lakh registered beneficiaries have taken the vaccine, which accounts for less than 33%. Out of the five districts in north Maharashtra, Jalgaon district has fared the worst as only 5,554 of the total 20,059 beneficiaries (28%) have taken the jab. Collector of Jalgaon district Abhijeet Raut said initially, there were very few vaccination centres. “Now, the sites have been increased from seven to 13 and the vaccination drive has also picked up in the last two sessions,” said Raut. “The healthcare workers (HCW) primarily constitute of Asha and anganwadi workers, who find it difficult to travel long distances and hence do not turn up for the vaccination. The situation is slowly changing as more vaccination centres are coming up in the n rural areas,” said Sajeev Belambe, resident medical officer (outreach), Ahmednagar. P B Gandal, deputy director of health,Nashik division, said, “From the first week of February, the Central government has permitted inclusion of frontline workers, along with HCWs. This is likely to boost the vaccination programme. Once the first phase concludes by February 14, the second phase will begin where in beneficiaries who have already taken the jab will be given the second dose of the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-33-vaccinated-in-n-maha/articleshow/80617816.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 1, 2021||Nashik||50km cyclothon held as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh||NASHIK: In continuation with the series of events being planned to commemorate 50 years of the 1971 war, a 50km cyclothon event was organised at Ahmednagar on Sunday. The cyclothon was flagged off by VSM Commandant, Mechanised Infantry Regimental Centre (MIRC), Ahmednagar, Brig Vijai Singh Rana. A large number of civilian cycling enthusiasts, along with serving Armed Forces personnel of various age groups, participated in the event. Cyclists followed the route from Haripal stadium, MIRC through ACC& S and then headed to Chushul Chowk-Christ Church-SKT-St. Shenoy school board-Hanuman Mandir-Darewadi and finally finished back at Haripal stadium where a brunch was organised for all the participants. Brig Vijai Singh Rana (VSM) presented certificates and souvenir to the male and female cyclists who stood first in the event. Meanwhile, on Saturday a commemoration-cum-felicitation function was organized with the traditional military grandeur at MIRC Ahmednagar. A large number of 1971 war veterans and a Veer Nari were present at the programme where Lieutenant General Ved Gupta (Retd) was present as the chief guest. Major General S Jha, VSM, Commandant Armoured Corps Centre and School, Ahmednagar, welcomed all the invitees on behalf of the Armed Forces and highlighted the importance of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations. This was followed by narration of personal experience of the war by a few veterans. The speakers included Maj General B S Malik (Retd), Brig R S Rawat, VSM (Retd) and Lieutenant Colonel Anant Gokhale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50km-cyclothon-held-as-part-of-swarnim-vijay-varsh/articleshow/80617809.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Satfera scheme for virtual mass marriages too||SURAT: In a major relief to organizers and especially female participants of mass marriages, the government has decided to give benefit of its ‘Satfera Samuh Lagna Scheme’ to even those who take part in virtual mass marriages. A few days ago, the state government’s social justice and empowerment department issued a notification in this regard. According to sources, the government provides financial assistance of Rs 12,000 to a bride belonging to economically poor section, or socially and economically backward classes and scheduled castes if she gets married in a mass marriage organised by any organisation or institution at one place on a particular day. Traditional mass marriages are not allowed or advisable in the wake of Covid-19 guidelines to ensure social distancing and avoid mass gathering in the state. “We had written to the state government to change the norms for the ‘Satfera Samuh Lagna Yojna’ due to Covid-19 situation where organising a mass marriage at one place is not advisable and consider including virtual mass marriage into its scheme. It will provide benefit to brides who take part in virtual mass marriages too,” Kanji Bhalala, president of Shree Saurashtra Patel Sewa Samaj (Surat), told TOI. Bhalala further said that the organization welcomes the government’s decision to change its norm and added that this would help poor families get their daughters married without any economic burden. “We are going to organise virtual mass marriage on February 28 in Surat and the wedding ceremony will be held at respective brides’ homes simultaneously. Each wedding venue will be connected with the central system and it will be broadcast online so that members of their families can watch them live. This will also help us follow Covid-19 guidelines,” Bhalala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-mass-marriages-will-be-eligible-for-govts-satfera-scheme/articleshow/80617820.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Goa||Four months after landslide, 130 relocated Vaddem residents still waiting to return home||Vasco: There seems to be no end to the woes of the 130 residents of Vaddem in Mormugao, since the night of September 21, 2020, when a large boulder came crashing down from the hill and crushed a 65-year-old resident to death. Other boulders are dangerously stuck midway and the neighbours of the victim, Anita Borkar, had been asked by the state authorities to move out of their residences at the foot of the hill for their safety. But while the residents are shelling out money to stay away from home in rented premises or left to cramp into relatives’ homes, there have not been any efforts since September to restore the hill or remove the boulders stuck midway. Now, speaking to TOI, South Goa Collector Ajit Roy said, “The residents staying there do not possess the title of the land.” As per sources, the land belongs to a single landlord and the families residing at the site are tenants or mundkars. This has now created further hurdles for the residents. “The area being dangerous for habitation, we have asked the residents to move away from the site. Any decision regarding the restoration of the hill will be taken by the government and as disaster management authority, we have advised the residents to relocate,” Roy said. “The disaster management authority had only cut and removed the 10-feet boulder which had killed Borkar. The government has not put in place any safety measures since, except a few inspections being carried out in last four months,” Shreejit Kavlekar, a resident, said. Mormugao mamlatdar Dhiren Banaulikar inspected the site and in November, had submitted his report to deputy collector Sachin Desai, stating that there are about 30 structures with 130 residents, including children, staying at the affected site. The locals have been moving from pillar to post to have the process of restoration of the hill expedited so that they can return to their homes, but to no avail. It may be recalled that in October, 2020, the PWD had recommended cutting of the entire unstable portion of the hill at Vaddem into a 30 degree slope. This action was expected to stop any further untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-months-after-landslide-130-relocated-vaddem-residents-still-waiting-to-return-home/articleshow/80620623.cms||Ruvina Khan
February 1, 2021||Pune||Padma awardee’s NGO gets PCMC notice for Rs 2.98 crore||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has served two notices to Punarutthan Samarasata Gurukulam Sanstha, an NGO run by Padma Shri awardee Girish Prabhune, to recover Rs 2.98 crore property tax dues. Assistant municipal commissioner Smita Zagade said, “The notices were served on January 13 to the NGO and 324 other property owners, who have run dues worth over Rs25 lakh each. Two notices have been served to the NGO, one for Rs1.21 crore property tax dues payable by the NGO and another of Rs1.77 crore on the primary and secondary schools constructed by the NGO.” She added, “Further action on the notices will be taken after municipal commissioner, who is on leave, resumes duty on February 4.” When contacted, Prabhune told TOI, “We are working selflessly towards the upliftment of the Pardhi community children and the notices can really be demotivating. All our construction is mostly bamboo-based. How can they levy a tax on such construction? We had communicated this to the civic body earlier as well.” Zagade said, “The NGO owes dues from 2006 and a school constructed in 2016 too owes dues. We never got a formal request from them about the construction or regularization of the school. If they have any documents, they should have produced it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/padma-awardees-ngo-gets-pcmc-notice-for-rs-2-98cr/articleshow/80618926.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Kisan rail dispatches 13,500 tonnes onions, helps SCR earn Rs 6.5 crore||AURANGABAD: The Kisan rail, that started operations from the Nanded division on January 5, has so far completed 33 trips from Nagarsol to the northeastern parts of the country and has transported around 13,500 tonne of onions. The special service has helped the South Central Railways (SCR) earn nearly Rs 6.5 crore. Rajesh Shinde, public relations officer for SCR’s Nanded division, said the Kisan rail has received an overwhelming response from onion producers in the region. “Unlike many other freight trains, the Kisan rail runs in a time-bound manner. It is highly beneficial as farmers can chart out a plan for when they will load their produce and when it will reach the destinaton. Efforts are on to improve and expand the services of the Kisan rail keeping the interests of the farmers in mind,” Shinde said. “New Guwahati and Agartala are among the major cities in the Northeast, which have received onions from Nagarsol for the first time, thanks to the Kisan rail services,” said Shinde. Onion loading used to happen occasionally from Nagarsol station in the past through goods trains. However, to transport the commodity by goods trains, farmers or traders had to procure the agricultural produce in huge quantities to be able to meet the full load capacity of the train. Notably, the Centre started the concept of running Kisan rail since early August last year for boosting the income of the farm sector while providing a hassle-free, safe and fast transport service for the marketing of the agricultural produce. The Kisan rail made its maiden journey from Deolali in Nashik towards Danapur in Bihar on August 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kisan-rail-dispatches-13-5k-tonne-onions-helps-scr-earn-rs-6-5cr/articleshow/80617065.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||60% of homes sold in Mumbai in 12 months priced below Rs 1 crore: Report||MUMBAI: Luxury flats priced at Rs 5 crore and above comprised a meagre 3% of the total apartment sales in Greater Mumbai in the last year. A bulk of the transactions (roughly 60%) were for flats costing Rs 1 crore and below, according to real estate consultancy firm, Knight Frank. The data was collated based on property registrations in the department of registrations and stamps between January 2020 and January 2021. However, a substantial chunk of the sales (37%) were for apartments priced between Rs 1 crore and Rs 5 crore. The most affordable range in the city (up to Rs 1 crore) saw total transactions of over 42,800 in the 12-month period ending January 28, 2021. Over 29,500 transactions were registered for flats priced from Rs 1 crore to Rs 5 crore. In comparison, only 752 apartments costing more than Rs 10 crore were sold during this period. Meanwhile, residential sales in Mumbai continued their momentum despite a rise of 1% in stamp duty since January 1,. Over 10,412 flats were sold till Saturday afternoon, according to Knight Frank. “After recording a historic surge in home sale registrations in December 2020, sales continued to maintain momentum in January 2021 despite the stamp duty rising from 2% to 3%,” it said. Sales momentum in January 2021 was stronger than it was in the September-November 2020 period. November 2020 had recorded the second highest sales in the last 5 months. While sales in December 2020 hit a record high, which was expected as the stamp duty window of 2% was expiring,” it said. “The total revenue realized by the city exchequer in January 2021 from home registrations was estimated Rs 305 crore, higher than the monthly collections in the April-November 2020 period. This implies that the government also benefited from the reduction in stamp duty rates,” said the Knight Frank report. Said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director, Knight Frank India, “After recording a stellar performance in December 2020, residential sales in Mumbai continued unabated in the new year despite the 1% increase in stamp duty rates. This comes as comforting news for the hitherto beleaguered real estate sector of this region.” Since the announcement of the reduction of stamp duty from September 1, 2020, homes sales have grown on a YoY basis each month. “The annual sales during the 12 months of 2019 were 67,863 units. and we witnessed sales of 52,820 units in the 5 months since the stamp duty cut in September 2020 till date. The sales during January-August 2020, i.e. the period before the stamp duty cut was 23,225 units,” it said. The total value of all apartments sold in 2020 was estimated to be around Rs 1.1 lakh crore, surpassing the 2019-mark of Rs 90,769 crore. In January 2021, apartments worth Rs 10,171 crore were sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/60-of-homes-sold-in-mumbai-in-12-mths-priced-below-rs-1cr-report/articleshow/80618966.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Weather systems to cause very light rain this week in Pune, says IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Sunday that the city may get very light rain during the week ahead, while overcast conditions are likely to prevail during the evening hours for the next three to four days. Anupam Kashyapi, head of IMD Pune’s weather forecast division, said, “The interaction between cold northerly winds and warm southern/south easterly winds in the days ahead would cause this weather condition and there is a chance of very light rain over Pune district, in north Madhya Maharashtra and Vidarbha regions.” “Also, the city and majority areas of the state would experience cloudy condition in the evening hours for next three to four days. Thereafter, on February 4 and 5 it would convert into partly cloudy condition and towards the weekend it would be generally cloudy condition,” he added. On Sunday, the weather condition was sunny with a clear sky till the afternoon hours. In the evening, it was cloudy with a cold breeze. The met department has also predicted warm nights for the next one week. The night temperature would increase from Monday onwards, gradually — from 14°C it will rise to 17°C over the next four days and thereafter it is likely to decrease again to 15°C. “In the last one week the night temperatures had mainly hovered in the range of 13-14°C,” said the met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weather-systems-to-cause-very-light-rain-this-week-says-imd/articleshow/80618944.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 1, 2021||Pune||Missing 11-year-old found murdered in Kothrud open plot||PUNE: Eleven-year-old Vishwajeet Vinod Vanjari, who was reported as missing since Friday evening from Kelewadi in Kothrud, was found murdered in an open plot along Paud Road on Sunday. “We are questioning the victim’s friend (13), who was last seen with Vishwajeet on Friday evening,” assistant commissioner of police Machhindra Chavan told TOI. “We have also detained a few others for questioning,” he added. Chavan said the victim’s parents lodged a missing person’s complaint on Friday night with the Kothrud police. “We were looking for the boy and checked every nook and corner of Kelewadi, including the gutters and and drainage lines,” he said. On Sunday afternoon, a police team entered the open plot owned by an educational institution. “The plot has a compound wall, but people enter it from a gap. Our team found Vishwajeet’s body in the bushes. We also found bricks and cement blocks near it,” Chavan said. It is now a murder case. Vishwajeet’s neighbours had were gathered outside his house. His parents, elder brother and sister had gone to their relative’s house, which is in Gokhalenagar. Savita Shirke, Vishwajeet’s neighbour, said the family came to Kelewadi about a year ago. “Vishwajeet would play outside his house. He was a pretty sharp boy and helpful too,” she added. He would come home sharp at 7.30pm for dinner. “On Friday, when he did not turn up, his mother alerted us. We too searched for him in the area and shared his photographs on different social media groups. His death is shocking,” Shirke said. Ulka Padval, the landlady, said the family had moved from Gokhalenagar when they could not afford the rent there. Padval said Vishwajeet’s father is working with a sliding door contractor, and his mother works as a supervisor with a housekeeping firm. “His parents are always busy with work and their children,” Padval said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/missing-11-year-old-found-murdered-in-kothrud-open-plot/articleshow/80618959.cms||---
February 1, 2021||India||Woman held with 18 liquor bottles in dry Bihar||PATNA: In a first-of-its-kind case in dry Bihar, police arrested a 22-year-old woman who had stacked 18 bottles of smuggled India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in her scooty in Patna on Friday. The woman was sent to jail on Saturday, as Bihar imposed prohibition of liquor since April 2016. The woman, one Bulbul Kumari, had 18 bottles of IMFL in her scooty, a random check of vehicles in Mahmood Shah Lane revealed. Irfan Hussain, a sub-inspector who is investigating the case, told TOI on Sunday, “The liquor was manufactured in Haryana.” He said Bulbul was interrogated for several hours but she did not reveal the source of consignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/woman-held-with-18-liquor-bottles-in-dry-bihar/articleshow/80620935.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Pandemic effect? 66% dip in PhD, MPhil degrees at Mumbai University||MUMBAI: In what could be yet another adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of candidates completing their PhD and MPhil from Mumbai University has dropped drastically this year by 66%—from 413 last year to 140. In 2018, it was 332. In fact, the numbers have not gone below 250 in the last few years (see box). Though the MU started conducting open defence viva online from May end, not many could complete it, say academicians. Also with the lockdown in place and no transport facilities, research students were hit and thesis submissions dropped significantly after March. Online submissions started a little later, but were slow. Academicians are hoping that the numbers will go up next year. An official said that research centres are shut since the lockdown. “Transport was not available, labs were not operating. The online viva-voce were probably conducted for those students who submitted their thesis before the pandemic and a few during it,” said the official. The MU awarded 92 PhDs in the online mode during the pandemic. Rupali Patil, an electronics and telecommunication engineering student, was the first to complete her doctorate online in May last year, after her viva. Chairman of Association of Non-Government Colleges, T Shiware, said that students could not travel during the lockdown and therefore, it was difficult for them to meet their guides physically. “All the work and the meetings were happening online. There was a slight delay in taking a decision on online thesis submissions. Also submitting it online was inconvenient for many,” he said. A principal said the pandemic was largely responsible for the delay in research scholars completing their PhDs, but, MPhil is losing relevance after the National Education Policy and the drop in numbers may marginally impact the total. Also, arranging external experts for evaluating the thesis could have been a problem in the pandemic, he added. The 140 PhD and MPhil candidates will be conferred with their degrees along with 1.91 lakh other graduating students in an online convocation ceremony on Monday. The total number of graduating students has gone up from last year’s 1.7 lakh to 1.9 lakh. More than 50% of these students—1.1 lakh—are from commerce and management faculty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pandemic-effect-66-dip-in-phd-mphil-degrees-at-varsity/articleshow/80620345.cms||Yogita Rao
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Caller posing as doctor cheats patient’s kin of Rs 20,000||PUNE: An unidentified caller posed as a doctor and told the relative of a patient in Sassoon General Hospital to transfer Rs 20,000 to him to buy costly injections at cheap rates. The Bund Garden police, investigating the case, have the caller’s phone number. “There were two similar calls on Saturday. One was an attempt to cheat while the kin of the other patient transferred the money using an UPI application,” a senior officer said. Security guard Brajesh Umashankar Tiwari, 46, from Mundhwa lodged a police complaint. The police said the caller identified himself as Dr Deshpande. Tiwari’s son Satyam is in the hospital. The caller claimed that Satyam needed three injections for his treatment, each worth Rs 7,000. The caller said a pharmacist was willing to sell it cheaper and told Tiwari to transfer the money to him which he did not. The other victim, Vijay Gudale, whose relative has been admitted in the hospital, transferred Rs 20,000 to the suspect. Senior police inspector Rajkumar Waghchaure of the cybercrime police said they were also investigating the case. “We have registered a similar case in December 2020. It could be the same caller. He obtains details of the patients and then calls their kin to cheat them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/caller-posing-as-doc-cheats-patients-kin-of-rs-20000/articleshow/80618964.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Charminar lucky for missing girl||Hyderabad: Charminar, which was built as a token of thanksgiving after the deadly plague, helped Cyberabad Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) crack a 2005 missing case of Fatima (name changed), who was then two-and-half years old. She will soon re-unite with her family in Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh. When AHTU sub-inspectors —N Sridhar and M Renuka Reddy — visited a children’s home in Miyapur while verifying records of resident children, they found that a girl, Swapna (name changed), is the only one at the home whose family antecedents were unknown. In the records maintained against her name, it was mentioned that she was rescued at Charminar in 2005. That was the only clue they got. AHTU team then went to the Charminar police station and found there were no matching records. Later, when they enquired with nearby police stations, they finally found a matching record at the Hussainialam police station. “Since the family lodged a first information report (FIR) in 2005, it helped us a lot in getting the first breakthrough to get some details about her family members in Kurnool. Had there been no FIR, perhaps, the girl would have never re-united with her family,’’ Sridhar said. In the FIR, there was information about her father’s name and their residence in a village in Kurnool. The mention of village name helped the Cyberabad police contact her family using local Kurnool police, who confirmed that their daughter Fatima went missing from Mecca Masjid in 2005. “This case is proof, showing how maintaining records will give leads to solve cases. The girl in the last 15 years stayed at three different children’s homes. But whereever she was, her records were maintained and updated too. The mention that she was rescued at Charminar helped us in getting the first lead and when verified with local police, it was found that a girl went missing in Hussainialam PS limits,” Cyberabad police said.  After the family made a vain bid to trace her, police asked them to get her photograph. Her father, who was a mason, never took her solo photo. After much thought, he recollected his daughter figured in a group photo, taken during a relative’s function. The girl’s family still kept the old photo till date in memory of the lost Fatima.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/charminar-lucky-for-missing-girl/articleshow/80618962.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 1, 2021||Kochi||KSHRC notice to PWD over death of teen due to bee sting||Palakkad: Kerala State Human Rights served notice to public works department on the death of a 14-year-old girl who died due to bee sting that had its hive on a roadside tree near her house. Local residents, who had experienced similar bee attacks earlier, had demanded the PWD authorities to cut the tree on the roadside. But inaction by authorities allegedly led to the tragedy. The petition was filed by Murugeshan of Eruthempathy, Chittur, alleging that his daughter Arathi died due to the bee sting on April 25, 2020. The local residents had given requests on January 15, 2012, and May 20, 2018, to PWD NH sub-division, Kozhinjampara. But no action was taken by PWD on the matter, they alleged. The commission directed the PWD engineer to appear before it at the next sitting in Palakkad in February.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kshrc-notice-to-pwd-over-death-of-teen-due-to-bee-sting/articleshow/80617868.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Pune||45 aspirants eye post of Pune civic body’s secretary||PUNE: A total 45 officials have shown interest in becoming the secretary of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The PMC had issued advertisement for the post after around 11 years following retirement of the previous secretary. The civic administration has received applications from PMC officials as well as those working in various state government offices. The PMC will finalise the selection next month. The office of secretary is important for the coordination between the elected members and civic department. “The municipal secretary office does most of the important documentation works, along with official communication. So, it gathers significance,” a senior PMC official said. “We will soon scrutinise the applications and the selection process would be conducted after interviews,” Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner of PMC, said. The PMC officials said the agenda for the all the important committees, including the standing committee, law committee and the women and child welfare committee, are prepared by the secretariat. The office also has to prepare replies to the written queries of elected members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/45-aspirants-eye-post-of-civic-bodys-secretary/articleshow/80618963.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Strays hunted the boy like they hunt cranes: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation||HYDERABAD: A nine-year-old boy, Mohammed Ayaan, was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs near his house, in Bahadurpura on Saturday. In regular dog bite cases, the victim usually reports of injury on leg or knee. The incident happened on a 25-acre piece of private land—located in Bahadurpura close to Musi—filled with tall grass and bushes. “Strays hunt cranes in these bushes,” said Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials. “The dogs that attacked the child are the ones which hunt cranes. They bit the boy’s neck similar to way they catch a crane — by holding its neck. When I spoke to the owners of land, they too said that the dogs that used to loiter around in their land were aggressive compared to regular strays ,” said Dr Sadguna, who works at the GHMC veterinary wing. On Sunday eight dogs were caught, but civic officials were unable to find the one which bit the child. “The dogs crossed Musi and ran away. With locals’ help, we figured out that the dog that attacked the boy was not among the ones we caught,” a GHMC official said. Around 5 pm on Saturday, Ayaan and his friends went into the land to catch kites, when suddenly dogs started attacking. After his friends ran away, Ayaan was stuck. A source in GHMC said that locals used to dump garbage in the open plot. The compound wall was broken and the fence was also removed at multiple places by the locals. The child entered into the open plot from one of the places the fence was removed. According to GHMC officials, they are already taking care of all the stray dogs and addressing dog population in the city. “From Asad Baba Nagar in Bahadurpura , Kishanbagh, Ziaguda and surrounding areas we have picked up 37 strays in a week even before the incident happened ,” said Dr Abdul Wakil, GHMC chief veterinary officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/strays-hunted-the-boy-like-they-hunt-cranes-ghmc/articleshow/80618970.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 1, 2021||Rajkot||A shot in the arm for state’s WARRIORs||Ahmedabad: Gujarat began the second round of Covid vaccination of frontline workers on Sunday with this time top-notch officials of the state including district collectors, police and civic commissioners taking the jabs in the initial hours of the drive.“I am feeling absolutely fine after getting vaccinated,” said Ahmedabad police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava, adding that vaccination will protect cops who are highly exposed to the infection.The state health department said around 3.3 lakh frontline workers will get vaccinated in the second round that began on Sunday. In Surat, total 4,846 frontline workers were vaccinated on Sunday, which included 1,748 police personnel, 3,071 SMC employees and 26 teachers. According to SMC officials, over 20,000 healthcare workers of the 32,000 identified have been vaccinated so far in around 80 vaccination centres in the city. In Vadodara, more than 3,700 frontline warriors got vaccinated at 35 centres in the city on Sunday. Top officials including city police commissioner, Shamsher Singh, district collector, Shalini Agrawal, municipal commissioner Swaroop P and OSD Dr Vinod Rao took the vaccine early in the morning.In Rajkot and Kutch (east), as many as 1,408 and 928 cops were vaccinated on Sunday. “We had targeted vaccination of 25% of police and allied staff in Kutch east. But we achieved 50% vaccination,” said Mayur Patil. Kutch (east) police later organized a cricket match to quash misconceptions about side-effects.The first round that was launched on January 16 had covered around 50 per cent or total of 2,45,930 of the healthcare workers in the state. There have been no reports of any serious side-effects due to the vaccination so far, health department claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/a-shot-in-the-arm-for-states-warriors/articleshow/80617872.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Screen, projector to enliven cultural space||Kochi: As the sun goes down, the two-acre public park at Edapally, a memorial to poet Changampuzha Krishna Pillai, used to come alive with the sound of drums or mellifluous Kathakali padams. With restrictions on account of the pandemic curtailing the staging of cultural activities by Changampuzha Samskarika Kendram (CSK), lovers of art and culture lost one of their favourite evening haunts, but the space would get enlivened soon. CSK has added a movie screen and a projector to their assets thanks to generous contribution from the MLA fund of P T Thomas. “We have purchased a screen, projector and a sound system, which includes a mixer, and computer using the funds. The screen and projector, which are being installed now, would be helpful in screening films at the venue,” said CSK administrator V T Muraleedharan. “The inauguration was fixed for January 28 but has been postponed,” he said. The Kendram had sent letters to the district collector and health authorities in Ernakulam requesting permission to resume cultural activities, but are yet to receive a reply. “There are restrictions on assembly of people and we cannot organize activities without requisite permissions,” he said. CSK, registered under the Travancore Charitable and Cultural Societies Act, is governed by a 32-member executive committee elected for a three-year term. But they have been struggling for more than a year because the GCDA had stopped providing them with funds needed for maintaining the park. “There is a requirement of Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000 for maintaining the park. We are dependent on money from membership drives, bank interest and donation from patrons,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/screen-projector-to-enliven-cultural-space/articleshow/80617837.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Online conduct of PET by Bamu courts controversy||AURANGABAD: The PhD Entrance Test (PET) conducted by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) on Saturday has been mired in controversy with student activists raising doubts over the credibility of the examination. Over 10,000 students had appeared for PET, which was conducted online by the university. Student activist Tukaram Saraf alleged that a section of PET candidates hired knowledgeable dummy candidates to appear for the examination on their behalf in order to achieve better results. “The candidates preparing for MPSC and other competitive examinations were roped in by a section of PET candidates as there was no mechanism to verify the credentials. Some dummy candidates appeared for PET in groups by gathering in hotels or in rented rooms,” said Saraf. Accusing Bamu of ill-planning, student activists said the PET has to undergo reforms in order to ensure credibility. “The PET has been taking place after a gap of four years. The number of takers for PhD course has increased for various reasons, including different fellowships the candidates get after getting enrolled for the research work. The PET has to be conducted in proper manner to minimize the scope for unethical practices,” said Saraf. When contacted, Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said face recognition system was in place to identify the candidates. “Hence, there was little or no room for such unethical practices,” said Shinde. As per official schedule, the results of the first phase of PET will be declared on Monday. The second paper of PET will be held on February 21 and the result will be out on February 24. The online submission for PhD application, for candidates who have cleared both papers, will take place from March 1 to 15. Meanwhile, Bamu has announced elections for two vacant posts for the management council on February 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/online-conduct-of-pet-by-bamu-courts-controversy/articleshow/80617074.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||City farmers help Chennai institute breed grey mullets||Kochi: When the Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (Ciba), Chennai, announced that it had successfully bred the grey mullet (Mugil cephalus) fry in captivity for the first time in the country, A M Nizar, a fish farmer from Cherai, was one of the most delighted persons along with the Ciba team. Nizar was one of the first farmers who worked with the Ciba scientists to produce broodstock. “The scientists were here from 2016 onwards. They spent several days and nights trying to breed it but failed. Yet they never gave up. It was in 2020 that they couldn’t come over and hence took the broodstock to their Chennai hatchery and have now successfully hatched in captivity,” said Nizar.Grey mullets, called ‘Thirutha’ in Malayalam, feed primarily on detritus and benthic micro-algae. Due to the texture, taste and absence of spines, consumer preference is high, and it fetches good market price, which is in the range of Rs 350 to Rs 500/kg. Scientists say that it is an ideal candidate species for polyculture and integrated multi-trophic aquaculture systems. A production up to 3.5-4 tonnes per ha/crop can be achieved at a benefit cost ratio of about 1.9.Attempts to develop captive breeding technology for grey mullet were initiated in 1980’s, when maturation and breeding was not successful, and it remained a challenge. One of the primary reasons which makes the captive breeding of the species extremely challenging, is related to its short annual reproductive period limited to a few weeks during monsoon and reproductive dysfunctions in captivity. One-time breeding character further contributed to the efforts in breeding, said Ciba director K K Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-farmers-help-chennai-institute-breed-grey-mullets/articleshow/80617870.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Surat||Two jobless men arrested for robbery in Gujarat||SURAT: Two jobless persons were arrested for Saturday’s robbery at Supreme Oil Trading in Rampura and police recovered nearly Rs 16 lakh from the duo. The arrested duo - Tosif alias 108 Gulam Mohammed Babu Japan Ansari and Gafarsha Diwan - had stabbed one of the employees of the firm in the leg and robbed the bag containing Rs 19 lakh cash. Tosif needed money for the marriage of his sister, police said Mahidharpura police had received specific information about the two who were planning to meet near Patelwadi in Lal Darwaja area to divide the booty. Diwan lives near the oil trading firm and was aware that the employees used to regularly go out with cash to make payments. He involved Tosif, who needed money for the marriage of his sister. They did a recce of their movement and Tosif executed the robbery. “Both accused are unemployed and they were in dire need of money,” said an officer of Mahidharpura police station. While Diwan kept a watch on their movement, Tosif targeted clerk Mohammed Amin Yusuf Shaikh and accountant Abdul Hamid Rehman Ansari who were going on a bike. The had planned to snatch the bag and attack the victims if they resisted. Shaikh had to stop the motorcycle at Rampura cross roads due to traffic when Tosif came near to him and demanded the bag. When he refused, Tosif stabbed Shaikh in the right thigh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-jobless-men-arrested-for-robbery/articleshow/80617893.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Businessman with head injuries from brawl succumbs at Osmania General Hospital||HYDERABAD: A 62-year-old businessman, who suffered a head injury when he was assaulted by an acquaintance at BS Makhta on January 29, succumbed while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital on Sunday. The victim, Vishwa Sunder Shukla, was a dairy businessman from Begum Bazar. Shukla’s nephew and his wife used to stay at Puranapul and during the time of lockdown, the couple moved to Indore in Madhya Pradesh. In December 2020, Shukla’s nephew’s wife went missing and a case was registered at a local police station in Indore on December 31, 2020. Recently, the family found out that the missing woman has been staying with Yogesh Attal, a friend of the family at BS Makhta in Kundanbagh. On January 29 evening, the woman’s husband, her in-laws along with Viswa Sunder Shukla and other family members went to BS Makhta and confronted Yogesh. “When Vishwa Sunder Shukla questioned Yogesh about his behaviour, the latter punched him on his right eye. Shukla fell on the floor and suffered a severe head injury. After consulting doctors of local private hospital, family members shifted Shukla to Osmania General Hospital. While undergoing treatment, Shukla succumbed on Sunday,” Punjaguta inspector M Niranjan Reddy said. Based on the complaint, police registered a murder case and launched a manhunt to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/businessman-with-head-injuries-from-brawl-succumbs-at-ogh/articleshow/80618987.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||CBI probe needed into Waqf land issue: National Minorities Commission||HYDERABAD: Expressing dissatisfaction over the encroachments into waqf properties in the state, National Minorities Commission (NMC) vice-chairman Atif Rasheed on Sunday said that he would advise the Centre to order a CBI investigation into the irregularities. Addressing a press conference, he said that more than 3,000 waqf properties have been encroached and this includes with the involvement of political leaders as well. “We will suggest the Union ministry of minority affairs to set up special task force and enquiry committee to free all encroached properties from land mafia and take action against irregularities in the Waqf Board also,” he said. He added that Telangana was the only state with more than 3,000 wakf properties. He said that during his visit he learned that Telangana Waqf board had not made any income in last five years, and no action was taken against encroachers. NCW vice chairman further said that GO mapping, GO tagging and digitalisation of Waqf properties has been taken by the Centre. According to him, the state Waqf Board can also identify waqf properties and give a proposal to the National Waqf Development Corporation Limited (NAWADCO) for development purposes and minority residential schools can be built on these properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-probe-needed-into-waqf-land-issue-nmc/articleshow/80618991.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Farmers opposing airport site in Purandar meet Supriya Sule||PUNE: The members of the Vimantal Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti — comprising landowners of the seven villages selected as the new site for the airport project — met Baramati’s NCP MP Supriya Sule on Saturday with a letter stating their opposition to the project. The landowners of the seven villages — Mavadi, Pimpri, Rajuri, Naygaon, Rise, Pise and Pandeshwar — selected as the site of the new airport project, 10km east to the place chosen in 2016, had been holding meetings opposing the project. “The letter was given to MP Sule and she had promised to look into the matter. The MP said she would be holding a separate meeting with us on the issue. We do hope that she takes due cognizance of the matter,” Santosh Kolte, a landowner of the Rajuri village, told TOI. Ganesh Hande, a landowner from Rise village, stated that Sule has called them to her Pune office for discussions on February 7. “We will be requesting her to shift the project from our villages,” Hande told TOI. Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap last week had said the new airport project would remain a non-starter if farmers of the seven villages — earmarked as its new site — remain unconvinced despite his best efforts. Jagtap, a front-runner in convincing the district administration to recommend the site change, had told TOI, “I am absolutely sure that I shall succeed in convincing the farmers. But if I can’t convince them, the project will not happen,” Jagtap had said. On Sunday, the union members met a lawyer in Pune to get legal counsel on the the issue. “We cannot disclose the name of the lawyer for now. However, we met him and he had said further steps would be taken only after the recommendation was approved by the state government. If approved, we would be moving to the Bombay high court,” Kolte told TOI. Aviation analyst and expert Dhairyashil Vandekar said the ongoing activities would only delay the project. “While trusting that the state government is acting in the best interest of the people in reviewing the sanctioned airport site, the expectation from them is to work with urgency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmers-opposing-airport-site-in-purandar-meet-sule/articleshow/80618979.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||Pune||PMR’s current Covid vaccine stock not enough to cover 2 priority groups: Officials||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region currently does not have enough doses in stock to simultaneously vaccinate its healthcare and frontline workforce against Covid, health officials here have said. The drive to vaccinate the two groups together is set to start from the first week of February. But there isn’t enough for the two-dose regimen, officials said. A total of 1.9 lakh people in the PMR have registered for priority vaccination from its three administrative segments — the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the rural areas. This number includes 1.06 lakh healthcare and 84,150 frontline workers. Officials said the simultaneous vaccination of both groups needs 3.8 lakh doses. But the PMR currently has 2.2 lakh doses, which can only cover 1.06 lakh individuals, with the two doses that need to be given four weeks apart. However, state authorities said they are hopeful of getting the required number of doses within the next few days from the Union government. “We received 86,000 doses for areas under PMC limits. With the two-dose regimen, we can completely inoculate anywhere between 38,000 and 43,000 individuals. So it would be difficult to vaccinate frontline workers alongside healthcare staff, unless we have the required number of doses,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department. Also, those who received their first shot on January 16 are set to be called again for their second dose on February 16. “We’ll then need to have ample stock before we start including others,” Bharati added. District collector Rajendra Deshmukh, during a video conference on Saturday, had asked the region’s health officials to start vaccinating frontline workers and healthcare staff together, from the first week of February. “We have started working on a plan. We are thinking of including either the PMC-run Kamala Nehru hospital or the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, at Yerawada, for the frontline vaccinations,” Bharati said. Pavan Salve, additional health chief of the PCMC, said, “Around 12,000 frontliners have signed up here. We hope to get the required 24,000 doses soon.” Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department said, “The Centre will provide fresh doses in due course. They will be distributed among districts as per revised requirements.” He added, “Currently, every vaccination site inoculates an average of 70% of its day’s target of healthcare workers. So adding frontline staff will not impact the process as they will go on to fill in the 30% gap in daily target.” The state is also set to add more vaccination sites, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-current-vax-stock-not-enough-to-cover-2-priority-groups-officials/articleshow/80618954.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 1, 2021||Pune||Two women leave their newborns in Pune hospital||PUNE: The Bund Garden police on Saturday registered separate cases against two women, who left their newborn babies at the Sassoon General Hospital after delivery. Nandbodhi Sahebrao Pagare (38), a hospital official, registered both the complaints on Saturday. Police suspect both women might be homeless and might have provided fabricated addresses while getting admitted. According to the complaint, a woman from Jalgaon, currently residing in Pune, was admitted in the hospital on January 13 and gave birth to a baby girl. She stayed in the hospital till 5.30pm and then left the premises without taking the baby with her. Police said a similar incident occurred on September 7, last year. A woman, who was residing on a footpath near Pune railway station, was admitted to the hospital for delivery. She gave birth to a baby boy and stayed in the hospital for a day. She left without taking the newborn, police said, adding that the newborns were under the care of the hospital. Both cases have been registered under Section 317 of the IPC. Hospital authorities conducted a search for the women on the premises and nearby areas and approached the police on Saturday, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-women-leave-their-newborns-in-hosp/articleshow/80618983.cms||---
February 1, 2021||India||Driver loses control, 2 Army men on way to MP killed in Yamuna Expressway crash||AGRA: Two Army men on their way to Madhya Pradesh from Amritsar were killed after the driver of the speeding car they were travelling in lost control over the vehicle and crashed into the divider near milestone 75 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura’s Naujheel area early on Sunday. Police identified the victims as Lance Naik Pradeep Singh Sardar (35) of 36th Infantry Division, who hailed from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, and Lance Naik Gurbakhshish Singh (42) of 15th Division from Tarn Taran in Punjab. Police suspect that Pradeep dozed off at the wheel of the Scorpio they were travelling in, and the uncontrolled vehicle crashed into the divider around 5 am. Pradeep was on a leave and on his way to Gwalior, while Gurubakshish was going to Sagar to join his new posting after being transferred from Leh, said their family members. Pradeep is survived by his wife Jaspreet Kaur and two children — a nine-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter — while Gurbakhshish is survived by his wife Amandeep Kaur and two children— a 13-year-old son and an eight-year-old daughter. Gurbakhshish’s kin Prahlad Singh who arrived in Mathura to receive his body, told TOI, “Gurbakhshish had to go to Sagar on Sunday after completing almost a month-long vacation at home, but Pradeep asked him to join till Gwalior. Gurbakhshish had planned to take a train to Sagar from Gwalior. But, none of them reached their destinations.” Pradeep’s cousin Maninder Singh said, “Both of them were good friends and had worked together in Ahmedabad. Unfortunately, they departed together.” Superintendent of police (rural) Shirish Chandra said the bodies got trapped inside the car after the massive crash. “We will hand over the bodies to the victims’ families after the postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/driver-loses-control-2-army-men-on-way-to-mp-killed-in-yamuna-expressway-crash/articleshow/80620943.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Father of five gets 10 years’ of rigorous imprisonment for sexual assault of five-year-old boy||MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Friday convicted and sentenced a 58-year-old man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for undressing a five-year-old boy in his neighbourhood, touching his private parts and masturbating on him in 2018. Sentencing the father of five, the court observed that any manipulation of a child’s body part to cause penetration is an offence in itself. The boy’s mother told the court that when she confronted the accused after she found out about the sexual assault, he begged for forgiveness, claiming that he was “possessed by the devil”. The court found the accused guilty under the charge of aggravated penetrative sexual assault under section 6 of the Pocso Act. While maximum sentence under the charge is life imprisonment, the court held that since actual penetration did not happen, a minimum sentence of 10 years could be imposed on him. “For the offence punishable under Section 10 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Pocso Act, the minimum sentence provided is 5 years and which may extend to 7 years. Considering the nature of the act... he can be sentenced to suffer 6 years imprisonment,” the court said. Both sentences will run simultaneously. The incident took place on April 4, 2018. The boy told the court that when he was playing with his friends, the accused, a local chicken seller, gave him Rs 2, took him to his house and sexually assaulted him. When the boy returned home, he began crying. The boy told his mother that “Murgiwala uncle”, the accused, had done something to his private parts. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/father-of-5-gets-10-years-ri-for-sexual-assault-of-5-yr-old-boy/articleshow/80619007.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Youth jaywalking on Mumbai-Pune expressway mowed down by tempo||NAVI MUMBAI: A 24-year-old youth jaywalking on Pune-Mumbai Expressway near Adai village in Panvel was killed after being hit by a speeding tempo heading towards Mumbai on Saturday. The speeding tempo driver attempted to prevent hitting the pedestrian who suddenly came in his way. The driver veered towards extreme left, but still he lost control and mowed down the pedestrian. The tempo then crashed into the railing and toppled. The driver abandoned the tempo and escaped. Khandeshwar police has registered an FIR against the accused tempo driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/youth-jaywalking-on-mum-pune-e-way-mowed-down-by-tempo/articleshow/80620372.cms||George Mendonca
February 1, 2021||Kochi||KV students celebrate Fit India School Week||Kochi: The students of Kendriya Vidyalaya School - 2 at Naval Base, Kochi, celebrated the second edition of ‘Fit India School Week’ programme, aimed at creating awareness among students about the need for regular physical activity and higher levels of fitness. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju attended the celebrations virtually and the students performed a live virtual demonstration of fitness activities such as Surya Namaskar, free-hand exercises, aerobics, dance, etc. in front of the minister on Wednesday. “Schools across India have adopted Fit India Week celebrations in such a way that fitness has become an integral part of the school life and I relish the moment when I join such active and intelligent students,” Rijiju said during his address. Rijiju also praised Amrita Varshini, a Class V student, for her extempore on Fit India School Week celebrations in the school. The second edition of Fit India School Week programme was launched in November last year and had seen participation from over 15,000 schools across the country so far. To participate in the programme, schools have to register on the Fit India website and choose one week during the allotted time to celebrate Fit India School Week. Some fitness activities that were part of this year’s school week programme were — aerobics, painting, quiz/debates and dance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kv-students-celebrate-fit-india-school-week/articleshow/80617888.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: 300 schools in PMC areas reopen for Standards V to VIII||PUNE: Of the 800-odd schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation area that have classes from V to VIII, over 300 will reopen on Monday after a hiatus of nearly eight months in the new academic year due to Covid-19 pandemic. The inspection in the remaining schools is not over as yet and will be completed within the forthcoming week, officials said. There are 874 schools in the PMC limits, which include both PMC-run schools and private institutions, catering to 1,82,375 students in standards from V to VIII. “The inspections will keep happening and RT-PCR tests of teachers are also going on. Only those schools will reopen whose premises have been inspected and verified for all precautionary measures,” Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner of PMC, said. While consent forms of the parents is compulsory for students to attend classes, officials said they would know the exact figures only after the schools reopen. “In PMC schools, the students come with the letter and it is collected before they are allowed to enter. At the moment it is hard to forecast the number of students who will come. The ward offices have been told to help the schools in their areas with cleanliness. Schools will follow all SoPs. Masks will be compulsory, social distancing will be maintained, temperature will be checked before entering the school,” Shubhangi Chavan, deputy education director of PMC, said. School transportation may pose a problem. There are schools which have public transport bus services acting as school buses, which ferry students from various areas in the city to their schools, but have not been made operational. “We will take stock of the number of students coming and the number of students who want the school buses to restart and then give a list of students to the public transport office so that they can depute the buses. As of now, there are no school buses, but we are working in that direction,” Chavan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/300-schools-in-pmc-areas-reopen-for-stds-v-to-viii/articleshow/80618974.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Ganja from Andhra Pradesh being sold pan India and in Sri Lanka||HYDERABAD: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) sleuths said that ganja from Andhra Pradesh is being supplied to peddlers across the country, apart from also being smuggled to Sri Lanka. In the third week of January, NCB sleuths arrested four peddlers at Ghatkesar while they were trying to peddle 212kg ganja sourced from agency areas in Andhra Pradesh and erstwhile Warangal district to Pune and Mumbai. During the interrogation of the kingpin — Ganesh Gavane, who was also wanted in 955kg ganja seizure case of August 2020 — the NCB team found out that the ganja from agency areas in Andhra Pradesh is being supplied to peddlers in India and Sri Lanka. “Ganja cultivation in India is largely concentrated around the Maoist-affected Andhra-Odisha border. Ganja from this region is being sold in New Delhi, Mumbai, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and West Bengal. It is also being smuggled across the ocean to Sri Lanka,” said an NCB official. According to investigators, the reason for the Andhra-Odisha border becoming a ganja producing hub is mainly due to the terrain and Maoist problem in the region. “Inaccessibility of the forest area in hilly terrain and Maoist problem makes it difficult for law enforcement agencies to curb ganja cultivation,” an excise official said. The ganja procured from agency areas for Rs 5000 - Rs 10,000 by peddlers gets sold to distributors in urban areas at 10 times the price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ganja-from-aob-being-sold-pan-india-and-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/80618995.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Chief secretary’s order on leaves upsets IAS officers||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief secretary Vishwas Mehta’s order addressed to an IAS officer mandating that he should divulge his private matters and not merely cite “personal purpose” in the application for availing earned leave has not gone down well with most members of the service. In the order issued on January 21 (a copy of which is in possession of TOI), Mehta directed a junior officer to “explain the grounds” on which he had applied for earned leave and said “personal purpose”, cited in the application, is insufficient to sanction leave. The chief secretary further said the applicant should have appraised him before applying for such a leave. “It seems that the chief secretary is ignorant about the basics of leave rules. The judgement as to whether the applicant wants to avail his earned leave is entirely that of the applicant and the sanctioning authority has no business to ask for the reasons beyond what the officer wishes to state. The sanctioning authority can sanction or decline the leave after assessing whether the applicant’s services can be spared or not during that period,” a senior official said. Sources in the IAS cited that it is not the first time that the CS has demanded stating of specific reasons in leave applications of subordinate officials. “People may have several personal reasons for availing leave, which they may not want to divulge. If he feels that the reasoning was insufficient, he can decline leave, but asking for reasons and asking the officer to apprise the chief secretary is unacceptable,” said another official who had to face a similar situation. Members of the IAS are bound by the all India services (leave) rules, 1955. As per rule 3 of the said rules, the government has the right to decline granting the leave when the ‘exigencies of public service’ demand so, and reviewing the purposes for which the leave is sought is not a prerequisite for sanctioning the leave. The same rule also says that it shall not be open to the government to compel any member of the service to proceed on leave or, except at the member of the service, to alter the nature of leave due and applied for. “The desire to dig into the personal matters of officers is certainly not an ‘exigency of public service’ cited under rule 3 based on which you can legally reject a leave application,” said another officer whose leave was rejected twice on similar grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chief-secretarys-order-on-leaves-upsets-ias-officers/articleshow/80617895.cms||KP Saikiran
February 1, 2021||Agra||Inmate of state juvenile observation home dies after vomiting blood||Agra: A 16-year-old inmate, lodged at state government’s juvenile observation home in Agra district, died at Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) on Sunday morning. The deceased, resident of Etah district, was a tuberculosis patient and he vomited blood on Saturday night after which his condition deteriorated. The body was sent for postmortem examination. According to doctors at SNMC, the deceased was not provided prior treatment. Center superintendent Ratan Singh said, “The deceased was an accused of sexual assault. He was sent to the observation home in Agra from Etah district on Friday. He was sent to SNMC after he vomited blood on Saturday. He died during his treatment on Sunday morning. The cause of death would be ascertained based on the post-mortem report.”Earlier, an inspection conducted by the juvenile justice board revealed lack of proper arrangements for children lodged at the juvenile observation home. The inspection report marked to the district magistrate mentioned that the centre had broken windows and children were not provided socks and shoes during the harsh weather conditions. Presently, there are around 170 children lodged at the center.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/inmate-of-state-juvenile-observation-home-dies-after-vomiting-blood/articleshow/80617109.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Memorial from Iron Age in Nalgonda in bad shape||HYDERABAD: Structures of archaeological importance representing the Iron Age in Nakrekal mandal in Nalgonda district in Telangana are under serious threat. Burials built of huge boulders are being dozed out for want of land. The structures at Padurivarigudem are located near Chandupatla village. Dr. E. Siva Nagi Reddy, Archaeologist and CEO, The Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravathi, visited the spot Sunday along with Tanguturi Saidulu, an amateur archaeologist, who conducted an awareness programme to sensitise villagers. Dr Reddy said: “Out of the 100 burials, only 10 are remaining. There is no guarantee for their existence unless protected.” A huge granite stone called Menhir, erected in memory of a dead Chieftain of the megalithic tribe, was also found in Padurivarigudem. The Menhir, the only extant monument of its kind in Nakrekal area, measures 11ft in height above the ground level and at least 6 ft buried in the ground. It is locally known as Netturu Sthambham, meaning ‘pillar of blood’ as it turns red during the summer due to its mineral composition. Dr. Reddy later surveyed in the surroundings of Kandimallavarigudem , a hamlet 2 km away from Chandupatla village, where an inscription dated to November 27,1289 AD is located. He observed the near extinct 10 Iron Age burials built of boulders encircling a cist chamber arranged with huge slabs at the centre in the periphery of an irrigation tank. Pot shreds of the megalithic period comprising red ware, black ware and black and red ware (typical pottery of the Iron Age) and bones were scattered around the burials damaged by bulldozers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/memorial-from-iron-age-in-nalgonda-in-bad-shape/articleshow/80619009.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 1, 2021||Goa||New water pipeline for Tanshi tribals||Poinguinim: A tribal settlement of around 250 at Tanshi near Sheli in Loliem-Polem village panchayat are set to get a new water pipeline for their households. The trenching work to lay the pipeline began eight days ago and is expected to be completed this week, sarpanch Sachin Naik said. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 12 lakh, he said. Naik said that the old pipeline was laid more than 35 years ago and had corroded and suffered from constant leakages due to which the residents of the area were receiving inadequate water supply. The community put forth their problems before the panchayat, who pursued the matter with the PWD’s water supply division. Currently, the source of water, is a well constructed by the PWD, located around 100m below, in the valley, locals said. The water is pumped from the well and released in a tank in the vicinity of their houses. This water does not suffice during the summer months. The sarpanch said that the shortage is met through water tankers. The new pipeline is expected to eliminate these issues as water tankers will supply water to the well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-water-pipeline-for-tanshi-tribals/articleshow/80620367.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Meerut||Body of woman exhumed in Amroha for 2nd post-mortem||Bijnor: The body of a woman who died a month ago under mysterious circumstances was exhumed and sent for a post-mortem following an order by the Amroha district magistrate. He ordered a fresh probe into her death at her father’s request. According to police, Mushahid of Amroha's Kakar village married his daughter, Nazuk, with Firoz Ahmed from Sirsi area of Sambhal district four months ago. She died under suspicious circumstances on December 1 last year. Nazuk’s family alleged that since her marriage, she was tortured by her husband and in-laws for dowry and they had killed her for failing to fulfill their demand. At that time, Sambhal police registered a case against four persons, including her husband and his parents. A post-mortem was conducted and police handed over Nazuk’s body to her parents, saying she had died of a cardiac arrest. They took her body to their native village and buried it in the local graveyard. However, her family was not satisfied with the post-mortem report and demanded a fresh probe and autopsy, said Amroha superintendent of police Suniti. They appealed to district magistrate Umesh Mishra for another post-mortem in Amroha. The body was exhumed on Sunday. A panel of doctors was formed to carry out the autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/body-of-woman-exhumed-in-amroha-for-2nd-post-mortem/articleshow/80616057.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 1, 2021||Patna||Liquor worth Rs 5 crore seized in Patna, nine held||PATNA: More than 50,000 litres of liquor kept in 5,000 cartons was seized by excise department officials from a godown at Marcha Marchi, located hardly 150 metres away from the Bypass police station, in Patna on Sunday night. Excise department deputy commissioner Krishna Kumar said raid was still on and more liquor bottles were being counted in the gowown. “At present, more than 50,000 litres of liquor kept in 5,000 cartons have been seized,” said Kumar, who was there with special superintendent Kumar Amit. Kumar said this was the biggest seizure of smuggled liquor in Bihar till now after the enforcement of prohibition in April, 2016. He said nine persons from different places in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab were arrested from the spot. Eight pickup vans and trucks bearing registration numbers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were seized from the gowdown, he said. “The estimated market price of the consignment is more than Rs5 crore. Black market price is estimated to be above Rs20 crore in Bihar,” Kumar said, adding that the gowdown was being operated by liquor smugglers from UP. “As per our information, none from Bihar was allowed to enter inside the gowdown by the liquor smugglers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-worth-rs5cr-seized-in-patna-9-held/articleshow/80619047.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: Kavlem panchayat wants hazardous waste removed||PONDA: In its first gram sabha since the pandemic, the Kavlem panchayat in Ponda taluka has resolved to remove scrapyards from Dhavali. The scrapyards are dangerous as they deal in hazardous chemicals and are located in close vicinity of petrol stations, the gram sabha stated. The work of removing the scrapyards was delayed due to a court stay and the panchayat is in the process of getting the stay lifted, sarpanch Rajesh Kavlekar said. The scrapyards have been operating in Dhavali for over two decades and several attempts have been made to remove them over the years. Then Ponda deputy collector had even sealed some of them. Then sub divisional magistrate of Ponda Jayant Tari had passed an order in 2008 for closure of some of the scrapyards with immediate effect. The order was served as they had disobeyed the injunction order issued by the SDM court on September 26, 2008, prohibiting them from dumping scrap at the site. The gramsabha also discussed the increasing incidence of littering across the village. Kavlekar told the villagers that the panchayat has already moved a proposal to have a garbage treatment plant in the village at a cost of Rs 45 lakh under the 14th finance commission. “We have identified a place and process is going on to get the land transferred”, Kavlekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kavlem-panchayat-wants-hazardous-waste-removed/articleshow/80620641.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Santhwana Sparsham’ adalats to begin today||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said ministers from his cabinet will start touring the states from February 1, to conduct adalats, which has been named as ‘Santhwana Sparsham’. The adalats are being organized to listen to the grievances of the public and for settling them. The adalats in 14 districts is a campaign in the run-up to the assembly elections. The complaints can be submitted via online or through Akshaya centres. No application fees will be levied. The government will pay the service fee for Akshaya centres. The adalats will be held in Kannur, Thrissur, Alappuzha, Kollam and Kozhikode districts on February 1, 2 and 4. In Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram districts, adalats will be held on February 8, 9 and 11. The applications for these districts will be accepted till February 2. For Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam and Wayanad districts, adalats will be held on February 15, 16 and 18. Complaints will be accepted for these districts until 3pm on February 9. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/santhwana-sparsham-adalats-to-begin-today/articleshow/80617904.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Coal transporter shot dead in Rajura salon||CHANDRAPUR: Raju Yadav (45), a well-known coal transporter, was shot dead at a hair salon on Sunday evening. Two unidentified assailant managed to flee the spot but reportedly left their bike behind, said sources. The murder is said to be fallout of rivalry in the coal transportation business. Sources informed that Yadav was waiting for his turn at Mayoor hair salon in a dense business locality of naka No. 3 in Rajura when two assailants barged in waving a pistol. One of them fired three bullets from point blank range killing Yadav on the spot. The assailants then fled towards the nullah flowing close to the area. Local police rushed to the spot. Later, SP Arvind Salve and SDPO Pawar also visited the spot. Sources said that Yadav hailed from Ballarpur, but was currently residing in Rampur village on the outskirts of Rajura. Yadav earlier used to run a motor-mechanic shop but flourished in the last few years following his clout in coal transportation. He soon formed Truck Chalak-Malak Welfare Association, a union of transporters, and established his hold over coal transport from the mines under WCL Ballarpur area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coal-transporter-shot-dead-in-rajura-salon/articleshow/80618990.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||GMCH dean applies for voluntary retirement, again||Nagpur: Dean of government medical college and hospital (GMCH) Dr Sajal Mitra has once again applied for voluntary retirement. This time around, Dr Mitra has cited family and health reasons. Earlier, Dr Mitra had offered to resign in October 2020 but later changed his plans and the application was withdrawn. Though GMCH officials confirmed the development, Dr Mitra, who is on leave since the last 10 days, was not available for comment. Dr Mitra, an orthopaedic surgeon, who was heading the orthopaedic department of the GMCH for a long time, became the dean in March 2019 after the retirement of Dr Abhimanyu Niswade. He led from the front when Covid was at its peak. Recently, three patients died in the GMCH’s trauma centre ICU allegedly due to non-availability of oxygen supply. A state-level inquiry committee was constituted and a report is awaited. Sources at DMER stated that the committee held many seniors responsible for the sudden deaths and recommended sending Dr Mitra on forced leave. Dr Mitra is already on leave due to health reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-dean-applies-for-voluntary-retirement-again/articleshow/80618996.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 1, 2021||Pune||Transport is core concern for parents and students in Maharashtra||PUNE: Even with the Maharashtra government allowing standards V through VIII to commence classes physically from Monday, the state transport department is yet to provide permission to school buses and vans to operate. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI on Sunday that state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had talked to him recently to allow school buses to operate in the wake of many classes resuming physically. “I had requested her to send me a proposal in writing so that a decision could be taken. However, I am yet to receive any letter. As of now, school buses and vans are not allowed to operate. However, once the proposal comes, we will take a decision immediately,” Parab said. The more worrying aspect about the entire situation, according to transporters, is the added operational costs compared to pre-Covid times and the hike in fuel prices. School bus transporters said they were not at all confident towards plying their vehicles owing to increased operational costs, which parents have refused to pay. Rajan Junawane, the vice president of the Pune Bus Association told TOI that with social distancing norms in vogue, the operational costs of school bus and van operators had increased. “Social distancing norms are paramount at the moment, but that has automatically increased the operational costs for transporters and the rising price of fuel is not helping either. Parents are not willing to increase the amount payable to a transporter as their pockets too have shrunk. Moreover, a majority of students who travel to schools in buses and vans belong to junior classes, that is, from nursery to standard three or four. A relief for the transporters is not something which we can envision presently,” Junawane told TOI. Pune has close to 4,500 registered vehicles of different kinds for ferrying school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-is-core-concern-for-parents-and-students/articleshow/80619005.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Transport is core concern for parents and students in Maharashtra||PUNE: Even with the Maharashtra government allowing standards V through VIII to commence classes physically from Monday, the state transport department is yet to provide permission to school buses and vans to operate. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI on Sunday that state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had talked to him recently to allow school buses to operate in the wake of many classes resuming physically. “I had requested her to send me a proposal in writing so that a decision could be taken. However, I am yet to receive any letter. As of now, school buses and vans are not allowed to operate. However, once the proposal comes, we will take a decision immediately,” Parab said. The more worrying aspect about the entire situation, according to transporters, is the added operational costs compared to pre-Covid times and the hike in fuel prices. School bus transporters said they were not at all confident towards plying their vehicles owing to increased operational costs, which parents have refused to pay. Rajan Junawane, the vice president of the Pune Bus Association told TOI that with social distancing norms in vogue, the operational costs of school bus and van operators had increased. “Social distancing norms are paramount at the moment, but that has automatically increased the operational costs for transporters and the rising price of fuel is not helping either. Parents are not willing to increase the amount payable to a transporter as their pockets too have shrunk. Moreover, a majority of students who travel to schools in buses and vans belong to junior classes, that is, from nursery to standard three or four. A relief for the transporters is not something which we can envision presently,” Junawane told TOI. Pune has close to 4,500 registered vehicles of different kinds for ferrying school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/transport-is-core-concern-for-parents-and-students/articleshow/80623058.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||Nashik||Transport is core concern for parents and students in Maharashtra||PUNE: Even with the Maharashtra government allowing standards V through VIII to commence classes physically from Monday, the state transport department is yet to provide permission to school buses and vans to operate. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI on Sunday that state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had talked to him recently to allow school buses to operate in the wake of many classes resuming physically. “I had requested her to send me a proposal in writing so that a decision could be taken. However, I am yet to receive any letter. As of now, school buses and vans are not allowed to operate. However, once the proposal comes, we will take a decision immediately,” Parab said. The more worrying aspect about the entire situation, according to transporters, is the added operational costs compared to pre-Covid times and the hike in fuel prices. School bus transporters said they were not at all confident towards plying their vehicles owing to increased operational costs, which parents have refused to pay. Rajan Junawane, the vice president of the Pune Bus Association told TOI that with social distancing norms in vogue, the operational costs of school bus and van operators had increased. “Social distancing norms are paramount at the moment, but that has automatically increased the operational costs for transporters and the rising price of fuel is not helping either. Parents are not willing to increase the amount payable to a transporter as their pockets too have shrunk. Moreover, a majority of students who travel to schools in buses and vans belong to junior classes, that is, from nursery to standard three or four. A relief for the transporters is not something which we can envision presently,” Junawane told TOI. Pune has close to 4,500 registered vehicles of different kinds for ferrying school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/transport-is-core-concern-for-parents-and-students/articleshow/80623057.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||Agra||Man ‘burnt’ alive by wife, paramour in Uttar Pradesh||AGRA: A 25-year-old man was allegedly burnt alive by his wife and her paramour in village Paharpur under Soron police station of Kasganj district. Amit Kumar succumbed while being treated on Sunday. The father of the deceased has lodged an FIR against his daughter-in-law and three other men including her father. According to the police, one of the accused has been arrested. Body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem. Suresh Chand, father of deceased, alleged that Amit’s wife was involved in an extra-marital affair with a local resident Rakesh. On Saturday, Amit went to a brick kiln which was near his house after getting a call from his friend, Hemant, who is also Rakesh’s friend. Later, Amit was found unconscious and severely burnt, he added. He claimed that before Amit breathed his last, he told us that his wife Sangeeta, along with Hemant and Rakesh, tied him, poured diesel and set on fire. “Sangeeta’s father Ram Swaroop was also involved in my son’s murder,” Suresh Chand said. Addition superintendent of police Aditya Verma said, “Based on the complaint received from Amit’s father, a case has been registered under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder) against Sangeeta, Hemant Jatav, Rakesh alias Bunty and Ram Swaroop. Rakesh has been arrested. The remaining three will be arrested soon. The case is being thoroughly investigated in detail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-burnt-alive-by-wife-paramour/articleshow/80617119.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driving rashly? Offenders now face up to six months in prison||MUMBAI: Been driving rashly or on the wrong side of the street in the past month? Mumbai Traffic Police will track you down and could visit your home to book you. In an ongoing crackdown on the streets, action has already been taken against 155 motorists so far for racing, rash and wrong side driving. The police have started lodging FIRs which could invite a prison sentence as against merely paying a fine. Now, the traffic police plan to study CCTV footage of the past month to look for offenders who thought they had escaped the long arm of the law and will visit their homes. Wrong side driving and racing can lead to fatal crashes. “We want to make it clear that this indiscipline on the roads will not be tolerated. Our teams will go through CCTV footage and make a note of vehicles that are found racing or driving rashly. Wherever vehicle number plates are clearly visible, we will look up driving licence details and visit homes along with strong evidence to book offenders,” said joint commissioner, traffic, Yashasvi Yadav. Last week, an Instagram influencer was booked after a viral video clip showed her cruising on a bike on the BKC-Chunabhatti connector where two-wheelers are banned. The woman had borrowed a friend’s bike for the ‘stunt’ aimed at increasing her following on social media. The police applied section 279 of IPC which could invite a prison term of up to six months or Rs 1,000 fine or both. In all FIRs slapped against 155 offenders — including those on the wrong side of the road — booked this month, police have applied section 279 of IPC for rash driving besides other charges relevant to each case. Previously, the traffic police would only invoke Motor Vehicles Act which provides for a fine. “Seventy-eight percent of the 155 offenders were motorcyclists,” said an officer. Bandra traffic division had the most cases (56). “With local police station teams, we will interrogate those booked for racing to look into the possibility of organised racing groups, stolen or modified vehicles and betting on races,” said Yadav. Through footage fromCCTVs, traffic police have obtained evidence of some of these races. The traffic police have also been going after motorists who have failed to pay up fines. Driving licences of 4,200 who have refused to pay up despite reminders have been sent to RTOswhich will issue a show-cause notice and a give hearing to motorists before deciding on suspension of their driving licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driving-rashly-offenders-now-face-up-to-6-months-in-prison/articleshow/80619060.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 1, 2021||Aurangabad||Transport is core concern for parents and students in Maharashtra||PUNE: Even with the Maharashtra government allowing standards V through VIII to commence classes physically from Monday, the state transport department is yet to provide permission to school buses and vans to operate. State transport minister Anil Parab told TOI on Sunday that state education minister Varsha Gaikwad had talked to him recently to allow school buses to operate in the wake of many classes resuming physically. “I had requested her to send me a proposal in writing so that a decision could be taken. However, I am yet to receive any letter. As of now, school buses and vans are not allowed to operate. However, once the proposal comes, we will take a decision immediately,” Parab said. The more worrying aspect about the entire situation, according to transporters, is the added operational costs compared to pre-Covid times and the hike in fuel prices. School bus transporters said they were not at all confident towards plying their vehicles owing to increased operational costs, which parents have refused to pay. Rajan Junawane, the vice president of the Pune Bus Association told TOI that with social distancing norms in vogue, the operational costs of school bus and van operators had increased. “Social distancing norms are paramount at the moment, but that has automatically increased the operational costs for transporters and the rising price of fuel is not helping either. Parents are not willing to increase the amount payable to a transporter as their pockets too have shrunk. Moreover, a majority of students who travel to schools in buses and vans belong to junior classes, that is, from nursery to standard three or four. A relief for the transporters is not something which we can envision presently,” Junawane told TOI. Pune has close to 4,500 registered vehicles of different kinds for ferrying school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/transport-is-core-concern-for-parents-and-students/articleshow/80623059.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Scale down ‘physical test’ requirements’||AHMEDABAD: Just as the state government embarks on a major recruitment drive to employ more than 600 fire personnel for 32 nagarpalikas, a representation from senior fire servicemen to scale down ‘physical test’ requirements has been made by five of the eight municipal corporations before the commissioner of municipalities. The three-day recruitment process is to begin from February 2 and the state urban development department is yet to revise the condition for selections. The selection involves swimming 200 meters within five minutes, 10 metre rope climbing without leg support and 3.8 long jump. “These conditions are tough as the recent recruitment process in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had involved 100-meter swimming in five seconds and five mtre rope climbing without leg support. Our representation has been to reduce cut off criteria for these physical tests or else it will difficult for the government to get adequate staff,” claimed a fire officer who was part of the representation. Sources in the state urban development department have confirmed that the representation has been made. Chief fire officers of five municipal corporations — Jamnagar, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara and Gandhinagar had made the respective representation. A senior official of the state urban development department revealed that the physical test criteria for recruitment process in Ahmedabad has been cited as the key metric for the recruitment process. UDD sources add that commissioner municipalities Rajkumar Beniwal had constituted a committee to examine physical test exam criterion and had recommended reconsideration of the crietria. “We have no instruction form commissionerate to revise the condition for the three day physical tests that will begin from February 2. We have been asked to look at the recruitment process of other Indian cities as well. The present criterion were recommended by Ahmedabad CFO MF Dastoor and retiered Rajkot CFO Paresh Vyas,” says the senior UDD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scale-down-physical-test-requirements/articleshow/80619051.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Private institutions in Pune to start despite mediocre response||PUNE: Private schools in the city may not be able to reopen their classes for standards from V to VIII on Monday, but most principal said they would start in the second week of February even with a few consent forms from parents. Anita Nair, principal of Orchids The International School, said she would reopen the school for those who wish to attend physical classes. “We may be able to restart in the second week of February. About 8-10% of the parents would be willing to send their kids to school while the remaining would prefer the online mode. We will have offline classes as well as online classes,” Nair added. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal at SNBP International School, said they may reopen on February 8, but with a difference. “We are having social engagement programmes which will enable students to interact with each other. So, we will have dance, music and drama. We want to make up for the activities that the students have missed. Academics will continue and we are almost at the end of completing our syllabus online ,” Venkatraman said. Bharti Bhagwani, principal of GG International School, said transport will be a problem. “ Our standards IX to XII are clocking about 75% attendance. But, we do not know how the response of parents of younger kids will be. We will continue with the blended mode of education. If vendors follow the SoPs, we can find a solution to the transport problem too,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-institutions-to-start-despite-mediocre-response/articleshow/80618993.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 1, 2021||Rajkot||Alleged kidnapper flees from custody||Rajkot: An alleged kidnapper, who was arrested on Saturday by the B Division police, fled from the Padma Kunvarba Hospital in the wee hours of Sunday. The accused identified as Imran alias Mukesh Yusuf Sheikh, was taken to the hospital for collection of his semen sample on Saturday midnight. After his sample was collected, the cops were completing the paperwork. Meanwhile, Sheikh got up quietly and walked out of the OPD room from the backdoor. Police realised that he had escaped when he latched the backdoor from outside. An official said that only one policeman was present in the room completing the paperwork, while others were waiting outside the room on the front side. Policemen went on the rear side of the building searching for Sheikh, but they could not find him as the area was dark. A constable later registered an offence for fleeing from police custody at A Division police station. Sheikh is a native of Mangrol in Junagadh and used to live in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alleged-kidnapper-flees-from-custody/articleshow/80617161.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Patna||Sub-inspector on duty shot at outside Barh railway station||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot at government rail police (GRP) sub-inspector Vipin Kumar Singh (57) on duty at Barh railway station at around 11pm on Saturday. One Pintu Yadav of Barh was arrested in the case on Sunday. Singh, who is a native of Madhopur village under Parbatta police station in Khagaria, received bullet injury in his ribs and is undergoing treatment at PMCH. Singh told TOI at PMCH that he was the officer-on-duty at the police station when constable Kamlesh Tiwari informed him over phone about some antisocial elements gathered in the parking of the railway station. “I rushed outside and scolded them. I asked them to vacate the premises. However, one of them, identified as Pintu, pulled out a pistol and fired on me,” he said. The SI said they fired at least two-three more rounds while fleeing from the spot. “Pintu is a known antisocial element of the area and I had recognized him by face,” he said, adding he was alone and without arms when the incident took place. DIG (Railway) Umashankar Prasad and Patna SP (rail) J Jalaraddi visited PMCH on Sunday and sought details about the incident. Prasad told TOI that raids were being conducted to nab the other accused. “We will give Vipin all the required support for his proper treatment,” the DIG said. The SP said they were gathering details about the criminal antecedents of Pintu. “The pistol used in the firing is still to be recovered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/si-on-duty-shot-at-outside-barh-railway-station/articleshow/80619098.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 1, 2021||Kozhikode||Eurasian Griffon vulture released in WWS||KOZHIKODE: The first Eurasian Griffon (Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus) to be sighted in Kerala at Kannur last month was released to the wild inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) on Sunday. The bird was released in the Muthanga range of the WWS, the lone vulture habitat in the state, after tagging it. The massive tricolored vulture with whitish head and neck, pale brown body, and contrasting dark flight feathers breeds in southern Europe, north Africa and Asia. In India, it is mostly seen as a migratory bird in the Himalayas and the Northern plains. The bird found from Chakkarakkal in Kannur was rescued by Malabar Awareness and Rescue Centre for Wildlife (MARC) rescuer Sandeep M C on December 28 in an exhausted condition and it was kept in the aviary of MARC at Kannur with the permission of the Kerala forest department. Roshnath Ramesh, wildlife biologist and secretary of MARC, said that after the bird regained health, it was both ring tagged and wing tagged under instructions from Vibhu Prakash, head of Jatayu Conservation and Breeding Centre (JCBC), Pinjore and C Sasikumar, ornithologist and member of the IUCN vulture specialist group. “The tagging of the bird would help monitor the bird as it would enable birders to report sighting of the bird with the code number mentioned in the tag. We think that the immature bird would have migrated far and would have reached Kerala. It is the first sighting of Eurasian griffon in the state and it had been sighted very rarely in south India in the past,” he added. The Eurasian griffons are a common vulture over much of its breeding range and some populations are resident while others are highly migratory. As many as four vulture species were spotted from WWS in the raptor survey held in 2019, including the Long-billed vulture (Gyps indicus), which was recorded in the sanctuary after a gap of five years. Forest department authorities had estimated presence of around 100 White-rumped vultures (Gyps bengalensis) apart from a population of around 10 Red-headed vultures (Sarcogyps calvus). The survey had also recorded the spotting of a Himalayan griffon vulture (Gyps himalayensis) and the sanctuary had had rare sightings of cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus) in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/eurasian-griffon-vulture-released-in-wws/articleshow/80617944.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Ailing travel industry hopes for relief package in budget||PUNE: With all eyes on the budget today, top representatives of the travel industry are hoping for a relief package that would prompt revival. “The travel and tourism industry has been one of the most severely impacted due to the pandemic. While the government has rolled out economic relief packages for several industries, the tourism sector has been absent. The budget offers valuable opportunity to address the crisis in the sector. With the ban on international commercial flights, domestic tourism offers strong potential. We are looking for government support and priority action on soft loans to finance working capital, incentivising tourism spends by providing income tax concessions, easing of indirect taxes and waiving off tax collection at source (TCS) to help aid recovery,” said Madhavan Menon, chairman and managing director of Thomas Cook (India) Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ailing-travel-industry-hopes-for-relief-package-in-budget/articleshow/80619025.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||India||Bike, tractor rally in Jind; fund collection continues in villages||JIND: Farmers from Narwana town of Haryana’s Jind district held a bike and tractor rally in several villages and on the Jind-Patiala highway on Sunday, seeking support for farmers from all sections of society, reports Vijender Kumar. People from villages of Belarkha, Ujhana, Ambarsar, Koyal, Kurar, and Dhamtan came out in support of farmers and pressed for repeal of the three contentious agri laws passed by the Centre. Around 2,000 motorcycles reportedly participated in the bike rally, in which participants drove around Narwana town. Residents also started collecting funds from villages in Jind and deployed more tractors at Delhi borders. Farmers in Belarkha village of Narwana town in Jind collected Rs 500 per acre, which is the highest amount collected during this agitation. The funds are expected to reach Rs 40 lakh, Surender Singh, a village resident, claimed. People in all villages of Jind are reportedly raising money for the farmers’ protest. In villages, government employees are donating Rs 1,100 per person while the landless are donating according to their wish. Funds are being spent on diesel and stay of farmers at the Delhi borders. Surender Singh said: “We held the tractor and bike rally to send a message to the government that every section of society is backing farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bike-tractor-rally-in-jind-fund-collection-continues-in-villages/articleshow/80620949.cms||Vijender Kumar
February 1, 2021||Agra||Delhi horror: Girl, 13, gang-raped for eight days||AGRA: A 13-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped from Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri on January 15, has claimed that she was held captive by her kidnappers in Delhi and repeatedly gang-raped for eight days. The only child of her parents, the girl was apparently rescued by her family. Accompanied by her parents, she went to Auncha police station on Thursday to file a complaint against the three accused -- Aakash from Etah district and Hariom and Guddu from Mainpuri. Her family alleged that while police had registered an FIR the same day, they toned down the charges against the accused and merely registered a case of abduction against them under section 363 and 366 of the IPC. The survivor’s uncle said in their complaint, a copy of which is in possession of TOI, they had clearly mentioned the sexual assault of the class VIII student. Instead of registering an FIR based on it, police had made the case into one of abduction only. Her uncle said, “We did not inform police about the missing girl earlier due to social stigma attached to it and started searching for her on our own. After rescuing her from Delhi and learning that she was assaulted sexually by three men for eight days, we decided to file the police complaint.” Inspector Rishi Kumar from Auncha police station admitted that the sections of sexual assault have not been added to the FIR yet. These would be added as per the statement she gives under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure before a magistrate on Monday, he added. The girl, who was in hospital, told reporters, “I was forcefully dragged by three men into a vehicle when I went out early morning. They took turns to sexually assault me for eight days. They threatened me with dire consequences, if I informed anyone.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-13-kidnapped-and-gangraped-in-delhi-for-8-days-walks-to-police-station-to-file-complaint-against-accused/articleshow/80617158.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 1, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cellphone yet to be decoded||AHMEDABAD: Even as 10 days have passed, police are yet to ascertain the reason behind suicide of a 25-year-old woman, an MBA PGP student at the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad (IIM-A). She had ended her life on January 20. One of the vital evidences — her cellphone — which was sent to the FSL is yet to be cracked, said a police officer. Police officers probing the case have now been relying upon statements of family members of the deceased — Drashti Raj Kahnani — who told cops that she could have taken the extreme step because of constant loneliness. “We have not got any substantial clue in the case as her cellphone details are yet to be analysed by the FSL. But what we have perceived from statements of her family members is that she was fed up with loneliness which might have triggered her to commit suicide,” said an officer of Satellite police, adding that she did not have any mental illness in the past. Cops also investigated the angle of pressure from the institute but there was no such pressure which forced her to commit suicide. Kahnani, who had stayed in dorm number 8 on the old ndian Institute of Management Ahmedabadcampus and hailed from Muzaffarpur in Bihar and lived in New Delhi, had committed suicide on January 20 afternoon in her room. As she had not gone for lunch, her friends tried to approach her but nobody responded from inside. Later, they along with security guards of ndian Institute of Management Ahmedabad broke the door and found her hanging from a ceiling fan. Police had not found any suicide note from her room and other belongings. Her cellphone was sent for forensic examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cellphone-yet-to-be-decoded/articleshow/80619134.cms||Ashish Chauhan
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Anti-encroachment drive resumes today, will cover 100 roads of city||Ludhiana: After almost a year, the Ludhiana Police will resume its anti-encroachment drive on Monday. The intensified campaign will cover 100 roads of the city.Earlier, in 2020, the police had started the drive at a couple of spots, mainly in Old City. It was discontinued due to the lockdown to check Covid-19 spread.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “The previous year, the drive had started in January. It was a success and residents had appreciated it. The police had lodged 100 cases against the violators. This time, the drive will be intensified and cover more areas.” The police have identified 100 roads that will be their focus areas. “Our target is to rid 100 roads of encroachments within a month. In the first 15 days, the police will request shopkeepers and street vendors to remove encroachments on their own. Notices will also be served on them. In the next 15 days, the police will help the municipal corporation remove the remaining encroachments,” he added.Though cops had managed to make most of the targeted areas encroachment free the previous year, they faced strong resentment of Old City shopkeepers, who claimed that the police strictness affected their businesses. Some Old City market associations had also staged protests as the police were not allowing parking of vehicles outside shops. Ankush Arora, a trader and resident of Old City, said, “After the last year drive, there were no vendors on streets and no vehicles parked in the middle of roads. The measures made Old City chaos-free. But after lockdown, it was back to square one.”“Encroachments plague almost all areas of the city, especially markets. It is good that the drive will target 100 roads,” said Paras Gulati, a hosiery trader. Some of the roads where the drive will be undertaken are: Pavilion Mall road to Rajpura chowk to Haibowal main road; Domoria bridge to Kailash Chowk-Jandu Chowk; Jagraon bridge to Clock Tower and Kapoor Hospital to Daresi; Mata Rani Chowk to Meena Bazaar; Clock Tower Chowk to Ghah Mandi Chowk; Local Adda to Subhani Building; Jagraon Bridge to civil hospital; ESI Hospital to Kochar Market road to Pakhowal Road; Bhai Wala Chowk to Phullanwal; Jodhewal Basti Chowk to Shivpuri Road; Rekhi Cinema Chowk to Kesar Ganj Mandi road; Jama Masjid to Shahpur road; B7 Chowk to Lalton Chowk; Rajpura Chowk to Partap Singh Wala Chowk; Fountain Chowk to Rose Garden Chowk; Fountain Chowk to Ghumar Mandi to Aarti Chowk; Ferozepur Road to Barewal Road and Ferozepur Road to Agar Nagar; Jawahar Nagar area; Vishwakarma Chowk to Gill Chowk to Gill Canal bridge; Sabun Bazaar; Gur Mandi; Namak Mandi; areas around civil hospital; Gill Canal bridge to Gill village; Dholewal Chowk to Partap Chowk; area outside bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/anti-encroachment-drive-resumes-today-will-cover-100-roads-of-city/articleshow/80617945.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 1, 2021||Pune||‘Vaccine rollout has finally given us the weapons against this pandemic’||PUNE: Doctors have a sense of duty towards their families too. Throughout the pandemic, after having come in contact with multiple Covid patients, I’ve had this fear of bringing the infection home from my workplace. Which is why when I received the vaccine on January 29, I felt absolutely relieved. Healthcare workers like me now have a chance to fight this disease. I have been a urologist for more than 54 years now. In my experience, the Covid-19 pandemic has been unique in many ways. The hospital where I developed the urology department was turned into a dedicated Covid hospital for six months. All our routine activity was suspended, with energy and resources completely focused on Covid. But we had to keep up emergency medical care for non-Covid patients too. My colleagues and I then continued to see these patients in the OPD; many underwent emergency surgeries. We knew very little about this disease early on and had very little to fight it with. So when the vaccines came, I felt a sense of calm. We finally had weapons against the menace. I’ve always had full confidence in our scientists and I have faith in the vaccines’ safety and efficacy protocols. After the jab, I had no complaints or major symptoms. And by the getting the vaccine, I felt proud to have contributed to the rebuilding of health care at my hospital and for having led by example — I was among the first to get the shot. I’m sure that all of my medical staff will be safe after they are vaccinated against Covid-19. The writer is founder and head of the department of urology at Ratna Memorial Hospital in Pune. He’s also the oldest practicing urologist in the city — at 87.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-rollout-has-finally-given-us-the-weapons-against-this-pandemic/articleshow/80619041.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Cases go past 1-lakh mark in Pimpri Chinchwad, 10 months after first detection||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The number of Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad went past the one-lakh mark on January 27, just over 10 months after the region recorded its first positive patient on March 11 last year. A Covid-19 report on Saturday by the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation said the region has had 96,519 recoveries and 1,807 deaths. It has around 584 in hospital and another 1,317 in home isolation. The report also included some vital data. Over 40,000 (40%) of Pimpri Chinchwad’s caseload has been from the 22 to 39 age group; another 30,000 (30%) patients were between 40 and 59; and more than 13,000 were aged 60 or above. A gender-wise analysis found that there were more male patients (61,000, compared to the 38,000 women who contracted the virus). Pavan Salve, the additional health chief of the PCMC, told TOI, “We started to prepare early, when Covid was still spreading across the country. Our home quarantine period was extended to 28 days, from the stipulated 14. That change in rule helped keep the contagion in check. All our administration, healthcare and frontline staff have played key roles.” Salve added that the current positivity rate for the twin towns stands at around 7%. In August, that value had touched 30%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-go-past-1-lakh-mark-in-pcmc-limits-10-months-after-first-detection/articleshow/80619063.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||70-year-old Basant Vatika man dies||Ludhiana: A 70-year-old man of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 44 residents tested positive on Sunday.As per the local media bulletin, the deceased was a resident of Basant Vatika. He had a lung disease and died at a city hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll has risen to 1,001 and that of outsiders stood at 478.To date, 6,01,454 persons have been tested.Of the 44 new cases, 15 were from flu corner, 19 were contacts of positive patients, six from OPD, three through tracing process, and one health-care worker. On the day, 11 patients from outside the district too tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,797 and that of outsiders 3,929.So far, 24,472 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.86% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/70-year-old-basant-vatika-man-dies/articleshow/80617952.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Pandemic-affected cityseeks a balm from FM||Ludhiana: With Union Budget-2021 set to be presented on Monday, the city residents expect finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to announce measures to benefit all sections of people, as they have not been able to overcome the economic setback dealt by the coronavirus pandemic.The residents—be it businessmen, self-employed, ex-servicemen or retired government servants—are of the view that under the present circumstances, when people have suffered huge financial losses due to the pandemic and extreme resentment prevails among the farmers, the central government would announce some major reliefs in this budget.Talking about what the budget could have in store for them, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “As coronavirus has wreaked havoc in India across all segments and we have still not been able to come out of its impact, it is very likely that the Centre will announce some major concessions. We may see reduction in GST for some sectors and also reduction in income tax rates. Besides, we also feel that the government will take a slew of measures to support the farmers and the agriculture sector in general to raise the income of the farming class.”Sokhi further said some other reliefs could be announcements like setting up of a steel regulatory commission in the country to control the rate of the metal, making GST simpler, and bringing petrol and diesel under the GST, thereby enabling the businessmen to claim input credit on fuel.Banker Gaurav Bansal said, “Service class has suffered a huge setback due to the pandemic, as our savings took a big hit due to rise in expenditures and fall in earnings. We expect that since the government is well aware of all this, the budget may propose raising the income tax exemption limit for non-businessmen and also lowering the rates of income tax for various slabs.”Inderjit Singh Makkar, a shopkeeper, said, “Under the current situation, it is the need of the hour that measures are taken to raise our incomes, as we haven’t been able to expand our businesses due to erosion of savings. Therefore, reducing the rate of interest on business loans, which are currently at about 12%, should be considered in this budget and it should be set at maximum 6%.”According to S K Aggarwal, a retired government employee, Monday’s budget is going to be historic and the central government will take unprecedented steps to make people from all walks of life happy, especially the farmers.“As far as the retired people and senior citizens are concerned, increasing the rates of interest for savings bank accounts and fixed deposits, which are currently extremely low, will be of much help to them. I think the interest rate for fixed deposits should be hiked to at least 9% and for the savings bank deposits, it should be pushed to 6.5%,” Aggarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-affected-cityseeks-a-balm-from-fm/articleshow/80617962.cms||Mohit Behl
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: 469 people test Covid positive & 415 recover; six patients succumb||PUNE: Six people succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region in a 24-hour window till 8pm on Sunday, as per data released by the district health office. This pushed the death toll in the region to 9,059. Five people died in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, while one person breathed their last in the rural parts of the district. In the same window, 469 people tested positive for the virus, pushing the region’s progressive caseload to 3,79,357. PMC limits accounted for the highest number of cases, with 192. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 95 fresh cases, while the rural areas added 146 new patients. The areas under municipal councils in the region had 31 fresh cases, while cantonments reported five. As many as 415 people were discharged across the region on Sunday. A total of 238 patients were discharged in PMC limits. Fifty people recovered in Pimpri Chinchwad, while rural areas (103), municipal council limits (19) and cantonments (5) accounted for the rest. This took the total number of recoveries in PMR to 3,65,158. As of Sunday, there were 5,311 active cases in the region — 2,021 patients were being treated in hospitals across PMR, while 3,290 people were under home quarantine. According to a daily report issued by PMC, 287 patients were being treated with oxygen support in various hospitals under its jurisdiction. PMC’s report further added the condition of 201 patients was critical. Officials said those who died on Sunday suffered from underlying conditions, such as hypertension and heart problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/469-people-test-positive-415-recover-six-patients-succumb/articleshow/80619076.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Faridabad||Haryana’s sex ratio at birth dips, Gurugram bucks the trend||GURUGRAM: Haryana health department has released the state’s sex ratio at birth (SRB) data for 2020, revealing that the gap between the number of girls born per 1,000 boys has widened to 922 — a slight dip from 923 recorded in the previous year. However, Gurugram showed significant improvement as its sex ratio at birth was up 11 points — from 910 in 2019 to 921 in 2020. Having witnessed a considerable and consistent improvement in SRB since 2012, when the ratio stood at 832, last year was a setback for the state that has been notorious for its skewed sex ratio. Out of 22 districts in Haryana, 11 showed a downward trend. Since the launch of the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme in 2015, this is the first time that the state has slipped in SRB. In 2015, the figure was 876, which rose to 900 in 2016, followed by 914 in 2017. It remained the same in 2018. The 11 districts that saw a drop in SRB in 2020 include Panchkula, which topped the chart in 2019. The ratio dipped to 939 last year from 963 in the previous year. Ambala, which was at the second spot in SRB chart in 2019 at 959 also slipped to 931 last year. Panipat was at 935 last year, down from 939 in 2019. The worst performing districts in 2020 include Jhajjar at 892 points, Karnal at 900, Narnaul at 902, Jind at 904, Palwal at 910, Faridabad at 915, Hisar at 922 and Yamunanagar at 928. Meanwhile, officials in Gurugram attribute the rise in SRB in the city to strict compliance with the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act, 1994 and frequent raids conducted by the health department in the past seven months. The number of FIRs registered under the PC-PNDT Act rose 14 times, with the health authorities conducting raids even in other states. According to official figures, 14 cases were registered in 2019-20 as against just one in 2018-19. “So far, we have filed 10 cases under the PC-PNDT Act that are from different states and three that belong to Gurugram. Our teams have been conducting raids in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Our doctors are spreading awareness and also carrying out regular raids to curb the incidents of sex determination. As a result, the district’s position has moved upwards in the SRB chart,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. According to the state data, 118 cases were registered under the same Act in 2019-20 while 681 cases were registered in 2018-19 and 577 in 2017-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryanas-sex-ratio-at-birth-dips-gurgaon-bucks-the-trend/articleshow/80621036.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 1, 2021||Goa||Goa: PG admission test 1st round from Mar 14 in offline mode||PANAJI: The first round of Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) for entry to postgraduate programme seats for the academic year 2021-22 will be held starting March 14. The GU-ART is for admission to PG programme seats at the university as well as affiliated colleges. The first round of the test will be held at various centres on March 14, 21, 27 and 28. The university said that the test will be conducted in the offline mode only. GU has begun accepting applications to appear for GU-ART through the online mode and the last date to accept applications is February 19, 5pm. “Candidates who are in their final year of graduation are also eligible to apply. Selected candidates who are in the final year of graduation shall be granted provisional admission. Their admission shall be confirmed after the results are declared,” GU said. Students applying for programmes offered at multiple institutions will have to fill up a separate form stating their preference of institutions. The choice of institution has to be submitted by March 15. The results will be put up on the university website tentatively by April 9. Round II and III will only be conducted if seats remain vacant after the first round. Candidates answering the subsequent will be ranked after the candidates of round I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pg-admission-test-1st-round-from-mar-14-in-offline-mode/articleshow/80620375.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Teacher convicted of assault for hitting students in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A teacher from a Delhi school has been convicted of assault for slapping two minor students after a court observed that the assault had caused them mental and physical suffering besides resulting in humiliation before the class. It also came on record that the teacher had hit the student’s classmate. Metropolitan magistrate Preeti Agarwala, in her judgment, held, “Victims were assaulted in a manner that had caused them both mental and physical suffering resulting from humiliation and embarrassment caused by being slapped before the entire class, including the physical pain felt by them.” The incident dates back to 2014, when the teacher slapped the Class VI students. The social studies teacher had reportedly asked the first student questions related to the subject. When she couldn’t answer, the teacher slapped her “several times”. Her classmate, too, was slapped in the same period. The girl complained to her parents, who informed police and recorded their statements. The classmate became a crucial witness in the case. The teacher, on the contrary, said she had been framed in connivance with the school management. She alleged that the management had an “ulterior motive” to illegally terminate her from her services for she had raised a demand for statutory benefits and against illegal deduction of 40-45% from her salary. However, the court held that it was highly unlikely that the minor girls — students of Class VI — would connive with the school management or police officers to depose their teacher. Being young witnesses, it was understood that they had rather confidently withstood the entire trial and corroborated the case of the prosecution, the school principal, who was an important and independent public witness. The principal had admitted the ordeal of the students with the fact that she had received written complaints from their parents regarding the alleged incident and informed that the accused had admitted her guilt and tendered a written apology to her. The court called it a “clinching” piece of evidence regarding the guilt of the accused. Judge Agarwala observed that witness testimonies of the children, parents and the principal, who held a responsible and authoritative position in the society and apology letter along with other evidence had proved the prosecution’s case. The teacher’s contention was termed “very lame and vague” for the court found that she made no effort to explain her allegations of school management’s motive or illegal removal of her services when she raised demand for statutory benefits or the illegal deduction from her salary. “It has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused was present at the spot and has caused simple injury to the complainant and also caused her mental and physical suffering,” it said. Both children were found to have “strongly supported” and in their testimonies reiterated the entire incident and the teacher was convicted under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code and Section 23 (punishment for cruelty towards a child) of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000. The court would now pronounce the quantum of punishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teacher-convicted-of-assault-for-hitting-students/articleshow/80619217.cms||Aamir Khan
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Recovery rate of Covid-19 in Maharashtra over 95%: Rajesh Tope||MUMBAI: The state has recorded 2,585 new Covid cases and 40 deaths in the last 24 hours. The growth rate of new detections has been consistent for over a week now. With the daily addition, the state’s caseload reached 20,26,399 and toll 51,082. The city reported 483 cases and seven deaths, taking Mumbai’s total caseload to 3,08,975 and toll to 11,352. Dharavi and Dadar, which are in G-North ward, recorded zero cases on Sunday; they were among the virus hotspots till a couple of months ago. In Dharavi, the BMC struggled to control the viral spread and roped in local doctors to identify cases at an early stage. The slum sprawl recorded a total 3,928 cases whereas Dadar recorded 4,923 cases till Sunday. In Dadar, officials stated that cases started to increase after the city opened as the area houses many big markets in the vicinity and is visited by lakhs of shoppers. Active cases in the state and city saw marginal increases. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the patient recovery rate in the state now is 95.19%. Of the 40 deaths reported across the state on Sunday, 15 occurred in the last 48 hours and 9 in the last week and remaining 16 are over a week old.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/recovery-rate-of-covid-19-in-state-over-95-tope/articleshow/80619256.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Recovery rate of Covid-19 in Maharashtra over 95%: Rajesh Tope||MUMBAI: The state has recorded 2,585 new Covid cases and 40 deaths in the last 24 hours. The growth rate of new detections has been consistent for over a week now. With the daily addition, the state’s caseload reached 20,26,399 and toll 51,082. The city reported 483 cases and seven deaths, taking Mumbai’s total caseload to 3,08,975 and toll to 11,352. Dharavi and Dadar, which are in G-North ward, recorded zero cases on Sunday; they were among the virus hotspots till a couple of months ago. In Dharavi, the BMC struggled to control the viral spread and roped in local doctors to identify cases at an early stage. The slum sprawl recorded a total 3,928 cases whereas Dadar recorded 4,923 cases till Sunday. In Dadar, officials stated that cases started to increase after the city opened as the area houses many big markets in the vicinity and is visited by lakhs of shoppers. Active cases in the state and city saw marginal increases. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the patient recovery rate in the state now is 95.19%. Of the 40 deaths reported across the state on Sunday, 15 occurred in the last 48 hours and 9 in the last week and remaining 16 are over a week old.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/recovery-rate-of-covid-19-in-state-over-95-tope/articleshow/80621645.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Thane||Recovery rate of Covid-19 in Maharashtra over 95%: Rajesh Tope||MUMBAI: The state has recorded 2,585 new Covid cases and 40 deaths in the last 24 hours. The growth rate of new detections has been consistent for over a week now. With the daily addition, the state’s caseload reached 20,26,399 and toll 51,082. The city reported 483 cases and seven deaths, taking Mumbai’s total caseload to 3,08,975 and toll to 11,352. Dharavi and Dadar, which are in G-North ward, recorded zero cases on Sunday; they were among the virus hotspots till a couple of months ago. In Dharavi, the BMC struggled to control the viral spread and roped in local doctors to identify cases at an early stage. The slum sprawl recorded a total 3,928 cases whereas Dadar recorded 4,923 cases till Sunday. In Dadar, officials stated that cases started to increase after the city opened as the area houses many big markets in the vicinity and is visited by lakhs of shoppers. Active cases in the state and city saw marginal increases. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the patient recovery rate in the state now is 95.19%. Of the 40 deaths reported across the state on Sunday, 15 occurred in the last 48 hours and 9 in the last week and remaining 16 are over a week old.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/recovery-rate-of-covid-19-in-state-over-95-tope/articleshow/80621643.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana’s sex ratio at birth dips, Gurugram bucks the trend||GURUGRAM: Haryana health department has released the state’s sex ratio at birth (SRB) data for 2020, revealing that the gap between the number of girls born per 1,000 boys has widened to 922 — a slight dip from 923 recorded in the previous year. However, Gurugram showed significant improvement as its sex ratio at birth was up 11 points — from 910 in 2019 to 921 in 2020. Having witnessed a considerable and consistent improvement in SRB since 2012, when the ratio stood at 832, last year was a setback for the state that has been notorious for its skewed sex ratio. Out of 22 districts in Haryana, 11 showed a downward trend. Since the launch of the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme in 2015, this is the first time that the state has slipped in SRB. In 2015, the figure was 876, which rose to 900 in 2016, followed by 914 in 2017. It remained the same in 2018. The 11 districts that saw a drop in SRB in 2020 include Panchkula, which topped the chart in 2019. The ratio dipped to 939 last year from 963 in the previous year. Ambala, which was at the second spot in SRB chart in 2019 at 959 also slipped to 931 last year. Panipat was at 935 last year, down from 939 in 2019. The worst performing districts in 2020 include Jhajjar at 892 points, Karnal at 900, Narnaul at 902, Jind at 904, Palwal at 910, Faridabad at 915, Hisar at 922 and Yamunanagar at 928. Meanwhile, officials in Gurugram attribute the rise in SRB in the city to strict compliance with the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act, 1994 and frequent raids conducted by the health department in the past seven months. The number of FIRs registered under the PC-PNDT Act rose 14 times, with the health authorities conducting raids even in other states. According to official figures, 14 cases were registered in 2019-20 as against just one in 2018-19. “So far, we have filed 10 cases under the PC-PNDT Act that are from different states and three that belong to Gurugram. Our teams have been conducting raids in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Our doctors are spreading awareness and also carrying out regular raids to curb the incidents of sex determination. As a result, the district’s position has moved upwards in the SRB chart,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. According to the state data, 118 cases were registered under the same Act in 2019-20 while 681 cases were registered in 2018-19 and 577 in 2017-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryanas-sex-ratio-at-birth-dips-gurgaon-bucks-the-trend/articleshow/80619236.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Panvel cops nab 4, seize 6 vehicles with scrapped engines||NAVI MUMBAI: The crime branch central unit team raided a lodge in Panvel along Goa highway on January 24 and busted a major racket involving illegal sale of vehicles such as SUV, MUV and sedans with BS-IV engines that have been scrapped by the Central government in March 2019. An FIR was filed on January 29 at the Panvel city police station. The fraudsters procured duplicate engine and chasis numbers and even fake registration numbers of different RTOs across Maharashtra and Hyderabad. The cops have arrested four men from the lodge where they had set up an office and seized six SUVs with scrapped BS-IV engines that were to be sold with forged papers. The accused have claimed to have purchased 215 vehicles with BS-IV engines and sold them by forging the vehicle documents. The crime branch was informed that the fraudsters had even set up an office, ‘Auto Auction India’, at Balaji lodge near Goa highway. The cops sent a decoy customer to the lodge who purchased a hatchback with BS-IV engine for Rs 2.3 lakh and an affidavit of the vehicle purchase was given to him. The crime branch team then raided the premises and arrested Manohar Jadhav, a resident of Hyderabad, Shaban Qureshi, Aanam Siddiqui and Wasim Shaikh from Mumbai.  Siddiqui revealed that they have sold around 215 light vehicles with BS-IV engines instead of scrapping them by claiming that the vehicles were being sold cheap as they were damaged during the monsoon floods. The cops have seized six such four-wheelers which were parked at the lodge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/panvel-cops-nab-4-seize-6-vehicles-with-scrapped-engines/articleshow/80620408.cms||George Mendonca
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Adult tusker electrocuted to death near Corbett Tiger Reserve||Dehradun: A 30-year-old elephant was electrocuted to death barely 50 metres away from the Corbett Tiger Reserve on Sunday morning. The jumbo was struck by an electric wire on a pole. This is the second such elephant death recorded within a month this year in the state. The forest officials on the spot confirmed that the death is not related to poaching as the body of the tusker was intact. “The postmortem ascertained that the tusker sustained a 29-cm-deep wound due to electric wire. The spot had a pole with a bulb on it. The elephant probably tried to touch the wire,” said Dr Dushyant Sharma, senior veterinary officer, Corbett Tiger Reserve. Forest officials have identified 17 such sensitive locations in and around the tiger reserve, where high- power electricity wires are hanging low, posing threat to the wildlife of the area. “The issue of high-power electric cables hanging low needs to be fixed by the power department. I have asked all the stakeholders – villagers, power corporation, Corbett officials, and nearby forest division authorities — to conduct a meeting on Monday so that the wildlife doesn't get hurt due to human errors. Ideally, the power department should fix these sagging electric wires annually. However, it seems that they are lagging behind and our wildlife is bearing the brunt,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand forest department. According to forest department data, a total of 450 elephants have died in the state since 2001. Of these, 43 jumbos, including the aforementioned one, died due to electrocution. In 2020, Uttarakhand lost two jumbos to electrocution. Thereafter, the forest department had asked its frontline staff to stay vigilant in the fringe forest areas where villagers often lay electric wire to save their farms and themselves from wild animals like leopards and wild boar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adult-tusker-electrocuted-to-death-near-corbett-tiger-reserve/articleshow/80617188.cms||Shivani Azad
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Banking on 5G: Talking ATMs, touchless tech on the cards||HYDERABAD: Imagine walking into an ATM not just for withdrawing cash but also speaking with a virtual bank manager or even completing your KYC. Working on turning this sci-fi scenario into reality is Hyderabad-based Institute for Development & Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT). What is promising is that last week, leading telecom operator Bharti Airtel demonstrated live 5G services over a commercial network in the city wherein a 1GB file, which would take minutes to download on a 4G connection, was downloaded in less than 30 seconds. “With 5G, ATMs will act as an extended bank branch…ATMs may also become relaying points for 5G networks,” said IDRBT ex-director AS Ramasastri under whose leadership this initiative took off. He retired in October, 2020. When it comes to 2G, 3G or 4G, Ramasastri said, India has played up a catch-up game with other countries; but in the case of 5G, the government and RBI wanted the banking sector to be ready to leverage this technology sooner, which is why the country’s first 5G Use Case Lab for banking and financial services was set up at the institute in September 2020. The lab, which has a team of 10 to 12 people, including researchers and bankers, is focusing on developing solutions for using 5G to boost financial inclusion and leverage AR/VR (Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality) technology. It is within a year that the lab expects to demonstrate some solutions in these areas. Stating that 5G could boost financial inclusion, Ramasastri said, “In the rural areas, higher bandwidth availability will ensure that transactions are completed as soon as they are initiated...either customers will be able to do it or the staff will be carrying these 5G enabled gadgets ... that’s the POC (proof of concept) that we have to work on…” The new technology is expected to improve overall banking experience because of lower latency and higher speed. With 5G, minimum latency could be reduced to one millisecond as compared to 50 milliseconds for 4G and data speeds could be 10 to 20x faster than 4G. Besides improving the financial reach of the banking sector, by improving the timings of transaction finality, 5G would also make banking activities more secure as irregularities can be detected on a real-time basis. As per an IDRBT’s white paper on 5G technology, the 5G network can handle millions of IoT devices and enable machine-to-machine (M2M) communication. Along with higher data speeds, this would also make systems more ‘intelligent’. Highlighting the potential of 5G technology, Akhilesh Tuteja, partner and head of digital consulting, KPMG India, pointed out 5G and use of IoT will see transformational changes to touchless banking that will impact ATMs, bank branches and POS. “By 2025, most of the connected devices will need to be 5G compatible, including gadgets, wearable devices among others,” he said, adding that Covid-19 and demonetisation have seen exponential increase in the use of mobile banking, digital payments and remote implementation of key processes in the financial services sector including customer onboarding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/banking-on-5g-talking-atms-touchless-tech-on-the-cards/articleshow/80619211.cms||Swati Rathor
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Corporations to act as cops flag traffic mess by banquet halls||NEW DELHI: Banquet halls near Naraina Industrial Area and several restaurants in Punjabi Bagh leading to traffic bottlenecks have been red-flagged by Delhi traffic police. Municipal corporations are taking action to decongest the key corridors in the city. The latest communication has once again highlighted how poor planning and excess parking from commercial establishments spills over on the roads. Earlier, similar concerns had been raised about banquet halls on Peergarhi Chowk by the Bhurelal-led monitoring committee when the panel highlighted how congestion due to parking from these units was leading to congestion and air pollution. A senior official said that 77 corridors had been selected for decongestion. “Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal reviewed the pending actions for decongestion,” the official said. The 6.9-km-long corridor from Satguru Ram Singh Marg from Sagarpur T Point to Kirti Nagar T Point is among the corridors under the lens. Traffic police has stated that five banquets halls on Sat Guru Ram Singh Marg on the way from Mayapuri Chowk to Lajwanti Chowk are causing congestion, and suggested the halls be closed as they don’t have enough parking space. Guests at the functions at these halls park their vehicles on the road, causing massive traffic jams. A corporation official said that the health department was surveying the halls. “Traders have to give an undertaking of arranging for proper parking space in order to get a health trade licence. Notices have been served to these businesses. If inadequate parking space is hindering traffic, the license can be revoked under the DMC Act, 1957,” the official said. Most of the traders’ replies claim that they had deposited one-time parking charge to SDMC and were using the nearest authorised car parking through valet services, the status report says. A similar problem has been highlighted in Punjabi Bagh from Club Road towards Jawalaheri — a 3-km-long corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-to-act-as-cops-flag-traffic-mess-by-banquet-halls/articleshow/80619275.cms||Paras Singh
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||People want Budget to create jobs, make lives normal again||JAIPUR: This time, the expectations from the Central Budget, which will be announced on Monday by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reflect a desperate urgency. Having suffered job losses, erosion in incomes with an uncertainty hanging over careers, people in the state said they want a Budget that spurs economic activity and makes lives normal again. For people working in the private sector, the pandemic has played havoc in their lives. Kumud Mishra, who works in a private school has not been paid a full salary for the past 10 months. On top of it, her husband who worked in the hospitality sector has lost the job. “I don’t know when we will return to the pre-Covid days. All our plans have been turned upside down by the pandemic. My salary has been cut and my husband has lost his job. We cannot stop the education of our two children because we don’t have money. I don’t know how the budget can help our situation but I want by husband to get back his job and full salary for myself,” said Mishra. The informal sector has also been hit hard by the lockdown and the lack of economic activities. Rajveer Kapoor who sells car accessories, seats, music systems, etc., mostly catering to second-hand car users, said it’s difficult to make Rs 5,000-7,000 a month now. “I cannot deposit the school fees of my daughter who studies in Class-IV. People avoid spending for things which they don’t need urgently. I used to make Rs 20,000-25000 a month. But what I earn today is only enough to meet the food we eat every day. We hope there is something in the Budget that can change my situation,” added Kapoor. For industry, scarred deeply by the pandemic, businessmen expect the finance minister to provide relief in making funds available to the MSMEs, reducing taxes, and improving infrastructure to stay competitive in global markets and having a compliance system which is less rigorous. “Funding for MSMEs has become a bigger challenge. Banks and financial institutions have lending targets but they achieve them by lending to a few big companies. Majority of small, needy enterprises get deprived of bank finance. Chief minister’s Small Industries Promotion Scheme has been an effective initiative. Hope, the finance minister announces something like this to help the small industrial units,” said Sunil Bansal an entrepreneur. Many said that the Budget proposals should not be like old wine in new bottle. “The Atmanirbhar stimulus package was a collection of running schemes. That’s why the impact of the stimulus was not felt. Given the large-scale disruption the industry has suffered, we want something radical in thought which is effective on the ground as well,” said a promoter of a small industrial unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-want-budget-to-create-jobs-make-lives-normal-again/articleshow/80618015.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune airport to suspend flights from April 26 to May 9 for runway work||PUNE: The Indian Air Force (IAF) has intimated to the airport authorities about a total closure of passenger flight operations from the airport between April 26 and May 9 to facilitate the ongoing runway recarpeting works. The airport is part of the IAF’s air base at Lohegaon. The air force controls the 2,530m runway and air traffic control (ATC). “We have received the closure intimation from the IAF,” city airport director Kuldeep Singh said on Sunday. As of now, passenger flights are operating for only 12 hours, from 8am to 8pm, ever since the runway recarpeting work commenced at the airport from October 26 last year. The complete closure will affect airlines and flyers, especially those who have already booked their tickets for travel between April 26 and May 9. “This is quite shocking for me and my family. Last week, we booked tickets for travel to Delhi on April 30. Now, we will have to contact the airlines for a refund which is a tedious process these days,” Kharadi resident Rahul Kande told TOI. Airport officials said the information of total closure has been passed on the airport’s social media handle without delay. “We are informing passengers well in advance considering that February has only started. Coordination is on with the airlines to inform their passengers set to book tickets. Most of the current scheduled flights are expected to remain cancelled for the 14 days. More information can be provided only by the airlines,” said a senior airport official. All airlines including IndiGo, GoAir, SpiceJet and Air Asia were contacted for their comments on the developments. However, there was no reply from any of them till the time of going to press. The airport was handling an average 170 flight movements per day prior to the outbreak of the pandemic and that has now gone down to 60-62. A local representative of one of the airlines said, “We are awaiting instructions from our head office. It is difficult to say right now whether some flights will be shifted to nearby airports. Generally, this will be difficult as getting slots is a major issue as all airports are operating with a limited capacity.” The Pune airport currently has flights to all major cities of the country. A majority of the slots are with IndiGo. Also, a flight under the Vande Bharat mission comes to Pune from Dubai every Thursday. Frequent business flyers are in a fix and said they would have to depend on road travel during the closure. “I travel from Pune to Delhi, Bengaluru and other places eight to nine times every month on business. Taking a flight from Mumbai is an option but it can be painful. We have to see the airfares too from other airports and, if they are high, we will have to travel all the way by road,” businessman Sameer Narayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-airport-to-suspend-flights-from-apr-26-to-may-9-for-runway-work/articleshow/80619171.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 1, 2021||Jaipur||Mahapanchayat held, locals demand reopening of national highway||ALWAR/JAIPUR: Around 400 locals of nearly 84 villages held a mahapanchayat on the Haryana side of Shahjahanpur border and demanded removal of protesting farmers from Delhi-Jaipur national highway. They have decided to submit a representation to Rewari collector and superintendent of police (SP) on Monday demanding reopening of the national highway. According to informed sources, they even said if the farmers are not removed from the national highway by Monday, they will be compelled to do it forcibly. As the mahapanchayat of the locals started at Shahjahanpur border on Sunday, Rajasthan police had pushed back the farmers, who were protesting against the centre’s agricultural laws, by 100 metres in order to avoid any kind of confrontation. The state police positioned themselves in between to prevent clashes between two groups, said sources. “I want to congratulate you (the protesters at Shahjahanpur border). The central government and its goons tried its best to weaken our movement in the past 4-5. But the ongoing movement at Shahjahanpur didn’t fall apart or disintegrate,” said president of Swaraj India Yogendra Yadav. “In the face of this movement, the government neither has any strength nor has morality, not even any argument. Camera and videos are their only weapons. They send their goons to pelt stones at our friends and Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel (deployed at protest sites) take no action against them. If officials of Delhi police deployed there (Singhu border) have the slightest of shame, they should take off their uniform and go home. They were just busy watching the show,” he added, referring to the clashes at Singhu border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mahapanchayat-held-locals-demand-reopening-of-nh/articleshow/80618022.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ajmer||People want Budget to create jobs, make lives normal again||JAIPUR: This time, the expectations from the Central Budget, which will be announced on Monday by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reflect a desperate urgency. Having suffered job losses, erosion in incomes with an uncertainty hanging over careers, people in the state said they want a Budget that spurs economic activity and makes lives normal again. For people working in the private sector, the pandemic has played havoc in their lives. Kumud Mishra, who works in a private school has not been paid a full salary for the past 10 months. On top of it, her husband who worked in the hospitality sector has lost the job. “I don’t know when we will return to the pre-Covid days. All our plans have been turned upside down by the pandemic. My salary has been cut and my husband has lost his job. We cannot stop the education of our two children because we don’t have money. I don’t know how the budget can help our situation but I want by husband to get back his job and full salary for myself,” said Mishra. The informal sector has also been hit hard by the lockdown and the lack of economic activities. Rajveer Kapoor who sells car accessories, seats, music systems, etc., mostly catering to second-hand car users, said it’s difficult to make Rs 5,000-7,000 a month now. “I cannot deposit the school fees of my daughter who studies in Class-IV. People avoid spending for things which they don’t need urgently. I used to make Rs 20,000-25000 a month. But what I earn today is only enough to meet the food we eat every day. We hope there is something in the Budget that can change my situation,” added Kapoor. For industry, scarred deeply by the pandemic, businessmen expect the finance minister to provide relief in making funds available to the MSMEs, reducing taxes, and improving infrastructure to stay competitive in global markets and having a compliance system which is less rigorous. “Funding for MSMEs has become a bigger challenge. Banks and financial institutions have lending targets but they achieve them by lending to a few big companies. Majority of small, needy enterprises get deprived of bank finance. Chief minister’s Small Industries Promotion Scheme has been an effective initiative. Hope, the finance minister announces something like this to help the small industrial units,” said Sunil Bansal an entrepreneur. Many said that the Budget proposals should not be like old wine in new bottle. “The Atmanirbhar stimulus package was a collection of running schemes. That’s why the impact of the stimulus was not felt. Given the large-scale disruption the industry has suffered, we want something radical in thought which is effective on the ground as well,” said a promoter of a small industrial unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/people-want-budget-to-create-jobs-make-lives-normal-again/articleshow/80629203.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Jodhpur||People want Budget to create jobs, make lives normal again||JAIPUR: This time, the expectations from the Central Budget, which will be announced on Monday by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reflect a desperate urgency. Having suffered job losses, erosion in incomes with an uncertainty hanging over careers, people in the state said they want a Budget that spurs economic activity and makes lives normal again. For people working in the private sector, the pandemic has played havoc in their lives. Kumud Mishra, who works in a private school has not been paid a full salary for the past 10 months. On top of it, her husband who worked in the hospitality sector has lost the job. “I don’t know when we will return to the pre-Covid days. All our plans have been turned upside down by the pandemic. My salary has been cut and my husband has lost his job. We cannot stop the education of our two children because we don’t have money. I don’t know how the budget can help our situation but I want by husband to get back his job and full salary for myself,” said Mishra. The informal sector has also been hit hard by the lockdown and the lack of economic activities. Rajveer Kapoor who sells car accessories, seats, music systems, etc., mostly catering to second-hand car users, said it’s difficult to make Rs 5,000-7,000 a month now. “I cannot deposit the school fees of my daughter who studies in Class-IV. People avoid spending for things which they don’t need urgently. I used to make Rs 20,000-25000 a month. But what I earn today is only enough to meet the food we eat every day. We hope there is something in the Budget that can change my situation,” added Kapoor. For industry, scarred deeply by the pandemic, businessmen expect the finance minister to provide relief in making funds available to the MSMEs, reducing taxes, and improving infrastructure to stay competitive in global markets and having a compliance system which is less rigorous. “Funding for MSMEs has become a bigger challenge. Banks and financial institutions have lending targets but they achieve them by lending to a few big companies. Majority of small, needy enterprises get deprived of bank finance. Chief minister’s Small Industries Promotion Scheme has been an effective initiative. Hope, the finance minister announces something like this to help the small industrial units,” said Sunil Bansal an entrepreneur. Many said that the Budget proposals should not be like old wine in new bottle. “The Atmanirbhar stimulus package was a collection of running schemes. That’s why the impact of the stimulus was not felt. Given the large-scale disruption the industry has suffered, we want something radical in thought which is effective on the ground as well,” said a promoter of a small industrial unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/people-want-budget-to-create-jobs-make-lives-normal-again/articleshow/80629202.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Udaipur||People want Budget to create jobs, make lives normal again||JAIPUR: This time, the expectations from the Central Budget, which will be announced on Monday by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reflect a desperate urgency. Having suffered job losses, erosion in incomes with an uncertainty hanging over careers, people in the state said they want a Budget that spurs economic activity and makes lives normal again. For people working in the private sector, the pandemic has played havoc in their lives. Kumud Mishra, who works in a private school has not been paid a full salary for the past 10 months. On top of it, her husband who worked in the hospitality sector has lost the job. “I don’t know when we will return to the pre-Covid days. All our plans have been turned upside down by the pandemic. My salary has been cut and my husband has lost his job. We cannot stop the education of our two children because we don’t have money. I don’t know how the budget can help our situation but I want by husband to get back his job and full salary for myself,” said Mishra. The informal sector has also been hit hard by the lockdown and the lack of economic activities. Rajveer Kapoor who sells car accessories, seats, music systems, etc., mostly catering to second-hand car users, said it’s difficult to make Rs 5,000-7,000 a month now. “I cannot deposit the school fees of my daughter who studies in Class-IV. People avoid spending for things which they don’t need urgently. I used to make Rs 20,000-25000 a month. But what I earn today is only enough to meet the food we eat every day. We hope there is something in the Budget that can change my situation,” added Kapoor. For industry, scarred deeply by the pandemic, businessmen expect the finance minister to provide relief in making funds available to the MSMEs, reducing taxes, and improving infrastructure to stay competitive in global markets and having a compliance system which is less rigorous. “Funding for MSMEs has become a bigger challenge. Banks and financial institutions have lending targets but they achieve them by lending to a few big companies. Majority of small, needy enterprises get deprived of bank finance. Chief minister’s Small Industries Promotion Scheme has been an effective initiative. Hope, the finance minister announces something like this to help the small industrial units,” said Sunil Bansal an entrepreneur. Many said that the Budget proposals should not be like old wine in new bottle. “The Atmanirbhar stimulus package was a collection of running schemes. That’s why the impact of the stimulus was not felt. Given the large-scale disruption the industry has suffered, we want something radical in thought which is effective on the ground as well,” said a promoter of a small industrial unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/people-want-budget-to-create-jobs-make-lives-normal-again/articleshow/80629201.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Goa||Retired 4 months ago, ex-chief electrical engineer reappointed on contract basis||Panaji: The government has appointed Raghuvir Keni as chief electrical engineer on contract basis. He last held the post between December 2019 and September 2020 when he was appointed on deputation from MPT. Executive engineer Rajiv Samant was then given additional charge of the post after Keni retired. Keni’s name was approved in the 39th cabinet meeting on January 6. TOI reported last week that at a time when the state’s power supply has been a subject of debate, the top-most posts in the department continue to be vacant. Power minister Nilesh Cabral in a reply in the House stated that besides the chief’s post, the two additional chief engineer posts, four superintending engineer posts, 15 executive engineer posts and 45 assistant engineer posts are vacant. Delays in the past in timely promotion of degree holders from junior engineers to assistant engineers has resulted in the top most posts lying vacant. Cabral had stated that there are a total of 1,361 posts lying vacant in his department. However, he also included posts such as draughtsman, mechanics, mason, mistry, plumber, carpenter, turner, welder, draftry, lift operator and blue printer, which the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has pointed out, have no contribution to mainstream business. The commission has stated that the department is overstaffed and has repeatedly been directing the department to analyse its employee strength, reduce its manpower-related costs and submit a systematic manpower study report with focus on manpower rationalisation. The department is yet to submit these details. In May the JERC brought up the issue with serious concern and directed the department to finalise the draft report and submit it for the decision of the state government. These, however, still include posts such as observing that the department informed the commission that it would submit the report by February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/retired-4-months-ago-ex-chief-electrical-engineer-reappointed-on-contract-basis/articleshow/80620406.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Spots of bother as leopard eludes officials||NEW DELHI: The search for a leopard, presumably wandering near Najafgarh’s Ghummanhera village, has been intensified, even as forest officials said it may take several days to bait the animal. The department is hopeful the animal may also leave the area on its own. So far, only one cage has been set up in the village. Multiple videos of a leopard being caught on CCTV cameras in Najafgarh had surfaced on Wednesday, causing locals to approach the forest department. A team of forest officials had reached the area on Thursday, scanning for pugmarks and have since then decided to rope in NGO Wildlife SOS for assistance, which set up the cage. The NGO had previously assisted the department capture another leopard near the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in north Delhi in 2016. Navneet Srivastava, deputy conservator of forests (west), said an alert was still in place near Ghummanhera, with the animal likely to be in the vicinity of the Najafgarh drain. “The last sighting, along with pugmarks, was near the village. There is greater likelihood to catch the animal at night than during the day. We will wait for a few days and see if the animal is caught or detected on CCTV cameras again. More cages may be installed if required,” he said. Wildlife SOS, an NGO based in Delhi, said the forest and wildlife department was looking into the matter. Delhi is no stranger to sighting leopards, often having strayed either from the Aravallis and in cases, even along the Yamuna floodplains. In December 2016, a leopard was spotted multiple times at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in north Delhi, after having travelled along the Yamuna. The animal was seen on camera traps and was later captured by the state wildlife department and released in another state. The forest department in that case had also installed cages, citing threat to villagers nearby. More recently, a leopard was spotted on the periphery of DDA’s Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park in February, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spots-of-bother-as-leopard-eludes-officials/articleshow/80619285.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||‘Reduce excise duty on diesel’||MUMBAI: Transporters have kept their hopes high on the union budget and are expecting a cut in excise duty on diesel. The transporters have also demanded diesel and petrol prices to be uniform in all states. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) office-bearers, on Sunday, said that the rising cost of diesel has made holes in the pockets of the common man. Currently, the cost of diesel is at an all time high of Rs 83.30 per litre in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reduce-excise-duty-on-diesel/articleshow/80620419.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Two men killed in chemical tank explosion at paper mill in US Nagar||Rudrapur: Two men died in a chemical tank explosion at a paper mill in the Kashipur town of Udham Singh Nagar district around 3.30 am on Sunday. The paper mill is located at the Moradabad Road and the workers were carrying out maintenance activities when the accident took place, the police said. They were taken to a private hospital immediately after the blast but were pronounced dead by the doctors. Subsequently, the bodies were sent for autopsy. The deceased were identified as Rahul Kumar (30), a resident of Dilari village in Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh, and Pratap Singh (27), resident of Hastinapur, Meerut. Meanwhile, Vinay Mittal, in-charge of the Surya police outpost, said that the bodies have been handed over to the kin after the postmortem examination. “A probe has been ordered into the accident to check if the factory management compromised with the security arrangements at the mill. We will register a case against the mill owners and the management if the kin of the victims file a complaint,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-men-killed-in-chemical-tank-explosion-at-paper-mill-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80617214.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Invest more in education for long-term gains, say academics||Nagpur: Academics hope that the government ramps up spending in growing ‘human resources’ by increasing the budget allocation for the education sector. Senior academic and a Nagpur University senate veteran Babanrao Taywade wants government to look at spending on education as a long-term investment. “The maths is simple. The more you invest, the better quality you will get. Government must immediately fill up vacant posts in the university so that students don’t suffer. Second, laboratories should be upgraded with modern equipment and government must fund it completely. Third, research facilities should be well provided and a greater number of students should be motivated to get into research areas,” he said. Senior university academic Moiz Haque emphasizes on recognizing online education as an emerging force. “With online education gaining importance, the budget should provide incentives such as tax cuts to the education technology sector. Education loans should be made more affordable and scholarships should be raised for meritorious students. Provide a level-playing field to rural and urban area students by having same syllabus overall and infrastructural wise too, funds should be raised,” said Haque. Budget allocation needs to increase to take care of teachers as well, said Supantha Bhattacharyya, senior academic at Hislop College. He wants the budget to be four times more than what it is now. “Universities need more equipment for laboratories. Teachers should be paid well and on time, salary should also be enhanced, and libraries must be restocked and refurbished,” he said. Premlata Tiwari, principal of Bhola High School, said that government must keep in mind economically weaker students. “Due to the pandemic, these families have suffered financially and that can have an effect on their ability to pay fee or access good education. Even government schools do not have enough funds to keep the premises clean. Budget should be allotted for that,” said Tiwari. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur) pitches for more funds for Right To Education (RTE) reimbursements. “This time the budget for education has to be increased because many things needs to be fixed. RTE payment is not given to the schools properly. Teachers allotted for Std XI and XII for bifocal stream by the Central government are also facing salary issues. If proper budgeting is done then this issue might get resolved,” said Mude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/invest-more-in-education-for-long-term-gains-say-academics/articleshow/80619206.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||‘Withdraw FIRs against journalists’||Mumbai: The Mumbai Press Club condemned the filing of multiple FIRs nationwide against journalists and publishers. It demanded that FIRs against six journalists — Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath — be withdrawn, and urged the Centre to stop using “coercive and threatening practices...”. A statement signed by club president Gurbir Singh read, “The FIRs have been filed in Delhi as well as in some BJP-ruled states... There was clear intelligence lapse on the part of the Delhi Police... In these circumstances, to pin blame on the journalists for being responsible for the violence and disruption, is reprehensible...” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/withdraw-firs-against-journalists/articleshow/80605208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cinema halls await state go-ahead to boost occupancy||MUMBAI: The Centre on Sunday announced that cinema halls and theatres will be permitted to operate at 100% capacity from February 1. However, filmmakers and multiplex owners in the city are awaiting a similar notification from the state government to restore normalcy to the trade, given that Mumbai is the heart of India’s film industry. So far, theatres were allowed to operate with 50% patronage. Gautam Dutta, CEO of PVR Ltd, said, “We thank the I&B ministry for allowing 100% seating capacity...This move will give confidence to producers to release their films, and audiences to return to the cinemas.” However, exhibitor Manoj Desai of G-7 Multiplex and Prakash Chaphalkar, secretary of the Multiplex Association of India, pointed out that the state government has not made a similar declaration yet. Chaphalkar said, “BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have issued a photocopy order for their states. But unless Maharashtra permits 100% seating capacity, we cannot expect producers to draft a smooth rollout for their films.” He expects Maharashtra to permit full reopening 15 days after the Centre’s order. “A business that has been closed for a whole year can attain normalcy only once all cinema halls nationwide are uniformly allowed to operate at 100% capacity. In Mumbai, the full restoration of local trains for the public is also important. Even under the new rules, train commuters are not permitted to travel freely during peak hour which is a hurdle,” Chaphalkar said. “Also the lockdown has caused deals to be renegotiated between producers and distributors, between property owners and multiplexes. Once all these issues are sorted out only then can screenings resume.” He said that as yet, no new releases are scheduled before April 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-cinema-halls-await-state-go-ahead-to-boost-occupancy/articleshow/80619298.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 1, 2021||India||Worried by stir in western UP, BJP netas reach out to farm groups to end impasse||NEW DELHI: Concerned over another round of farmers’ mobilisation on Delhi’s borders in the wake of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal, a majority of BJP’s public representatives including MPs and MLAs from western UP are reaching out to different farm union leaders through personal channels in their bid to convince them to end the ongoing deadlock. A senior BJP leader from the region said the agitation was on the brink of coming to an end after violent protests on January 26 and Tikait himself had agreed to surrender but just when police reached Ghazipur border, he switched tack to launch an emotional tear-jerker of an appeal to kisans (read fellow Jats) to save him from an alleged assault. “There were strict directions of no use of force with Rakesh Tikait, who was left with barely 150 people a day after the Delhi violence. He could have been taken into custody but the government decided against use of force as it wanted to keep the door for negotiations open. The administration read him wrong,” a senior party source said. But while the setback has disappointed them, BJP leaders have not given up on the prospect of restoration of “normalcy". “There is no denying the fact that entire western UP is highly emotional and Tikait’s tears have made an impact. People who had gone back have returned to the dharna sites. But we are convinced that the agitation will end soon as farmer leaders have also realised the futility of their demand for repeal of the three laws as the Centre has made it amply clear that it will not happen,” a senior BJP leader from the region said. “Also, unlike many of the Left unions from Punjab, some of them with declared sympathies for Maoists, the UP group is not motivated by extraneous considerations. They will not favour a prolonged confrontation if we are able to convince them that the MSP regime will not be scrapped," he added. Ever since communal riots took place in the region in 2013, there has been a huge caste polarisation in favour of BJP in western UP. BJP’s overwhelming performance in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2017 assembly polls was largely due to its sweep in western UP. However, the Jat unrest, if not tackled swiftly, can put a spanner in BJP's works a year before UP assembly polls. The lawmakers deployed for outreach have been at pains to emphasise upon people that the current dispensation has been farmer friendly and has been careful not to use force despite provocations of the worst kind, like the lawlessness in the Capital on Republic Day and the assault on Red Fort. “There has not been a single case of use of force against farmers under the Modi government. The message is clear that the government has no issues with peaceful protests and that the government wants to resume talks. The message by the PM that the agriculture minister is still a phone call away explains it,” another BJP leader said. Some leaders also claimed that they were relieved now with most opposition parties dropping the pretence of being aloof from the protests and openly egging on the farmers to dig in their heels. There has been a beeline of political outfits at agitation sites like Congress, AAP, Lok Dal and others who have called on Tikait in the past few days and have extended their support to the stir and the confirmation of partisan motives being the fuel will encourage farmers to think anew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/worried-by-stir-in-western-up-bjp-netas-reach-out-to-farm-groups-to-end-impasse/articleshow/80620963.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Doctors seek funds dose for robust healthcare||Nagpur: The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of preventive healthcare and health infrastructure in country. Doctors in Vidarbha and experts from various health related fields are hoping that the budget allocation for health will increase significantly. “Inadequate healthcare infrastructure and our limitations came to fore during the pandemic. So, it is being expected that the allocation for healthcare would be around 2% to 2.25% of GDP at least this year,” said Dr Rajesh Deshpande, a physician who also holds a degree in business and financial management. As far as common people are concerned, many want Central government to provide Covid-19 vaccine free for all on the lines of Polio vaccine. “Finance minister should announce that every citizen will get free Covid-19 vaccine which will eventually end the pandemic,” said Dipti Patel, a homemaker. The Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) is expecting some much-needed incentives from the Centre. “Not only public hospitals, but private hospitals have worked relentlessly through the pandemic. We expect a major boost for the healthcare sector,” said Dr Ashok Arbat, president of VHA. He suggested that the government should mark health services with ‘zero rating’ of GST. Nagpur has emerged as healthcare hub of Central India and more allocation for Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana can bring big boost for AIIMS, Nagpur. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, patients from peripheries are dependent on government hospitals in medical colleges. A senior official from GMCH Nagpur said that Covid-19 has already given a facelift to many government hospitals and this should continue through Central assistance. “Health is basically a state subject and it’s difficult for state-run hospitals to expect much from Central budget. But we can hope some unconventional step like a Centrally-funded scheme for state hospitals,” said the official. Nagpur has a good presence of pharma manufacturing units and they are also expecting tax incentives. Pharmacists are demanding promotion of generic medicine shops, health workers wish to continue the Covid incentives they are getting, while academics want Centre to fulfil its promises made while scrapping Medical Council of India and establishing the National Medical Council . HEALTHCARE WISH LIST - Higher spending for health care, more funds for Ayushman Bharat - More funds for preventive health and wellness segment - Tax incentives to private sector for modernizing medical facilities - Investments to strengthen local manufacturing of medical devices, PPEs - GST benefits for healthcare services as hospitals suffered losses during Covid-19 - More budget for mental health, more seats in psychology and psychiatry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-seek-funds-dose-for-robust-healthcare/articleshow/80619265.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Most cold-wave days in January in 13 years||NEW DELHI: The New Year started with the mercury plummeting to as low as 1.1 degrees Celsius. Ever since, Delhi has recorded seven “cold wave” days this January, the most since the same month in 2008 when 12 such days were notified in the region, IMD data showed. January 2019 and 2020 had just one “cold wave” day each. Met officials said the mean minimum temperature this January was 7 degrees Celsius, one degree lower than 2020. However, January 2019 was colder overall, with a mean minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius. In addition to a low of 1.1 degrees, Delhi also recorded 2 degrees Celsius on January 14 and 2.1 degrees on January 26. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The lack of western disturbance in January, aided by cold winds blowing from northwest India, have allowed cold wave conditions to persist this year. Multiple western disturbances are seen in January normally, but we only saw one this year. While it did lead to a rise in minimum temperature, it dropped after that spell. It has since been hovering around normal or below it.” “Clear skies lead to extreme temperatures, with clouds able to effectively trap heat. While cold winds were blowing from the snow-clad mountains, there were no clouds to trap the heat. Therefore, temperature dropped sharply at night and fell to 1.1 degrees on the first day of the year,” Srivastava added. The last day of the month saw a minimum temperature of 3.1 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal. It is considered a cold wave when minimum temperature is more than four degrees below normal. IMD classifies a “severe cold wave” as 6 degrees Celsius or more below normal. A “cold day” is when the maximum or daytime temperature is four degrees below normal. IMD has forecast a gradual rise in minimum temperature from February 1 with a fresh western disturbance bringing in rain on February 4 and 5. “The minimum temperature could rise to 10 degrees by February 5. A drizzle is expected on February 4, while rain activity will take place on February 5,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/most-cold-wave-days-in-january-in-13-years/articleshow/80619307.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Lost & found: Raised as Hindu for 15 years, girl discovers family Muslim||HYDERABAD: Every day for 15 years Sakina mourned the loss of her daughter Fatima who went missing in Mecca Masjid when she was just two-and-half-years old during a visit to city. The Muslim family of five from Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh have finally traced her, but Fatima is now called Swapna having been raised as a Hindu in a child welfare home and doesn’t recognise her folks. “It’s a heart-wrenching situation. We will take our sister to our village and keep her with us to introduce her to our friends and relatives. Later, we will send her back to the children’s home in Hyderabad so that she can continue to focus on her studies,’’ Abid Hussain, her brother, told TOI in a choked voice. The wait to get fully re-united will be a little longer as the child welfare committee has recommended a DNA test confirmation before she is handed over to her family. It was a chance visit to a child welfare home by two Hyderabad cops as part of anti-child trafficking and rescue project called “Operation Smile” that led them to the girl who is in class XI now. A probe revealed that a mason called Khwaja Moinuddin from Kurnool had lodged a missing diary at a Hussainialam police station in 2005. “I got a confirmation from my batchmate in Kurnool about the family’s genuineness and her mother also correctly told us about the identification marks, including a mole on Swapna’s leg,” Cyberabad SI (anti-human trafficking) N Sridhar said. The elated family members who rushed to Hyderabad a few days ago were surprised to find that Fatima was now a staunch Sai Baba devotee. “She has grown up in a completely different culture, with no remembrance of who her family was. This reunion is the second unusual twist in her life. To her misfortune, exactly a year ago, her father had also passed away,” said a senior police official. Recollecting their story leading to the fateful day, the family said they were on a pilgrimage and had first gone to Ajmer Sharif and then came to pray at the iconic Mecca Masjid where the girl went missing while following her father to get water after lunch. The family camped in Hyderabad for several months in search of Fatima. “During our stay in Hyderabad, I had to work in a hotel so that we could get something to eat. Finally, after we lost hope we returned to Kurnool as it was a helpless situation. My mother and father cried for days,” said Hussain. “When we went back my father had to face allegations that he had sold off his daughter. He took so much pain,” Hussain added. (All names changed as the girl is a minor)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lost-found-raised-as-hindu-for-15-yrs-girl-discovers-family-muslim/articleshow/80620667.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Back to college from today: Delhi University teachers not sure of infra||NEW DELHI: A Delhi University (DU) order asking all teachers to come to their respective colleges from February 1, has not gone down well with many. The teachers claim that there is not enough infrastructure facilities for them in the colleges and that the varsity hasn’t issued any clarification on how to conduct online classes if they come to the campus, where they will have to maintain social distancing. The order, signed by DU registrar Vikas Gupta on January 29, further says that only final year students in small batches are allowed to visit their respective colleges according to the direction of the respective principals in line with guidelines by University Grants Commission and standard operating procedure (SOPs). Objecting to this order, Dyal Singh college assistant professor Naveen Gaur, in a January 30 letter to DU acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi, said that “there is absolutely no clarity and/or detailed guidelines on how teaching-learning and other work will happen especially when the college/university is not open for all students.” Gaur, who has written several complaints in the past two years about poor internet facilities in their college, added in his letter that the DU order says that only final year students — that too in small batches — will be allowed in their respective colleges. “There is absolutely no clarity on what will happen to the teaching of other years and the final year students who cannot come to college.” Rajdhani College principal Pankaj Garg asked why teachers of first and second years are being called to colleges when only final year practicals are to be conducted. He further said that “conducting online classes in the college, where over 200 teachers sit in one place, will lead to chaos and a lot of disturbance.” Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna is, however, of the view that “our college is ready and will provide necessary infrastructure space to teachers.” But he added that more time should have been given to the colleges to be ready for calling all teachers. “If the varsity had given more time we could have checked WiFi connection in all our classrooms and would have prepared smoothly,” Khanna said. However, Ramanujan College principal SP Aggarwal said, “The order only gives rights to principals that they can call teachers if they want to. Many principals may just call a few teachers and not all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/back-to-college-from-today-du-teachers-not-sure-of-infra/articleshow/80619325.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 1, 2021||Goa||Indian Coast Guard to achieve target force strength by 2025||Panaji: The Indian Coast Guard, which currently has a fleet of 156 ships and 62 aircraft, is likely to achieve its targeted force level of 200 vessels and 80 aircraft by 2025, said the Indian Coast Guard in a statement while celebrating its 45th Raising Day. Despite the restrictions imposed by the Covid pandemic, the Indian Coast Guard has maintained a 24x7 vigil in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ), by deploying about 50 ships and 12 aircraft daily. “The deterrence at sea and coordinated air surveillance by the service paid off as it enabled seizure of contraband worth about Rs 1,500 crore. We apprehended more than 10 foreign fishing boats with 80 miscreants illegally operating in the Indian EEZ alone in 2020,” the statement said. Besides this, the force has escorted more than 6,000 fishing boats with about 40,000 fishermen during 11 cyclones last year. The Coast Guard is also collaborating with littoral countries to combat transnational maritime crimes and enhance maritime safety in its area of responsibility and in the Indian Ocean Region. In order to synergise coastal security and intelligence, the force is working with stakeholders to enhance the effectiveness of intelligence sharing. It is also working in close coordination with central and state agencies, the statement said. Indian Coast Guard began with just seven ships in 1978 and has grown into a formidable force. “On an average, the Coast Guard saves one precious life every second day at sea,” said the statement. To harmonise the maritime and civil aviation search and rescue mechanism, the Indian Coast Guard conducted National Maritime Search and Rescue Board meeting and followed it up with SAR Exercise-2020 to validate the existing mechanism for undertaking mass rescue operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indian-coast-guard-to-achieve-target-force-strength-by-2025/articleshow/80620412.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Active Covid cases dip below 1,500, a 294-day low||NEW DELHI: The capital reported 140 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours. The number of active novel coronavirus cases in Delhi, meanwhile, came down to 1,361 on Sunday. The last time that the number of active cases in the city was lower was on April 12 — 294 days ago, when the figure was 1,154. A total of 60,695 Covid tests were carried out on Sunday, including 38,746 RT-PCR tests. Delhi’s Covid positivity rate stood at 0.2%. The past 24-hours also recorded four fatalities due to the virus, and with the month coming to an end, 317 deaths at a daily average of 10.2 deaths were reported in the city — the lowest for a month since April. Delhi had witnessed 414 Covid-19 fatalities in May with an average 13.3 deaths each day. While the capital witnessed around one lakh new Covid cases between September and November, the numbers have been dropping since December and in January (till Sunday), a total of 9,727 cases were recorded, again lowest since April when 3,395 cases had been reported. Delhi had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 2, 2020. The number of patients recovering from the disease has been comparatively higher this month. While the number of active cases on December 31 was 5,511, the figure stood at 1,361 on Sunday, a drop of 75.3%. These figures demonstrate that the third and deadliest wave of Covid-19 in the capital, which saw an all-time high of 44,456 active cases on November 14, is on the wane now. In fact, the dip has been a massive 96.9% since then. The total number of Covid positive cases reached 6,35,096 on Sunday and with 211 patients recovering from the disease in the past 24 hours, the number of those who have recovered stood at 6,22,882 — a recovery rate of 98%. Containment zones in Delhi, meanwhile, have come down from 4,085 on December 31 to 1,085 on Sunday, a dip of 73.4%. Out of 1,361 active cases, 657 patients are admitted in hospitals while 548 are recuperating in home isolation, apart from 15 in Covid Care Centres and one in Covid Health Centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-cases-dip-below-1500-a-294-day-low/articleshow/80619332.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Artistes, cinema owners welcome move to allow 100% occupancy in theatres||KOLKATA: Members of Bengal’s culture and entertainment world heaved a collective sigh of relief on Saturday night after the ministry of information and broadcasting allowed 100% occupancy in cinemas from February 1. While some are eager to immediately implement the revised occupancy norms, many want to wait till February 5, the first Friday after the announcement. However, some event organizers, including those of the Dover Lane Music Conference, will stick to the 50% occupancy norm for their 2021 edition of the fests. “Sitting arrangement inside the auditoriums of the cinemas/theatres/multiplexes is to be allowed up to 100% capacity,” read a statement from the ministry. According to the new list of standard operating procedure (SOP), the restrictions will remain in Covid-19 containment zones. Last October, cinemas had reopened with 50% occupancy with low footfall and very few big releases. The cast and crew of three Bengali releases on February 12 — ‘Dictionary’, ‘Prem Tame’ and ‘Magic’ — are jubilant with the new SOP. “This is a big news for the ‘Prem Tame’ team,” said director Anindya Chattopadhyay. According to popular television actor Oindrila Sen, this was the “biggest gift” she could have received for her Tollywood acting debut in ‘Magic’. Minister Bratya Basu, who is neck-deep in election work even as he awaits the release of ‘Dictionary’, said this SOP will help ensure better response to his film. “During the inauguration of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival on January 8, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had advocated 100% occupancy of auditoriums. The Centre took over a month to allow the same,” said Basu. Equally happy are other practitioners of fine arts. According to Kallol Bose, joint secretary of the Academy of Fine Arts, “This SOP was long due. People in our fraternity would have to starve if the low-occupancy norm continued. We had to take bank overdraft of Rs 45 lakh to pay salaries to our staff. Unless 100% occupancy is allowed, groups can’t earn enough to hire an auditorium repeatedly. Regular hiring is mandatory for an auditorium to pay salaries.” Organizers, who have conferences lined up, have welcomed the new SOP. Sarod player Debojyoti Bose, who is the convener of Rajya Sangeet Academy that’s hosting a conference between February 3 and 7, called this a “fantastic” move. “When enormous crowds are visiting the zoological garden, Victoria Memorial Hall and attending political meetings and rallies, why should there be restrictions for concerts? It was our chief minister who had suggested 100% occupancy since she understands the pain of artistes reeling under financial crisis,” said Bose, who will take a final call on the occupancy at the Rajya Sangeet Academy conference on Monday. However, the Dover Lane Music Conference, which will be held from February 13 to 16 — with performances by Amit Chaudhuri, Ustad Rashid Khan and son Armaan, Pt Ajoy Chakraborty and Amaan Ali Bangash among others — will be held at the Nazrul Manch with 50% occupancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/artistes-cinema-owners-welcome-move-to-allow-100-occupancy-in-theatres/articleshow/80619308.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Pump in higher subsidies, make pvt traders purchase at MSP, say activists and farmers||Nagpur: Farmers from Vidarbha are looking forward to measures which may not have a direct relation with the Budget. They are hoping for repeal of the three contentious farm laws and mandatory purchase at MSP even for private traders. On the other hand, farm activists are pressing for enhanced allocation towards agriculture subsidy. It would help improve income of farmers, they say. Workers of Shetkari Sanghatna said the Budget should contain measures that would prevent exploitation of farmers. Stressing on its concept of negative subsidy, a leader of the outfit said farmers in India should be compensated for the lower earnings as compared to their counterpart in developed countries. The farmers in other countries get high amount of subsidy which ultimately earns them a better profit. Citing an OECD report, the leader said as much as Rs45,000 crore needed to be pumped in as farm subsidy to bridge the gap. “This can come in the form of direct benefit transfer or loan waiver,” said the leader. Vijay Jawandhia, a former Shetkari Sanghatna leader, said, “There is a buzz that the farmers’ dole under Prime Minister’s scheme may be increased to Rs10,000 from Rs6,000 at present. But it is not a permanent solution. Instead increase subsidies. For example, the farm labourers should be entirely covered under MNREGA.” Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, a state government agency on farm crisis, said loan waiver cannot be a solution either. Along with better credit disbursal, he also batted for increase in allocation towards subsidies. “This was one of the worst years for Vidarbha’s farmers. Output of all three major crops — cotton, soyabean and tur — has gone down. The government should come up with a law making procurement at MSP compulsory,” said Manish Jadhav, a cotton grower from Hiwri village in Yavatmal. There was apprehension about allowing sale of farm produce out of APMCs as entailed in the new law. Samadhan Supekar, a farmer from Buldhana, said the system is already there in Maharashtra but farmers have ended up facing defaults from buyers. “Even in Buldhana some traders offer a higher rate for sales outside APMC yard, but also default on payments,” he said. Anup Chavan from Bodhbodan village in Yavatmal said traders may easily be able to keep rates down if the APMC system is dismantled. Bodhbodan was in news for high suicides. Amitabh Pawde, a farmer-cum-activist from Narkhed, said there should be MSP for all the crops instead of 24 at present. AGRICULTURE WISH LIST - Mandatory purchase at MSP even for private traders - Enhanced allocation towards agriculture subsidy - Measures to prevent exploitation of farmers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pump-in-higher-subsidies-make-pvt-traders-purchase-at-msp-say-activists-and-farmers/articleshow/80619292.cms||Shishir Arya
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Decision on reopening colleges in Maharashtra in a day or two: Minister||MUMBAI: Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Sunday said that the decision on reopening colleges in the state will be taken in a day or two. He was talking to the media after meeting governor B S Koshyari. Samant said that on Monday, he will chair a meeting with all vice-chancellors of non-agriculture universities to discuss the issue about reopening of colleges. “The report will be submitted to CM Uddhav Thackeray immediately after the meeting,” he said. A separate standard operating procedure is expected to be issued for reopening of colleges. Meanwhile, Savitribai Phule Pune University has withdrawn the circular announcing the reopening of campuses issued two weeks ago after a notice from the state department. t||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/decision-on-reopening-colleges-in-maharashtra-in-a-day-or-two-min/articleshow/80619369.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Dehradun||Rain & snowfall in offing in U’khand from Feb 4, cold wave conditions to prevail in plains||Dehradun: A fresh spell of rain and snowfall is likely to occur in the hills of Uttarakhand from February 4 night, according to the regional meteorological centre. Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, told TOI that a western disturbance will have an impact on the weather in Uttarakhand, which might result in rain and snowfall in the hills between the night of February 4 and February 6. The hill towns like Dhanaulti, Mussoorie, Chakrata, Auli, and Mukteshwar are likely to witness snow activity, while the foothills, including Dehradun, might receive light showers. Meanwhile, the temperature, especially the minimum levels, are settling on the lower side, causing a rise in the diurnal temperature variation at many places in the state, especially in the plains, Met officials said. For instance, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 21.9 degree Celsius, while the minimum settled at 3.9 degree Celsius, one notch below normal. In Haridwar, the day’s temperature was recorded at 20.3 degree Celsius, while the minimum remained at 3.9 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-snowfall-in-offing-in-ukhand-from-feb-4-cold-wave-conditions-to-prevail-in-plains/articleshow/80617221.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Victoria Memorial Hall set for new-age light-and-sound shows||KOLKATA: Armed with cutting-edge technology, Victoria Memorial Hall is launching two brand new light-and-sound shows, scrapping the earlier one, for visitors from mid-February. This is part of an array of programmes and events that the ministry of culture has lined up to celebrate the centenary of Victoria Memorial. One of the shows is on Netaji, since his 125th birth anniversary is also being celebrated this year. The other show might be a story on Kolkata, its beginnings and its space in the history of British India and the subsequent nationalist movement. The authorities are in the final stages of finalizing the contents and narrative of the second show. They are ready to start with the show on Netaji. Unlike the style that was used in the earlier light-and-sound shows, where a single narrative ran through the entire length, punctuated with anecdotes and stories that branched from it, this one is almost like a film where the narrative progresses through conversations, interspersed with real-life recordings. Azad Hind Radio, that Netaji started in 1942 in Germany to speak to the freedom fighters here, has been used as a character in the show, the other being Netaji himself. These are voice overs. A team from the National School of Drama did the background research and prepared the script, which has been made in English, Bangla and Hindi. The show has been created by a consortium of Modern Stage Services and Tricolour India Schauspiel. The eastern facade of Victoria Memorial has been chosen for the show, which is not just a digital light-and-sound show but one that uses projection mapping, which is a cutting edge technology and is yet to be used in any monument in the country. “Unlike a flat projection, the technology that we are using can turn any object into a screen and there would be no distortion when the image is projected on the walls. A 3D object is spatially mapped on the virtual programme and that mimics the real environment it is to be projected on,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator of Victoria Memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/victoria-set-for-new-age-light-and-sound-shows/articleshow/80618118.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 1, 2021||Pune||RTI on road widening: PMC says no info on traffic surveys||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has conceded it had no information regarding any traffic survey of the 335 six-metre lanes proposed to be widened to nine metres, besides population, tree count and the cost of shifting the service lines along them. “No information available” was the PMC’s stock reply to the Right to Information (RTI) application of activist Sarang Yadwadkar seeking basic data about the controversial proposal to widen the streets, based on which notices had been served to hundreds of housing societies. Yadwadkar told TOI, “They (PMC) said their act of seeking citizens’ views on the proposal proves that they are transparent, but they did not share the basic details of the proposal. Tell me, on what basis do they expect citizens to lodge objections or offer suggestions?” PMC superintending engineer Rajendra Raut said since the shortlisted roads and lanes were in various parts of the city, the executive engineers were asked to conduct assessment of roads in their respective areas. “They (executive engineers) will have the data about the roads in their jurisdiction and will share it with citizens during the hearing,” he said. The PMC’s notice asking affected citizens to file objections to the road-widening proposal was published in newspapers on December 29. Two days later, Yadwadkar filed the application under the RTI Act seeking details of traffic surveys, studies or analysis that suggested the need for widening these lanes. The other information he sought included the current and the projected population along these streets, total impact on the area because of the rise in FSI (floor space index), estimated cost of shifting the service lines, the amount of compensation to be paid and the total number of trees along these lanes. On January 18, the PMC replied to the RTI application stating that “no information is available” regarding all 10 queries that Yadwadkar raised. It added, “Documents, maps and notices regarding the proposal are on the PMC’s website. If you are not happy with this information, you can go for an appeal.” The TOI scanned through the PMC’s website but could not find any information related to any of Yadwadkar’s queries. The month-long deadline for submitting objections to the road widening ended on January 28 and the appeal would have been decided after that. “So, if at all any information was shared, it would have been of little use after the date of filing objections,” Yadwadkar said, adding that he had filed the objection over the widening plan to meet the deadline and would soon make an appeal under the RTI Act to seek the information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rti-on-widening-pmc-says-no-information-on-traffic-surveys/articleshow/80619362.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Glitch-free TET held amid Covid restrictions||KOLKATA: Primary Teachers Eligibility Test — the first public examination during the pandemic — was conducted without a glitch on Sunday. Though a few question papers were found posted on various websites within a few minutes into the exam, senior West Bengal Board of Primary Education officials confirmed that they were from a different series and were “not authentic”. An examinee from Sabong in West Midnapore appeared in the TET from a centre in Chandrakona on Sunday. Narayan Chandra Jana (43) walks on his hands after his legs became immobile, leading to extreme financial difficulties. Jana gave a second try to crack the TET after a failed attempt in 2015.  “I am the eldest of three siblings and have no other means of income but to work on a small plot of land owned by the family. I want to bag a job as a primary school teacher, which will make me financially stable,” said Jana. He has already completed his PTTI training and earned a BEd degree. “My nephew has helped me travel 70kms from my home and reach the exam centre,” he said. In West Midnapore, there were 15,000 candidates who appeared from 35 centres. This is the third primary TET that has been conducted since Trinamool Congress came to power in 2011. The first was in 2012, followed by the last one in 2015. Ismail Sheikh, a blind candidate from Sakher Bazar, appeared in TET from Hindu School. “The questions in the maths section were tough. Considering this was the first public examination during the pandemic, every health protocol was maintained. There were social distancing and even sanitizers placed at every corner,” he said. Tabbasum Parvin, another examinee who has attempted to crack the exam for the third time, added that two candidates were allotted on a single bench during the examination. Sabina Khatoon, a seven-month pregnant candidate from Park Circus, was one of the aspirants on Sunday. She has completed her undergraduate in geography. “I have been trying to get a job as a primary teacher for long. My father passed away last year. He was infected with coronavirus. I am determined to appear in the examination despite my physical limitations,” she said. (With inputs from Sujay Khanra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/glitch-free-tet-held-amid-covid-restrictions/articleshow/80618132.cms||Amit Moulick
February 1, 2021||Rajkot||Seven including a minor caught for firing on Gujarat's Jamnagar builder||RAJKOT: Seven persons including a minor boy were caught in connection with the firing on 40-year-old builder Jaysukh Pethadiya in Jamnagar on January 28 morning. Those arrested were Sunil Kanjariya, Deep Hadia, Sunik Nakum, Karan Kesariya, Bhimsi Karmur, Mayur Hathaliya while the minor boy was detained. All are residents of Jamnagar and closely connected with absconding gangster Jayesh Patel. Preliminary investigation revealed the role of Patel who allegedly wanted Pethadiya eliminated over an old land dispute in Jamnagar. Patel has several cases of land grabbing cases lodged against him and his said to have fled India. Four assailants who came on two bikes opened fire at Pethadiya at his under-construction site in Ivapark on Lalpur road. “Mayur and Sunil Kanjaria were on one bike and Deep Hadia and a minor boy were on another bike. Mayur and Deep had opened fire on Jaysukh. Total three rounds were fired at the builder,” police added. “We analysed CCTV footage from nearby areas and found that one white-colour bike was used in the crime. We traced the bike and identified the assailants,” police officials said. Police sources said that Patel had threatened Pethadiya and his brother Hasmukh over the land dispute in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-including-a-minor-caught-for-firing-on-jamnagar-builder/articleshow/80617244.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Common man, traders cry foul as Hry extends mobile internet ban||Chandigarh: Invoked to break the communication chain of agitating unions and workers, especially in Gazipur, the ban on mobile internet services has started taking its toll on students, traders who deal in online transactions of money. In yet another setback to them, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), all SMS services (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services provided on mobile networks, except the voice calls in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Rewari, Sirsa, Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts till 5pm on Sunday. “For the last two days, our system is paralysed. Most of the customers have now shifted to wallet payments or card payments. Since card swipe machines work with mobile internet, you can imagine the impact on our businesses,” said Hemant Bakshi, president of traders’ body of Rohtak district. Pawan Kumar, an online trader from Sonipat, said, “Since SMS service too is suspended, we do not get OTP of certain online services, especially the online monetary transfers and transactions. Also, this move has come as unannounced holidays for students now,” said Pawan Meanwhile, the ban has also given opposition parties to target the state government and Union government. “This government is resorting to a new wrong everyday. All just to suppress the voice of farmers. Instead of doing all this, the government should repeal laws,’’ said Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja. AICC communication head Randeep Surjewala said, “The government and its agencies have become so arrogant that in order to dislodge or suppress the agitation, they are not hesitating to harass regular people. The government should restore services with immediate effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/common-man-traders-cry-foul-as-hry-extends-mobile-internet-ban/articleshow/80619336.cms||Manvir Saini
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Rescheduled Pulse Polio starts, turnout better this time||KOLKATA: Deferred by two weeks to facilitate the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination programme, the Pulse Polio immunization began on Sunday. As part of the three-day programme across the country, the polio vaccine is being administered to children below five. “Initially, the drive was slated to begin on January 16. But prodded by the Union home ministry, the drive was rescheduled to ensure the Covid management and vaccination services, as well as non-Covid essential health services, could simultaneously continue without impacting each other,” said a Kolkata Municipal Corporation official. Pulse Polio immunization had resumed in Bengal in September last year after a gap of eight months — amid dilemma among parents that resulted in a lower-than-usual response. This time, the response has been better than what it was four months ago, KMC officials said. “In September, turnout was very low. As a result, we had to organize a separate camp in November. This time, although the turnout is lower than usual, it is better than that in September,” said Debasis Mukherjee, a KMC field worker, who was overseeing the vaccination drive at the civic health centre on Kalighat Road where 355 children were vaccinated on Sunday. To reach out to families who were still reluctant to bring their children to the booths for the oral polio vaccination (OPV), health workers will visit their houses in person to administer the dosages. “I had skipped the OPV in September as I did not want to take my child outside. But this year, I took my daughter to the booth near my home where she was administered the vaccine. The healthcare staffer was a wearing a mask and had gloves on which was reassuring. Also, there was not much of a crowd,” said a Harish Mukherjee Road resident and mother of a two-year-old girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rescheduled-pulse-polio-starts-turnout-better-this-time/articleshow/80619340.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Cinemas to run at full capacity from today in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Cinema halls, which have been operating with a 50% cap on seating, will run at full capacity from Monday. Delhiites will also be able to use swimming pools. This was allowed in an order issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Sunday, which also permits trade exhibitions and opening of stadia for sports events. While usage of these facilities in full capacity has been allowed due to the drop in Covid-19 cases over the past two months, strict safety norms have also been put in place, apart from the usual Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, like maintaining social distancing, not spitting, sneezing or coughing in the elbow, safe disposal of used masks, etc. At cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes, 100% seating capacity has been allowed, but a sufficient time interval has to be maintained between successive screenings to ensure row-wise staggered entry and exit of the audience. As intermission witnesses crowding in common areas, washrooms and food counters, the audience would be encouraged to avoid movement. There would be longer intermissions to allow staggered movement for the audience. Social distancing would have to be maintained in all common areas. There would be staggered show timings for multiple screens so that the time of commencement, intermission and finish time of shows do not overlap with any other screen in a multiplex. The seating areas would be regularly sanitised, including mandatory sanitisation after each screening. Digital, no-contact transactions would be preferred for issue, verification or payments for tickets, foods and beverages, etc by using online booking, use of e-wallets, QR code scanners, etc. At the entry, hand sanitisers would have to be made available, preferably in a touch-free mode. Installation of Aarogya Setu app would be encouraged and thermal scanning at entry would be carried out. Those found symptomatic would not be allowed entry and staff would also have to inform about any illness at the earliest. Contact numbers would be noted during booking of tickets to facilitate contact tracing later. At swimming pools, physical distancing of six feet must be followed, including the deck, sitting arena, showers, etc. Inside the pool, use of alternate lanes in the opposite direction would be encouraged and swimmers would have to shower before entering and after exiting. They would also be asked to avoid taking pool water in their mouth. Spitting shall be done only in the pool gutter. Sharing of soap, towels, etc by swimmers would be strictly avoided. Staggering of swimmers for different sporting events or training sessions would have to be ensured. Swimmers would be allowed to use locker rooms, but these areas should be adequately ventilated and regularly disinfected. Apart from CCTV monitoring to detect crowding in the visitor’s gallery, common areas, etc, separate gates for entry and exit would be used and regular sanitisation of work areas, common utility areas, railings, elevator buttons, etc would be carried out. Similar guidelines have been issued for stadia and at trade exhibitions too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cinemas-to-run-at-full-capacity-from-today/articleshow/80619366.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Christians in Mumbai get marriage registrar||MUMBAI: The state has appointed Louis Jacky Sequeira, section officer in Mantralaya’s general administration department, as the marriage registrar for the city’s Christian community. TOI had reported how newly wed couples were forced to travel to Pune to register after the previous officer retired in February 2020. A Vasai resident also filed a petition in the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-christians-get-marriage-registrar/articleshow/80620443.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Build on Covid sops, reduce taxes and stamp duty, say Vidarbha industrialists||Nagpur: Despite stimulus package of Central government, industries are in bad shape and have high hopes from the Union Budget 2021-22. Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association, Hingna, said the government had given collateral free loan up to 30% earlier. “However, the scheme lasted till September only. It should be renewed. Interest on loans should be waived off for one year as industry will need that much time to recover from Covid,” he said. Shegaonkar added that prices of raw materials had shot up due to cartel formation. “This must be addressed in the budget or large number of factories will close down,” he added. Shiv Kumar Rao, president of Vidarbha Economic Development Council (VED), said that there was need to strengthen the railway infrastructure. “Allocation to railways should be increased. There should be adequate allocation for coastal shipping. At the same time, strengthening of highways network is also needed. Road side amenities for truck drivers should be created,” he added. Rao further said that logistics industry was governed by different ministries. “Create a single ministry or authority. In 2017, government announced that a national logistics policy would be framed but there is no progress on it,” he added. Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) had submitted a memorandum to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in December. Their demands mostly deal with taxation. The current rate of minimum alternate tax (MAT) of 18.5% is quite high and has impacted significantly cash flow of companies who otherwise have low taxable income or have incurred losses. Their demand is MAT rate be reduced to 10%. Presently, no deduction is available under the Income Tax Act towards expenses incurred on corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities as referred in Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. VIA also wants CSR expenses to be deducted while computing IT. Fair market value (FMV) of industrial property for levy of stamp duty is significantly higher as compared to actual rate prevailing. Present law provides for taxation of immovable property transactions on notional basis, where if the property is sold or purchased below its FMV the difference between actual sale consideration and stamp duty valuation is liable for income tax in the hands of buyers as well as seller. There are various situations like sale of industrial property where it impossible to sell the property at FMV. Exclusions for such situation need to be provided in all above sections, said industry leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/build-on-covid-sops-reduce-taxes-and-stamp-duty-say-vidarbha-industrialists/articleshow/80619310.cms||Ashish Roy
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Will urge CM to offer medals to cops for work in pandemic: DGP||Thane: State police chief Hemant Nagrale said that he would request the chief minister to honour cops who have displayed exemplary work during the Covid outbreak with special medals. “Services of personnel during such difficult times must be recognised,” said director general of police Hemant Nagrale. He added that this practice was prevalent in other states, like Tamil Nadu for instance. He was speaking at an event held to hand over appointment letters to 74 people who have been inducted into Maharashtra police on compassionate grounds as constables after their kin died while on duty. The new appointments were made on compassionate grounds, he said. Nagrale added that this will be extended throughout the state. “Offer of jobs to the children of those who lost their lives in the pandemic would be of support to the bereaved families and their sacrifice has not gone waste,” he said. —Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-urge-cm-to-offer-medals-to-cops-for-work-in-pandemic-dgp/articleshow/80604781.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sourav Ganguly walks out of hospital, fit to resume normal life||KOLKATA: BCCI president and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly was discharged from hospital on Sunday morning, three days after he underwent an angioplasty to place two stents in his blocked cardiac arteries. The 48-year-old was declared fit to return to normal activities with certain minor alterations in his lifestyle and food habits. Last Wednesday, Ganguly had felt uneasy and was rushed to Apollo Gleneagles Hospital via a green corridor created between his Behala home and the hospital. After preliminary investigations, it was decided that he needed an angioplasty in two of his blocked arteries. Earlier this month, Ganguly was diagnosed with triple vessel disease and underwent a coronary angioplasty to remove a 90% blockage in his right ventricular artery. Even though two other minor blockages had been detected, a medical board at the hospital — which included eminent cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty as an adviser — ruled that they were not serious and that procedures to remove them could be deferred. “Ganguly is absolutely fit now and ready to resume normal activities. The procedure has been successful and he is healthy enough to get back to his normal routine,” said Aftab Khan, a member of the panel constituted for his treatment. The others in the panel are Saraj Mandal and Saptarshi Basu. Shetty had flown in on Thursday to join the panel as an adviser. Apart from Devi Shetty, cardiologists Ashwin B Mehta and Ajit Desai, too, were flown in from Mumbai for the angioplasty. “He has no cardiac issues now, though he must remain under medical supervision. Ganguly must undergo regular check-ups since he has had two successive stent implants that require regular screening,” said a hospital source. On Sunday morning, Ganguly walked out of the hospital in a jacket, waving to the crowd. His fans had been waiting for his release at the hospital gates. Soon after he was driven back to his Behala home, a crowd of fans descended on his car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sourav-walks-out-of-hosp-fit-to-resume-normal-life/articleshow/80618166.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Safai staff is back, clean-up resumes in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With a majority of sanitation workers resuming work, garbage lifting has begun in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and over 15,000 metric tonnes of waste has been cleared so far, civic functionaries claim. However, the piled up garbage of the past two weeks will have to be cleared with additional resources and the mayor is overseeing the operations by visiting key sites. Other employee unions like that of teachers, paramedical staff, etc, are still on strike till a permanent solution is found to the problem of salary delays and all pending salaries are cleared for all workers. Mayor of north corporation Jaiprakash said that streets are being cleared on a full scale and more than 15,000 metric tonnes of garbage has been lifted. “In next 2-3 days, all the pending garbage should be cleared. I have also urged the councillors to supervise the drives in their own wards,” he added. During the strike period, garbage lifting from dhalaos continued, but street sweeping was badly impacted, leading to garbage heaps accumulating in the Walled City, Paharganj, Sadar Bazar and Karol Bagh among other places. The mayor added that out 27,000 sanitation workers, almost everyone barring 500-1,000 workers from a few small unions have rejoined work. “We are also in talks with teachers and paramedic staff,” he added. Jaiprakash visited some places like Roshanara to felicitate the sanitation workers who resumed work. Recently, a proposal had been floated to unify the finance departments of the three municipal corporations to make them financially viable. A senior official confirmed that such a proposal has been prepared as a plan towards financial recovery. The civic bodies already follow the model of deputing a nodal corporation for subjects like toll tax collection and promotions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safai-staff-is-back-clean-up-resumes/articleshow/80619388.cms||Paras Singh
February 1, 2021||Kolkata||Objection to loud party turns south Kolkata locality into war zone||KOLKATA: A neighbour’s objection to an inebriated group partying loudly in a hostel room adjoining the Buddhist monastery in Chakraberia spiralled into street violence late on Saturday night, leaving seven injured — including a senior police officer — and badly damaging four parked vehicles. According to locals, a person who stays in the hostel had called over a few friends — some from the locality and several outsiders — to the party. They were playing loud music late on Saturday night. Dilip Bose, a local, who is also a Trinamool Congress leader, urged them not to misbehave with passers by and turn the volume of down. Bose told them that his brother had undergone a cardiac bypass recently and was unable to rest due to the loud music. “Bose requested the group several times. He spoke to them from his home. The other group refused to oblige and asked him to step out and speak to them. When Bose tried to speak to them again after stepping out of his house, he was pushed and shoved,” said Nilesh Nimavat, another local. This was enough to agitate the locals. “As the crowd swelled, the other group armed themselves with whatever they could lay their hands on,” claimed Nimavat’s neighbour Shibnath Ghosh. The incident was reported to police around 11.15pm. Ballygunge police, led by OC Lakhsmi Narayan Pan, reached the spot and resorted to lathi-charge to separate the warring groups. Additional forces from Bhowanipore and Karaya, led by DCP (SED) Sudip Sarkar, had to be deployed to bring the situation under control. Police are scanning CCTV footage to identify the attackers. Those partying at the hostel claimed they did not violate any norms. “Some locals, who brought in outsiders, tried to barge in forcefully. They kept telling us that we cannot party in a hall adjoining the monastery. They then assaulted us and resorted to vandalism,” alleged a one of them. During the action, OC Pan suffered a minor heart attack. He was rushed to a private nursing where he was admitted later. “By the time we reached the spot, the locals had chased away the party-goers. We have collected CCTV footage. Vehicles were damaged. Both sides had men who were in an inebriated state,” said an officer. “It was a law-and-order situation related to a drunken brawl around the Buddhist monastery. We used bare minimum intervention to bring the situation under control,” said DCP Sarkar. He said the injuries reportedly received by locals were minor in nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/objection-to-loud-party-turns-s-kol-locality-into-war-zone/articleshow/80618153.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 1, 2021||Agra||Army men, 35 & 42, on way to Madhya Pradesh killed in car crash on Yamuna e-way||AGRA: Two Army men on their way to Madhya Pradesh from Amritsar were killed after the driver of the speeding car they were travelling in lost control over the vehicle and crashed into the divider near milestone 75 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura’s Naujheel area early on Sunday. Police identified the victims as Lance Naik Pradeep Singh Sardar (35) of 36th Infantry Division, who hailed from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, and Lance Naik Gurbakhshish Singh (42) of 15th Division from Tarn Taran in Punjab. Police suspect that Pradeep dozed off at the wheel of the Scorpio they were travelling in, and the uncontrolled vehicle crashed into the divider around 5 am. Pradeep was on a leave and on his way to Gwalior, while Gurubakshish was going to Sagar to join his new posting after being transferred from Leh, said their family members. Pradeep is survived by his wife Jaspreet Kaur and two children — a nine-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter — while Gurbakhshish is survived by his wife Amandeep Kaur and two children— a 13-year-old son and an eight-year-old daughter. Gurbakhshish’s kin Prahlad Singh who arrived in Mathura to receive his body, told TOI, “Gurbakhshish had to go to Sagar on Sunday after completing almost a month-long vacation at home, but Pradeep asked him to join till Gwalior. Gurbakhshish had planned to take a train to Sagar from Gwalior. But, none of them reached their destinations.” Pradeep’s cousin Maninder Singh said, “Both of them were good friends and had worked together in Ahmedabad. Unfortunately, they departed together.” Superintendent of police (rural) Shirish Chandra said the bodies got trapped inside the car after the massive crash. “We will hand over the bodies to the victims’ families after the postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/army-men-35-42-on-way-to-madhya-pradeshkilled-in-car-crash-on-yamuna-e-way-in-mathura/articleshow/80617249.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Schools to open, but confusion over transport still prevails in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: As confusion over plying of buses to ferry children to school continues, there is no clarity over starting of junior classes in private schools. Besides the issue of transport, members of the management in private schools were worried about the process to be followed to get undertaking from the parents and medical fitness certificates of children. “For the past eight months, many buses have been parked. These need fitness certificate and we have to get them insured before putting them on roads. At a time when the government has not given any guidelines about transportation, how would we bring children to school? Moreover, as the government has not even cleared the air on whether we shall charge transport fee or not, how can private institutes run buses?” asked Kulbhushan Sharma, president, Haryana unit of Private Schools Association. “Let us wait to get guidelines on buses and medical certificate. I think it will take time to implement this in private schools,” he added. The education department, on Sunday, maintained that government schools are all set to start junior classes from Monday and the school teachers and principals have been issued relevant guidelines. The government has decided to reopen schools for students studying in classes VI to VIII from February 1, 2021. Schools will be re-opened from 10am to 1:30pm. Making the announcement of starting school, education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said problems faced by private schools would be taken into consideration as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-to-open-but-confusion-over-transport-still-prevails-in-hry/articleshow/80619372.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Agra||Kidnappers release Aligarh doctor without taking ransom of Rs 20 lakh||AGRA: A 50-year-old homeopathy doctor from Aligarh, who was abducted by unidentified men three days ago, was released mysteriously on Saturday evening. He was released without the kidnappers taking the ransom amount of Rs 20 lakh that they had initially demanded. Dr Shailendra Singh, a resident of Sakshivihar colony, was abducted on January 28, while he was heading to his clinic in the morning. An FIR was registered under section 364 A of IPC on a complaint filed by doctor’s wife Meenu at Kawarsi police station. SP (city) Kuldeep Singh Gunawat immediately formed teams to nab the kidnappers and during investigation, police scanned CCTV footage of the areas and the accused were spotted kidnapping the doctor and taking him away with them. On January 30, the kidnappers called the doctor’s family from his mobile phone and demanded Rs 20 lakh as ransom, which was to be delivered at Pari Chowk, Noida, said police. However, the kidnappers changed the programme at the last moment and asked the family to reach Ghaziabad. However, no one reached the spot and the doctor was released. Gunawat said that though the doctor had reached home safe, the police will arrest the kidnappers soon. The doctor’s wife Meenu told media persons that her son received a call from his father’s mobile but as he was busy with his online classes, he couldn't respond to it. “When I called back my husband, he asked me to arrange Rs 20 lakh as he had bought one plot,” she said, adding that when she asked him about the plot, the call was disconnected by him. Meenu claimed that she has not paid any ransom to the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kidnappers-release-aligarh-doc-without-taking-ransom-of-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/80617255.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: BJP cadres attack TRS MLA’s home over Ram temple funds||WARANGAL/HYDERABAD: In the first sign of a bigger battle emerging between the ruling TRS and the BJP in Telangana, cadres of both parties attacked each other’s buildings in Warangal after a TRS legislator questioned the utilisation of money being raised for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Angry BJP cadres attacked Parkal MLA Dharma Reddy’s residence in Hanamkonda with eggs, tomatoes, and stones shortly after he alleged that the BJP was seeking political mileage in the name of Lord Ram. “I am also a devotee of Lord Ram. The BJP has been collecting donations in the name of Lord Ram without being accountable. The saffron party should give an account of donations collected. If Rs 1,000 crore is the target to be collected as donations in Telangana state alone, what will the BJP do with Rs 29,000 crore donations at the rate of Rs 1,000 crore donations in each of the 29 states in the country,” Dharma Reddy said at a media conference. Reddy added that if the party could spend crores for a statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on its own then why can’t the party construct the Ram temple with its funds. Immediately, BJP cadres led by its Warangal urban district president Rao Padma swooped down on Reddy’s residence before police reached the place. Local inspector Naresh said 100 BJP members were taken into custody and rioting cases have been registered under various IPC sections against the BJP urban district president Rao Padma and others. “All the arrested would be produced in district court tomorrow,” he said. Responding to the incident, TRS working president KT Rama Rao warned the BJP not to test the patience of the ruling party which has been maintaining restraint as it believes and follows in democratic and secular values. “There is no place for such attacks on individuals in a democracy. Earlier too, the BJP had tried to attack TRS leaders and activists. BJP should realise that TRS has all the strength and force to protect its cadre but wants politics of democratic values to continue in Telangana. The BJP should not forget that TRS is a udyama party (founded to spearhead Telangana agitation),” KTR said. First serious spark between TRS & BJPAngry TRS members too retaliated and pelted stones at local BJP office and damaged the arch located in front of the office Immediately, Rao Padma sat on a hunger strike inside the police station demanding the arrest of TRS members. Political tension has been simmering between the ruling TRS and the opposition BJP after the victory of the saffron party in Dubbak by-poll followed by the bitterly fought GHMC election in December 2020 where the BJP snatched 48 out of 150 seats, leaving TRS with just 56 seats, while the AMIM won 44 seats. Sunday’s trouble is being viewed by analysts as the first of the serious spark before the big fight between the TRS and BJP ahead of polls to two graduate MLC seats, bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency, elections to seven municipal corporation in the first two quarters of this year and finally the all-important 2023 Assembly polls. TRS ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Koppula Eshwar, Satyavathi Rathod among other TRS leaders strongly condemned the attack charging the BJP of trying to disturb the peaceful law and order situation in Telangana on religious lines. The BJP in a statement said: “TRS is behaving with utmost brazenness like its conjoined twin AIMIM in insulting the majority population of Telangana and Lord Ram through provocative statements consistently.” “KTR, his MLAs and TRS party should understand the real spirit behind Ram Mandir Trust collecting these small donations from Indians of all religious identities. The trust wishes every Indian’s participation in building this glorious temple for Lord Ram and wants every Indian to feel that they have contributed to this pious and historic initiative,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-cadres-attack-trs-mlas-home-over-ram-temple-funds/articleshow/80620672.cms||Roushan Ali
February 1, 2021||India||Farmers dying, says Capt Amarinder, calls all-party meet on stir||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday convened an all-party meeting on February 2 to discuss the situation arising out of the violence in Delhi on Republic Day and evolve a consensus on the way forward on the ongoing agitation against the farm laws. “Our farmers have been dying on the Delhi borders for more than two months now. They are being beaten up by police and assaulted by goons,” said Amarinder while underlining the need for all parties to unite to evolve a cohesive strategy on this issue. Earlier, in an interview to TOI, he said it is sad that post January 26, “a vilification campaign” has been launched on the social media by branding protesters as ‘Khalistanis’. “BJP cannot wash its hands of its role in instigating this vilification campaign, as its leaders, since the very beginning of the agitation, have been repeatedly and persistently calling farmers all kinds of names — Khalistanis, Urban Naxalites, hooligans and what not — to discredit the movement. Rajnath Singh had called for a stop to this name calling. But it’s back with a vengeance,” he said, adding that no BJP leader has criticised these attacks. “An unfortunate and malicious campaign has been started by vested interests to drive a communal wedge by vilifying an entire community, whose sacrifices for the country and nationalism are unparalleled and undoubtable. This must stop immediately or it would have very dangerous consequences not only for Punjab but also India,” Amarinder said. “Punjab has seen a lot of bloodshed and cannot afford to see any more of it. Any communal unrest in Punjab can have disastrous consequences, as we have a hostile Pakistan sitting on our borders, waiting to exploit any opportunity,” the CM said. Amarinder reiterated that the morale of Army personnel from Punjab, who constitute 20% of the armed forces, could be impacted by the ongoing events. “Just imagine the mental state of a soldier sitting on the front at Dras or Siachen, knowing well that his aged father or younger brother/sister is sitting under the open skies on Delhi borders with uncertainty on the course that this agitation would take and the constant threat of police action.” “Our farmers have been dying on the Delhi borders for more than two months now. They are being beaten up by police and assaulted by goons,” said Punjab CM Amarinder Singh while underlining the need for all parties to unite to evolve a cohesive strategy on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-dying-says-capt-amarinder-calls-all-party-meet-on-stir/articleshow/80620976.cms||Vibhor Mohan
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: TP scheme roads added for uniform policy, says panel chief||PUNE: Narrow access roads in Town Planning (TP) schemes and plotted layouts of bungalow colonies and housing societies were not part of the civic administration's original proposal for widening of the lanes in the city to nine metres. These were included at the insistence of the standing committee through a short notice amendment to the official proposal. Most objections to the PMC’s nine-metre road widening plan have come from bungalow colonies with approved plotted layouts and approved TP scheme lanes. TOI investigated what happened at the standing committee meeting on June 9, 2020, and has a copy of the docket tabled by the civic administration, a copy of the amendment, and the minutes of the meeting. “In addition to the roads proposed by the administration, we propose that all those public roads in Pune which are part of the plotted layouts, approved Gunthewari schemes and TP schemes and are six metres wide be included for widening to nine metres, and the process for calling suggestions and objections be carried out,” says the amendment initiated in the meeting by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators. Nationalist Congress Party corporator Mahendra Pathare told TOI that he strongly opposed the amendment as soon as it was tabled “I argued that if widening the TP scheme roads was essential then it should have been part of the administration's proposal, post assessment, and study of these roads,” he said. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said his party had proposed the amendment and he approved it in the capacity of the committee head with ten votes in favour and six against it. “The opposition members had accused us of proposing the widening of select roads to favour some developers. Hence, we initiated this amendment to include all the roads so that the widening policy becomes a uniform policy for Pune. The amendment was aimed at ushering in more transparency,” Rasane said. “If it is found that there are technical issues which require non-inclusion of certain streets and if the local people are of that view, the administration will give them a hearing and if their arguments have any merit we will not force the widening,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tp-scheme-roads-added-for-uniform-policy-panel-chief/articleshow/80619426.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Last Covid care centre for cops shut down as cases, fatalities dip||MUMBAI: Mumbai police which was among the hardest hit by Covid-19 has shut down the last dedicated Covid care centre (CCC) at Kalina after a steady decline in case count and fatalities among the force. There were a total of four dedicated CCCs for the police. City police will be among the frontline workers to get vaccinated after healthcare workers. While the city lost 98 personnel and the state lost 322 to the pandemic, infections started dropping in November-December last year. “We shut down the last CCC at Kalina in December as the infection among personnel has gone down and only three or four cases are reported per day. Most of them are getting treated at Seven Hills Hospital,” said Rajkumar Watkar, joint commissioner of police (administration). In September, the department had closed two CCCs at Marol, Andheri, and at the police gymkhana at Marine Drive. A senior police official said the infection rates in the force were high during May-June when the virus was at its peak, but the department acted proactively to mitigate the impact of the virus. Some of the measures included giving policemen over the age of 50 years indoor duties, and asking those above the age of 55 to proceed on leave. For those on duty, protein supplements were provided, besides adding immunity-boosting food to their diet. They were started on preventive doses of Vitamin C and D, homeopathy medicines and hydroxychloroquine. “Medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab helped those who had contracted the infection with recovery. Also, being on the field most of them developed antibodies to fight the virus,” said an IPS officer. Meanwhile, police personnel will get vaccine shots after the immunisation rounds of healthcare workers end by March. So far, no doubts have been raised about the efficacy of the vaccine or side-effects among the police force, added the officer. Mumbai police PRO DCP S Chaitanya said, “We have sent the details of our personnel for registration to the civic body, which will do the further processing, including setting up the priority list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/last-covid-care-centre-for-cops-shut-down-as-cases-fatalities-dip/articleshow/80619449.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 1, 2021||Goa||CM: Centre to OK revised Western Ghats eco zone||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that the Centre would agree with the state’s request to include only 30 villages in the final notification on the Western Ghats’ ecologically-sensitive area (ESA). It was earlier proposed to include 99 villages in the notification. Sawant told TOI that there has been lot of correspondence over the issue, and that the “Union government will do it”. Sawant recently met Union minister for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar on the sidelines of the International Film festival of India. In May 2020, the Goa government had proposed the deletion of 30 villages from the 96 in the draft notification. Sawant, in a letter to Javadekar, said the draft notification sought to cover 99 villages — now 96 because two villages do not exist any more and one is repeated — but on closer study, it was found that most did not meet the criteria laid down under the Kasturirangan report. “The state government has found that only 30 villages broadly meet the criteria, which is that their maximum height should be 600m above mean sea level (MSL) with 20% of village area above MSL, and that they should be contiguous with the Western Ghats of Maharashtra and Karnataka,” Sawant said. Sawant also said that there are four talukas whose parts come under the Western Ghats, none of which qualify as per the criteria. “In all four cases, only a minuscule percentage of the total area is 600m above MSL — Canacona (0.2%), Dharbandora (2.5%), Sanguem (4.9%) and Sattari (4.9%). Therefore, the state went down to the village-level to identify those that meet the 20% above MSL criteria,” he said. In his letter, Sawant said that though in his earlier letter the state suggested including 10 more villages in the notification, these also do not meet the criteria. “Therefore, the government is not in favour of notifying these 10 villages as part of the Western Ghat ESA.” Sawant emphasised that out of Goa’s total geographical area of 3,702 sq km, the state is hardly left with just 342 sq km area (9.25%) growth and development. “In addition to the above, the total forest and tree cover of the state of Goa is more than 66%. “This is because the people of Goa have culturally and historically been protecting the environment and forests,” Sawant said. He added that to further restrict activities in 66 non-qualifying villages would hamper activities in these villages, which are otherwise permissible by law and would cause grave injustice, especially to the people of the villages and generally to the people of Goa. There are four talukas whose parts come under the Western Ghats, none of which qualify as per the criteria. Therefore, the state went down to the village-level to identify those that meet the 20% above MSL criteria||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-centre-to-ok-revised-western-ghats-eco-zone/articleshow/80620440.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Agra||Police in west UP preparing a list of farmers camping in Ghazipur border||AGRA: Police in western Uttar Pradesh are in the process of preparing a database of all those villagers who are off to Ghazipur for protests, a massive exercise which union leaders believe will culminate into legal action against farmers for standing up to the three agriculture laws. Senior police officers have confirmed the development. After Punjab and Haryana, western UP has sent the most number of farmers to the protest points on Delhi outskirts, especially to Ghazipur which comes under Ghaziabad district where prohibitory orders have been imposed. Inspector general of police of Agra range, A Satish Ganesh, told TOI, ‘“For the last two months, we are appealing to farmers to abstain from moving towards Delhi. Preventive actions are being taken to curb mass movement to Delhi border points. Police teams are going to villages to prepare a database of people who are camping at Delhi borders. Section 144 has been imposed by Ghaziabad administration. People camping at the Ghazipur border need to leave the protest site and come back home.” While Shahjahanpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) S Anand told TOI, “Several farmers from here had gone to the Ghazipur border for the January 26 tractor rally. We had recorded their information through our sources just for our information. In case Delhi Police finds any of them involved in the violence and need our help in finding them then we will provide them necessary support. We are not putting any pressure on anyone’s family members to force them to return home.” According to sources, soon notices will be served to all these farmers. Farmer leaders, meanwhile, claimed that police are forcing families to ask their kin to return home. Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Agra president, Rajveer Lawaniya, said, “I have received several calls from anxious villagers after policemen reached their homes to inquire about their relatives. Family members of farmers who are camping at the Ghazipur border are being threatened to call back their kin. Policemen are threatening to register FIR against them. We will not surrender to this oppression. Protests will be launched here also if any FIR is registered against farmers.” BKU’s Kasganj president Sanjay Prajapati alleged that police are trying to create terror among farmers. “Protesters, who are heading to Ghazipur, are being stopped daily. Our leaders have asked the workers and supporters to sit on protests wherever police stop them. We have resolved to continue the protest till the government doesn’t withdraw the three farm laws and guarantee MSP to the farmers.” Another farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar said, “Police teams are going to villages to find out how many people are missing. They are taking the help of local intelligence units and village chowkidars to identify people who are participating in the protest at Delhi borders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/police-in-west-up-preparing-a-list-of-farmers-who-are-camping-in-ghazipur-notices-to-come-next/articleshow/80617263.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: How corporations plan to flatten one landfill each over next three yrs||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations in the city are targeting to flatten its main garbage dumps by September 2024. The civic bodies will clear one landfill each in the next three years, claims a report submitted by the corporations. According to the timelines submitted by the civic bodies, North Delhi Municipal Corporation intends to clear the Bhalswa landfill by June 2022 and South Delhi Municipal Corporation has submitted target of March 31, 2023. East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Ghazipur landfill site — which contains almost double the amount of legacy garbage as compared to other two dumpsites — is expected to be cleared by September 30, 2024, the submission states. Taking suo motu cognisance of a TOI report ‘Below mountains of trash lie poison lakes’, National Green Tribunal had directed civic bodies to follow the ‘Indore model’ in bio-mining for clearing up legacy waste. Bio-mining projects are presently underway at the landfill sites. With both the political parties sparring over the gains by bio-mining the landfill sites, Delhi chief secretary has directed the municipal corporation commissioners to keep photographic documentation of reduction of height of landfills. A senior municipal official overseeing the trommeling project confirmed that documentation with proofs is now being undertaken. “Action plans and datelines for different stages, like 25%, 50% and 100% clearing of landfills, have also been fixed,” official added. Compared to other two civic bodies, north corporation is in a much advanced stage of trommeling with more than 12 lakh tons of waste being cleared from the Bhalswa landfill that has 80 lakh MT garbage. Bhlaswa landfill already has 23 trommel units which is far ahead than other two sites. SDMC has 12 trommels operating at Okhla landfill site, with 2,400 tons garbage being removed every day. The corporation has stated that out of 55 lakh MT waste at Okhla, 3.5 lakh MT has been removed. EDMC’s Ghazipur landfill site has 139 lakh MT legacy waste out of which 3 lakh MT has been cleared till December. The civic body has claimed that 50% of landfill will be cleared by March 2023 and area will be flattened by 30 September 2024.The civic body has stated that environment cess on transporting inert material should be waived and inert material should be used for making a Yamuna bund between ISBT and Wazirabad to solve the space shortage problem. Corporations have also cited that problems of extreme shortage of space for disposing off inert material recovered after bio-mining, delays during monsoon and winter season, and breakdown of machines and power supply, which is slowing down the progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-corpns-plan-to-flatten-one-landfill-each-over-next-three-yrs/articleshow/80619442.cms||Paras Singh
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Hopes from high-speed trains, dedicated freight corridor from Nagpur||NAGPUR: Though there will be no new announcements of trains or railway projects in the budget that will be presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1, 2021, due to the high revenue deficit owing to Covid-19, the Indian Railways is likely to opt for more high speed and dedicated freight corridors. The overall thrust of the budget is expected to push hard for spending on infrastructure and building capacity to create jobs and speed up growth in various sectors. The Indian Railways’ maiden draft, the National Rail Plan (NRP), which was released last month, aims to develop Nagpur-Hyderabad (NHIC) & Delhi-Nagpur (DNIC) as industrial corridors under its National Industrial Corridor Development Programme. The two industrial corridor projects are among the 11 projects to be developed in four phases up to 2024-25. Apart from the two industrial corridors, the draft NRP also aims to establish a dedicated freight corridor (DFC) between North-South between Delhi-Chennai via Itarsi-Nagpur-Vijayawada. It also envisages two high-speed railway (HSR) projects between Nagpur-Varanasi (855km) and Mumbai-Nagpur (789km). The budget is expected to make some announcements in this direction. Railway analyst Alok Patel says, “Aim will mainly be to plan for borrowing more money from markets through IRFC and international development banks to increase railway infrastructure spending. High-priority projects like electrification, doubling, tripling and quadrupling of trunk routes (Mumbai-Nagpur-Howrah & Delhi-Nagpur-Chennai) will get funding in line with 2024 targets for capacity enhancements.” Patel expects funds for speed upgrades to existing routes in Vidarbha from 110-120 kmph to 130-160 kmph between Ballarshah-Nagpur-Itarsi and Akola-Nagpur-Gondia routes are to be upgraded to 130 kmph immediately and 160 kmph over the next few years. Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK) general secretary Basant Shukla says, “Key areas of concern may be low Central support expected for non-priority projects like Nagpur-Nagbhid and Wardha-Yavatmal-Nanded lines. Operational projects like MEMU car shed in Nagpur, improvement of amenities at stations in Vidarbha, wagon repair shop at Badnera are likely to see limited fund allocations if any.” Patel feels projects like Nagpur broad gauge metro, Nagpur station redevelopment, east-west dedicated freight corridor, north-south dedicated freight corridor, Mumbai-Nagpur, and Nagpur-Varanasi bullet train projects will continue in parallel and won't find significant mentions in the budget. This is because these projects will be financed mainly by private investors and international agencies. The process will take time to complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hopes-from-high-speed-trains-dedicated-freight-corridor-from-nagpur/articleshow/80619353.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Bike rally in Jind, fund collections on||JIND: Farmers from Narwana town of Haryana’s Jind district held a bike and tractor rally in several villages and on Jind-Patiala highway on Sunday, seeking support for farmers from all sections of society. People from villages of Belarkha, Ujhana, Ambarsar, Koyal, Kurar and Dhamtan came out in support of farmers and pressed for repeal of the three contentious agri laws. Around 2,000 motorcycles reportedly participated in the bike rally, in which participants drove around Narwana town. Residents also started collecting funds from villages in Jind and deployed more tractors at Delhi borders. Farmers in Belarkha village of Narwana town in Jind collected Rs 500 per acre, which is the highest amount collected during this agitation. The funds are expected to reach Rs 40 lakh, claimed a villager Surender Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bike-rally-in-jind-fund-collections-on/articleshow/80619416.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Union Budget: Tax relief for salaried class is high priority||NAGPUR: Tax professionals are expecting Covid relief for the salaried class in the Union Budget. Tax practitioners hope that the government takes 2020 as an exceptional year and comes up with special measures, mainly for the salaried class. They suggest that the job losses and pay cuts can be compensated through some relaxation from the taxation side. Chartered accountant (CA) Julfesh Shah sought reduction in tax rates. “The peak rate should be reduced to 25% as against 30% now,” he said. Shah further said the limit of exemptions through investments under the section 80c of Income Tax Act should be increased to Rs2.5 lakh and standard deduction doubled to Rs1 lakh. CA Kailash Jogani too called for reducing tax rates. He stressed simplification of the taxation regime, especially by doing away with the concept of taxing notional income. “Tax should always be on the income at the hands of an assessee but on many counts it is also levied on the grounds that it may have led to any income. For example, capital gains tax is calculated only on the basis of ready reckoner valuation even if the actual deal takes place at a lower rate,” he said. “The government should also not make frequent changes after the budget. Simpler systems can bring more persons under the tax net,” said Jogani. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) has submitted a memorandum seeking substantial increase in the exemption under repayment of interest and principal of home loans. “The present limit of Rs1.5 is too less,” said Gaurav Agarwala, president of the association’s Nagpur unit. Agarwala said the association has also demanded that subsidy under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana must be extended for another year apart from continuing of income tax sops for builders taking up affordable housing projects. Pritam Mahure, a CA from Pune, said salaries have been cut but liabilities in the form of EMIs are same. “There can be some measures on easing tax burden to offset the loss due to pay cuts,” he said. Financial adviser Ranjit Dani said the budget should not be inflationary as it may reduce the real interest on savings. The government is charging both securities transaction tax and long-term capital gains on equity. “One of the two should be removed. There is scope to reduce taxes on dividend distribution. The company already pays taxes on its profits,” he said. TAXATION WISH LIST - Reduce peak tax rate to 25% from 30% now - Increase section 80c limit to Rs2.5 lakh and standard deduction to Rs1L - Do away with taxing notional income - Increase exemption under repayment of interest and principal of home loans - Extend PM housing scheme subsidy for another year - Continue tax sops for builders taking up affordable housing projects||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tax-relief-for-salaried-class-is-high-priority/articleshow/80619398.cms||Shishir Arya
February 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Traders in Kolhapur told to remove encroachments by February 8||KOLHAPUR: The civic administration has set the deadline of February 8 for traders, vendors and hawkers to remove their encroachments from public spaces. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is going to launch a drive to evict illegal hawkers and remove encroachments within 100m radius of hospitals and temples in the city. The KMC is making arrangements to rope in adequate police personnel for security of the anti-encroachment staff. Though similar drives have been held earlier, the action had to be stopped midway due toabsence of security cover and interference from local corporators. Pandit Pawar, head of anti-encroachment department, said, “We have received details of the encroachments surrounding the temples and hospitals. Most of the encroachments are in the vicinity of Mahalaxmi temple. Despite removing the vendors from there several times, they again encroach the approaching roads.” “There are structures built by traders in front of their shops which are illegal and need to be demolished. They have been given time till February 8 to get it removed,” said Pawar. Coming to vendors, the staff of the anti-encroachment department will confiscate their carts and other goods. A large number of people, who were laid off their jobs, became vendors during the pandemic. Most of them do not have a licence from the KMC to conduct business. Many even claim that they have obtained a no-objection certificate from the local corporators which is not legal as per KMC rules. The vendors must have to register with the estate department to conduct business at a particular place in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-told-to-remove-encroachments-by-feb-8/articleshow/80617269.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Raju Shetti warns of public unrest if power supply stopped||KOLHAPUR: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) president Raju Shetti has warned of public unrest if the power supply to domestic consumers and farmers is snapped due to unpaid bills. Shetti has released a video, in which he demanded waiver of power bills for connections with consumption of up to 300 units — mostly domestic consumers — during the three months of Covid-related lockdown since March 2020.  “Since June, after our appeal, most domestic consumers in both rural and urban area have not paid the the power bills. We had also appealed to the farmers to not pay the power bills, as the bills issued are faulty and the rates have increased exorbitantly. We met all the stakeholders in the government and NCP chief Sharad Pawar,” he said “The electricity board has started snapping connections, which will have a strong reaction from consumers in the coming days. The government should immediately stop this action or else there will be widespread public unrest,” said Shetti. Every year, during January and February, the power bill dues are usually not more than Rs 10 crore. However, since March 2020, the dues of more than 5.7 lakh consumers have collectively increased to Rs 336 crore in Kolhapur district alone. The electricity department floated a scheme to waive the late charges and allowed the consumers to pay the bills in instalment. However, frequent agitations and appeals by the leaders to waive the power bills resulted in consumers not clearing the dues. Pratap Hogade, an activist said, “The government has launched the scheme to give concession in power bills. However, the concession offered is minimal and we want it to be increased up to 50%. Also, there should be a 100% waiver of bills issued till October last year. The consumers are ready to pay the entire amount of bills dues thereafter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/raju-shetti-warns-of-public-unrest-if-power-supply-stopped/articleshow/80617265.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 15 more lookout circulars issued against farm leaders||NEW DELHI: Fifteen more lookout circulars have been issued against farmer leaders who allegedly orchestrated the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day. With 44 LOCs issued earlier, the total number has reached 59 to prevent those named from leaving the country. All airports and seaports have been alerted to identify and detain them at immigration. Using facial recognition software, Delhi Police has identified around a dozen people, including the three men who unfurled the Sikh religious flag at Red Fort, sources said. However, they are absconding and raids are on in Punjab to arrest them. The inspection of Red Fort led to the recovery of a special rope used by commandos to climb buildings, etc, indicating that the protesters were well-prepared, claimed an officer. More than 50 notices have been issued to farmer leaders and others asking them to join the investigation. Ignoring the notices was a ground for arrest, added the officer. Crime Branch officers said videos of the wrong route taken by the mob were being collected. Till now, police have received and retrieved around 2,000 WhatsApp chats pertaining to the violence. Around 3,000 calls and 300 emails exchanged among the suspects are being scanned too. Earlier, Delhi Police had appealed to the public to provide them videos and images of the violence that they may have recorded or clicked. So far, around 5,000 mobile videos and pictures have been received, a Crime Branch officer confirmed. A team is also examining the ownership of tractors by getting it checked by transport authorities. “The registration numbers of the tractors have been sent to track the addresses of the owners. Notices are being sent to them too,” said an officer. Many owners have been identified, but the exercise will take time as thousands of tractors had stormed the city. An officer claimed that many had hidden the numbers, some had removed registration plate, while some had used wrong numberplates. Facial recognition would be used to identify the drivers and they would be questioned about the alleged tampering. On Sunday, a team from National Forensic Science University, Gandhinagar inspected the violence spots, including Red Fort, ITO, Ghazipur and Nangloi. They are also studying and verifying the authenticity of the violence-related videos. Cyber Cell and Special Cell are also probing the incident and collecting CCTV footage from the routes taken by the protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15-more-lookout-circulars-issued-against-farm-leaders/articleshow/80619467.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers movement was not needed, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||AMBALA: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar visited the residence of state home, health and urban local bodies minister Anil Vij at Shastri Colony in Ambala Cantonment on Sunday, to enquire about the latter’s wellbeing and wish him quick recovery. When asked about the prevailing situation in the state due to the farmers’ agitation, Khattar said, “The farmers and their leaders launched a movement which was not much needed. Anyway, even if it has been done, they have a freedom of expression in democracy. I feel this will get resolved with talks and the Pradhan Mantriji (Prime Minister) has himself given an offer yesterday (on Saturday) that the doors for talks are open and they can come and talk to find some way. I feel we will find some way soon.” Asked about suspension of mobile internet services in most districts of Haryana, and Congress targeting the government over disruption in studies of students due to this step, CM Khattar said, “What we have done could not have been done by the Congress during its entire time. It has been nearly a year since Covid-19 began, but we made online arrangements for students. But, the situation created after the January 26 incidents, and the role the Congress played in this entire episode, is condemnable. Keeping the internet suspended due to these reasons was right, perhaps. But, as the situation is returning to normal, slowly, internet services will be resumed.” When asked about the reason behind meeting Vij, Khattar said, “There was no subject of special discussion. Vij sahib remained in the hospital due to Covid for the past many days and he was unwell. By god’s grace he is healthy and I came to meet him and wished him a quick recovery.” Meanwhile, a Congress leader, Neelam Sharma of Ambala, who was once chairperson of Ambala Sadar municipal council (MC) joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of its top leaders. Khattar said, “A senior Congress worker has joined the BJP with her family members and many other Congress workers. I welcome them and hope they will work as a team.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-movement-was-not-needed-says-khattar/articleshow/80619452.cms||JK Singh
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Indian Coast Guard to celebrate 45th Raising Day on Monday||MUMBAI: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) celebrates its 45th Raising Day on Monday. From a modest beginning with just seven surface platforms to secure the coastal belts of Indian territory, the ICG has grown into a formidable force with 156 ships and 62 aircraft in its inventory and is likely to achieve targeted force levels of 200 surface platforms and 80 aircraft by 2025. The ICG spokesperson said that despite Covid-19 restrictions, the service has maintained 24x7 vigil in the exclusive economic zone by deploying about 50 ships and 12 aircraft daily and has seized contraband worth about Rs 1,500 crore and apprehended more than 10 foreign fishing boats with 80 miscreants in 2020. Under its ‘preventive and measured response’ stance of operations introduced over a year ago, the ICG has escorted over 6,000 fishing boats with about 40,000 fishermen to safe harbours during the passage of 11 cyclones last year, thus averting loss of lives and property at sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coast-guard-to-celebrate-45th-raising-day-today/articleshow/80619515.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 1, 2021||Pune||Road widening will not be forced on citizens, says Maharashtra BJP chief||PUNE: State chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Chandrakant Patil on Sunday told TOI that he will tell his partymen in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to make explicit assurances to property owners in Pune that the nine-metre road widening proposal will not be forced on them. Stating that the nine-metre road policy has been initiated as per the state government’s guidelines, Patil said the widening will take time, as and when the property owner opts for redevelopment. “Eventually, roads will get widened and that is the idea. It is not limited to Pune. I will discuss the finer points pertaining to the objections raised by those staying in plotted layout colonies or TP schemes,” Patil said. BJP standing committee chief Hemant Rasane on Sunday said, “I assure property owners that not an inch of your land will be acquired by force, nor will your compound walls be razed. The administration will start hearing the process from tomorrow (Monday) and we will honour the objections raised.” Rasane said there are several housing societies which are more than four to five decades old. “The redevelopment of these buildings has halted. We have applications from these societies seeking permission to redevelop.” ‘Don’t buy widening-on-paper argument’ Town Planning officials told TOI that citizens from bungalow colonies and housing societies in plotted layouts and TP schemes were right in their protest against the road widening move as even the access roads in their colonies, culminating in dead ends have been shortlisted for widening. “Do not buy their argument that the widening will remain on paper. Once your lane gets earmarked, it becomes an explicit instrument in the hands of the local body to widen your local access roads and use these as approaches to building complexes coming up nearby,” a senior TP officer said. Anant Bhagwat, radiologist and chairman of Savarkar Society in Sahakarnagar, had expressed the same fear while speaking to TOI . He had said that several multi-storied buildings are being allowed on the foothills of Panchgaon Parvati forest area, and their society’s road was being eyed as an approach to them, and hence was shortlisted for widening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/road-widening-will-not-be-forced-on-citizens-says-state-bjp-chief/articleshow/80619473.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||‘Natural GDP should figure in national GDP’||NAGPUR: Environment, wildlife and forestry sector bore the brunt during Covid-19 and therefore it is high time finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gives the sector its due in the 2021-22 Union Budget to safeguard its interests. Environmentalist Debi Goenka said the finance minister must ensure that our national GDP should factor in our natural GDP. “The loss of natural capital i.e. our forests, rivers, soil, and biodiversity, deterioration in air and water quality, and contamination and depletion of our groundwater should also be included whilst computing our national GDP,” said Goenka. Goenka, who is executive trustee of Conservation Action Trust (CAT), said, “In addition, it would be great if the finance minister could ensure that ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) is allocated adequate resources to ensure that forests, wildlife, and environment are protected.” “Another important issue is the ease of not doing business — whilst the government has been taking many steps for the ease of doing business, it has made the life of NGOs, which are not engaged in business activities, more difficult. It would be great if the requirements to re-apply for income tax exemptions are done away with in this Budget,” Goenka added. “I expect the Centre to allocate funds from the tribal development department (TDD) for relocation and rehabilitation of tribal-dominated villages from protected areas (PAs). It is expected to spend on 18 civic amenities in any village. So, they can take up the responsibility to resettle two villages every year. The proposal has been already discussed in the state wildlife board meeting and recommended to TDD,” said Kishor Rithe, president of Satpuda Foundation. Green activist Jaydeep Das said, “From Economic Survey 2020-2021, it is evident that Covid-19 had a disastrous effect on the economy. While lockdown managed to reduce the carbon footprints and clean up the air and water, the situation will reverse drastically in the coming years.” Das expects the Centre to focus on harnessing natural renewable energy sources, sustainable development goals at the micro-level and stop investing in thermal sources of energy and divert budgets with a subsidy to other forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/natural-gdp-should-figure-in-national-gdp/articleshow/80619439.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Marital discord: 28-year-old hurts wife with knife, held in Navi Mumbai||NAVI MUMBAI: Kamothe police has arrested a 28-year-old man for attempting to murder his 25-year-old wife, a nurse, by inflicting her multiple knife injuries by slashing her face and chest. The incident occurred at Tawa hotel in Kamothe on Saturday , when the couple accompanied by a woman friend came there for a meeting to sort out their marital discord. According to Kamothe police, the arrested accused has been identified as Avinash Zinzal and his injured wife as Priyanka Zinzal. The accused and victim are married for past 5 years and have a four-year-old son. But, they stay separately as they are seeking divorce. On Saturday night, the accused had called Priyanka to Tawa hotel under pretext of resolving their marital discord. When Priyanka demanded divorce, Avinash denied and a verbal spat turned ugly and Avinash brandished a knife on Priyanka’s face and chest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/marital-discord-28-yr-old-hurts-wife-with-knife-held/articleshow/80620479.cms||George Mendonca
February 1, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district reports 15 new Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported 15 fresh cases of Covid and no death on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 49,931. The death toll stands at 1,722 while 48,126 patients have recovered from the contagion. As many as six patients were discharged after recovering. The district has 83 active cases Sangli adds 5 cases Sangli district recorded five fresh Covid cases on Sunday. The district has reported 48,097 patients so far, of them, 1,749 have succumbed to Covid, 46,218 have recovered while 130 are currently undergoing treatment. 64 cases in Satara The district reported 64 cases and one Covid death on Sunday. The district has 776 active patients while 1,817 have died of the total 56,442 patients. 20 cases in Solapur city Solapur city reported 20 cases and two deaths on Sunday while the rural parts recorded 31 cases and one death. The active cases in the city have increased to 319 while it rose to 413 in Solapur rural. The cases in the city have reached 11,764 while in the rural parts of Solapur it increased to 39,582. As many as 634 patients have succumbed to the infection the city and 1,161 from the rural parts have died due to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-15-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80617279.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||Net back in three Haryana districts, still out in 14||CHANDIGARH: Invoked to break the communication chain of agitating unions and workers, especially in Gazipur, the ban on mobile internet services has started taking its toll on students and traders who conduct online transactions of money. Faced with statewide criticism, Haryana government on Sunday lifted the ban from three districts — Yamunanangar, Rewari and Palwal. But the ban has been extended in the territorial jurisdiction of Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar districts till 5pm on February 1. “The stuation is under review. We may lift ban from more or rest of the districts tomorrow. But, the ban may continue in the NCR areas or hot spots,” an official said. Pawan Kumar, an online trader from Sonipat, said, “Since SMS service too is suspended, we do not get OTP of certain online services, especially the online monetary transfers and transactions. Also, this move has come as unannounced holidays for students now,” said Pawan Meanwhile, the ban has also given opposition parties to target the state government and Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/net-back-in-3-hry-districts-still-out-in-14/articleshow/80619503.cms||Manvir Saini
February 1, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra may not extend stamp duty waiver||PUNE: The state government is unlikely to extend the stamp duty waiver of 2% beyond March because of revenue losses. Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI that the government had announced the stamp duty waiver to give a boost to the ailing realty sector. “There has been a good response over these five months and it reflected in the tally of the state registration department. The maximum registrations were recorded in December. However, the state has suffered revenue losses and we cannot continue with the waiver beyond March,” he said. The state government had announced a 3% waiver on stamp duty from September to December last year and a 2% waiver from January to March in 2021 to boost the realty sector during the pandemic. The real estate developers had requested the state government to extend the stamp duty waiver till the end of this year to keep the momentum going for the real estate sector. Most of the realtors had even absorbed the stamp duty charges to ensure speedy registrations. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria had said the government should continue with the stamp duty waiver and should not increase the ready reckoner (RR) rate in April. “While the sector has been suffering, the pandemic only made it difficult in the early months last year. It is only after the stamp duty waiver that the registrations have picked up,” Kataria had said. Registration department officials stated that the peak of registrations was achieved in the last couple of months and it was unlikely to be as high henceforth. “There has been a dip in registrations and revenue in January,” said an official. The target revenue collection was earlier reduced to Rs15,000 crore this financial year as against the normal Rs28,000 crore every fiscal. After the registrations picked up and the revenue collection increased, there was an upward revision of the revenue target to Rs22,000 crore this financial year, said an official from the registration department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-may-not-extend-stamp-duty-waiver/articleshow/80618229.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 1, 2021||Delhi||‘Doctored’ video of CM Arvind Kejriwal: AAP, BJP in war of words||NEW DELHI: Lashing out at Bharatiya Janata Party, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that the party’s functionaries had lost the trust of people and that is why they had released a ‘doctored’ video of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in which he purportedly supported the farm laws. Sisodia said BJP tweeted the video on Saturday as the Indian public had shown a lot of faith in Kejriwal. He added that the video was created by selectively editing a long interview of the chief minister. He even claimed that fake sound bytes had been placed in some places. The videos were played at a press conference held at Aam Aadmi Party’s head office on Sunday. The deputy chief minister said he was initially angered at BJP’s tactics as they had got a doctored interview aired on television, but later felt pity for the party. “Despite leading a government at the Centre and in many states and having Prime Minister Narendra Modi as their leader, they have lost people’s trust, so they had to use Arvind Kejriwal’s fake video to save the farm laws,” he added. Alleging that BJP had sent its goons at the Ghazipur border, who attacked the farmers and their leader Rakesh Tikait, and also to Singhu border, Sisodia claimed that they tried to portray it as an attack by locals. However, people saw through this and understood BJP’s tactics. He further alleged that BJP had conducted a sponsored protest at Red Fort and disrespected the national flag. “BJP knows that Kejriwal is the only leader with credibility, so they have used his doctored interview to create a false impression among people. Aam Aadmi Party will initiate legal action against BJP,” added Sisodia. Sisodia claimed that despite being in power, BJP was feeling helpless as people had lost trust in the party leadership. He also alleged that though the PM had enumerated the benefits of farm laws on several occasions, the farmers had understood that they were being cheated. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor condemned Sisodia for levelling baseless allegations on BJP of hatching the January 26 violence conspiracy. “It is sad that, like his party colleagues, Sisodia has levelled allegations on BJP and raised questions on the credibility of the central government without any basis even as farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, have expressed willingness to talk to the Prime Minister. It is regrettable that AAP members are trying to gain political mileage through the farmers’ agitation instead of helping resolve the crisis,” added Kapoor. Watch BJP had to post distorted video of Kejriwal to establish credibility of farm laws: Sisodia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctored-video-of-cm-aap-bjp-in-war-of-words/articleshow/80619558.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Air Arabia to resume operations with 5 flights a week to Sharjah||Coimbatore: Air Arabia would start operating five flights a week between the city and Sharjah from February 8. The airline earlier used to operate only three flights a week - Monday, Wednesday and Saturday - and they were popular with large groups of Indians working in the Middle East and exporters of flowers and fruits. It is the only international airline and route open from the city now.Airport officials confirmed that the low-cost airline has changed its schedule to five days a week. It will operate flights from Monday to Thursday and on Sunday. The flight would leave the city at 4.10am and reach Sharjah at 6.40am local time there. It would then depart from Sharjah at 10.15pm local time and land in the city at 3.30am. R Mahalingam, airport director, says the flight used to run almost full. “It is popular among families, Indians working there and businessmen, among others.”The addition of two more flights is expected to help increase the international passenger traffic, which has dropped by 92.7% in the first seven months of the financial year. The airport had handled only an international passenger traffic of 14,473 during April-December last year, compared to 1,89,032 in the same period in 2019. In December, only 3,247 people had flown abroad, compared to 24,329 in that month in 2019.International flights to Singapore and Colombo are yet to become operational again. While flights to Colombo were operated by the Sri Lankan Airlines, flights to Singapore were operated by the Scoot Airlines. “Passengers to Colombo or Singapore have to fly via Chennai with private Indian carriers,” said an airport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/air-arabia-to-resume-operations-with-5-flights-a-week-to-sharjah/articleshow/80619528.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Pulse polio vaccination drive in dist achieves 99% target||Coimbatore: Health department officials said they have managed to vaccinate 99% of their target during the pulse polio drive on Sunday. They said they administered polio drops to 33.68 lakh children under the age of five from 8am to 5pm. Primary centre and village health nurses over the next few days will go door-to-door to identify children and vaccinate them. The vaccination drive, part of the pulse polio programme for 2021, in the district was inaugurated by municipal administration minister S P Velumani at Coimbatore Medical College on Sunday morning. As part of the programme, pulse polio drops were administered at 1,569 centres—1,190 in rural areas and 379 in urban areas. There were also 18 mobile vans administering drops to children from other cities.In total, 3,36,798 newborns and children were vaccinated which is 99% of the target 3,41,408 children. In rural, 98% of their target was achieved and officials are confident of achieving 100% through their door to door visits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pulse-polio-vaccination-drive-in-dist-achieves-99-target/articleshow/80619535.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Man arrested for stocking fertilizer||Coimbatore: The rural police on Sunday arrested one of the three absconding accused involved in the illegally stocking of 905 fertilizer bags provided by the state government under the subsidy scheme to farmers at Gomangalam. On January 18, agriculture officer from Pollachi Thulasimani inspected a fertilizer godown belonging to Ramasamy at Kedimedu village near Gomangalam. During the inspection, 905 fertilizer bags were found illegally stocked at the godown. The officer seized the fertilizer bags and a truck used for smuggling the fertilizers. Thulasimani also lodged a complaint with the Gomangalam police who registered a case under Section 7(1) (a) (ii) of the Essential Commodity Act. Preliminary investigations revealed that Ramasamy, B Mummoorthy, 50, of Alagappa Street at Jothi Nagar in Pollachi, and Santhosh were involved in the smuggling of fertilizers. The trio absconded following the inspection. Mummoorthy was arrested during a vehicle check on Pollachi– Udumalpet road on Sunday afternoon. Police seized the car in which Mummoorthy was travelling in and Rs 9,500 in cash from him. He was produced before a judicial magistrate court and later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-stocking-fertilizer/articleshow/80619546.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kolhapur||SUK researchers get patent for anti-breast cancer drug||Kolhapur: Researchers at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK), have received a patent for the chemical complex (molecule) drug synthesised in a university laboratory, which showed anti-breast cancer properties.Prakash Bansode, who is now an assistant professor, had synthesised the drug molecule over a period of three months under the guidance of professor Gajanan Rashinkar. Bansode was PhD student when he was conducting the research. The molecule has a ferrocene compound, which shows anti-cancer properties. However, most of the times , it kills not just the cancer cells but also normal cells during chemotherapy.The researchers coupled the compound with carbene structure to which they attached the metallic components such as gold, silver and platinum. As many as 10 derivatives of the compound were synthesised and tested at various levels.Rashinkar told TOI: “We screened the drug at the advanced cancer research centre of the Tata Memorial Centre Mumbai. We found the drug showing activity against human breast cancer cells and more importantly showed much less toxicity during treatment process which is a new thing since in most chemotherapy processes, the drugs or medicines used are highly toxic causing further pain to the patient. We had filed for the patent in March 2018 and now after reviewing the drug complex, we received the ‘product patent’ for 20 years.”The Patents Office has issued the certificate with patent number 356463 to both the researchers. University vice-chancellor D T Shirke has lauded their efforts. The research was carried out with financial help from the SUK.Bansode said, “Breast cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed malignancies and the leading cause of death among women worldwide. Breast cancer is one of the most aggressive cancers. We expect more in-vivo testings of this drug complex and pharmacodynamic studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suk-researchers-get-patent-for-anti-breast-cancer-drug/articleshow/80617283.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Posters praising VK Sasikala appear in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: AIADMK functionaries have put up posters in the rural parts of the district welcoming the ousted party leader V K Sasikala after her release from the prison. Similar posters had earlier surfaced in Trichy, Tirunelveli and Theni. Now, posters have come up in Annur town in Coimbatore and Villupuram welcoming Sasikala. Annur south union women’s wing secretary R Sakunthala and former district panchayat councillor C Rangasamy, who put up the posters welcoming Sasikala as ‘Kazhaga Pothu Seyalalar (permanent general secretary) Thyaga Thaiavi Chinnamma’ across Annur, defended their act stating Sasikala was indeed an ‘embodiment of sacrifice.’ “She has been with Amma (Jaya) through ups and downs for 30 years,” they said. On calling her the permanent general secretary of the AIADMK, Sakunthala said she had expressed the wish of several cadres that Sasikala should lead the party. The AIADMK men, however, tore down the posters that were stuck at Annur bus stand, Ellapalayam and other places. In Villupuram, J Ragupathy, town secretary of MGR Ilaignar Ani, had stuck posters welcoming Sasikala, addressing her as general secretary of the AIADMK. Law minister C Ve Shanmugam downplayed the posters. “Ragupathy is not the representative of AIADMK cadres,” he told reporters stating AIADMK cadres do not want Sasikala in the party. Shanmugam said there was no need to give significance to the posters. “Even I can stick hundreds of posters, against Sasikala.” While the party has been sacking functionaries who are putting up the posters, they keep coming up raising suspicion if it was an effort by a section of the party functionaries to put pressure on the party high command to accommodate Sasikala in the AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/posters-welcoming-sasi-surface-in-dist/articleshow/80619512.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal assures farmers all help from government||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to social media on Sunday to say that Delhi government and AAP would provide all necessary help to farmers protesting against the centre’s three new farm laws. Responding to a tweet by farmer leader Naresh Tikait, Kejriwal tweeted, “Nareshji, You people are struggling so much. I will help in every way through my party and my government.” Tikait, who is the national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, had thanked Kejriwal on Twitter on Saturday. The farmer leader had expressed his gratitude to the CM “for providing basic facilities to the farmers at the site” during the protests at Ghazipur. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had visited the Ghazipur border protest site on Friday to check the arrangements made for the protesters by the city government. The government has provided water tankers and toilet facilities near the site. Delhi government has been critical of Centre’s farm laws and has been vocal about its support to the farmers’ protest going on for the last two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-assures-farmers-all-help-from-govt/articleshow/80619523.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||22 men held for cheating bizman||Coimbatore: The Pollachi west police on Friday arrested a 22-member gang for attempting to swindle a resident of Pollachi on pretext of exchanging demonetised notes.Complainant Riyaz, 30, who owns a mobile shop at Perumal Cherry Street in Pollachi, was with his friends on January 22, when Mookaiah from Madurai, Abbas Manthiri from Tirupur and Rajkumar from Dindigul approached them. “The trio told Riyaz that if he could give them Rs 1 lakh, they will arrange demonetized currency notes amounting to Rs 10 lakh with the help of a friend in Kerala and that they could be converted into new notes with the help of a bank manager. They also promised to sell lucky stones worth Rs 5 lakh to increase his wealth. Riyaz gave them Rs 5,000,” a police officer said.The trio visited Riyaz’s shop on Friday along with 19 people to seal a deal. “They took him to a secluded place near a crematorium in Kunjupalayam. When Riyaz demanded to see the demonitized notes, the gang attacked him. Passersby came to his help, nabbed five gang members and handed them over to police. Rest of the gang members were arrested on Friday evening,” the officer added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/22-men-held-for-cheating-bizman/articleshow/80619566.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Elephant herd destroys banana plantation; loss pegged at Rs 1L||Erode: A herd of wild elephants destroyed a banana plantation in Kanakkampalayam village here on Sunday morning.The herd consisted of four elephants and a calf, said S Dakshinamurthy, 40, owner of the plantation. “The elephants came from the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve and destroyed more than 100 banana trees, resulting in losses to the tune of Rs 1 lakh,” he told TOI.Wild elephants are frequently spotted near fertile lands, said Suresh Kumar, another farmer. “They will be here till March, threatening our livelihood. I lost nearly 150 banana trees and tomato plants to elephants last year,” he said.Dakshinamurthy said he is expecting a solatium from the state government. Forest department officials visited the plantation. “We measured the crop damage and will send a report to the state government for solatium,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-herd-destroys-banana-plantation-loss-pegged-at-rs-1l/articleshow/80619603.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||BJP man held following tense moments in Mettupalayam||Coimbatore: The Mettupalayam police on Sunday arrested BJP functionary Kalayanaraman on charges of hate speech and creating enmity between two communities. He was arrested following tense moments in Mettuaplayam and Coimbatore. As many as 500 cops were deployed in Mettupalayam after members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) pelted stones at a BJP meeting on Sunday evening.To support the tractor rally of farmers in New Delhi on January 26, SDPI had conducted a protest at Mettupalayam bus stand on the same day. The party cadres hurled abuses at an SDPI functionary, who had dressed up as Prime Minister Narendra Modi.To condemn the SDPI event, BJP organised a meeting on Sunday evening. While BJP functionary Kalyanaraman was addressing cadres of BJP and Hindu outfits, 12 SDPI men who reached there said that Kalyanaraman insulted Prophet Muhammad and raised slogans against him. When police detained the men, another group of SDPI men hurled stones and wooden logs at the meeting venue. Police used mild force to remove the protesters and arrested 30 people.Later, over 100 cadres of Popular Front of India (PFI) besieged the office of the superintendent of police, condemning Kalyanaraman. Members of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) staged a road roko at Ukkadam. Muslim outfits called for a statewide road-roko on Sunday night to condemn Kalyanaraman. Deputy inspector general of police K S Narenthiran Nayar, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu and SPs from Nilgiris and Erode district are camping in Mettupalayam.Earlier, police kept M Ibrahim, president of Tamil Nadu Ekathuva Prachara Jamaat, under preventive detention. Ibrahim was expected to attend a Ram temple fund-raising event and the BJP meeting in Mettupalayam. However, Muslim outfits announced black flag protest against him. Police released him in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-man-held-following-tense-moments-in-mettupalayam/articleshow/80619568.cms||A Subburaj
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Freelance journalist arrested for ‘attack on cops’ at Singhu border||NEW DELHI: A freelance journalist was arrested on Sunday on charges of obstructing and attacking policemen on duty at Singhu border. The accused was produced in court, which rejected his bail plea and sent him to Tihar Jail for 14 days in judicial custody. The counsel for the accused will apply for bail again on Monday. The metropolitan magistrate court listed his bail application for hearing on Monday, while asking the investigating officer in the case to file his response. The accused was detained along with another freelance reporter from Singhu border on Saturday evening while he was shooting a video even after being stopped by the policemen there. The other person was let off after he showed his press ID card and cooperated with the policemen. However, the accused, who did not have any identity card, got into a scuffle with the policemen when they asked him to come with them. He was then taken away forcibly by the cops, a video of which has gone viral on the internet. In the FIR, the accused has been charged with IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (common intention). On Sunday afternoon, a few journalists and friends of the accused protested at Delhi Police headquarters and shouted slogans. The protesters were assured of an unbiased probe monitored by a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/freelance-journalist-arrested-for-attack-on-cops-at-singhu/articleshow/80619574.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Allahabad||11 devotees test positive for Covid-19 on Mela campus||PRAYAGRAJ: Eleven devotees staying in two separate camps at the ongoing Magh Mela tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Prayagraj on Sunday. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI that all the infected persons have been shifted to Covid level-1 centre in Kalindipuram for treatment. Dr Sahai said that all the persons who tested positive for infection were asymptomatic. He also claimed that Covid checking has been intensified at all the camps after scores of kalpwasis are camping in Magh Mela. He further added, “A total of 23 health teams on Sunday collected 4,118 samples from different sectors of Magh Mela area for testing and 11 of them were tested positive for infection”. Till date, mela health officials have collected a total of 59,111 samples (since December 18) and a total of 118 people were tested positive for the incident. Dr Sahai said 23 patients including 11 who tested positive for coronavirus infection on Sunday, are undergoing treatment at covid level one care centre in Kalindipuram. He added that, “Health teams are tracking the record of pilgrims (kalpwasis), saints and seers staying in different camps and covid card have also been issued in the same regard. He further added that health teams are conducting testing of people through both antigen and RTPCR methods on mela campus. Around 6000 to 7000 samples are being collected daily since the beginning of Magh Mela for testing from Mela area. On Sunday, four mobile testing vans comprising lab technicians and health staff have been engaged to cover kalpwasis for antigen testing at their respective camps. Apart from making them undergo a Covid-19 test every fortnight during their stay, kalpwasi are all set to undergo to administer prophylactic active dose of Ivermectin shortly. Every kalpwasi has been allotted a special covid card and entries are being enrolled regarding their testing and result of testing on it on frequent intervals. A total of 60 surveillance teams (two members in each team) have also been deployed and 12 surveillance teams have been deployed in each sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/11-devotees-test-positive-for-covid-19-on-mela-campus/articleshow/80619561.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||‘Pink village’ set to welcome governor||Nashik: Located in the Kem hills in the tribal-dominated Surgana taluka of Nashik district, the ‘pink village’ — as the Bhint Ghar pada of Rokad Pada gram panchayat is known — is all set to welcome Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday to inaugurate the Adivasi Sanskriti Bhawan there. The village, located about 90 km from the district headquarters, promotes women’s empowerment and cleanliness. “We are glad to have the Maharashtra governor in our village to recognise our efforts in women’s empowerment, cleanliness and education, that we have been implementing for the past four years now,” said Raghunath Jadhav, a social worker and resident of the village. Some of the seniors members of the village decided to bring about a change in the village. Cleanliness was the first thing decided upon in 2016. Water and sanitation programmes through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) were taken up. Then they decided to beautify the village and a common colour theme was used. “We chose the pink colour which signifies women’s empowerment. We started ensuring the well being and education of girls and taking various steps for women’s empowerment through women self-help groups (SHGS). The colouring work is done by crowd-funding and each house depicts the ‘elements’ of tribal culture,” Jadhav said. As the village came together, it also received support from the local panchayat samiti and zilla parishad. “We decided to get wells for 27 individuals through MGNREGA. The well helped in irrigation and reduced migration from the village,” said ND Gavit, a panchayat samiti member. Earlier, 60% of the villagers migrated to bigger cities in search of work after the kharif season. The percentage has dropped since the village started reaping the benefits of its efforts. The women SHGs are also active in the village. They prepare local dry food items, process cashewnuts and also prepare articles like lanterns for Diwali, which are sold in Pune. Meanwhile, the panchayat samiti has helped construct a gym and roads in the village, provided a ground for the community, installed solar-powered water pumps and held various health awareness camps. The tribal development department has constructed Adivasi Sanskriti Bhavan in the village, which has a lodging facility for the visitors who come here especially during the monsoon. “After the inauguration of the facility, it will be maintained by the women SHGs,” said Gavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pink-village-set-to-welcome-governor/articleshow/80617294.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamilisai visits Marudhamalai||Coimbatore: Telangana governor Tamilisai Sounderajajan said that she would take the vaccine against Covid as an ordinary citizen after all the frontline workers were vaccinated.Tamilisai Sounderarajan, who was in the city to participate in a book release function on Sunday, said that if she was a practicing doctor, she would have taken the vaccine shots. Since she was not practicing, she chose not to take the shots when the current round of vaccination was meant for frontline workers.“It is a gift to frontline workers as a mark of gratitude for their service in the battle against Covid,’’ she said. Lauding the scientists for coming up with the vaccine, Tamilisai said that it was a proud moment as the vaccine manufactured in India was being sent to various countries.Tamilisai visited Marudhamalai Murugan temple and offered prayers earlier in the day, where she thanked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for declaring holiday for Thai Poosam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamilisai-visits-marudhamalai/articleshow/80619581.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Rural cops bust gang of four highway robbers||PUNE: The Pune Rural police on Saturday arrested a four-member gang involved in robbing truck drivers as they passed through the Pune-Mumbai highway near Talegaon Dabhade. The suspects, Pranav Bhegde (20) and Dheeraj Gate (21) both residents of Talegaon Dabhade, were taken into custody along with two other accomplices. The arrests were made based on a tip-off received by assistant inspector Sachin Kale of the Pune Rural police crime branch. An investigation revealed that the gang had robbed truck drivers of their cellphones in the early hours of January 24. Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat said Kale received information that a gang travelling in a SUV was robbing truck drivers near Talegaon Dabhade. “We noticed an SUV near Chakan Phata and took Bhegde and Gate into custody,” he added. The duo admitted they had robbed truck drivers, who had stopped along the highway to repair punctured tyres. They also revealed the names of their two accomplices. “The gang had been operating for the past few days. We are questioning them,” Ghanwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-cops-bust-gang-of-four-highway-robbers/articleshow/80618283.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Man held in Tamil Nadu's Gomangalam for smuggling fertilizers||COIMBATORE: A 50-year-old man was arrested at Gomangalam on Sunday for illegally storing fertilizer that is provided by the government to the farmers at subsidised price. The Gomangalam police identified the accused as B Mummoorthy, of Alagappa Street at Jothi Nagar in Pollachi. He was nabbed during a vehicle check on Pollachi-Udumalpet road. A police officer said the Pollachi agriculture officer, Thulasimani, had seized 905 fertilizer bags meant for distribution under the state government subsidy scheme from a godown at Kedimedu village near Gomangalam on January 18, along with a truck that was used to smuggle the same. “The officer lodged a police complaint and preliminary investigation revealed the godown owner Ramasamy, along with Mummoorthy and Santhosh, was involved in smuggling fertilizers. They had gone into hiding,” the officer said. Police, who registered a case under Section 7(1) (a) (ii) of the Essential Commodities Act, conducted the vehicle check on Pollachi-Udumalpet Road on Sunday afternoon and nabbed Mummoorthy, who was travelling in a car. They also seized Rs 9,500 from him and produced him before a judicial magistrate. Later, he was lodged in jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-smuggling-fertilizers/articleshow/80619624.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Curry leaves price soars to Rs 70 per kg||Salem: The price of curry leaves has shot up to Rs 70 per kg from Rs 30 as the demand has overshot the supply.Curry leaves are extensively cultivated at Attur, Gangavalli, Thalaivasal and Veeraganur areas in the district and sent to the local vegetable markets, other districts such as Chennai, Trichy, Villupuram and Cuddalore, and neighbouring states.Farmers said the rain and cold, which were abnormal in January, had hit the curry leaves cultivation in the region.A Lakshminarayanan, a farmer from Gangavalli, said leaf spot disease had also affected the yield. “Leaf spot disease causes severe defoliation.” Pointing out that they used to harvest nearly four tonnes of curry leaves per acre, he said the yield had reduced by nearly 50% to two tonnes or less because of the leaf spot disease.K Ananda Murugan, another farmer from Attur, said curry leaves were grown on roughly 1,000 acres in the region.Farmers, who have managed to save their crop, have increased the price in the wholesale market. The rate, which stood at Rs 30 in the first week of January, crossed Rs 50-mark in the second week and Rs 60-mark in the third week. “Now, the price stands at Rs 70. It is likely to go up and touch Rs 100 in the coming days,” Murugan said.The price hike has reflected in the retail market as well. “One bunch of curry leaves was sold at Rs 5 in the local shandies. Now, the same is sold at Rs 25,” said V Saraswathi, one of the traders at the Uzhavar Shandi at Hasthampatty in Salem city.Murugan said some of them were selling their produce to the traders in Puducherry, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh regularly. “Kerala is also a market for us and there are a few companies that are engaged in making curry leaves powder in that state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/curry-leaves-price-soars-to-rs-70-per-kg/articleshow/80619611.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nashik||MLA wants train service to start by Feb 10||Nashik: BJP MLA Mangesh Chavan, representing the Chalisgaon assembly constituency, has warned of an agitation if the Deolali-Bhusawal passenger service was not resumed by February 10.“Residents of Chalisgaon, the taluka headquarters, largely depend on the passenger train from Deolali (Nashik) to Bhusawal for their travel to the district headquarter in Jalgaon for employment and education purposes. If the train is not started by the February 10, then I will stage an agitation against railways,” Chavan told TOI over the phone.The MLA said that he has written to the rail minister and others seeking immediate resumption of the passenger train between major stations.According to Chavan, many people have been using the “road route”, but there have been several accidents. “It is clear that train service is not only cost-effective but also safe. Hence we are stressing on the starting of passenger or shuttle services,” Chavan said.Chavan said the local train service in Mumbai is starting for everyone with time restrictions. “Why is the railways not taking a similar decision people in the rural areas who are dependent on the bigger cities for education, health and employment?” he asked.Divisional railway manager Vivek Kumar Gupta, in response to a social media message, said the suggestions were noted and the Central Railway headquarters was apprised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mla-wants-train-service-to-start-by-feb-10/articleshow/80617303.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 1, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Republic Day events a temporary setback, farmers haven’t lost sight of goal, stir hasn’t weakened’||Chief minister of Punjab Capt Amarinder Singh was attacked on social media for saying that maligning the farmers protesting against the three recent laws on agriculture marketing could cause the morale of the armed forces to go down. The former Army Captain and military historian explains to TOI’s Vibhor Mohan the rationale behind his statement. The Congress leader says that protesters have so far kept the movement apolitical but if he is asked to mediate, he will, albeit only for repealing the laws. The vilification of protesters as ‘Khalistanis’ and issue of religion have again dominated the social media since January 26. How do you see this?Yes. It’s really sad that this vilification campaign has taken over the social media, post the events of Republic Day, relegating the main issue – the black farm laws – to the background. What happened at Red Fort — the symbol of India’s independence — is condemnable and no right-thinking person can ever justify it. I was, in fact, the first person to condemn it, and have categorically said that it was a shameful incident and those behind it should be investigated and dealt with, according to the law of the land. Having said that, I strongly believe that those who instigated violence that day were not farmers but goons. Genuine farmers, who have been protesting for more than four months now, first in Punjab and now at Delhi borders, know very well that their strength lies in non-violence and public sympathy. Why would they jeopardize the movement by resorting to such tactics? They are not terrorists or separatists but farmers of Punjab and other states, who are fighting for their rights and the future of their coming generations against all odds and an arrogant BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. The BJP cannot wash its hands of its role in instigating this vilification campaign, as its leaders, since the very beginning of the agitation, have been repeatedly and persistently calling farmers all kinds of names — Khalistanis, Urban Naxalites, hooligans and what not – to discredit the movement. Rajnath Singh had called for a stop to this name calling. but it’s back with a vengeance. The engineered attacks on the farmers at Singhu and Ghazipur borders and the provocative sloganeering there is shameful. The attacks have been perpetrated in a planned manner and I don’t believe that local residents had anything to do with them. What is worrying is that no BJP leader is criticising these attacks or asking for an end to this vilification campaign. Punjab has seen a lot of bloodshed and cannot afford to see any more of it. Any communal unrest in Punjab can have disastrous consequences, as we have a hostile Pakistan sitting on our borders, waiting to exploit any opportunity. You have time and again raised the issue of Pakistan and China and said Punjab is facing a difficult time due to being a border state. However, your statement on Indian armed forces was severely attacked. What is the need of the hour in context of national security?Again, it’s unfortunate that social media trolls, most of whom are paid to spread hate and misinformation, are dictating the media discourse on such a sensitive issue. I stand by my statement that the morale of Army personnel from Punjab, who incidentally constitute 20% of the armed forces, could be impacted by the ongoing events. Just imagine the mental state of a soldier sitting on the front at Dras or Siachen, knowing well that his aged father or younger brother/sister is sitting under the open skies on Delhi borders with uncertainty on the course that this agitation would take and the constant threat of police action. Add to that the ongoing vilification campaign and the provocative engineered sloganeering – “Goli and Gadar”. Our soldiers too have access to social media and can very well see what’s happening here. Their concern for their families cannot be and should not be undermined. As far as threats from Pakistan and China are concerned, they can be only ignored at our own peril. Not a day passes when bodies of Punjab’s brave sons don’t come wrapped back home in the Tricolour from our borders. Pakistan-backed forces have been always active and are looking for opportunities to spread trouble here. A disturbed Punjab, like Kashmir, suits their scheme of things and they will go to any extent to achieve it. And the unrest this agitation is causing can give them the opportunity that they want. I have been constantly warning Delhi of the dangers of prolonging this agitation by delaying a solution. Ever since this agitation started in October, there has been an increase in the movement of drones and other activities from across the borders and I have apprised the central government about it. Arms, ammunition, drugs and money is being sent here for what? Don’t those sitting in Delhi realise it? India, in fact, now faces a twin threat from Pakistan and China. They both are working together and India needs a clear policy to deal with them – both against China’s expansionist agenda and Pakistan’s efforts to disturb our peace. Your government passed a resolution against the three laws in the assembly and was then mulling moving the SC on the issue. Would your government be interested in seeking an active role in the talks with farmers or even in the deliberations on the issue?It’s been four months since we passed the legislations to negate the impact of these black farm laws in Punjab but the governor is sitting on them. Ideally, the governor should have sent our bills to Delhi and left it on the President of India to take a decision on it. What we did is constitutionally valid under Article 254 (II). During the UPA regime, several BJP ruled states had passed amendments to the centrally enacted laws on land acquisition and the same were approved by then President Pranab Mukherjee in 2014. As far as our decision to challenge the laws in the Supreme Court is concerned, that still holds but since the negotiations were going on between the Centre and the farmers, we wanted to see which way things go. We are still hopeful that both sides will resolve the negotiations across the table and we will not need to get into a prolonged legal battle to get farmers their due. In any case, the matter is already in apex court and we are a party to it. The apex court has stayed the laws for now and even the union government is willing to delay its implementation, so we shall wait and see what happens. As regards Punjab taking an active role in the negotiations, it will entirely depend on the Centre and the farmer unions. The unions have so far kept their agitation apolitical and have been negotiating directly with the government. If they both agree, I would not hesitate to intervene, but my stand is clear that the only answer to this situation is a repeal of these laws. One should understand that laws are enacted for the benefit of the people and if those very people (farmers here) don’t want it, then what is the point of having them? The government should see and feel the pain of the farmers from across the country and repeal these laws. They should send the farmers back home, form a high-level committee of experts, with farmers, other stakeholders and state government representatives in it, and frame new laws that are genuinely in the interest of the farmers and acceptable to them. The way these farm laws were passed was not only against the federal structure of the country but also the principles of Indian Constitution. They were wrong and they must go. Do you think the dust would settle anytime soon on R-Day incident and protesters would be able to regain their position of strength vis-a-vis the Centre?I strongly feel that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the lead and call for an end to the vilification campaign. These protesters are poor farmers and are patriots like all of us. Their democratic protests don’t make them anti-nationals. A democracy is all about having space for dissenting voices. The R-Day events were certainly a temporary setback to the agitation but the farmers haven’t lost sight of their goal and their agitation hasn’t weakened. They too have decried the unfortunate incidents of Red Fort and have distanced themselves from the people who were at the forefront that day. The post R-Day events – UP government issuing orders for vacating the farmers and the draconian measures of snapping water and power supply and internet at the protest sites — have only strengthened the resolve of the farmers. See what’s happening in Western UP, Haryana and Punjab. More and more farmers are joining in and mahapanchayats have been held to support the farmers’ cause. So there is no question of regaining or losing strength. The future of these farmers is at stake and the Government of India must continue talks with them. They should talk to each other as equals and not let egos come in between. You claimed that you could have resolved the deadlock by now. What in your opinion the two sides are not doing right as the dialogue has not yielded any results?Frankly, I would not have allowed the situation to come to such an impasse in the first place. I would not have brought out such laws in the first place, and had I made the mistake of doing so I’d have immediately made amends by withdrawing them. Now that the crisis has escalated so much, as I said earlier, the only logical solution is to repeal these laws without any further delay. There is no point of having an agriculture law which the farmers don’t want. As for mediation, I am there to help if both sides want. Do you think the Centre would ever agree to the demand for repealing the farm laws? Can putting the laws on hold for a longer period (beyond 18 months) be a middle path to end the logjam?They should. When they are ready to keep them in abeyance for 18 months and are willing for amendments to it and even further discussions in Parliament, why can’t they just withdraw the laws and start afresh? They should take all stakeholders in confidence – which they should have done in the first place – and enact new laws. The government should look at the problem sympathetically and not get stuck on ego. The farmer unions have postponed their February 1 march to Parliament, but they are now mobilising more crowds for ‘record gathering’ on February 2. Sitting there for two months, are they now justified in this move?Peaceful protests are a democratic right of every Indian under our Constitution. Even the Supreme Court has not objected to these protests. You cannot call these protests pressure tactics, since the farmers have been forced to resort to the agitation, as the Government of India was not willing to hear them out. The way these ordinances were brought in the midst of the pandemic, without consulting the stakeholders, and the way they were bulldozed in Parliament because of BJP’s brute strength raises question on the intent of the government. Had they found it prudent to discuss this with farmers and others beforehand, this situation wouldn’t have arisen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/r-day-events-a-temporary-setback-farmers-havent-lost-sight-of-goal-stir-hasnt-weakened/articleshow/80619613.cms||Vibhor Mohan
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||One dead as tempo overturns in Thane, 15 hurt||KALYAN: One person was killed and 15 injured after a tempo truck on its way back from a pilgrimage overturned at Malsej Ghat in Thane on Sunday night. Those on board, residents of Ulhasnagar, had gone to Athvinayak temple in Latur on Saturday. The Tokawade police said around 20 relatives and neighbours had arranged a private tempo for the pilgrimage. Tokawade police station in-charge Suhas Kharmate saidt the injured passengers were taken to a hospital in Alephata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-dead-as-tempo-overturns-in-thane-15-hurt/articleshow/80619720.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Will support Sangam Dairy, assures Nabard||Guntur: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has agreed to extend its support for the expansion of Sangam Dairy. A team of officials from Nabard, which inspected facilities at the dairy, expressed its satisfaction on the utilisation of funds granted in the past. Nabard general manager Prabhakar Behra, who led the 20-member official team, appreciated various schemes launched by the dairy management under the chairmanship of Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar. Behra said Sangam Dairy had taken measures for the welfare of milk producers along with sharing profits. He said the dairy management had a vision for its development as it is making full use of its machinery, adding the dairy management had taken a novel move to produce more milk-based products to attract consumers. The Nabard team asked the management to submit proposals for grant of funds for expansion of dairy units. “We are ready to consider grant of funds if suitable proposals are submitted,” said Behra. Former legislator and chairman Narendra Kumar said quality is their chief mantra for consolidating the market. Quality would not be compromised either in producing the end products or in procurement, Kumar said, pointing out that the dairy business, which has a strong base in Guntur district, had started procurements from Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor as well. Kumar said milk producers were the real owners of the company as they have been sharing their profits with their members. He explained they are planning to set up more bulk milk chilling units in different districts to increase procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/will-support-sangam-dairy-assures-nabard/articleshow/80617308.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Booze in Pondy to remain costly as special tax extended till Mar 31||Puducherry: Alcoholic drinks in the Union territory of Puducherry will now cost almost the same as in neighbouring Tamil Nadu as thegovernment has extended levy of the special excise duty, which expires on January 31, till March 31. Deputy commissioner (excise) T Sudhakar issued a notice in this regard on Friday. Chief minister V Narayanasamy said the government sent a proposal to the lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi to revoke the special excise duty on liquor products pointing out that neighbouring states such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka had revoked the Covid-19 tax on liquor after the number of Covid-19 cases started coming down. Even Delhi has revoked the Covid-19 tax on liquor products, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/booze-in-pondy-to-remain-costly-as-special-tax-extended-till-mar-31/articleshow/80605770.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Instagram friend breaks into Colaba home, steals cash & gold||MUMBAI: Making friends with a teenager on social media a chartered accountant’s family very dearly. The Colaba police arrested a 19-year old after he entered his girlfriend’s flat in the family’s absence and stole her family’s gold ornaments worth Rs 14 lakh with a duplicate key his girlfriend had forgotten with him days earlier. The police arrested Shaizaan Agwan, a resident of Mazgaon, on the charges of theft and house break-in. On Friday, the chartered accountant’s family (name withheld) lodged a complaint at Colaba police station, alleging that when the family returned from a tour on January 27, they found the ornaments, cash and other valuables including an i-Phone missing from their safe. The family lives in Pasta Lane in Colaba. They were shocked as there was no sign of forced entry into the flat, but found the gold and cash missing. The police registered a break-in case and started a probe. After two days of inquiry from watchmen, neighbours and domestic help, the police suspected that it to be an inside job and asked the family to find out if they had lost their house key. “The family then raised suspicion on their teenage daughter. The girl told us that she did not tell anything as she got scared that her father would scold her. They counselled and took her into confidence. It was here that she told them that she had forgotten her house keys with Agwan whom she had met on Instagram,” said an officer. The police picked up Shaizaan who confessed to having stolen the vaulables using the duplicate keys. The police have recovered Rs 1 lakh and the i-Phone from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/insta-friend-breaks-into-colaba-home-steals-cash-gold/articleshow/80618307.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Sasi will reclaim AIADMK: AMMK paper||Chennai: As former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s close-aide V K Sasikala’s arrival in Chennai next week is likely to create unease in the ruling AIADMK, Namadhu MGR, the official mouthpiece of T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK, on Saturday claimed no one can stop Sasikala from regaining the reins of the AIADMK. The AIADMK leaders, however, maintain that she would not be re-inducted into the party. An article published with the headline, ‘Aanaigal Ittu Yaar Thaduthalum’ (No matter whoever swears to block), under a pen name, sought to remind the AIADMK leaders about the popularity of Sasikala among AIADMK cadres, who are putting up posters welcoming her in various parts of the state. Calling her a symbol of sacrifice (for the sake of Jayalalithaa), the article said irrespective of the conspiracies hatched by the treacherous groups along with evil forces, Sasikala would emerge as the leader of the party. She would meet people of Tamil Nadu soon and reveal the true colours of the deceitful characters, who kicked the ladder after using it to climb positions, it said. Arrangements have been made for Sasikala to resume her political work from a house adjacent to her niece J Krishnapriya’s residence in T Nagar. An embarrassed AIADMK leadership had expelled some party functionaries in Tirunelveli and Trichy districts after they put up posters supporting Sasikala earlier this week. On Saturday, a group of AIADMK men put up similar posters in Theni, the native district of deputy CM and AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam, and Thanjavur, triggering unease in the party. Panneerselvam’s son V P Jayapradeep had earlier issued a statement wishing Sasikala a speedy recovery. Reminding Sasikala’s efforts in safeguarding the party and retaining power, after the death of Jayalalithaa, Namadhu MGR hit out at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami without naming him, for ruling out ties with the leader. “History will identify them as traitors. Fact is that they cannot establish Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) rule nor can they protect the partymen. The opportunistic traitors, who had knelt, prostrated and surrendered themselves to get positions, should hold their tongue," it said. The article called upon the AIADMK leadership to honour cadres’ wishes and welcome Sasikala back in the party in unison to establish Jayalalithaa’s rule. AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said the party would respond only to Sasikala or Dhinakaran and not to anonymous contributors writing in a paper. “Our party’s stand is very clear and chief minister also echoed the same in New Delhi. There is no chance of any tie up with Sasikala,” he said. The AIADMK’s contention is that Dhinakaran was expelled by Jayalalithaa herself and he was not to be seen for a decade before being given position by Sasikala, hours before she went to Bengaluru prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasi-will-reclaim-aiadmk-ammk-paper/articleshow/80605763.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Three killed in motorcycle accident||Coimbatore: Three people were killed in a motorcycle accident on the Kangeyam – Trichy national highway on Sunday.The deceased were identified as T Muthuraja, 26, his wife M Kiruba, 24 and his sister-in-law Priya, 17, daughter of Thambidurai. They were natives of Vallam in Thanjavur district and were working in a garment unit at Veerapandi in Tirupur. They were staying in a rented house at Kallankadu in Veerapadi.The trio was heading towards Thanjavur from Tirupur on a motorcycle, a police officer said. “When they reached Bagavathipalayam Pirivu around 12.10am, a truck carrying cement bags coming from the opposite direction rammed the motorcycle. Muthuraja and Kiruba died on the spot. Priya died on the way to the government hospital at Kangeyam,” he said.The bodies were handed over to the family after postmortem.Police registered a case against truck driver Annadurai of Ramanathapuram district and seized the truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-killed-in-motorcycle-accident/articleshow/80619694.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Thane||One dead as tempo overturns in Thane, 15 hurt||KALYAN: One person was killed and 15 injured after a tempo truck on its way back from a pilgrimage overturned at Malsej Ghat in Thane on Sunday night. Those on board, residents of Ulhasnagar, had gone to Athvinayak temple in Latur on Saturday. The Tokawade police said around 20 relatives and neighbours had arranged a private tempo for the pilgrimage. Tokawade police station in-charge Suhas Kharmate saidt the injured passengers were taken to a hospital in Alephata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/1-dead-as-tempo-overturns-in-thane-15-hurt/articleshow/80619720.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Man held for hunting deer in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: Forest department officials arrested a member of the narikuravar community on Saturday for poaching two spotted deer at Nellithurai beat of the Mettupalayam forest range on January 23. The arrested person was identified as J Arul of narikuravar colony at Thimmampalayam, Karamadai. Arul and a relative used country-made guns to kill the deer, range officer Palaniraja said. He was booked under the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-hunting-deer/articleshow/80619650.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||No e-classes, e-wallet: Singhu residents rue internet blackout||NEW DELHI: Unlike other students his age, Class X student Sahil had plenty of time to kill this weekend. He spent the last two days with a friend at a mobile phone repair shop looking at clips of the mobile video game PUBG. Sahil, who lives in Singhu village, was unable to attend online classes after internet in the border area was temporarily suspended, and is one of the many residents of the village undone by the net blockade. “There is no internet in our village, so I am unable to sit for my classes and connect with teachers. Hopefully, the net connection will return by midnight and I can re start my studies,” the teenager said. A number of villagers also complained of financial troubles, as UPI and digital transactions went down with the internet connection. In the electronic age, several complained about not being able to access net banking too. Gourav, who runs a photocopy shop near the Singhu border protest site, said that internet issues plague the students in the area frequently. “College students often have to go all the way to Narela to sit for their exams. Most do not have Wi-Fi at home and often have to go a long distance just to get a strong signal,” he added. The central government has suspended internet connectivity at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border areas on the request of Delhi Police after the violence that followed the tractor rally on January 26 and later an attack on the protesting farmers by people claiming to be locals. Gulshan Kumar is one of the few in the village who owns a Wi-Fi router in his shop and helps people access application forms for Civil Defence, Pan Card and Aadhaar cards. “My customers have been complaining about not being able to do net banking. Digital payments through UPI or online wallets like PayTM have also stopped. Students are hassled about their online classes,” said Gulshan. “I hope that the internet is restored soon. We cannot be treated like this; it’s our right to have internet connections.” Many are hoping that the disruption is just temporary and does not extend any longer. The owner of a salon, Tahir Khan, is assured that the troubles will be over soon. “The government may restore the internet by Monday and then things will be back to normal. I hope they don’t shut down the internet again,” Khan said. At the protest site nearby, the farmers are, however, unfazed by the absence of the facility deemed crucial for everyday life. While a Wi-Fi connection at one location at the protest site was being promoted on social media, many farmers stated that they could manage without the internet. Gurpreet Singh of Jalandhar was found reading a book in Gurmukhi inside his tent on Sunday. “For the last two days, many of us relied on reading books and journals to keep ourselves busy. These books have inspiring messages and encourage us to struggle while being peaceful,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-e-classes-e-wallet-singhu-residents-rue-internet-blackout/articleshow/80619699.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Apprehensions of bizmen about OTS scheme not true’||One of the most eagerly awaited scheme of the state government which was announced amid huge fanfare, the one time settlement (OTS) scheme for recovery of outstanding dues-2021, will start from February 1 in the state. As Ludhiana division of the state GST department is the biggest in Punjab, having the largest taxpayer base and revenue also, the biggest beneficiaries of this scheme will be in the city. To understand more about the on ground implications of this scheme and about the recent drive of the department against tax evasion, Tejbir Singh Sidhu, deputy commissioner state tax, Ludhiana division, speaks to TOI’s Mohit Behl and also gives insight about earnings of the division. Q: Elaborate about the one time settlement scheme for vat assessments. How many registered dealers of Ludhiana are going to be benefited ? The OTS scheme launched by the government of Punjab will be implemented with effect from February 1 throughout the state for the dealers whose old VAT cases for 2013-14 have been opened for assessment and have been framed up to December 31, 2020. If we talk of Ludhiana, approximately 24,000 registered dealers are eligible to enrol for this scheme and avail of the benefits. If the eligible persons whose tax demand is up to Rs 1 lakh opts for OTS, they will be allowed waiver of 90% of the tax and 100% waiver of penalties and interest will be given to them. So, they will be required to pay only 10% of due tax and zero amount on account of interest or penalty. The dealer can even submit additional statutory forms like C-forms, which were not produced at the time of assessment, with the application form and will have to make the self-assessment and submit the proof of payment of net tax payable as the result of the settlement. The ward in-charge concerned will issue an order of settlement, which will not be reopened in any proceeding by way of review or revision. Q: Some bizmen are claiming that OTS will not benefit a large number of dealers? Are these apprehensions true? The apprehensions of the businessmen are not true, since the name of the scheme itself is self explanatory. It is providing one time settlement for outstanding dues. All across Punjab 47,267 dealers were assessed for the assessment year 2013-14 and approximately 24,000 were assessed in Ludhiana district only. All will stand benefited if they are eligible and apply for OTS within the deadline. Maximum benefit is being given to the businessmen who have tax demand of up to Rs 1 lakh as they are getting waiver of 90% in tax and 100% in penalties and interest. If we talk of businessmen whose tax demand is more than Rs 1 lakh and up to Rs 5 lakh, they too are getting 100% relief in terms of interest and penalty in the assessments conducted for the year 2013-14, which is a very big relief. Q: How can one apply for this scheme, what documents are needed and what's the process for getting relief? All those dealers whose assessments have been framed up to December 31, 2020, can apply under the scheme till April 30, 2021. Secondly, a dealer can submit additional statutory forms which they could not produce at the time of assessment with the application form. After this, the dealer has to make self assessment and submit the proof of payment of 100% of the net tax payable as a result of settlement. Then, they will submit it to the ward in-charge concerned, who if finds everything in order and is satisfied, will issue the order of settlement after examining the application. Q: How has been SGST Ludhiana’s anti-evasion drive so far ? What are the major cases unearthed by the department in the recent months? In Ludhiana division, which consists of three ranges of Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib district, four arrests were made in Fatehgarh Sahib, involving tax evasion of about Rs 89.61 crore, while three persons were arrested in Ludhiana in a single case, where tax to the tunes of Rs 32 crore approximately was evaded by claiming ingenuine input tax credit (ITC) and refund from the state exchequer. In another case in Ludhiana range-2, state tax officials detected a bogus claim of refund of Rs 56.61 lakh and rejected it and further issued recovery notices in another two cases for Rs 16.47 lakh. Further in Ludhiana division, 13,839 applications of refund were filed amounting to Rs 330.26 crore and 302 deficiency memos were issued. In another operation five vehicles belonging to a notorious transporter were seized and notices for penalty of approximately Rs 70 lakh was imposed on him. Q: Is it true that some special investigation team (SIT) has been formed by SGST department to investigate such frauds? It is true that a team was made by my predecessor under the name of SIT. The officers of the SIT were given powers across the state. Now, we are going to focus on evasion in Ludhiana division only. The racket of fake invoices is rampant and it is causing damage to the state exchequer. These rackets prevail on demand and supply and two main players operate in the state, one caters to transportation and the other to industrial houses. We are going to hit the demand and the supply will automatically shut down. The benefactors are going to be hit, along with the suppliers. We are also going to give the responsibility to the field officers in whose areas or ward these stooges operate and the officers will have to answer for their lack of vigil. In other words every officer in itself will be a member of the special team. Every input will be counted and used against evaders. Q: Like the central government departments, has the SGST started using any hi-tech modes to bust the tax evasion cases ? All new software and technology available at the GST portal are being used against the fraudsters and all four assistant commissioners VP Singh of Ludhiana-1, Damanjit Singh Manna of Ludhiana-2, Randhir Kaur of Ludhiana-3 and Sunita Batra of Fatehgarh Sahib have been told to weed out the dealers and traders indulging in fake/bogus billing by making full use of the reports of e-way bill portal, BIFA, etc and also make most of the local intelligence in order to curb this menace. Q: Ludhiana is considered as the biggest revenue area of SGST. Can you elaborate a bit about the collections and earnings of your division? Ludhiana is the biggest industrial town of Punjab and it contributes the maximum revenue to the state. The revenue collections dipped post Covid-19 pandemic and due to exodus of labour, etc. But as things are getting normal and the after-effect of coronavirus are fading away, we are witnessing a rise in the revenue in a gradual manner. In December 2020 only, Ludhiana netted 3.20% rise in the revenue as compared to December 2019. In Fatehgarh Sahib, December 2020 showed an increase of 13% over December 2019. Q: It's been more than three years now since GST regime replaced VAT. Do you think taxpayers have been easily able to adapt to this change now as against the previous years? Ever since the GST was implemented, the trade industry was approached with a guiding and friendly hand. A lot of seminars and lectures were organised by our department to make them aware of the new laws and guide them in a friendly manner, so that they can easily comply with it. Minor mistakes and non-compliance were not addressed with coercive measures and as a result, Punjab showed highest compliance in GST all over India. But unfortunately, the friendly approach and ease to get registration has activated unscrupulous elements, who started misusing the law and started evading tax by making dummy firms. But now the department is getting over this guidance and implementing law of the land. Every malpractice adopted by the evaders is being brought to the notice of the GST council and necessary amendments are being made in the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/apprehensions-of-bizmen-about-ots-scheme-not-true/articleshow/80618290.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Revamped stretch of Cross Cut Road evokes mixed response||Cleared/AnilCoimbatore: The temporarily redesigned stretch of Cross Cut Road was opened to the public on Sunday. While the younger, slow and window shoppers, who reached the road by public transport, were relieved to find the arrangements, those drove in found the road more congested, as the driving space has narrowed down.The city corporation, along with the German development agency Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammernarbeit (GIZ), has redesigned around 1km stretch of Cross Cut Road to make it pedestrian friendly. They showcased it to the public on the day to get their feedback.Many shoppers were seen enjoying the facilities and taking a stroll along the pedestrian path, which is 2.5m to 4.5m wide, that is painted in yellow colour. A few were seen resting in seating areas that are equipped with tyres and other recycled material along the cycle track.“The road suddenly looks extremely attractive, colourful and vibrant,” says Laxmi Seshadri, a faculty member of a college. “And it is extremely thoughtful of them to create seating arrangements on the road, where the shoppers usually have to be on their feet for long.”Many youngsters and mothers, who were accompanied by children, also enjoyed the pedestrian path, saying it made them feel safer and relaxed. “Four of us could walk down the stretch, chatting and looking at the hawker stalls in a relaxed manner. It was not possible earlier when we always had to watch out for a cyclist or two-wheeler rider,” says Pavithra, a software company employee.Sathyaprabha, a private hospital employee, was also relived to find the pedestrian path. “Earlier, I was scared to hold my son’s hand and walk to a shop that was far away. But this time, we were able to find a parking space, walk to two shops, have a bite at an eatery and walk back to our two-wheeler.”However, people who drove in found the road more congested. “With a single lane traffic, it is too difficult,” says B Kannan who had come from Salem with his family for shopping. Manivannan, a businessman, expressed a similar view. “The road is becoming narrower and it is a matter of time before traffic pile-up occurs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revamped-stretch-of-cross-cut-road-evokes-mixed-response/articleshow/80619660.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Media bodies slam action against journalists||NEW DELHI: The Indian Women’s Press Corps, Press Club of India and the Press Association on Sunday condemned the “brutal” police action against two freelance journalists who were picked up by Delhi Police on January 30 evening from Singhu Border farmers’ protest site. One of the two journalists was arrested on Sunday on charges of obstructing and attacking policemen on duty. Condemning the government’s “crackdown” on journalists to “prevent them from doing their job independently and freely,” IWPC, Press Club of India and the Press Association demanded that the arrested journalist be freed immediately and “no journalist should be disturbed while carrying out their duties at any place”. “Such crackdowns impinge on the media’s right to report freely and interferes with our right to freedom of expression, and freedom of the press as guaranteed by the Constitution of India,” the statement by the groups said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/media-bodies-slam-action-against-journalists/articleshow/80619675.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Amritsar||Bathinda: Lakha Sidhana’s village too comes to his defence||BATHINDA: Gangster-turned-social worker Lakha Sidhana’s village has come to his rescue after the former came under attack from farm leaders over the Republic Day tractor parade violence in Delhi. The panchayat of Lakha’s village, Sidhana, and and hundreds of residents assembled on Sunday and passed a resolution which termed Lakha innocent and not anti-national. The villagers also warned farm leaders against calling Lakha a traitor. Sidhana is in Rampura Phool subdivision of Bathinda. Sidhana sarpanch Harpreet Kaur’s husband Buta Singh, who is associated with the ruling Congress, said all residents of the village were united and rising above party lines to defend Lakha. “If anyone calls Lakha as traitor, they should call us also traitors. Farm leaders should be cautious in alleging Lakha’s role in what happened at Red Fort. If anyone has any documentary evidence against Lakha, they should show it to us,” he said. Lakha’s father Modan Singh said allegations against his son should only be levelled with substantial proof. Lakha and actor-singer Deep Sidhu are being accused of taking youths to Red Fort to unfurl the Nishan Sahib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sidhanas-village-too-comes-to-his-defence/articleshow/80619708.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Centre names BJP man MLA in Puducherry||Puducherry: The Union government rejected the recommendation of the Congress government to nominate a Youth Congress functionary as a member of the legislative assembly in the Union territory of Puducherry and instead, nominated BJP Puducherry unit vice-president Thanga Vikraman, 59, as MLA. Additional secretary (home affairs) Govind Mohan issued a notification nominating Vikraman as an MLA on Friday. The post fell vacant after K G Shankar, 71, passed away after suffering a massive heart attack on June 17. Senior Congress leader and chief minister V Narayanasamy, who took strong exception to the Centre’s decision to reject the government’s recommendation and nominate a BJP functionary, said the government will challenge the Centre’s nomination in the Supreme Court. "We recommended to the Union government to nominate Youth Congress functionary Ilaiyaraja as member of the legislative assembly. As per convention, the Centre accepts the recommendations of the elected government in the nomination of MLAs. But the BJP-led Centre rejected our recommendation and nominated a local BJP functionary as an MLA. We strongly condemn the Centre’s decision. It is against democracy. We will approach the Supreme Court challenging the Centre’s nomination,” said Narayanasamy. “The BJP, which contested in 18 seats in the last assembly polls and lost deposits in all constituencies in 2016 in Puducherry, later nominated three BJP functionaries as MLAs,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-names-bjp-man-mla-in-puducherry/articleshow/80605785.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Congress announces candidate for Mullanpur bypoll||LUDHIANA: Sandeep Singh Sandhu, political secretary to chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced the candidate of the Congress for the byelection of the Mullanpur municipal council ward number 8 during a press conference held at a hotel in the town. The seat got vacated due to the death of Balwinder Singh Sekhon, senior vice-president, nagar council, Mullanpur. Announcing Jabbarjang Singh Sekhon as the official Congress candidate from ward number 8, Sandhu said, “The father of Jabbarjang, late Balwinder Singh Sekhon, had been instrumental in strengthening the Congress and also in the development of Mullanpur, and that is why out of respect no other candidate from this ward had applied for the party ticket. The elections which are being held in the state are being fought on the basis of development work being carried out in the state under the able leadership of Amarinder Singh and in these elections the Congress will win again.” Jabbarjang said that by winning this seat the Congress and Sandeep Singh Sandhu will get the upper hand. He also said that although all elections held in Mullanpur during the last SAD-BJP coalition government had tarnished the image of democratic values, but since the power of the state came in the hands of the Congress these have been restored. The elections in the city have been held in a completely democratic and peaceful manner, he added. On this occasion, Karan Warring; vice-chairman, PEDA, Karanjit Singh Soni Ghalib; president of the Ddistrict Congress Committee, Ludhiana (rural); Ramesh Mohi; president of the Bhatta Association Punjab; Sandeep Singh Sekhon, president, NSUI Ludhiana; Telu Ram Bansal, president, nagar council, Mullanpur; Shyam Lal Jindal, vice-chairman of the market committee, Mullanpur; Karanveer Singh Sekhon, senior vice-president, nagar council, Mullanpur; Tarsem Kaur Mann, vice-president of the nagar council, Mullanpur; and councillor Mahinderpal Singh Lali were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/congress-announces-candidate-for-mullanpur-bypoll/articleshow/80618323.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Kerala University staffer taunted students & offered pass marks for cash||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An inquiry by the controller of examinations of Kerala University has revealed that marksheets of as many as 74 students of undergraduate courses were fudged by an employee who was recently suspended from service. Action was taken against section officer Vinod V after it first emerged that he had tampered with the mark list of a student. The officer was placed under suspension and an inquiry was ordered after the mark list of a BSc computer science student was found to have been cooked up. “The detailed inquiry conducted by the controller of examinations revealed that similar fraudulent actions were committed by the same section officer and the IT cell was directed to submit the report on the alteration of marks by section officer Vinod V during his service in the ES4 section. The verification revealed modification of marks in the marksheets of 74 candidates on which further verifications have to be done,” the preliminary report on the inquiry said. A hearing was conducted by summoning six candidates from the list and all of them agreed to be party to the fraud by the officer, the report said. It said the students revealed that the accused section officer persuaded them to bribe him for higher marks. The report said he adopted a strategy of initially humiliating the students for not securing pass marks, then consoled them, and expressed his willingness to help by accepting money. It further said that all the statements clearly show that the students were “forced to accept his support and were compelled to bribe him”. The university syndicate had entrusted the pro vice-chancellor and controller of examinations with the inquiry. Meanwhile, Kerala University stated that it has taken all possible steps to ensure that stringent action is being taken against the culprits. In a statement, it said the allegation that the university is hiding the matter is baseless. The syndicate has decided to cancel the degree of the students who benefited from the forgery. It has also decided to seek a police investigation in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ku-staffer-taunted-students-offered-pass-marks-for-cash/articleshow/80617318.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Chennai||DMDK won’t ally with PMK, says Premalatha||Chennai: DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant on Saturday told her partymen to get ready to contest alone in all 234 constituencies and said the DMDK would not be part of any alliance in which the PMK was present. She also hinted that party founder Vijayakant would make an “important announcement” on his wedding anniversary on Sunday. Speaking to party functionaries in charge of the 234 constituencies in the state, Premalatha urged them to set up booth-level committees without missing anyone and post additional office-bearers in the constituencies to take up election work. “She said there is no need to wait for ‘others’ and we should start the election work in all 234 constituencies,” said a functionary. The DMDK leader was averse to tying up with the PMK, said the functionary. Premalatha had recently said that the party wants to contest in 41 seats as it did during the 2011 assembly polls, as part of the AIADMK alliance. The DMDK, however, snapped ties with the AIADMK, within 100 days of Jayalalithaa assuming office as CM. The party contested as part of the four-party alliance, People’s Welfare Front, in 2016 and came a cropper. After sewing up an alliance with the AIADMK in 2019 LS polls, the DMDK leadership is upset over the ruling party not commencing electoral talks with it even as elections are inching closer. “Premalatha has been repeatedly extending support to V K Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s close-aide, lauding her sacrifices. She also said Edappadi K Palaniswami was chosen as CM by the party and not by the people. It remains unclear if the AIADMK-DMDK alliance will materialise,” a senior DMDK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmdk-wont-ally-with-pmk-says-premalatha/articleshow/80605800.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Bareilly||Cops shelter couple facing life threats from kin against their marriage||BAREILLY: A young couple who has been granted permission by Allahabad high court to get married had to send an SOS to police in Moradabad against their families for allegedly threatening to kill them. The police have lodged them in a safe house till they get married and warned their families to abide by the court order. The couple, Nazish and Mohammad Khalid, both residents of Bhojpur, informed police that they wanted to get married but their families were against the match as they belong to different strata of society. Despite the court order, they claimed that their family members continued to harass them at public places and had even threatened to kill them. “Whenever we go to the collectorate to follow up the procedure of getting registered for our marriage, they somehow get to know and follow us and threaten us,” said Khalid. “The families, especially one of the uncles of Nazish, has threatened to kill us. We had moved HC earlier, for seeking protection,” he added. Darvesh Kumar, SHO, Civil Lines, Moradabad, said, “The high court has directed to provide police protection to the couple and in adherence to it, they have been sent to a safe place. They will be getting married within two months. The families, meanwhile, have been informed that both are adults and can marry as per their choice. They have also been warned to abide by the court order or else, they may face legal action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cops-shelter-couple-facing-life-threats-from-kin-against-their-marriage/articleshow/80617296.cms||Maria Khan
February 1, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Govt may spend big to push growth||NEW DELHI: It has been billed as a Budget like never before, triggering expectations that the government will open the purse strings to nurse the Covid-hit economy back onto a robust growth trajectory with a massive fiscal push. So far, the government has preferred to pursue a cautious approach, focusing on the sectors that need help. Several measures have been unveiled, the government’s borrowing limit has been increased and there has been a re-alignment of spending to get cash. The strategy has indeed opened up space for a fiscal push. But experts expect the government to do a balancing act and unveil a fresh fiscal consolidation road map. The Economic Survey unveiled on Friday made a case for a massive fiscal push and chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian has backed spending on infrastructure and fiscal support for the economy for the next 18-24 months to ensure growth returns to pre-Covid levels. Budget 2021: Live updates“While we do expect an increase in government expenditure by 10% and fiscal deficit at 5.5% for FY22, we believe the FM will reset and re-establish fiscal targets in a revised FRBM glide path,” said Shubhada Rao, founder of economic research firm QuantEco. The need for funds will obviously prompt the Centre to look at new avenues to raise resources to fund its ambitious recovery process. It will turn to disinvestment in a major way to ensure that precious revenues come in. Indications are that the government will set a much higher target than the Rs 2.1 lakh crore for the current fiscal year. Read AlsoFM Sitharaman's 'Economic Vaccine' coming today; will Budget 2021-22 go beyond 'bahi-khata'?Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman today will deliver her promised budget like no other that is expected to provide relief to the pandemic-hit common man as well as focus more on driving the economic recovery through higher spending on healthcare, infrastructure and defence amid rising tensionsThe Centre will miss the target for 2020-21 in a massive manner. But the raft of big ticket strategic sales such as BPCL and Air India and the blockbuster LIC IPO will ensure the cash registers keep ringing next financial year. The ground work for most of these asset sales have been done and the government is likely to make a determined effort to boost strategic sales and asset monetisation. It will also roll out the new public sector policy to pave the entry of the private sector in 2021-22. The sustained buoyancy in GST revenues have come as a major relief and should help. The return of growth will also help in restoring the health of revenues in months ahead. “The onerous task is to balance the immediate need to support growth and ease the pandemic pain, while engineering a return to fiscal prudence over the medium term,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at ratings agency Crisil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-govt-may-spend-big-to-push-growth/articleshow/80621001.cms||Surojit Gupta
February 1, 2021||Amritsar||Morcha forms panel to look for missing persons||BATHINDA: The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading farm protests against farm laws, on Sunday formed a five-member committee to get details of all farmers who are missing, arrested or booked in cases registered by Delhi Police in the aftermath of the happenings during tractor parade on Republic Day. The morcha has identified 163 persons, either lodged in jail or in police custody. The committee formed on Sunday by farmer organisations, will look for farmers who are still missing and have not been found in any police list. The committee comprises farm leaders Rajinder Singh, Prem Singh Bhangu, Kiranjit Singh Sekhon, Baljit Singh of morcha’s IT cell and Avtar Singh. They will study legal aspects of the stir and will approach lawyers for providing legal assistance to those arrested. Farm organisations have accused Delhi Police of not cooperating in providing details of missing farmers. Farmer organisations of Punjab on Sunday held a meeting and announced that the meeting of SKM will be held on Monday where an action plan will be decided. The morcha will thoroughly deliberate on the appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an all-party meeting wherein he had said the government’s proposal for staying the implementation of laws for 18 months was still on the table. Farm leaders said though the morcha had got a severe beating for couple of days, the protest had been revived with renewed vigour as hundreds of panchayats were coming forward in passing resolutions in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh.  Any information on missing persons can be shared on a helpline number, 81980-22033, with full name of the missing person, full address, phone number of the person and any other contact number at home and missing from when.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/morcha-forms-panel-to-look-for-missing-persons/articleshow/80619738.cms||Neel Kamal
February 1, 2021||Chennai||‘1 crore will benefit within 100 days of DMK forming government’||CHENNAI: DMK leader M K Stalin on Saturday said one crore people, who have submitted petitions during his party's Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin campaign, would benefit within 100 days, if the DMK comes to power. The campaign – Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin – would help the families of the petitioners overcome their difficulties, he said. If voted to power, he said, a separate board would be set up to look into the petitions and address them. He said camps would be conducted in every constituency to address grievances. Claiming that the campaign was successful, Stalin said people who were not getting relief from the state government were approaching him. He referred to the case of Ezhilarasi of Arni, who sought assistance after her mother died in a cylinder blast. The government had promised Rs2 lakh relief, but despite repeated petitions, she did not get it, said Stalin. He said during his visit to Tiruvannamalai district, he had promised to provide her relief after coming to power. AIADMK ministers, who are keenly tracking the DMK’s campaign, deposited the aid in Ezhilarasi’s account on the same night. “It is a big victory for the campaign,” Stalin said while addressing the gathering at Sholinghur in Ranipet constituency. He condemned the ruling party for not utilising the available SIPCOT land in Ranipet to establish industries to create employment opportunities and for failing to implement the Hogenakkal drinking water project, which was launched during the DMK regime to guarantee potable drinking water in several districts. While addressing the gathering at Pallikonda in Vellore district, Stalin thanked the people for reposing faith in the DMK and submitting petitions with confidence that the DMK would form the government in the coming months. “I promise that your worries will soon fade away,” he said. He criticised the AIADMK government for failing in creating job opportunities for youth and for not bringing in any new scheme and project in the last nine years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1cr-will-benefit-within-100-days-of-dmk-forming-govt/articleshow/80605817.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||64 people injured during Alagumalai jallikattu||Coimbatore: As many as 64 people, including bull tamers, bull owners and spectators, suffered injuries during the jallikattu event held at Alagumalai in Tirupur on Sunday.More than 555 bull tamers and 749 bulls from across the state attended the fourth jallikattu event, organised by the Tirupur district administration in association with Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls Welfare Association. Animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan flagged off the event at 8am. Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan, MLAs Karaipudur A Natarajan of Palladam constituency and U Thaniyarasu of Kangeyam constituency were present.Only those bull tamers, who had Covid-19 negative certificates, were allowed to participate in the event.First prize winner Karthik from Natham, who tamed 12 bulls, received a motorcycle. Three tamers from Madurai, Sivaganga, and Batlagundu, who tamed six bulls each, were given mopeds. Owners of bulls that won the first and second prizes were also given a bike and mopeds.As many as 23 tamers, 32 bull owners and nine spectators suffered injuries in the event. Seventeen tamers who suffered serious injuries were referred to the Tirupur Government Medical College Hospital. A bull tamer, whose left ring finger was severed, was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).As many as 15,000 people watched the event and 1,400 cops were deployed at the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/64-people-injured-during-alagumalai-jallikattu/articleshow/80619741.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 19-year-old killed as truck rams sedan on highway||NAVI MUMBAI: A 19-year-old was killed and two of his friends injured after a truck hit their sedan on its side on the Sion-Panvel highway at Kharghar, around 1.30am on Sunday. The trio was heading towards Mumbai. The truck changed lanes suddenly and hit them. The truck fled from the spot. The deceased was identified as Chaitanya Zaveri. His friends, who were hospitalised, were Pinak Bharsadia and Rahul Ravarai, both 19. They are residents of south Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/19-year-old-killed-as-truck-rams-sedan-on-hway/articleshow/80619769.cms||George Mendonca
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Christian woman’s last rites held in madrassa||KOZHIKODE: The village of Ponnad at Cheekode panchayat in Malappuram scripted an exemplary tale of communal harmony with the local madrassa turning the venue for the last rites of a Christian woman on Saturday. The Ta’leemul Islam Higher Secondary Madrassa authorities came forward to provide the madrassa facilities to keep overnight the body of Bridget Richards, 82, who died on Friday and to conduct her last rites as her small house didn’t have space to accommodate the freezer. Kozhikode native Bridget, whose husband had died earlier, was staying alone in the house at Ponnad for the last 13 years after her retirement as a government hostel warden at Manjeri. She had close connection with the people around who used to fondly call her Ammachi. Her former colleague Janaki used to stay with her often in the house. As only one woman relative of her could reach Ponnad to participate in the last rites, local Muslim women conducted the cleansing of the body. The temporary partition to create space for cleaning the body along with the stretcher to carry the body for washing was provided by the Ponnad Juma Masjid. “We arranged for the freezer from the CH Centre, Kozhikode, as the funeral was to be held in Kozhikode the next day. But the freezer could not be taken inside the house due to space constraints and there was not much space outside the house built on four cents of land. We were coordinating the arrangements for her last rites with her nephew Jinu in Dammam and when we suggested that the body can be taken to the madrassa for the last rites, he accepted it,” Siddique Ponnad, a local resident and member of the Madrassa committee said. On Satuday, Rev T I James, Vicar of the CSI Cathedral Church at Kozhikode where Bridget was a parishioner, reached the madrassa and performed the Christian rites, including reading of the Bible and singing of hymns. The body was brought to the CSI Cathedral cemetery at West Hill in Kozhikode where the funeral was held in the afternoon. “Bridget’s was the only Christian household in our area and she was a devout believer and also very close to all of us. We feel very contented that we could help to conduct the last rites as per her customs and beliefs,” he said. Rev James said that it was really heartening to see the people of Ponnad and the madrassa committee helping for the conduct of the last rites of Bridget. “The people of Ponnad and the madrassa authorities have set a model. Death comes equally for all and it is an honour to the deceased to allow the persons final journey as per their faith,” he said. Kondotty MLA T V Ibrahim, who also visited the madrassa, said that it is heartening to see that the people of Ponnad have upheld communal harmony and camaraderie at a time when there are attempts to communalize society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/christian-womans-last-rites-held-in-madrassa/articleshow/80617322.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Doctors flay attack on medical team during tractor rally||LUDHIANA: Decrying the unruly scenes at the Red Fort on the Republic Day, the doctors and paramedical staff, who have been holding medical camps at Tikri and Singhu borders, have stated that some mischievous elements were behind the act. They also claimed that during the tractor rally, some of the health workers also bore the brunt of police action against the farmers. These medical professionals have been organising camps at the farmers’ protest sites under the aegis of Indian Doctors for Peace and Development (IDPD) and they accompanied the farmers during their tractor rally. They said the situation took a turn for the worse when the police created hurdles on the agreed route and preferred to look the other way to make it easy for the farmers to go on the prohibited route. “Since we were present throughout the march, we are eyewitnesses to affirm that such hooliganism was done by only certain people and it could have been prevented if the police had been a little cautious,” said one of the doctors. Thousands of tractors took out the march peacefully on the stipulated route and it was quite peaceful, he said, adding that, “It is difficult to comprehend how these unscrupulous elements could reach the Red Fort, which is nearly 20km away from Singhu border. This smacks of a conspiracy.” According to them, they treated several farmers, who were seriously injured in the lathi-charge or teargas shells lobbed by the police. “It is sad that a medical team led by Dr Swaiman was also attacked by the police at a time when they were giving medical aid to the injured, including policemen. Similarly, at Singhu border an ambulance was smashed and Dr Balbir Singh pushed aside when he was attending to an injured farmer,” the doctor said. They appealed to the protesters to be calm and cautious and urged the government to repeal the three farm laws in the Budget session itself to restore peace and create a congenial atmosphere for dialogue and discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/docs-flay-attack-on-medical-team-during-tractor-rally/articleshow/80618337.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: CID arrests man for duping sarpanch aspirants||VIJAYAWADA: Sleuths of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) arrested a man who tried to cheat YSRC sarpanch aspirants through fake messages in the name of YSR Trust. The accused was identified as R Polinaidu (28), a native of Gadelavalasa in Sitanagaram mandal of Vizianagaram district. Polinaidu, who also goes by the alias Venugopal Naidu, created an account on Facebook under the name Venugopal Reddy. He then started sending messages to the accounts of YSRC functionaries, including MLAs, pretending to be a representative of the YSR Trust. Polinaidu, in fact, claimed that he was sending messages on behalf of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s wife Bharathi. Polinaidu’s modus operandi involved trying to lure YSR functionaries by offering Rs 5 lakh if they held unanimous panchayat elections and Rs 6 lakh to persons contesting on behalf of YSRC. While claiming to be a representative of the trust, he asked the aspirants to deposit Rs 5,000 in his account. Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy also received one such message, which he immediately identified as a fraud. Ramakrishna Reddy lodged a complaint with CID officials who launched an investigation into the matter. Polinaidu was traced to Balajipet in Tenali town on Friday night and taken into custody. He was booked under Sections 420, 465, 468, 469, 471 and 120B of the IPC and produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cid-arrests-man-for-duping-sarpanch-aspirants/articleshow/80617320.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 19-year-old killed as truck rams sedan on highway||NAVI MUMBAI: A 19-year-old was killed and two of his friends injured after a truck hit their sedan on its side on the Sion-Panvel highway at Kharghar, around 1.30am on Sunday. The trio was heading towards Mumbai. The truck changed lanes suddenly and hit them. The truck fled from the spot. The deceased was identified as Chaitanya Zaveri. His friends, who were hospitalised, were Pinak Bharsadia and Rahul Ravarai, both 19. They are residents of south Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/19-year-old-killed-as-truck-rams-sedan-on-hway/articleshow/80619769.cms||George Mendonca
February 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Mango farmers go organic to boost yield||Vijayawada: Officials of the horticulture department are promoting organic methods in an effort to encourage mango cultivation, which took a hit in 2020 due to Covid-19. The department, which promoted use of fruit protection covers in 2020, achieved higher yields. Many farmers since have shown an interest in fruit covers as a way to cultivate the crop free of pesticide residues. In Krishna district, mango was cultivated on around 75,000 hectares till 2013 but expenses on pesticides and chemical manure pushed farmers to opt for commercial crops instead. As a result, crop area fell to 54,680 hectares by 2020 as per records with authorities. Further, sooty mould and black spots affected the quality of the Nuzvid variety of mangoes, pushing down the price of fine quality Banginapalli and Nuzvid Rasalu to Rs 18,000 per tonne in the peak season in 2019. Covid-19, too, hurt prospects of mango farmers in 2020. As exports stopped, farmers sold stocks at throwaway prices in local markets. However, horticulture authorities said they have noticed good flowering on mango trees this year, which is a positive sign for high yield. The department is promoting the use of jute fruit protection bags that protect the fruit from pests and increase production. B Dayakar Babu, assistant director horticulture, told TOI, “Pesticide residues are damaging the international market for our mango. It is also affecting the size and quality of fruit. Fruit protection covers act as a barrier and prevent pests from infecting fruits. This can help get a good yield without any damage. We have distributed 60 lakh covers in 2020 to create awareness among farmers and now farmers are procuring around 1 crores bags for this year in Krishna district.” Manne Vasu, a farmer from Eedhara, who cultivated mangoes using fruit protection covers said, “We got huge demand for our mangoes as we didn’t use pesticides. The taste, quality and size of mangoes is satisfactory when compared to chemical cultivation. We have completely shifted to this and are motivating other farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mango-farmers-go-organic-to-boost-yield/articleshow/80617333.cms||Venu Lanka
February 1, 2021||Goa||Shop with dry waste in Mapusa||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) launched the ‘shop with waste’ campaign to increase recycling of the dry waste in municipal wards. “With the launch of this scheme, people will be able to shop at designated locations by exchanging certain dry waste items like pet bottles and cardboards,” said councillor Sandeep Falari. The campaign aims at creating an effective barter system, exchanging goods against clean dry waste items, boosting recycling in the city, enhancing jobs and livelihoods and also saving the environment, the MMC representative said. Waste bins provided by the Goa Solid Waste Management Corporation for recycling dry waste have been placed at the designated shops. Ward no. 1-7 have been clubbed under zone 1 and the collections days will be Monday and Thursday, ward no. 8-10 have been clubed under zone 2 and the collection days will be Tuesday and Friday and ward no. 12-18 have been clubbed under zone 3 and the collection days will be Wednesday and Saturday. Municipal superintendents will monitor the waste collection. The campaign was launched by Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza in the presence of MMC chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar, deputy collector and SDO, Bardez, Mamu Hage and the councillors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shop-with-dry-waste-in-mapusa/articleshow/80620505.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune: Damaged lanes, accidents make Ganesh Peth risky||PUNE: Damaged roads, slow-moving traffic and minor accidents almost every day — this is what Ganesh Peth residents have been forced to live with for months on end, despite reaching out to their local leaders and civic officials. “The roads in the area are narrow and the proximity to the marketplace makes it a very busy area. People riding two-wheelers are prone to skidding or falling due to potholes and damaged roads. We have reached out to the local corporator and the civic body through their website, but to no avail,” said Sohan Chauhan, a resident of the area. Karishma Tajraj, another resident, said, “Even though many sustain minor injuries, one day someone could get seriously hurt.” The area in question is at the border, dividing the jurisdictions of the Faraskhana police station and the Khadak police station — both of which claim to have no reports of any major accidents in the last six months. Radhika Phadke, the Faraskhana police station traffic in-charge, said, “I have visited the area with my team. We will be sending a letter with our observations to the corporation to do the needful.” Local corporator Laxmi Udaykant Andekar said, “I will go and visit the site, speak to the residents and do the needful to fix the damaged roads before the rainy season starts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/damaged-roads-accidents-turn-ganesh-peth-risky-for-residents/articleshow/80619773.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||7 in net for firing at criminal in Pune||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Saturday night arrested seven members of the Andekar gang on the charges of assaulting and firing at a 20-year-old criminal on police record on the night of January 23 along the Katraj-Kondhwa Road, besides recovering two country-made firearms and four sickles from them. Senior inspector Sardar Patil of the Kondhwa police said, “The victim, Vighnesh Ashok Gore, who has a few body offences to his name, sustained a bullet injury to his thigh in the attack, which was a fallout of previous enmity between him and the arrested suspects.” Sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure, who was part of the team that made the arrests, told TOI, “We arrested Krushnaraj Suryakant Andekar (31), Aniket Dnyaneshwar Kale (25), Omkar Shivprasad Salunke (21), Viraj Jagdish Yadav (25), Akshay Nagnath Kamble (23), Aavez Asfaq Sayyed (20) and Shahvez Abdul Rashid Shaikh (34) on the basis of our investigation and circumstantial evidence.” Kapure said, “Gore has had an enmity with the members of the Andekar gang for some time. Gore’s friends had gone to Nana Peth earlier and created a ruckus over some trivial issue, besides quarrelling with the gang.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-in-net-for-firing-at-criminal/articleshow/80619797.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Residents post suggestions on police Facebook site on traffic chaos||LUDHIANA: The police here have sought suggestions from the city residents to ease out traffic chaos from the city. The city police on Sunday uploaded a post on its official FB page and twitter handle, asking them to share traffic-related problems and suggestions. Soon after the post, city residents started posting suggestions and also spoke about the problems. While many people shared details about the areas where they witness more traffic jams, some people wanted some roads and faulty traffic signals repaired. Some residents also asked the police to take action against the bus and auto drivers who stop the vehicle in the middle of the road and create chaos. Besides, some residents also urged the traffic police to focus on checking traffic jams, rather than issuing challans. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said that the 32nd National Road Safety Month was already going on from January 18 to February 17. Under this, the Ludhiana police are already working on traffic and road safety. Several awareness programmes are also being organised. Since a few flyovers and bridges are under construction in the city, it is leading to traffic chaos. Therefore, the city police want to work on it. He added that for this purpose the police had asked city residents to share their traffic-related problems and their possible solutions. The traffic police will consider those suggestions and then implement these if found feasible. Agarwal said that if there would be a need to involve other departments like MC for any kind of repair work, then the police will ask the department. Meanwhile, a local resident, Ankur Agarwal, commented that, “Daily jam is witnessed on the road leading from Samrala chowk to Cheema chowk due to the ongoing flyover project. Traffic cops should be deployed there to manage the traffic flow.” Another resident Sunil Malik commented that, “Police personnel deployed at Shivpuri Chowk, Karabara Chowk, Jalandhar bypass chowk and Kapoor Hospital chowk are least bothered about traffic jams during peak hours as they are busy issuing challans. Managing traffic should be their priority.” Balbir Singh, also a city resident, commented that, “Action is needed on buses and auto-rickshaws as they create chaos. Half of the problem will be solved with this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-post-suggestions-on-police-fb-site-on-traffic-chaos/articleshow/80618355.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 1, 2021||Amritsar||Protests in Punjab complete four months, continue with ‘renewed resolve’||BATHINDA: Upon completion of four months, the protests against central farm laws are seeing participation from more people across Punjab. Until now, the activists of farm organisations were more involved in mobilising people, but now the village panchayats too are coming forward and are asking every household to send at least one member to the protest sites. It was on October 1, 2020 that the indefinite protests had started in Punjab at railway tracks, at toll plazas, business establishments of some corporate houses and at the residences of some BJP leaders. Though the intensity of the protests in Punjab was far less when the farmers moved to Delhi borders on November 26, these protests continued at many places, especially at the toll plazas causing a loss of over Rs 300 crore in toll, according to the officials of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, had asked the central government a day earlier to find some solution as the protest is causing immense loss to the state. Earlier, Punjab financae minister Manpreet Singh Badal too had said the state is facing huge losses due to farmers’ protests and a workable solution needed to be found at the earliest. The protests are going on at 70-80 places in Punjab, apart from the ones at Delhi borders. “For four months, we have been holding protests under the banner of Sanjha Morcha at Barnala railway station. More farmers are turning up for the protest and with winter coming to an end, we expect the strength of protesters to increase further even though many are also going to Delhi borders. The protests will continue until the government repeals the three contentious laws,” said farm organisation BKU (Ekta Dakonda) leader Balwant Singh. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Bathinda secretary Mothu Singh Kotda said, “It is 123 days now that farmers are holding protests in the state. Our protest is going on at Lehra Bega toll plaza situated on Bathinda-Chandigarh highway. We are determined to hold protest until the government listens to us.” Farmer Harbans Singh, sitting at Badbar toll plaza in Barnala district, said, government should realise that farmers will not stop protesting, whether it is Delhi or Punjab. “It is better for all us that they should fulfil the demands of farmers sooner by repealing laws or face losses to the economy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/protests-in-pb-complete-4-months-continue-with-renewed-resolve/articleshow/80619767.cms||Neel Kamal
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Santoor maestro wins MP’s Tansen award||MUMBAI: Pandit Satish Vyas serenades santoor with the passion of a prima donna. The fabled, hundred-stringed instrument continues to haunt and heal the ace musician. “Santoor confuses me and consoles me as well. Its mysteries are fascinating,” said Vyas, the latest recipient of the Tansen Samman award, instituted by the Madhya Pradesh government for excellence in Indian classical music. Vyas received the prestigious award at a three-day Tansen festival held in Gwalior last month. Music observers say Vyas wears many hats with aplomb. A business management graduate with an admirable stint in the corporate sector, Vyas is a teacher, researcher, chronicler and impresario (the Gunidas sangeet sammelan is a testimony to his formidable organisational skills, say friends) all rolled into one—and a globe-trotting musician who has performed at the Edinburgh Festival in Scotland, the Stockholm Music Festival in Sweden, and the European Parliament. Choosing santoor over vocal music was a tad tough as Vyas’ father, Pandit C R Vyas was a distinguished vocalist known for a rich repertoire and erudition. Vyas Jr was 12 years old when he heard Pandit Shivkumar Sharma, the legendary santoor player, perform at a music hall in Sion sometime in the 1960s. “I was spellbound when I saw Guruji (Pandit Sharma), then in his late twenties, seated majestically on a dhurrie and softly strumming the santoor,” he reminisced. Pandit Sharma formally took Vyas under his wings after the latter obtained a degree in commerce. Rigorous riyaaz was on for ov er three decades. A close witness to the drastic changes in Mumbai’s cultural landscape, Vyas takes a pragmatic view of the corporate sector’s growing patronage to classical music. “You have to solicit help from corporate giants. Artistes can’t survive on ‘waah-waahs’ alone. They ask for a decent pay packet and they are right.” Vyas is upbeat about the future of Indian classical music. “The young generation is smart and is willing to work hard. However, they need a good mentor.” Vyas conducts online classes for his shishyas, who are spread across the country and even the globe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/santoor-maestro-wins-mps-tansen-award/articleshow/80620516.cms||Ambarish Mishra
February 1, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: One out of two fail to claim phones left behind on BEST buses||MUMBAI: Nearly 57% commuters are yet to claim their mobile phones left behind in the BEST buses in 2020, especially while travelling during the Covid pandemic. The statistics released by BEST show that in 2020, BEST employees recovered a total 798 mobile phones from the buses. “Of the total phones recovered, 340 mobiles have been claimed by the commuters while 458 phones are still lying in the BEST Lost & Found department,’‘ said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade. He has appealed to citizens to come forward with a valid proof and claim the devices, else, it could go for auction. As per the BEST data, in April 2020, not a single phone was claimed by the owners. At the same time, a month later, in May 2020, all the nine mobile phones recovered from the buses were claimed. The highest recovery was made during January 2020 (99 phones), while the lowest recovery was made during May 2020 (9 phones), Varade said. While honest conductors will be given rewards, the BEST also plans to soon auction some of the phones. Mobile phones come second in the top 10 list of lost items in red buses every month. While cash is still the “numero uno” missing item, other missing articles included jewellery, sunglasses, books, umbrellas and also TV and laptop computers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-out-of-2-fail-to-claim-phones-left-behind-on-best-buses/articleshow/80619846.cms||Somit Sen
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Beyond devotion: Music and lyric of Thyagaraja||CHENNAI: Sarod maestro Amjad Ali Khan once said, "Every year, Carnatic musicians old and young make their way to Tiruvaiyaru on their own, to sing at the Thyagaraja festival. Does any other musician command such devotion!" Thyagaraja (1767-1847) was one of the three composers called the "Trinity", who invested Carnatic music with weight, diversity, and beauty. His contemporaries — Muthuswami Dikshitar and Syama Sastri — were indubitably great but they cannot vie with Thyagaraja in popularity. Thyagaraja’s compositions take up the bulk of any musician’s repertoire in Carnatic music, most often sung, in the largest numbers. We know why. Thyagaraja lived in Tiruvaiyaru with a cohort of disciples who preserved and propagated his compositions, which range from simple songs with plain notes and easy lyrics that a child can sing to songs of every pace, and increasing complexity, that can be taught through every stage of learning. However, say his name and what comes to mind is not the artist, but the moist-eyed devotee, lost in worship of Rama, or walking down the street rapturously singing the deity’s name. But in it also lies his mastery as a composer that led him to create songs of sophistication to awe the cognoscente. Some of those compositions had catchy tunes at a spanking pace, forcing even a dilettante to tap his toes. Deploying innumerable ragas, Thyagaraja defines the heavyweights with multiple compositions, while giving shape and substance to melodies so rare that only his work identifies them. Old masters assert that to know Thyagaraja’s oeuvre is to know Carnatic music. Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar said, "To sing Todi you must know six to seven Thyagaraja kritis in the raga." "Thyagaraja taught me to be original" was how eccentric genius M D Ramanathan explained his celebrated vocal style. Redoubtable composer Mysore Vasudavachar declared that Thyagaraja was his guru. Composer Papanasam Sivan's highest reward was to be acclaimed as ‘Tamil Tyagayya’. Instrumentalists too acknowledge Thyagaraja’s supremacy in the architectonics of music. Mridangam artist Arun Prakash says the compositions provide myriad opportunities, "Composing words and music simultaneously, Thyagaraja offers an intellectual as well as emotional treat far beyond simple bhakti, without contrivance or ambiguity. He provides endless opportunities to the mridangam for varying rhythms, cross rhythms and pacing. Also, with a Thyagaraja kriti, it is possible to make the mridangam show the movement of the raga. With a slow song you can achieve a brilliant balance between rhythmic embellishment and silence; and heighten 'raga bhava' in the 'niraval' too."Jayanthi Kumaresh identifies two rejuvenating challenges for the veena player in the Thyagaraja oeuvre. First, she has to bring out differing dimensions of the same raga in compositions as contrastive as the grand "O Rangasayee" and the brisk "Maa Janaki". Second, she must convey what the lyric says without the words – from philosophical reflections in "Paramatmudu" to the pragmatism in advocating mental strength in "Manasunilpa". She adds with a chuckle, "Not to forget how the new ragas he introduces provide a GPS for an instrumentalist to explore." In spite of the brilliance of the compositions, Tyagarraja’s stories apocryphal and fantasised, centrestage his bhakti more than his musicianship. We recall how "Kanukontini" issued forth when he found his lost idol of Rama in the river. With "Nannu palimpa" it is Thyagaraja tearing up in ecstasy when his disciple brings a painting of Rama. "Nidhi chala sukhama" epitomises his act of spurning royal patronage. Not only does his musicianship get eclipsed by devotion, but at times, this saintly aura drags Thyagaraja into factional politics. As when a 1940s agitation for Tamil songs in Carnatic concerts was denounced as anti-Thyagaraja protest. Or, more recently, when the replacing of other verses in the melodic grid of Thyagaraja’s kritis by some musicians was trounced — not as an infringement of artistic rights, but of religious faith. The poetic images in Thyagaraja’s lyrics inspire Bombay Jayashri Ramnath. She dwells on how they contexualise his music. "I love to read Thyagaraja’ verses and learn them by heart – just to experience the sidelong glance in "Orajupu", or the sense of divinity spreading from sky to earth in "Nagumomu". To sing them is to see how the contours of his music shape those word-visuals — like the shining curls on Rama’s face in "Alakalalla", or the swaying movements of a boat in "Nauka Charitram." For the vocalist, this aesthetic awakening is in itself a spiritual experience. Jayashri makes an annual visit to Thyagaraja’s birthplace in Tiruvarur, to sing his songs, and to breathe in the highest artistic values of the composer. Carnatic musicians making their pilgrimage to Tiruvaiyaru for the maestro’s aradhana are engaged in reconnecting to the same values. Values showing all of us how devotion in an artist is nothing but a search for compassion, "karuna", where Rama is the unificatory power to destroy the violence which divides humanity. As in Valmiki’s saga of Rama. (The writer is a musician and playwright)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/beyond-devotion-music-and-lyric-of-thyagaraja/articleshow/80618403.cms||Gowri Ramnarayan
February 1, 2021||Shimla||Three Covid-19 deaths, nine test positive in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported three Covid-19 deaths and nine positive cases on Sunday while 32 positive patients have also recovered. State has 57,503 positive cases of which 357 cases are active, 56,163 patients have recovered, 967 patients have died while four have migrated out. Till now, 9,30,839 persons have been tested for Covid-19 of which 8,72,039 persons have been tested negative while results of 1,297 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include one from from Kangra, one from Mandi, five from Shimla, one from Sirmaur and one from Solan districts. Those recovered include one from Bilaspur, one from Chamba, two from Hamirpur, six from Kangra, three from Kinnaur, two from Lahaul-Spiti, four from Mandi, one from Shimla district, eight from Sirmaur, two each from Solan and Una districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/3-covid-19-deaths-9-test-positive-in-hp/articleshow/80619802.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Shimla||AAP gets ready for Himachal Pradesh polls||SHIMLA: Aam Aadmi party (AAP) is gearing up to contest 2022 assembly elections in Himachal Pradesh with party opening its office at Kanlog in Shimla on Sunday. Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain had arrived in Shimla to inaugurate the party office. After inaugurating the office, Jain said the party would strengthen its cadre base in Himachal Pradesh and, on coming to power, will implement Delhi model in the hill state and free travel facility would be provided to women in the buses. In past too, the party had opened its office in Shimla and had contested the election, but the office was closed later. The party, in the past, had contested parliamentary elections in the state, but failed to make any impact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/aap-gets-ready-for-himachal-polls/articleshow/80619826.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Kochi||Johnson, who sculpted Rajan’s bust, dies||Thrissur: Sculptor Johnson, who made the bust of Emergency victim and engineering student P Rajan, died at a private hospital, here, on Saturday night. Johnson, who was from Velur, Thrissur, had been ailing for some time. He was 58 and is survived by wife Clara, son Jolsan and daughter Jolsana. Johnson was teaching sculpting at Kalady’s Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit (SSUS). Johnson sculpted Rajan’s bust in 1989, according to Jolsan. Rajan was a student of Kozhikode’s Regional Engineering College -- presently National Institute of Technology – when he was allegedly detained and tortured to death at the “concentration camp” set up by police at Kakkayam during the Emergency. When CPI (ML) Red Flag activists took the statue, made of cement, from Thiruvananthapuram to Kakkayam, Kozhikode in procession they were stopped by police at Perambra. We were planning to have the bust installed in Kakkayam when police seized it, recalls K N Ajoy Kumar, who was part of the procession. A series of agitations demanding the release of the statue ensued. Finally, it was released in 2001, following discussions between activists and then chief minister E K Nayanar, recounts CPI (ML) Red Flag state secretary P C Unnichekkan. Ironically Nayanar was also the CM when it was seized, said Unnichekkan, who finally unveiled the statue in Kakkayam. Johnson travelled to Kakkayam in 2001 to refurbish the statue which lay unattended for about 12 years in the police station, he said. Johnson worked with several mediums including clay, wood, metal and even made some murals, remembers C V Ouseph, former head of vasthu department at SSUS. His horse replicas, made from fibre and used at temple festivals, were very popular. He struggled to eke out a living until he landed the job with the university. Many of his sculptures, such as the ‘Burning Candle’, were in a way a portrayal of his own struggles, said a friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/johnson-who-sculpted-rajans-bust-dies/articleshow/80617373.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Pune||Pune ZP to issue health cards to kids from age 3 to 14 years||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) will soon launch a scheme to provide digital health cards to around 10 lakh children in the 3 to 14-years age group across 13 tehsils in rural Pune. The initiative is part of an exercise to monitor the children’s health issues at regular intervals and record data regarding the same and the treatment given. The exercise got significance in view of a ZP survey, according to which there were 1,248 malnourished kids in the rural areas of Pune in the last year. Haveli, Khed, Indapur and Junnar had the most malnourished kids, the survey stated. Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of ZP, told TOI, “Our objective is to monitor the children’s growth chart in a scientific way and provide them health care in time via this exercise.” All anganwadi, private and government school students in the district will benefit from the exercise, which is expected to start in the first week of March. The ZP officials have chalked out outlines of the exercise and are formulating the implementation plans. “Over 400 community health officers will be roped in for the task at the initial stage. They will mainly collect health details of children, maintain records and provide them necessary treatments. Our endeavour is to conduct their health check up at least once in two months. This would be done by staffers and doctors in rural hospitals, primary health centres and sub -centres in the rural area,” Prasad said. The ZP also decided to forge ties with six government medical colleges in the state to assist them by carrying out scientific analysis of the children’s health data, Prasad said. “We are already in talks with them,” he added. “We will carry out various studies on children’s health via these colleges and we will take measures on ground, based on their findings,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-to-issue-health-cards-to-kids-from-age-3-to-14-years/articleshow/80619804.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||Agri min promises to raise limit of farm-loan waiver, attacks Centre over pending dues||Dumka: State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Sunday said the state government will increase farm loan waiver by up to Rs 2 lakh from the existing Rs 50,000 if it manages to get more funds. He made the announcement while addressing a gathering of Congress workers at the Kargil Chowk in Godda during the launch of the party’s tractor rally in protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Patralekh also played an old audio clip of Narendra Modi’s pre-poll speech, in the which Modi had promised to waive off farmers’ loans if BJP came to power. “Did BJP do it?” Patralekh said, adding that the mahagathbandhan government in the state waived off farm loans soon after coming to power. “Had the Union government given us our share of funds, we would have provided loan waivers up to Rs 2 lakh. We will do it when the health of our finances improves. BJP, on the other hand, has betrayed farmers by bringing in three new farm laws.” Notably, the 80km-long tractor rally from Godda to Deogarh was held in solidarity with the protesting farmers, who were agitating near the borders of Delhi for the last two months seeking roll-back of the farm laws. Speaking at the rally, Patralekh said: “The laws have to be rolled back under any circumstances.” Other Congress leaders like Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav and Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari rode tractors along with a host of party workers from Godda to Deoghar. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon was among the leaders who were present in Deoghar to take part in the rally. Over a 1,000 tractors and 5,000 participants took part in the rally, Congress sources claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/agri-min-promises-to-raise-limit-of-farm-loan-waiver-attacks-centre-over-pending-dues/articleshow/80618409.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 1, 2021||Jamshedpur||Now, helmets are mandatory for pillion riders in East Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: The district transport office (DTO) of East Singhbhum has made it compulsory for even pillion riders to wear helmets and said it will impose fines on erring riders from Monday. The department has also asked petrol pumps to follow a ‘no helmet no fuel’ rule to make the efforts bear fruit. District transport officer Dinesh Ranjan said, “The DTO and traffic police will jointly conduct drives and impose a fine of Rs 500 on erring riders as per the provisions of the new Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act.” Deputy Superintendent of Police (traffic) Baban Singh said officials of the five traffic police stations will conduct checking at different spots from Monday. “Petrol pump owners have also been asked not to give fuel to bikers if the pillion riders are not wearing helmet,” Singh said. Police will also conduct surprise checks at petrol pumps and examine CCTV footage at the stations to see the orders are effectively being complied with. Harvinder Singh, the owner of a refilling station at Ram Mandir in Bistupur, said, “Helmets are a must for the safety of the both the driver and the pillion rider. We will strictly follow the rules that have been laid out.” Meanwhile, denizens were divided on the decision to impose the rule at a short notice. “The administration should have first conducted an awareness drive for a few days to enlighten the people about the dangers of pillion riding without helmets and the gone for the fines,” said a 26-year-old employee of Tata Steel and a resident of Sakchi requesting anonymity. Sanjay Dubey (53), who owns a bike, said helmets for pillion riders should have been made compulsory years back. “A person who is sitting behind on a two-wheeler has the risk of receiving major injuries in an accident. Such instances are plenty, hence helmets for pillion riders should be a must,” said Dubey, a resident of Mango.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/now-helmets-are-mandatory-for-pillion-riders-in-east-sbhum/articleshow/80618458.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||41 new Covid cases, one death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: With a constant dip in the number of active cases, the figures stood at 552 on Sunday even as Jharkhand recorded 41 fresh cases. Seven of the 24 districts reported new cases in the same time period and with a death being recorded in Bokaro, the toll rose to 1,072 in the state and 65 in the district. Among the seven districts which reported fresh infections, barring Ranchi (22 cases), the rest reported cases in single digits. Meanwhile, Godda, Jamtara, Sahibganj and West Singhbhum are left with four active case each followed by Khunti with three. As per government data, as many as 1,18,692 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,067 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 98.63%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.04% against the national average of 0.10%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 1732.20 days against the national figure of 662.54 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/41-new-cov-cases-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80618815.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||Morning walkers keep athletes out of Birsa football stadium||Ranchi: Morning walkers and joggers, who use the premises of Birsa Munda football stadium here, stand in the way of the prospective medal dreams of nearly 125 athletes of Sports Authority of India’s (SAI) Ranchi centre. Although the state government has opened sporting facilities, allowed the athletes to train and permitted sports federations to host tourneys without spectators to prevent Covid-19 spread, SAI Ranchi centre’s residential facility remains shut owing to the stadium’s use by morning walkers and joggers. According to a directive issued by the Union sports ministry in December 2020, SAI’s centres have been allowed to open in adherence to a set of strict Covid-19 protocols. The guidelines mandate that each SAI centre will have to create a bio-bubble in its respective facilities. Athletes, coaches, physios, administrators, cooks, cleaners and sanitation workers cannot breach the bubble. Upon arrival, each athlete will be tested for Covid-19 infection and will have to be kept in a seven-day quarantine before he or she can start training. However, creating a bio-bubble would mean that the Birsa Munda football stadium is off limits to visitors. Recently renovated, the six-acre facility is under the administrative control of Jharkhand’s department of sports, art, culture and youth affairs. Here, each morning, walkers and joggers — among whom are a few senior state government officials — stroll in the recently laid Rs 7 crore synthetic athletic track and the football field. “Unless the facility is off limits for visitors, bio-bubble cannot be established and the training cannot begin,” a source in SAI Ranchi told TOI. SAI Ranchi houses junior-level athletes from athletics, archery, hockey and football disciplines. The facility is residential and offers living quarters for nearly 150 athletes. Besides the athletes, there is a 50-member contingent which includes coaches, officials, cooks, sanitation workers and maintenance staff. With the residential centre closed, many athletes are shelling out hefty amounts from their pockets and living in rented accommodations near the stadium. With the stadium closed, they are practising outside and training on asphalt tracks and courting potential injuries in the process. Notably, the sports portfolio in Jharkhand cabinet is handled by chief minister Hemant Soren. In July 2020, Soren had taken cognizance of newspaper reports and arranged for the training of eight female footballers of Jharkhand, who were drafted in the Indian side for the Fifa U-17 World Cup, scheduled to held in February this year. With the tourney deferred due to the pandemic, the footballers have been sent back to their respective hamlets. When contacted, state sports director Zeeshan Qamar said: “The state government in its order had cleared sporting facilities to open. But there was some miscommunication regarding residential facilities. That has been cleared, which is why the Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society’s (JSSPS) facility (run jointly by CCL and sports department) has been resumed in Khelgaon with 160 athletes.” When told about SAI’s bio-bubble pre-requisite which is being hindered by the joggers, Qamar said: “We will speak with SAI officials as soon as possible and address their issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/morning-walkers-keep-athletes-out-of-birsa-football-stadium/articleshow/80618431.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||Cold wave likely to bring down temp in 9 dists today||Ranchi: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) office here on Sunday afternoon issued cold wave warnings in Jharkhand till Tuesday morning as minimum temperature witnessed a sharp decline by at least five degrees in many parts of the state. In the evening, IMD Ranchi said 17 out of 24 districts of the state are likely to record night time temperature of less than 6 degree Celsius on Monday. The remaining seven districts, including Deoghar, Dumka, Pakur, Sahibganj, Godda, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan, will experience night time temperatures between 7-8 degrees Celsius. Cold waves are likely to sweep over Ranchi, Ramgarh, Palamu, Giridih, Lohardaga, Latehar, Garhwa, Chatra and Koderma on Monday, the weather office said. Mercury levels are expected to drop by at least five degrees Celsius. “Children, pregnant women, senior citizens and those with medical conditions should take precautions as cold wind is likely to prevail during mornings,” the weather office said. On Sunday, the lowest night time temperature was recorded at 5.1 degrees Celsius in Giridih followed by Daltonganj (5.3 degrees Celsius). Ranchi recorded 6.9 degrees Celsius; a four degree drop from its normal at this time of year. Jamshedpur and Bokaro recorded 7.8 degrees Celsius and 6.1 degrees Celsius respectively. The daytime temperatures also dropped below normal on Sunday. Ranchi’s maximum temperature fell by 1.7 degrees C to 22.4 degrees. Jamshedpur and Bokaro recorded nearly 1.5 degrees drop in their afternoon temperatures. In Daltonganj, daytime mercury dropped by 4.6 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cold-wave-likely-to-bring-down-temp-in-9-dists-today/articleshow/80618785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand economists seek special relief packages from Union Budget||RANCHI: Economists in Jharkhand say they are expecting special relief packages in this year’s Union Budget to tackle humanitarian crises faced by migrants and others in the state after the Covid-19-induced lockdown. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will table the Budget on Monday. Noted economist Jean Dreze said the government will have to think of strong and robust measures to help the economy back on track but it must equally take into consideration the existing humanitarian crises. Referring to the economic survey, which projected double-digit growth in the next fiscal, he said, “When we talk of double-digit growth rate, are we talking about the pre-lockdown baseline or the current situation? We have to think of strong measures so that the economy bounces back to reach a level better than what existed before the pandemic broke out.” He added, “The government should also acknowledge the prevailing humanitarian crises and give some stimulus in the form of debt relief. There is possibly no other way than giving money into the hands of those who have lost all options of livelihood during the lockdown. Extraordinary situations warrant extraordinary measures to bring the economy back on track.” Another economist, Ramesh Sharan, too, stressed on the need for a special package centred around migrants and labourers for states like Jharkhand that are confronted with issues of migration. He said, “The biggest challenge from the lockdown and the pandemic was the migrant crisis that showed exodus do take place from many states due to unavailability of opportunities. Hence, I am looking for a special package for this sector for a state like Jharkhand.” Sharan stressed that the assistance could be in the form of direct benefit transfer (DBT) or some other measure but the emphasis should be in putting money in the hands of the vulnerable class.” Sharan further said, “The government shouldn’t worry about the fiscal deficit immediately and another priority should also be to speed up the pending infrastructure projects in the state. He added, “Investment is a must for social sectors — mainly health and education. If the National Education Policy (NEP) is to be implemented in Jharkhand, we must address the critical challenges that exist here. For instance, the NEP says anganwadis should be converted into schools for Class I to V, but in a state like Jharkhand, there are severe critical gaps that need to be addressed immediately for the upgrade.” Economist Harishwar Dayal, who has prepared economic survey reports for the state in the past, said he was looking for a special package to build infrastructure in the Jharkhand. He stressed on the need for an increase in central shares and wages under the social security schemes and the MNREGA. “The Centre must increase its share for social security schemes as it hasn’t been revised for long. Similarly, our MNREGA wages are currently fixed at Rs 194, much lower than the minimum wage rate, and a hike is necessary to address issues faced by migrants,” he said. Both Sharan and Dayal were also of the view that fiscal incentives and support for the MSME sector will help create jobs in both the public and private sectors in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-economists-seek-special-relief-packages-from-union-budget/articleshow/80618807.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||115 endangered turtles found at Koderma rail station||KODERMA: Personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) found 115 Indian flapshell turtles in an unclaimed bag at the Koderma railway station on Sunday after they received a tip-off about the smuggling of the reptiles, officials said. Jawahar Lal, officer-in-charge of RPF police station, said, “No arrests have been made and the turtles have been handed over to the forest department.” Divisional forest officer Suraj Kumar Singh said, “The range officer has been asked to investigate the matter properly with the help of the railway police. We have to find the smuggling route and the people behind the crime. Our personnel will take proper care of the seized turtles and they will be sent to the nearest habitat for rehabilitation before their release. Indian flapshell turtles are freshwater turtles and are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/115-endangered-turtles-found-at-koderma-rail-station/articleshow/80618847.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ranchi||Tribal groups stage rail, road blockades seeking Sarna code||Ranchi: The Kendriya Sarna Samiti (KSS) and the Adivasi Sengal Abhiyan (ASA) on Sunday organised rail and road blockades at several locations across the state to demand a separate religious code for the tribals of Sarna faith ahead of the upcoming census. In Ranchi, KSS president Phoolchand Tirkey said they demonstrated briefly on the tracks at Hazaribag and Kita stations (between Ranchi and Muri railway stations) in the afternoon. Officials of the Ranchi railway division said the blockade at Kita railway station lasted 10 minutes and no passenger or goods trains were affected. “Sunday’s symbolic rail roko and chakka jam were successful. If the Centre does not recognize a separate Sarna code before the census process gets underway, then the tribal people across the country will organise a massive agitation which will be bigger than the ongoing farmers’ agitation at Dekhi border,” Tirkey claimed. ASA president Salkhan Murmu said the road blockades were taken up in East Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and across various locations in Santhal Pargana. “Besides Jharkhand, similar blockades took place in Assam, West Bengal and Odisha. The exercise was symbolic because we did not want to cause inconvenience to anyone,” Murmu added. On November 11 last year, the Jharkhand assembly unanimously passed a resolution and sent it to the Centre seeking a separate religious code for the practitioners of Sarna faith. While tabling his government’s resolution, chief minister Hemant Soren had said a separate religious code will identify the exact number of Sarna followers, can help document the population of tribal people, preserve the tribal language, culture and history apart from helping them avail their constitutional rights (under the 5th Schedule) and benefits under the tribal sub-plan. However, in the subsequent weeks, the tribal outfits criticized the state government for sending the resolution to the Centre without governor Droupadi Murmu’s approval and ratification from the tribal advisory committee, which is yet to be constituted. Meanwhile, former Lohardaga MLA Sukhdeo Bhagat, who has joined BJP, said he will meet the Registrar General of India in New Delhi on Monday and submit a memorandum to him seeking inclusion of the Sarna religious column in the census.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-groups-stage-rail-road-blockades-seeking-sarna-code/articleshow/80618335.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 1, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Boyfriend booked for abetment of girl’s suicide||VADODARA: An 18-year-old girl’s boyfriend was booked in Sankheda taluka of Chhota Udepur on Saturday, for abetting her suicide. The girl was found hanging from a tree on the outskirts of her village on January 29. Police said that her parents were searching for her since she was last seen drying clothes behind her house on January 19. Suspecting that she may have fled with her boyfriend, Dharampal Tarbada, the girl’s father asked Tarbada’s father to share details if he knew anything. Tarbada’s father said that his son had not fled with the girl but was working at a company in Waghodiya GIDC. Meanwhile, the search continued and on January 29 the girl’s decomposed body was found. On Saturday, her father lodged a complaint alleging that Tarbada had pressurized his daughter to marry him due to which she committed suicide. Police said that the girl’s parents were looking for her alliance somewhere else but as Tarbada wanted to marry he pressurized her, alleged her father. Post-mortem conducted at suicide spot After the girl’s body was found, her father informed police and her decomposed body was brought down. Police said that the body was so decomposed that they had to call doctors at the suicide spot and conduct a panel post-mortem there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/boyfriend-booked-for-abetment-of-girls-suicide/articleshow/80617321.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha: January ends with lowest Covid deaths, lowest cases since August||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region reported 21,065 new cases and 409 deaths due to Covid-19 — which is the lowest number of cases as well as deaths since August. Total 21,258 patients have recovered and now, the recovery rate of Vidarbha region is well above 95%. On last day of the first month of New Year, total 677 new cases were reported while 525 patients recovered. This took the total number of cases to 2.73 lakh and recoveries to 2.60 lakh. Now, only 6220 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha, with more than 75% of them under home isolation. This means that the hospitalization rate is very low. The region reported 8 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday. These include four from Nagpur district and 1 each from Bhandara, Chandrapur, Akola and Washim which took the total toll to 6,968. Now, the case fatality rate of the region is 2.54%. In the beginning of January, the case fatality rate was 2.60% which has come down in the last 31 days. As the vaccination drive has begun, the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths are expected to go down further. In all, 677 new cases were reported from Nagpur (310), Amravati (128), Yavatmal (55), Akola (52), Buldhana (45), Wardha (32), Washim (22), Gondia (12), Bhandara (8), Gadchiroli (7) and Chandrapur (6). On the other hand, the 525 patients who recovered on Sunday are from Nagpur (225), Amravati (122), Yavatmal (38), Wardha (30), Bhandara (28), Washim (21), Akola (17), Gondia (13), Buldhana (13), Chandrapur (9), and Gadchiroli (9). Akola: The district reported 52 new cases, 17 recoveries and the death of a 75-year-old woman. This took the total cases to 11,618, recoveries to 10,564 and deaths to 336. Now, 718 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported one death after almost two weeks. This took the total toll to 154. With 22 new patients reported and 21 recovered, the district now has 7,144 patients with 6,836 having recovered. 153 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: On receiving more than 950 reports, Buldhana district reported 45 new cases, 13 recoveries and no deaths. Now, the district has 13,973 cases, 13,418 recoveries and 169 deaths. Total 386 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 7 new cases — a single digit increase for the 9th day in a row. Total 9 patients recovered, and no death was reported. The district now has 9,362 patients, 9,202 recoveries and 105 deaths. Now, only 55 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 12 new cases and 13 recoveries. No death was reported. Now the district has 14,187 new cases, 13,878 recoveries and 181 deaths. Total 128 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: With 8 new cases and 28 recoveries, the district now has 13,222 cases and 12,741 recoveries. A patient died after 5 days taking the total toll to 322. Now, 159 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: Six people tested positive for Covid infection in the district on Sunday, while nine were discharged. Also, one Covid casualty was reported during the day and the toll rose to 392. As on January 31, there were 128 patients under treatment. Cumulative Covid count has now climbed to 23,074 and total recoveries to 22,554. Yavatmal: The administration received 709 test reports on Sunday of which 55 were positive. As on January 31, 485 patients were under treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. Of the 14,430 patients treated in the district so far, 13,519, including 38 of Sunday, have recovered and discharged. The Covid toll stands at 429. Amravati: For the second successive day on Sunday, the district reported 128 new cases that took the caseload to 21,887. With 122 staging recovery, the total patient count reached 21,130 for a rate of 96.54%. This left 340 patients under treatment as no Covid casualty was reported during the day. Wardha: After 32 new patients tested positive on Sunday, the Covid total of the district reached 10,089. Meanwhile, 30 patients were discharged and recoveries increased to 9418. Active positive patients are 365.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jan-ends-with-lowest-deaths-lowest-cases-since-aug/articleshow/80619834.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 1, 2021||Nagpur||Stung by green concerns, NHAI to revise IMS plan||NAGPUR: Stung by the concerns raised by greens over large-scale felling of trees and huge environmental damage for the construction of the inter-modal station (IMS) at Ajni railway station, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to revise the plan. “The plan will be ready in three months and will have minimum felling of trees with 70% of them transplanted. Most of the project will be complete when I go to the people to seek votes in the next general elections,” said Nitin Gadkari, minister for road transport and highways, on Sunday. “In the new plan, we will not require 0.75 hectares of NEERI land. To curb pollution, all the machines deployed for IMS construction work will operate on CNG. The number of trees to be felled trees will be drastically brought down and 70% will be transplanted on highways and ring roads or in the same project area. We will spend at least Rs35,000 on each tree transplant,” said Gadkari. “The earlier plan was with a capacity of 1 lakh people but under the new one, which will connect Ajni with broad gauge metro, over 5-7 lakh people will be able to use the IMS. For the requirement of additional land, we will talk to the state government. The surface transport ministry under me has sanctioned Rs1,200 crore for the IMS,” said Gadkari. The minister was talking to newsmen while reviewing the mega IMS project with the various departments concerned. The minister said that overall, the project will need around 200 acres of railway land. For Phase-I, 44.5 acres have been handed over to the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA), a statutory authority under the ministry of railways, by the Central Railway. The overall project will need 600-700 acres of land. “We will have the NHAI-RLDA special purpose vehicle (SPV) to implement the project. Rehabilitation of railway facilities like schools, quarters, offices, playgrounds etc will be the first priority. These utilities will be built on the CONCOR depot at Ajni, which has been shifted to Khapri,” said Gadkari. To a TOI question on why Khapri was not selected for IMS, Gadkari said, “Khapri-Mihan is a logistic hub and not the modal station. It would not have been commercially viable. As a dry port is ready at Sindhi, except air cargo, there will be no importance to cargo hub in Mihan.” According to railway sources, apart from the 44 acres, the NHAI wants the railway to hand over the remaining 156 acres to the RLDA so that the SPV will decide on the next phase of the project. The plan is to build demolished railway infrastructure for IMS at CONCOR land at Ajni. The officials have no idea about Phase-II. “We are not sure whether the staff will agree to come. There will be opposition from the railway unions. The NHAI wants plain land without trees so that there are no hurdles,” sources said. “In lieu of the CONCOR land at Ajni, we will offer double land at Sindi Railway where a dry port will be operational soon,” said Gadkari. Former honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das alleged that there were procedural lapses in the IMS paperwork done so far. The NHAI floated the tender for IMS on February 26, 2019, whereas the MoU between NHAI and Railways was signed on March 6, 2019. How can NHAI float a tender without signing the MoU for land,” he said. NHAI regional officer Rajeev Agrawal said, “Tenders were received only after the MoU was signed.” Das also said that even though NHAI has awarded the tender for construction of IMS to Nagarjuna Construction Company (NCC), it recently floated a tender for the appointment of a consultant for preparation of the detailed project report (DPR). “How can a tender be floated without a DPR?,” he asked. Agrawal said that the DPR was ready months ago and the recent tender was for the appointment of a supervision consultant. “For Phase-I, the NHAI lied that only 1,900 trees will be cut but when the NMC garden department conducted a survey, nearly 7,000 trees will be chopped,” said Das. Greens stage protest Green activists staged a silent protest by sporting black ribbons against the IMS project at Ramdaspeth where Gadkari was taking a review on Sunday. Around 25 activists reached the venue and stood on the other side of the road with saplings in their hands to highlight the importance of trees to the highways minister whose ministry was hell-bent on going ahead with the project. The police tried to shoo away the activists, but due to the presence of the media, it did not take any action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stung-by-green-concerns-nhai-to-revise-ims-plan/articleshow/80619893.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 1, 2021||Business||Liquor retail gets high street makeover||NEW DELHI: At a time when brick-and-mortar showrooms in several segments are shrinking in size, liquor retail in India is getting a premium makeover with large-format stores cropping up in every nook and cranny. From the 15,000sqft Tonique in Hyderabad and North India’s largest booze shop — The Liquor Warehouse in Gurugram — to the 5,000sqft boutique liquor chain Madhuloka in Bengaluru and World of Wines in Mumbai, spirits retail has come a long way from the dingy desi thekas of yesteryear. “Our store will give any luxury showroom in India a run for its money,” said Anith Reddy, the owner of Tonique. “We have in-house connoisseurs, sommeliers and even female bouncers because 30% of our customers are women.” With a 25,000sqft store in Bengaluru, Tonique rakes in more than Rs 100 crore in sales from a store every year and has plans to expand to Delhi, Pune, Mumbai and smaller towns, which will have small-format stores. “We have plans to build a 40,000sqft store in Delhi and are watching the excise condition closely,” Reddy told TOI. Lokesh Madhuloka, MD at Madhuloka, one of Bengaluru’s largest modern-retail format liquor chains, said, the trend has boomed in the last couple of years. “There are at least 450 similar stores in Bengaluru currently. The market is saturated,” he said. An increase in demand for premium spirits and the need to cater to a young swish clientele that prefers to avoid the jostling at local alcohol shops has given rise to more such stores. “Companies are witnessing a strengthening of demand for premium spirits,” said Neeraj Kumar, MD at Beam Suntory. “With most consumption currently taking place at home, the wealthy consumer is willing to invest in luxury brands.” Large-format stores have also helped these spirits retailers rake in more moolah. The retailers’ ability to showcase a wider selection combined with the willingness of liquor companies to bring more global brands into India have led to growth in revenues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/liquor-retail-gets-high-street-makeover/articleshow/80621019.cms||John Sarkar
February 1, 2021||Noida||Pipeline ready, Greater Noida likely to get Ganga water in May||GREATER NOIDA: Several residential areas in the city, including Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Pi 3, are likely to get Ganga water supply by May. The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has built pipeline and reservoirs for distributing 85 cusecs (207.95 MLD) of water from the Upper Ganga Canal in Haridwar and trials for the first phase (covering the populated areas) to supply 51.09 cusecs are likely to begin from mid-March. Currently, residents of Greater Noida get treated groundwater taken from ranny wells and tube wells. “We will be able to provide Ganga water to residents of Greater Noida from May this year. While work to lay pipelines and build reservoirs was done earlier, we will start trials from mid-March,” said PK Kaushik, general manager (projects), GNIDA. “In the first phase, Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Pi 3, Swarn Nagari, sectors 36, 35 and Phase 1 will be covered,” said an official. In the second phase, Ganga water will be supplied to the industrial areas and other areas. Ganga water supply has been a long-pending demand of residents. “We get water from GNIDA three times during the day. From 5 am to 9 am, then from 1 pm to 2 pm and between 5 pm and 9 pm. We use our own purifiers,” said Harinder Bhati from Sector Beta 1. While a 23 km pipeline has been laid from Dehra village near Gang Nahar in Ghaziabad to Greater Noida for the supply of Ganga water, a 210 MLD water treatment plant is also ready. “Apart from that, a master reservoir, four area reservoirs and 19 zonal reservoirs have been built,” said Kaushik, adding that the total cost of the project is Rs 291.76 crores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/pipeline-ready-greater-noida-likely-to-get-ganga-water-in-may/articleshow/80620182.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
February 1, 2021||Bengaluru||What it takes to create a green, minimalist lifestyle||Bengaluru: A beneficent blend of minimalism and sustainable living has gained wider acceptance in Bengaluru and many other cities as more people look to cut not just the number of their possessions but also their environmental impact. While decluttering hacks call for a re-examination of what we keep inside our homes, the larger concept of sustainability entails careful consideration of what we throw out, in the landfills. Both the creeds have a similar philosophical framework on finding greater meaning and fulfilment in small, everyday actions. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/what-it-takes-to-create-a-green-minimalist-lifestyle/articleshow/80620959.cms||Harsh Vora
February 1, 2021||India||Haryana lifts mobile net ban in 3 districts||Haryana on Sunday lifted the ban on mobile internet in three districts — Yamunanangar, Rewari and Palwal — while extending the duration of the blackout till 5pm on Monday across 14 other districts, reports Manvir Saini. Responding to criticism over the ban paralysing businesses and preventing students from logging in for online classes, officials said restrictions might be further eased after a review on Monday evening. The ban could, however, continue in parts of NCR and other potential trouble spots. Clamped to break the communication chain of agitating farm unions and workers following the rioting in Delhi on Republic Day, the ban remains in force in Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-lifts-mobile-net-ban-in-3-districts/articleshow/80621000.cms||Manvir Saini
February 1, 2021||Vadodara||Barodians to build houses for sparrows||Vadodara: In a first, Barodians will come together to build sparrow houses as a part of a competition organized by an NGO to increase the population of sparrows that are on the verge of extinction. The NGO – Sparrow: The agenda of resurgence – will open the competition for people from all age groups on Monday. “We will be inviting entries from people of all age groups under three different categories so that from children to elderlies become more aware about sparrows,” said Tanuj Desai, president of the NGO. He added that not just waves emanating from mobile towers but the design of contemporary buildings in urban areas are responsible for fall in the numbers of sparrows in urban areas. “During the earlier times the houses were designed in such a way that sparrows could manage to find home for them, but the glass buildings and block designs of building are not welcoming for sparrows,” said Desai, who is also an architect. Under the competition, the participants will have to build houses which will be friendly for sparrows and are also able to stand the weather. Desai said that the houses built by the participants will be displayed for the public on World Sparrow Day on March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-to-build-houses-for-sparrows/articleshow/80617314.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Ludhiana||Farmers’ protest: Man under boot now image of cop aggression||JALANDHAR: Photograph of 22-year-old Ranjit Singh’s face crushed under a cop’s boot has become the face of mob attack on the farmers’ protest at Singhu border on Friday. After a mob reached the farmers’ camp despite heavy security and attacked the camp, some farmer protesters clashed with them. Delhi Police accused Ranjit of attacking a SHO with his sword and injuring him. He, along with 43 others, was arrested by Delhi Police the same day under various sections, including attempt to murder. Family of Ranjit, who belongs to Kajampur village in Punjab’s Nawanshahr district, owns six acres of agricultural land. His brother Jaspreet Singh said Ranjit had gone with members of Kirti Kisan Union to the Singhu border protest for the third time. “He had been there for a few weeks with two breaks. He came out only in self-defence when a violent mob attacked the farmers’ camp. We were very worried after we saw the videos and photos but on Saturday we received several calls from people who assured us that they would provide us legal help,” he said. Videos and the image of a cop crushing his face showing Ranjit being dragged by police and then police personnel thrashing him with lathis have also gone viral, leading to concern among people supporting the farmers’ agitation. In one video, he can be seen lying on the ground and police personnel raining lathis on him with a couple of men in civil clothes also trying to hit him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-under-boot-now-image-of-cop-aggression/articleshow/80621061.cms||IP Singh
February 1, 2021||India||Academicians, scientists see red over Centre directive to seek nod for virtual seminars||MUMBAI:A central government directive asking academicians, scientists and doctors from all public-funded institutions to seek prior approval from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for hosting virtual international seminars related to India's 'internal matters' has raised hackles among the fraternity. Many see it as a move to curtail democratic space and are wary about the broad classification mentioned in the circular. An administrative secretary's approval will be required for government officials/scientists/doctors participating in virtual international conferences too, as per the directive. The circular dated January 15, issued by the Ministry of Education, mentions that all events related to security of state, border, J&M issues, which are purely related to India's internal matters, or sensitive subjects in political, scientific, technical, commercial or personal with provisions of sharing data will require MEA's clearance. The ministry's circular was based an earlier directive from MEA. It has also advised organisations against using applications and platforms controlled or owned by agencies or countries hostile to India. Aniket Sule from Homi Bhabha Institute of Science Education, TIFR, said that there are major concerns with the centre’s directive. “Informing the government about a conference where international speakers are invited was always the norm. But there were concerns of security breach, about them physically visiting sensitive locations. But now no participants are visiting the country physically and therefore, it should not be a problem,” said Sule. He also said that academicians visiting abroad for events or even attending it online, never needed approval. “Plenty of such events happen across the world and Indians are invited, the respective departments will be flooded with requests and they will not be able to process it on time,” he said. He even added that events in humanities will probably suffer more than science. Soumitro Banerjee, from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata, said that their institute is yet to get the directive from the centre, but added that he has apprehensions on how it will impact the open exchange of ideas in science. “If there are security concerns it is understandable. But science is international and an open movement and any kind of roadblock will be detrimental for the growth of science. In most online seminars and symposia, the link is open to all, one cannot control who attends these sessions. For online international conferences, delays in getting approvals from the government may effectively impact our participation in events,” said Banerjee. The order has come as a surprise to the medical fraternity who said that online forums have become the primary source of information and knowledge exchange during the pandemic. Amar Jesani, a physician researcher and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, called the decision “absurd”. “It another unfortunate instance of closing down democratic space and scientific interaction,” he said, adding that cyberspace has no physical boundaries. “It’s a free space where people discuss work and research freely. India will become a laughing stock with such decisions, he said. Jesani also questioned how such controls can be exercised on Facebook and YouTube where anyone can participate or ask a question. Bhopal-based Dr Anant Bhan, a researcher in bioethics said that science thrives through international academic exchange and discussions. “In today's world, this includes both physical and online modes. Already, government scientists and doctors have to take clearances for participation in meetings at institutional and other levels. To add another level of bureaucracy to this, especially procedural, is creating another barrier for Indian scientists,” he said. A senior oncologist who has participated in several dozen webinars during the lockdown, said, “The government should have clarified its motive. Is it to monitor the content or because most of the hosting platforms are international,” he said. At Mumbai’s civic-run medical colleges, the norm is usually to get a go-ahead from the department or institute head and for international travel from administrative heads in BMC. “There was a norm to seek approval from CM’s office for any foreign visit, but it’s not followed in practice,” said one of the deans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/academicians-scientists-see-red-over-centre-directive-to-seek-nod-for-virtual-seminars/articleshow/80621100.cms||Yogita Rao
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Register to sink a new borewell in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state government is mulling implementation of ground water regulation act in the whole state after recommendations from various agencies such as metro water, PWD and others. This would mean that every resident or commercial establishment will have to register with Metrowater in Chennai and district administration in rest of Tamil Nadu to dig a borewell, senior official said. Existing borewells will need to be registered too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/register-to-sink-a-new-borewell-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80621108.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Business||Modi to unveil projects worth Rs 4.5k cr in Haldia||Haldia: Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate projects worth Rs 4,500 crore investment during his Haldia visit on February 7. This was disclosed by Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Haldia on Sunday. Pradhan said that the Prime Minister will be dedicating key infrastructure projects in the oil and gas and road sectors in West Bengal to the nation in a public function. “Governor of West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankar, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and other dignitaries are also invited to grace the event,” he added. The much-talked-about Urja Ganga pipeline will enter Bengal on that day which is bringing natural gas to the state. According to Pradhan, Modi will be dedicating a 347-km-long Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline. This pipeline is a part of the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project. Dobhi-Durgapur pipeline has been built at a cost of Rs 2,433 crore by GAIL. “The Dobhi-Durgapur pipeline project will revive HURL Sindri (Jharkhand) fertiliser plant, supply gas to Matix fertiliser plant at Durgapur and will supply gas to industrial, commercial and automobile sectors and city gas distribution across all major towns in these states, including cities of Purulia, Asansol and Durgapur of West Bengal,” the minister said. The minister added that the LPG import terminal built by Bharat Petroleum Corporation is another important project to be dedicated by the Prime Minister. “The LPG import terminal will cater to the growing demand of LPG in eastern region and will help realise the vision of PM Modi to provide clean cooking LPG to every household,” he added. BPCL has constructed this LPG import terminal at Haldia with an investment of Rs 1,100 crore. The terminal will meet the requirement of LPG in West Bengal and other states in eastern and north-eastern India. Besides, these oil and gas related projects, PM will also dedicate 4 Lane ROB-cum-Flyover at Ranichak, Haldia on NH 41. “Haldia dock complex is the main gateway for import and export of cargo destined/originating from eastern and northeastern part of country as well as land-locked countries like Nepal and Bhutan. This has been built at the cost of Rs 190 crore. The commissioning of this flyover will result in uninterrupted to and fro traffic from Kolaghat to Haldia Dock Complex (HDC) and other surrounding areas. There will be a substantial saving in travel time and operating cost of heavy vehicles plying in and out of the port,” he added. According to Pradhan, on the same occasion, PM would also lay the foundation stone of the second catalytic de-waxing unit at the Haldia Refinery of Indian Oil Corporation. This unit, with a capacity of 270 MMTPA is estimated to cost Rs 1,019 crore and will produce advanced Group III Lubes Oil Base Stock (LOBS), which will be first of its kind installation in India. “Once commissioned, this will lead to import-substitution in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Currently around 70% of LOBS requirement is being met through imports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/modi-to-unveil-projects-worth-rs-4-5k-cr-in-haldia/articleshow/80619335.cms||Suman Mondal
February 1, 2021||India||First part of Rajya Sabha session to end on Jan 13||NEW DELHI: The Rajya Sabha’s sitting will conclude two days before schedule, on January 13 instead of January 15. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting between Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and floor leaders of all parties of the upper House. Sources said the schedule was changed in accordance with requests by several members that standing committees be given more time to examine the Union budget and present their reports before the start of the second half of the session. In a meeting attended by leader of opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, former PM H D Deve Gowda, Samajwadi Party MP Ramgopal Yadav, BJD’s Prasana Acharaya, AIADMK’s A Navneeth Krishnan, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, JD(U)’s RCP Singh, TRS’s K Keshava Rao, YSR Congress’s A Vijayasai Reddy, AAP MP Sanjay Singh and CPM’s Elamaram Kareem, among others, floor leaders also sought more time to discuss the motion of thanks to the President’s address. Naidu, sources said, told ministers to keep their speeches brief while moving bills for consideration, or when replying to debates, so that members got more time to speak. The floor leaders also agreed to let the House convene on Saturday, as it had in the monsoon session. Allocation of sufficient time for members of small parties and groups in the House was also discussed. While Naidu promised to try his best to ensure members of such parties were given time, he said accommodating members of about 20 such parties to speak on every issue may not be possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-part-of-rajya-sabha-session-to-end-on-jan-13/articleshow/80621104.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Vijayawada||Rain-battered highways delay buses across state||Vijayawada: Buses run by the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) are running late almost on a daily basis due to the poor road conditions. While delays are being reported from across the state, the problem is particularly acute in the coastal and north-coastal regions, especially the twin Godavari districts. Buses from Vijayawada to various destinations in East and West Godavari districts are running at least an hour behind schedule and even up to 2.5 hours behind schedule on certain routes. Roads across Andhra Pradesh suffered severe damage this monsoon. The state witnessed excess rainfall which wreaked havoc on the roads. Most roads, including national highways (NHs) in the coastal region, have developed potholes. This is leading to inordinate delays. A case in point is NH-16, a highway that covers 992 km. While the stretch from Nellore to Pottipadu in Krishna is reasonably good, the road beyond Pattipadu gives nightmares to passengers. The highway has two-feet-deep potholes at a number of spots. Journey from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam on this highway, which usually takes nine hours for APSRTC buses to cover, is now taking over 12 hours. The condition in state highways and rural roads is worse. Principal secretary R&B MT Krishna Babu recently said that the poor condition of roads in contributing to delays in running APSRTC buses. He said that the department is working on an action plan to take up repair works by the end of February. KS Brahmananda Reddy, executive director (operations) of APSRTC, said that while 95 per cent buses are departing on time, around 65 per cent are arriving on time. “There are many reasons for delays like increased traffic, toll gates, halts and of course bad roads. Contribution of bad roads in overall delays would be around 30 per cent,” Reddy said. APSRTC is of course not the only sufferer of the bad road conditions. Motorists and lorry owners are equally affected. The Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association (APLOA) has been complaining about the bad shape of roads for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rain-battered-highways-delay-buses-across-state/articleshow/80617258.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 1, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, offline classes for IX, XI students to start from February 8||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday allowed colleges to reopen and conduct classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students on February 8. Offline teaching for Classes IX and XI in schools can also start from that date, a statement issued by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said. The state, which allowed reopening of colleges for final year students from December 7, 2020, and schools for Classes X and XII from January 19, 2021, has now allowed hostels in educational institutions to function. Movie theatres, including multiplexes and screens in malls, will be allowed to operate at 100% seating capacity from February 1, the CM said, announcing fresh relaxations from curbs initiated to help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. TN has recorded less than 550 fresh cases per day in the past 10 days. "The total number of active cases has come down from more than 50,000 cases to 4,629 cases," the CM said. While swimming pools and exhibition halls can be opened by adhering to standard operating procedures, petrol pumps will be allowed to function 24 hours from February 1. Public grievances redressal meetings can also be held. Religious gatherings allowed at 50% capacityThe state has also allowed indoor meetings, including religious gatherings, cultural events, college festivals and entertainment events at either 50% capacity or up to a maximum of 600 people. Devotees will be allowed to take holy dip at Rameswaram temple. The ban on international flights, except for those allowed by the Union home ministry, will continue. Officials from colleges and universities said they would conduct practical experiments for all students on rotational basis using the relaxation. “The state government has already said attendance was not mandatory for this semester. So online classes would continue for all students and physical classes will be made optional,” an official from the Madras University said. Colleges like Loyola are planning to conduct a survey among students to plan the reopening from February 8, while some colleges have convened meetings with their staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-colleges-offline-classes-for-ix-xi-students-to-start-from-february-8/articleshow/80621147.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 1, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, offline classes for IX, XI students to start from February 8||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday allowed colleges to reopen and conduct classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students on February 8. Offline teaching for Classes IX and XI in schools can also start from that date, a statement issued by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said. The state, which allowed reopening of colleges for final year students from December 7, 2020, and schools for Classes X and XII from January 19, 2021, has now allowed hostels in educational institutions to function. Movie theatres, including multiplexes and screens in malls, will be allowed to operate at 100% seating capacity from February 1, the CM said, announcing fresh relaxations from curbs initiated to help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. TN has recorded less than 550 fresh cases per day in the past 10 days. "The total number of active cases has come down from more than 50,000 cases to 4,629 cases," the CM said. While swimming pools and exhibition halls can be opened by adhering to standard operating procedures, petrol pumps will be allowed to function 24 hours from February 1. Public grievances redressal meetings can also be held. Religious gatherings allowed at 50% capacityThe state has also allowed indoor meetings, including religious gatherings, cultural events, college festivals and entertainment events at either 50% capacity or up to a maximum of 600 people. Devotees will be allowed to take holy dip at Rameswaram temple. The ban on international flights, except for those allowed by the Union home ministry, will continue. Officials from colleges and universities said they would conduct practical experiments for all students on rotational basis using the relaxation. “The state government has already said attendance was not mandatory for this semester. So online classes would continue for all students and physical classes will be made optional,” an official from the Madras University said. Colleges like Loyola are planning to conduct a survey among students to plan the reopening from February 8, while some colleges have convened meetings with their staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-colleges-offline-classes-for-ix-xi-students-to-start-from-february-8/articleshow/80621144.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 1, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, offline classes for IX, XI students to start from February 8||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday allowed colleges to reopen and conduct classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students on February 8. Offline teaching for Classes IX and XI in schools can also start from that date, a statement issued by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said. The state, which allowed reopening of colleges for final year students from December 7, 2020, and schools for Classes X and XII from January 19, 2021, has now allowed hostels in educational institutions to function. Movie theatres, including multiplexes and screens in malls, will be allowed to operate at 100% seating capacity from February 1, the CM said, announcing fresh relaxations from curbs initiated to help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. TN has recorded less than 550 fresh cases per day in the past 10 days. "The total number of active cases has come down from more than 50,000 cases to 4,629 cases," the CM said. While swimming pools and exhibition halls can be opened by adhering to standard operating procedures, petrol pumps will be allowed to function 24 hours from February 1. Public grievances redressal meetings can also be held. Religious gatherings allowed at 50% capacityThe state has also allowed indoor meetings, including religious gatherings, cultural events, college festivals and entertainment events at either 50% capacity or up to a maximum of 600 people. Devotees will be allowed to take holy dip at Rameswaram temple. The ban on international flights, except for those allowed by the Union home ministry, will continue. Officials from colleges and universities said they would conduct practical experiments for all students on rotational basis using the relaxation. “The state government has already said attendance was not mandatory for this semester. So online classes would continue for all students and physical classes will be made optional,” an official from the Madras University said. Colleges like Loyola are planning to conduct a survey among students to plan the reopening from February 8, while some colleges have convened meetings with their staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-colleges-offline-classes-for-ix-xi-students-to-start-from-february-8/articleshow/80621146.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 1, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, offline classes for IX, XI students to start from February 8||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday allowed colleges to reopen and conduct classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students on February 8. Offline teaching for Classes IX and XI in schools can also start from that date, a statement issued by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said. The state, which allowed reopening of colleges for final year students from December 7, 2020, and schools for Classes X and XII from January 19, 2021, has now allowed hostels in educational institutions to function. Movie theatres, including multiplexes and screens in malls, will be allowed to operate at 100% seating capacity from February 1, the CM said, announcing fresh relaxations from curbs initiated to help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. TN has recorded less than 550 fresh cases per day in the past 10 days. "The total number of active cases has come down from more than 50,000 cases to 4,629 cases," the CM said. While swimming pools and exhibition halls can be opened by adhering to standard operating procedures, petrol pumps will be allowed to function 24 hours from February 1. Public grievances redressal meetings can also be held. Religious gatherings allowed at 50% capacityThe state has also allowed indoor meetings, including religious gatherings, cultural events, college festivals and entertainment events at either 50% capacity or up to a maximum of 600 people. Devotees will be allowed to take holy dip at Rameswaram temple. The ban on international flights, except for those allowed by the Union home ministry, will continue. Officials from colleges and universities said they would conduct practical experiments for all students on rotational basis using the relaxation. “The state government has already said attendance was not mandatory for this semester. So online classes would continue for all students and physical classes will be made optional,” an official from the Madras University said. Colleges like Loyola are planning to conduct a survey among students to plan the reopening from February 8, while some colleges have convened meetings with their staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-colleges-offline-classes-for-ix-xi-students-to-start-from-february-8/articleshow/80621143.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 1, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, offline classes for IX, XI students to start from February 8||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday allowed colleges to reopen and conduct classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students on February 8. Offline teaching for Classes IX and XI in schools can also start from that date, a statement issued by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said. The state, which allowed reopening of colleges for final year students from December 7, 2020, and schools for Classes X and XII from January 19, 2021, has now allowed hostels in educational institutions to function. Movie theatres, including multiplexes and screens in malls, will be allowed to operate at 100% seating capacity from February 1, the CM said, announcing fresh relaxations from curbs initiated to help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. TN has recorded less than 550 fresh cases per day in the past 10 days. "The total number of active cases has come down from more than 50,000 cases to 4,629 cases," the CM said. While swimming pools and exhibition halls can be opened by adhering to standard operating procedures, petrol pumps will be allowed to function 24 hours from February 1. Public grievances redressal meetings can also be held. Religious gatherings allowed at 50% capacityThe state has also allowed indoor meetings, including religious gatherings, cultural events, college festivals and entertainment events at either 50% capacity or up to a maximum of 600 people. Devotees will be allowed to take holy dip at Rameswaram temple. The ban on international flights, except for those allowed by the Union home ministry, will continue. Officials from colleges and universities said they would conduct practical experiments for all students on rotational basis using the relaxation. “The state government has already said attendance was not mandatory for this semester. So online classes would continue for all students and physical classes will be made optional,” an official from the Madras University said. Colleges like Loyola are planning to conduct a survey among students to plan the reopening from February 8, while some colleges have convened meetings with their staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-colleges-offline-classes-for-ix-xi-students-to-start-from-february-8/articleshow/80621138.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 1, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, offline classes for IX, XI students to start from February 8||CHENNAI: The state government on Sunday allowed colleges to reopen and conduct classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students on February 8. Offline teaching for Classes IX and XI in schools can also start from that date, a statement issued by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said. The state, which allowed reopening of colleges for final year students from December 7, 2020, and schools for Classes X and XII from January 19, 2021, has now allowed hostels in educational institutions to function. Movie theatres, including multiplexes and screens in malls, will be allowed to operate at 100% seating capacity from February 1, the CM said, announcing fresh relaxations from curbs initiated to help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. TN has recorded less than 550 fresh cases per day in the past 10 days. "The total number of active cases has come down from more than 50,000 cases to 4,629 cases," the CM said. While swimming pools and exhibition halls can be opened by adhering to standard operating procedures, petrol pumps will be allowed to function 24 hours from February 1. Public grievances redressal meetings can also be held. Religious gatherings allowed at 50% capacityThe state has also allowed indoor meetings, including religious gatherings, cultural events, college festivals and entertainment events at either 50% capacity or up to a maximum of 600 people. Devotees will be allowed to take holy dip at Rameswaram temple. The ban on international flights, except for those allowed by the Union home ministry, will continue. Officials from colleges and universities said they would conduct practical experiments for all students on rotational basis using the relaxation. “The state government has already said attendance was not mandatory for this semester. So online classes would continue for all students and physical classes will be made optional,” an official from the Madras University said. Colleges like Loyola are planning to conduct a survey among students to plan the reopening from February 8, while some colleges have convened meetings with their staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-colleges-offline-classes-for-ix-xi-students-to-start-from-february-8/articleshow/80621145.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 1, 2021||Nashik||A year later, skeleton of missing driver found in car in Nashik well||NASHIK: The skeletal remains of a 31-year-old driver from Pune, missing for more than a year, were found on Saturday inside a car which had fallen into a well along the Panchale-Pangri Road in Sinnar taluka. The driver has been identified as Sanjay Ahire, a native of Ravalgaon. A farmer in Sinnar was lifting water from his unused well when he spotted the car that had fallen in. The Sinnar MIDC police reached there and got the car pulled out with a crane. Inspector Dashrath Chaudhary of the Sinnar MIDC police station said, “A human skeleton was found in the car. From the vehicle’s registration number and a laminated driving licence found in the car, we traced the owner to Indore. We learnt that the car owner’s son lives in Pune and the vehicle was with him.” Chaudhary said that on November 20, 2019, the owner’s son had given the car to Ahire to take the vehicle back to his father in Indore. Ahire had left with the car the same night. Around midnight, he spoke to the owner’s son that he had reached Sangamner. However, his phone was not reachable the next morning. Ahire’s wife later registered a complaint with the Wakad police station in Pune that her husband had gone missing. Chaudhary said Ahire’s wife was called to the MIDC police station on Saturday evening to identify her husband’s clothes and other possessions. The skeletal remains were cremated in Sinnar itself. Chaudhary said the left side front tyre of the car had burst, which apparently could have led to Ahire losing control and the car plunging into the roadside well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/a-year-later-skeleton-of-missing-driver-found-in-car-in-nashik-well/articleshow/80621130.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh health department mulls study on Covid vaccine recipients||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh state health department is planning to conduct a study on people who have received the Covid-19 vaccine on the lines of sero-surveillance studies. The study would help understand immunogenic responses, the levels of titers of binding and neutralising antibodies against the coronavirus, and the antibody longevity in vaccine recipients, health officials say. The study would be conducted on vaccinated people over a certain time period to comprehend the potential of the vaccine over time. Around 1.9 lakh health care workers have received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Andhra Pradesh so far. State Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr K Rambabu said that sero surveys are conducted to understand the extent of disease prevalence in the community. “Sero survey would find exposure to novel coronavirus by detecting antibodies against the virus in the study participants. Along the same lines, the health department is planning to conduct a study on vaccine recipients at regular intervals to understand the immune system’s ability to sustain its defences against the virus after a certain period of time,” Dr Rambabu said. “The major objective of the study would be to get insights into the durability of immune responses after vaccination. Based on findings, recommendations can be made on the booster shot and its schedule and other parameters,” added Dr Rambabu. Andhra Pradesh launched its mass vaccination drive against the novel coronavirus on January 16. The health department would vaccinate about 3.9 lakh health care workers in the first phase. This would be followed by administering the vaccine to about 9 lakh frontline respondents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-health-dept-mulls-study-on-covid-vaccine-recipients/articleshow/80617267.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||No Covid deaths in Andhra Pradesh for six days in January||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 116 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,87,836. For the sixth time this month, the state recorded zero Covid-19 deaths. Altogether 127 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Sunday. There are currently 1,278 active cases with 8,79,405 cumulative recoveries and 7,153 deaths. Krishna district reported 24 new infections on Sunday, followed by Chittoor (17), Visakhapatnam (13), East Godavari (13), and West Godavari (11). Vizianagaram has not recorded any new case. The remaining seven districts posted single-digit case numbers. Eight districts have so far achieved 99% recovery rate. Andhra Pradesh registered 5,550 cases in January, the lowest case positivity rate (0.43%) ever since the beginning of the outbreak in March, 2020. Vizianagaram added only 111 cases in the last one month, averaging four cases a day, which is the lowest for any district. The north coastal Andhra Pradesh did not record any new cases for four days this month. AP tested 41,910 samples on Sunday and detected 116 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-covid-deaths-in-ap-for-six-days-in-january/articleshow/80617276.cms||---
February 1, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Sarpanch candidate’s husband kidnapped in East Godavari district||KAKINADA: The husband of a sarpanch candidate in East Godavari district was reportedly kidnapped and left in a forest on Sunday. A shepherd later found and rescued him.  The victim was identified as Sabella Srinivasa Reddy of Gollaguntala village in Jaggampeta mandal. His wife, Sabbella Pushpavati, a sarpanch candidate from the village alleged that her husband was kidnapped by her political opponents. Later in the day, Pushpavati filed her nomination at Ramavaram village panchayat. Police said that they did not receive any complaint regarding the alleged kidnapping of a person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sarpanch-candidates-husband-kidnapped/articleshow/80617287.cms||Samson Raj
