February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Revenue chief will probe Shivamogga blast||BENGALURU: Home and law minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday rejected the opposition demand for a judicial probe into the Shivamogga blast that claimed six lives on January 21. “The judicial inquiry, in fact, will slow down the process. We want to take it to a logical end quickly. So, we’re commissioning an inquiry by the revenue commissioner. We want to crack the whip on all illegal quarries in the state,” Bommai said, in his reply to the adjournment motion moved by the Congress in the legislative assembly. He said the licence for quarrying at Honasodu site was given by the JD(S)-Congress government in 2019 though it was illegal. Bommai also clarified that chief minister Yediyurappa had never said the government would regularise illegal mines, but that they would be closed. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah had earlier demanded a probe headed by a sitting judge of the high court. “Criminal cases should be booked against those responsible for the blast. Investigators in the FIR have framed minor charges such as culpable homicide, but what has been committed is a much bigger crime. According to the Explosives Act, the punishment is not less than life imprisonment or death penalty,” he said.  He pointed out that BJP MLC Ayanuru Manjunath had mentioned that a cache of explosives was found days before the blast and a police complaint was also lodged. He wanted to know as to why officials did not act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/revenue-chief-will-probe-smogga-blast/articleshow/80638197.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC seeks report on pending UAPA cases||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday sought a report from the registrar-general about cases under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) pending before the designated special courts. A division bench asked him to consider distribution of cases among the four special courts if necessary. P Prasanna Kumar, special public prosecutor for National Investigation Agency, earlier informed the court that 15 cases handled by the agency are pending. The court is hearing a PIL which claimed despite the mandate for undertaking speedy trial in UAPA cases, it is not happening and the accused as well as their family members are suffering on account of the inordinate delay. Govt told to appoint 2nd Upa LokayuktaThe high court has directed the government to take steps to fill up the second post of Upa Lokayukta as early as possible. A division bench gave this direction after it was told that the post fell vacant on December 14, 2020. The government said consultation has been initiated with the chief justice, assembly speaker and council chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-seeks-report-on-pending-uapa-cases/articleshow/80638200.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Aero India 2021: Karnataka, UP to push for investments||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government, which is a co-host of the biennial air show and the Uttar Pradesh administration, which will host a defence corridor, are vying to woo firms and investments at Aero India 2021, scheduled from February 3 to 5. There was a buzz before the previous edition of the event in 2019 that the show may be shifted to Lucknow. While that eventually didn’t happen and Aero India remained in Bengaluru, this year, the UP government, through the UP Defence Corridor stall, hopes to get a share of possible investments. Among other things, the Karnataka government, in collaboration with industry bodies and consultancy firms, will organise what it calls a ‘first-of-its-kind’ initiative: “Opportunities in aerospace & defence industry”. It is on February 4. An industries department statement read that the aim of the conference is to showcase Karnataka’s value proposition and investment opportunities. “We wish to address how the Centre under its Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign wishes to rope in not only major multinational defence corporates to manufacture indigenously, but also how focus has shifted towards MSMEs and SMEs willing to get into this sector and also encourage them to be a part of this growth story,” it stated. The government pointed to various incentives announced as part of its new industrial policy 2020-2025. “The government has announced pioneering reforms and attractive incentives to foster a dynamic industrial ecosystem in the state. The government would like to initiate the conversation with aerospace and defence companies and engage with them through the period leading up to Aero India and beyond,” it added. The UP government said for the first time, the UP Defence Corridor will be a part of Aero India-2021. UP’s additional chief secretary had told media in January that several foreign defence companies have signed agreements to put their units in the defence corridor being set up at six places in that state – Chitrakoot, Jhansi, Kanpur, Aligarh, Agra and Lucknow. At Aero India, UP hopes to showcase the corridor’s potential, the state’s policies and investments made by UPEIDA, the nodal agency for setting up the Defence Corridor. UP too will organise a seminar on the same day as Karnataka. UP hopes to sign at least 15 MOUs on the last day, while Karnataka is yet to make public of any such commitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-up-to-push-for-investments/articleshow/80638201.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Man convicted for 2013 ATM attack in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The 64th city civil and session court on Monday found Kondappagiri Madhukar Reddy, 36, guilty in the attack on bank employee Jyothi Uday inside an ATM kiosk of Corporation Bank at Corporation Circle on November 19, 2013. On her way to work, Jyothi, an employee of the bank’s service branch near BBMP headquarters, had entered the ATM kiosk around 6.30am to draw money for her daughter’s birthday celebrations. She was attacked by Reddy alias Madhu, a resident of Divupalli village, Chittoor district, Andhra Pradesh. “The accused has been found guilty of offences under IPC sections 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence). The accused has been acquitted of the charges of attempt to murder and wrongful confinement,” an officer said. Judge Rajeshwara will announce the quantum of sentence soon. In her deposition, Jyothi had said: “I begged him with folded hands to spare me. He said he will kill me, pulled out a sickle from his bag, which looked like a gardening tool. He hit me on the head with that sickle. I lost consciousness and fell down on my stomach. He took away my purse, which had Rs 200, a mobile phone, debit card, PAN card and IDs. After some hours, I saw rays of sunlight from the edge of the rolling shutter of the ATM centre. I was unable to move my right hand due to the injury. With my left hand, I started hitting the shutter. Someone opened it and took me to a hospital.” Bengaluru police had formed 15 teams to trace Reddy, but he was on the run till February 2017. Madanapalli police nabbed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-convicted-for-2013-atm-attack/articleshow/80638203.cms||Santosh kumar.B
February 2, 2021||World||Pakistan SC extends detention of principal accused in Daniel Pearl murder case for one day||ISLAMABAD: The Supreme Court of Pakistan on Monday extended for one day the detention of British-born Pakistani Ahmed Omar Ahmed Saeed Sheikh, the prime accused in the American journalist Daniel Pearl murder case. The extension has been granted on the request of the Sindh government, which has filed a review petition in the SC against Sheikh’s release. A three-member bench of the SC, headed by Justice Umar Ata Bandial, heard the petition. The petition also requested an early hearing of the matter. During the hearing, Sheikh’s lawyer said his client was innocent and those involved in the murder of Daniel Pearl had been released. “The wrong man was caught under American pressure. Sheikh passed a law degree from the UK. If he hadn’t been in jail, he would have been a better lawyer than me,” Sheikh’s lawyer argued. The hearing was adjourned till Tuesday. The top court’s order had led the US to call it “an affront to terrorism victims everywhere” and to demand that the Pakistani government review its legal options. Pearl was the South Asia bureau chief for the Wall Street Journal. He was researching a story about militants when he was abducted in Karachi in January 2002. Nearly a month later, a graphic video showing his decapitation was received by officials at the US consulate in Karachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-sc-extends-detention-of-principal-accused-in-daniel-pearl-murder-case-for-one-day/articleshow/80638465.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 2, 2021||India||Terrorist hideout busted in Rajouri, ‘war-like store’ recovered||JAMMU: A joint team of the Army and J&K Police busted a terrorist hideout in the dense Gadyog forest in Rajouri district’s Khawas region late Sunday and recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition, including an AK-47 rifle, three AK-47 magazines, 94 AK-47 rounds, five UBGL grenades, two Chinese pistols, two Chinese pistol magazines, eight pistol rounds, one Kenwood radio set and three radio set antennae, confirmed Rajouri SSP Chandan Kohli. The timely recovery has thwarted a possible terror bid besides attempts to revive terrorism in Rajouri and Reasi districts, SSP Kohli said. On January 23, a joint team of the Army, BSF and J&K Police had busted a terror hideout in Hari Buddha area in Poonch district. On January 3, security forces had recovered arms and ammunition from another hideout in Dabbi village in Mendhar’s Balakote on disclosures of three terror associates of J&K Ghaznavi Force who were arrested on December 27 last year. Based on information obtained from the trio, security personnel busted three terror hideouts and recovered 13 grenades, three pistols, five pistol magazines, 105 pistol bullets, four Pakistan-made balloons, one flag of Tehreek ul Mujahideen Jammu and Kashmir and 18 posters of J&K Ghaznavi Force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-rajouri-war-like-store-recovered/articleshow/80638478.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Taxi fares up 20%, Ola, Uber spared||BENGALURU: Get set to dig deeper into your pockets if you are a taxi commuter. The government on Monday hiked the tariffs of long-distance taxis and city cabs, which are not operated by aggregators such as Uber and Ola, by over 20 per cent to Rs 18 per km for non-AC and Rs 24 for AC taxis. The transport department on Monday notified the new tariffs which will come into force with immediate effect. The last revision was in 2013. The government attributed the hike to increasing prices of fuel, vehicles and their maintenance. The tariff of non-AC cabs has been increased from Rs 14.5 to Rs 18 per km and that of AC vehicles to Rs 24 per km from Rs 19.5. For night travel (between 12am and 6am), commuters must pay 10 per cent more on the total fare. The minimum tariff (up to 4km) has also been hiked to Rs 75 from Rs 70 for non-AC and Rs 100 from Rs 80 for AC taxis. Even the waiting charges for cabs have seen an upward revision. While there will be no waiting charge for the first five minutes, commuters must pay Re 1 for every minute thereafter, the government order read. Earlier, no-cost waiting period was up to 20 minutes and Rs 10 extra for every 15 minutes thereafter. While there will be luggage charge up to 120kg, commuters must shell out Rs 7 per kg or part of it over this limit from the earlier Rs 5 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/taxi-fares-up-20-ola-uber-spared/articleshow/80638552.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Four usurp driver’s property using fake death paper||BENGALURU: A 62-year-old cab driver from Byatarayanapura got the shock of his life after he learnt that four miscreants had produced his death certificate and got ownership of his property transferred . Muniyappa told police he’d purchased an acre of land at Raghunathapura, near Obadenahalli Industrial Area, Doddaballapura in 1984. When he recently visited Raghunathapura with his land documents, he found a stranger’s name, Rajanna, in the ownership column. Muniyappa approached revenue officials and found that Rajanna had produced Muniyappa’s death certificate and family tree in 2019 and got the ownership transferred to his name. Police learnt that Rajanna, a resident of Doddaballapura, used his father Chikka Muniyappa’s death certificate and faked the family tree of cabbie Muniyappa with the help of his aides, Prasad, Shiva Kumar and Rajendra. They submitted forged documents and got the property transferred to Rajanna’s name. Doddaballapura Rural police had booked the suspects on January 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-usurp-drivers-property-using-fake-death-paper/articleshow/80638557.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Seven nabbed for cheating cabbies; 48 cars worth Rs 4 crore recovered||BENGALURU: Seven members of an interstate gang, who allegedly cheated cabbies by purchasing their cars after paying some advance and later, selling them for a higher price with fake documents in Andhra Pradesh, have landed in the custody of KG Halli police.The accused are J Riaz, 33, of Fraser Town; Sheikh Muktiyar, 30, of Hindupur; V Vinod Kumar alias RTO Vinod, 32, of Ananthapura; Ramesh Naidu, 40, of Ramachandra Nagar and Narasimha Reddy, 35, T Prabhakar, 34, and Chakli Naresh, 32, all residents of Anantapur district. Forty-eight cars worth Rs 4 crore have been seized from them. Four more suspects — Inayat, Saleem, Jabhi and Suhail — are at large. Police busted the racket while investigating a case of cheating filed by cab driver Noor Ahmed in November 2020. Ahmed alleged that Riaz and others approached him and purchased his cab. The gang paid him Rs 60,000 and promised to give the remaining amount in instalments. But they neither paid EMIs nor returned his car. Police caught Riyaz on December 11, 2020 and later arrested others. “The gang has cheated more than 50 persons in Bengaluru. We’ve seized 48 vehicles between December 11- 13,” an officer said. According to S Murugan, additional commissioner of police (east), Riaz is a car dealer-cum-broker and knew Muktiyar and Inayat, also brokers. They collected details of car owners who were struggling to pay EMIs after the Covid-19 outbreak. “The gang approached such owners in the guise of buyers. They would pay the owner a part of the amount while purchasing the vehicle. Once they got the vehicle, they would contact RTO Vinod in Anantapur. Vinod, with the help of RTO officials, would sell them to locals there using fake documents,” he added. Employees of vehicle confiscation wings attached to financing institutions, including banks, were the main informants for the gang about the defaulting cabbies. According to police, the EMI moratorium facility in place of Covid-19 helped the gang con more people in a short period. “The victims were under the impression that the purchasers were paying EMIs regularly. But they realised about the cheating only after the banks approached them for EMIs after the post moratorium period,” an officer said. All the accused are out on bail now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/7-nabbed-for-cheating-cabbies-48-cars-worth-4cr-recovered/articleshow/80638556.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Trio pledges nonexistent land, dupes bank of Rs 18 lakh||BENGALURU: Ashoknagar police launched a manhunt for three persons who allegedly cheated Indian Overseas Bank, Shantinagar branch, of Rs 18 lakh. Branch manager Sunitha P filed a complaint, saying the trio pledged documents of a plot at Jigani, Anekal, in 2018 and availed a loan of Rs 19 lakh. The documents showed they belonged to Shivakumar and Shobha. “In January 2018, they approached the bank, seeking loan. We scanned the documents and trusting them to be genuine, asked for a surety. Another man — Siddalinagaih Kulakarni — signed the surety papers. Finally, Rs 19.6 lakh was granted to the duo on February 19, 2018. They repaid Rs 1 lakh and then went incommunicado. After serving a legal notice of property seizure, we visited the place mentioned in the documents. There was no such land,” she said. Police are not sure whether the bank had made a spot inspection before granting loan. “We’ll check whether the officials had crosschecked the documents with the sub-registrar office ,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trio-pledges-nonexistent-land-dupes-bank-of-18l/articleshow/80638559.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Doctor loses Rs 19.2 lakh while trying to buy iPad at half price||BENGALURU: A doctor who tried to buy an Apple iPad at a discounted price, ended up losing Rs 19.2 lakh to fraudsters. In March, the doctor from Basaveshwaranagar, w logged into Quikr, an online marketplace. The fraudsters he came across through the platform promised to get him an iPad from Dubai for Rs 45,000 which in India would cost around Rs 80,000. He transferred the money but did not get the product. When he contacted the men, they made him transfer more money saying they had to clear sales tax and other taxes. They also offered to get him five iPods, five watches and two laptops for an attractive price. He ended up transferring Rs 19.2 lakh in two months. But the products did not arrive. He filed a complaint with Magadi Road police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-doctor-loses-rs-19-2-lakh-while-trying-to-buy-ipad-at-half-price/articleshow/80638561.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||How affected was WhatsApp by Pegasus in India, asks SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and WhatsApp, the latest entrant into app-based payment services, to respond to petitions questioning the Facebook-owned service’s privacy policy with a focus on how secure the platforms were from Pegasus spyware. One set of petitions challenged WhatsApp’s new privacy policy even when pleas questioning its earlier privacy policy are still pending adjudication. A second set of petitions, including one by Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam, has questioned the steps taken by payment apps run by multinationals like Google, Amazon and Facebook and raised the issue of Pegasus spyware targeting WhatsApp users. Appearing for WhatsApp, senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Arvind Datar told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that WhatsApp Pay has received all clearances from authorities and that these petitions should not cause any impediment. But CJI Bobde said, “Has Pegasus resulted in any mishap? Will one of you file an affidavit saying there was no ill-effect of Pegasus?” When Sibal said it was for the government to tell the court whether Pegasus affected Indian users of WhatsApp, the bench asked all parties to file their affidavits in the pending petitions within four weeks. It also issued notices to the Centre, the RBI and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on Viswam’s petition, which was argued by senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal. Media reports had suggested that WhatsApp was allegedly used by Israeli cyber-security firm NSO Group to carry out surveillance on journalists and human rights activists using a spyware called Pegasus and WhatsApp had sued NSO Group in an American court complaining that the surveillance was allegedly carried out between April and May 2019 in 20 countries, including India. In his petition, Viswam had said, “RBI and NPCI have permitted three of the big four tech giants — Amazon, Google and Facebook/WhatsApp — to participate in the UPI ecosystem without much scrutiny and in spite of blatant violations of UPI guidelines and RBI regulations. “The said conduct of RBI and NPCI puts the sensitive financial data of Indian users at huge risk, especially when these entities have been continuously accused of abusing dominance, and compromising data, among other things. Recently, for the said allegations, CEOs of these foreign entities were directed to testify in a hearing with the judiciary committee of the US Congress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-affected-was-whatsapp-by-pegasus-in-india-asks-sc/articleshow/80638582.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 2, 2021||India||Man kills cop who warned him for drunken rampage||TUTICORIN: A police sub-inspector was hit by a drunk driver of a goods carrier who was angered by the cop’s warning to behave himself, late Sunday night in Tamil Nadu’s Tuticorin district. The incident took place when V Balu (55), attached to the Eral police station, was riding pillion behind constable Pon Subbaiah (35) on night patrol. R Murugavel (39) chased and hit their bike at high speed with his goods carrier, killing Balu on the spot. Subbaiah is in hospital. After the killing, Murugavel fled the spot. He surrendered before the Vilathikulam judicial magistrate on Monday morning. The magistrate ordered that he be remanded in the district jail and produced before the Srivaikuntam court on February 5. This is the second murder of a policeman in Tuticorin district in less than five months. On August 18 last year, constable Subramanian (28) was killed when a history-sheeter threw a country bomb at him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-kills-cop-who-warned-him-for-drunken-rampage/articleshow/80638610.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||At 3, Delhi's Covid toll lowest in 9 months||NEW DELHI: The capital reported three deaths from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the lowest daily toll in nearly nine months. Fresh cases too remained low at 121 while the positivity rate was nearly 0.3%. Monday’s Covid toll was the lowest in the city since May 11 last year, when no deaths were reported. Only 32 Covid patients needed hospitalisation, which was also lowest in the last 10 months, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted. The tally of active cases in the city has dropped to 1,265 from 1,361 on Sunday, a government bulletin stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-3-city-covid-toll-lowest-in-9-months/articleshow/80638611.cms||---
February 2, 2021||World||Military takes over again; Suu Kyi, Prez, elected leaders held; 24 ministers axed||Hours before Myanmar’s parliament had been due to sit for the first time since National League for Democracy (NLD) party’s landslide win in last November’s elections, the military seized power on Monday in a coup and detained Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of her NLD. The army said it had detained the leaders in response to “poll fraud”, handing power to military chief General Min Aung Hlaing and imposing a state of emergency for a year. The coup, which derails years of international efforts to establish democracy in Myanmar, sparked global condemnation. Myanmar’s military seized power on Monday in a coup against the democratically elected government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained along with President U Win Myint and leaders of her National League for Democracy party in early morning raids. The army said it had carried out the detentions in response to “election fraud”, handing power to military chief General Min Aung Hlaing and imposing a state of emergency for one year. Suu Kyi’s party said she had called on people to protest against the military takeover, quoting comments it said had been written in anticipation of a coup. The coup derails years of Western-backed efforts to establish democracy in Myanmar, also known as Burma, where neighbouring China has a powerful influence. Western nations condemned the sudden turn of events, which raised even more questions over the prospect of returning a million Rohingya refugees. The UN Security Council will meet on Tuesday, diplomats said, amid calls for a strong response. The generals made their move hours before parliament had been due to sit for the first time since the NLD’s landslide win in a November 8 election viewed as a referendum on Suu Kyi’s fledgling democratic rule. The military maintains its actions are legally justified — citing a section of the constitution it drafted that allows it to take control in times of national emergency. Summarising a meeting of the new junta, the military said Hlaing had pledged to practice a “genuine discipline-flourishing multiparty democratic system”. He promised a free and fair election and a handover of power to the winning party, it said, without giving a timeframe. The junta later removed 24 ministers and named 11 replacements to oversee ministries including finance, defence, foreign affairs and interior. A video posted to Facebook by one MP appeared to show the arrest of lawmaker Pa Pa Han. In the video, her husband pleads with men in military garb. A child can be seen clinging to his chest and wailing. Troops stood by in Yangon where residents rushed to markets to stock up on supplies and others lined up at ATMs. Banks then suspended services but said they would reopen from Tuesday. Phone and internet connections were disrupted. An army takeover would put Myanmar “back under a dictatorship”, the pre-written statement on Facebook quoted Suu Kyi as saying. “I urge people not to accept this, to respond and wholeheartedly to protest against the coup,” it said. Military’s supporters celebrated, but democracy activists were horrified. “Our country was a bird that was just learning to fly. Now the army broke our wings,” a student said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/military-takes-over-again-suu-kyi-prez-elected-leaders-held-24-ministers-axed/articleshow/80638829.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||Supreme Court likely to restart physical hearings soon||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court is likely to resume physical hearings in three to four weeks, the Bar Council of India (BCI) said on Monday after its chairman and other bar leaders met CJI S A Bobde and sought normal functioning of the court, disrupted for nearly a year due to the pandemic. The meeting was held to chalk out modalities and SOPs to begin a system comprising physical and virtual hearings. The BCI apprised the CJI of difficulties faced by advocates in case of virtual hearings through video-conferencing. The CJI met BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, SC Bar Association leader Kailash Vasdev, leaders of advocates’ on record association and former SCBA president Vikas Singh. “From today’s meeting, it is clear that physical hearings are going to start in the Supreme Court within three to four weeks,” Mishra said in a press release, adding he told the CJI that there could be no substitute to physical hearing. The SG suggested easing the difficulties faced by advocates in getting petitions listed for hearing by assigning mentioning work to one or two judges. This was supported by the BCI chairperson. The CJI said he would consult other judges on this. On resumption of physical hearings, the CJI said that he would consult medical experts, assess infrastructure and availability of staff before taking a decision on full-scale resumption of physical hearings. The BCI chairperson said the CJI requested him to "coordinate with senior advocates and other bar associations of the country to make them agreeable to physical hearings”. The pandemic had seriously affected open court functioning as six SC judges and nearly half the SC staff were infected by coronavirus. However, it continued to dispose of a large number of cases through video-conferencing, which was seen as favouring senior advocates more. Bar leaders will meet SC secretary general Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar on Wednesday to finalise the SOPs for physical hearings. Meanwhile, senior advocate Vikas Singh had called for protests by advocates within the SC premises for resumption of physical hearings. Scores of advocates were seen holding placards demanding physical hearings. Singh said the CJI suggested a hybrid mode of hearings for which infrastructure would be upgraded by the SC. "I, on behalf of members of the bar, insisted on immediate resumption of full physical hearings. The CJI did not agree and hence we decided to continue our protest till our demand is met," he said, adding that he would not agree to hybrid mode of hearings without immediate resumption of physical hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-likely-to-restart-physical-hearings-soon/articleshow/80639311.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: A Covid ‘blessing’? Finally, biotech sector gets booster shots||NEW DELHI: After years of being ignored by successive FMs, the Covid-19 pandemic finally forced the government to take note of the country’s biotech sector that has been at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus. The Budget prescribed plenty of direct and indirect booster doses for the sector this year, including the proposed 137% hike in outlay on health and well-being, the Rs 35,000 crore allocation for Covid vaccination, and investment in public research and innovation infrastructure. Pointing out that this is the first time the FM has spoken about preventive and curative health and well-being, Bharat Biotech chairman & MD Dr Krishna Ella termed the announcements as significant and far-reaching. Agreeing, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said the emphasis on healthcare spending and immunisation will help India recover rapidly from the pandemic and also encourage more innovation and expansion in the sector. Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar Shaw welcomed the announcements but felt the big missing piece was the lack of encouragement to private sector R&D. “It’s disappointing that the government feels... we should be left to fend for ourselves but they ought to look at it more seriously,” she said. Agreeing, vaccine industry pioneer and Shantha Biotechnics founder KI Varaprasad Reddy said: “The government has moved positively. Covid-19 has opened their eyes. I am very glad that they are trying to strengthen the biotech manufacturing base, but what about R&D, which is the legs on which the sector stands? It’s a move forward but the step is too small,” he said. Ram Kaundinya, director general, Federation of Seed Industry of India (FSII), too expressed disappointment at the lack of specific initiatives to boost R&D, which is a very important aspect of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. However, K Anand Kumar, managing director, Indian Immunologicals Limited, said the increased allocation of Rs 2.23 lakh crore will make quality healthcare affordable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-a-covid-blessing-finally-biotech-sector-gets-booster-shots/articleshow/80639283.cms||---
February 2, 2021||World||Biden threatens US sanctions in response to Myanmar coup||WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Monday threatened to reimpose sanctions on Myanmar following a coup by the country's military leaders and called for a concerted international response to press them to relinquish power. Biden condemned the military's takeover from the civilian-led government on Monday and its detention of elected leader and Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi as "a direct assault on the country’s transition to democracy and the rule of law." The Myanmar crisis marks a first major test of Biden's pledge to collaborate more with allies on international challenges, especially on China's rising influence, in contrast to former President Donald Trump's often go-it-alone "America First" approach. It also represented a rare policy alignment between Biden's fellow Democrats and top Republicans as they joined in denouncing the coup and urging Myanmar's military face consequences. "The international community should come together in one voice to press the Burmese military to immediately relinquish the power they have seized, release the activists and officials they have detained," Biden said in a statement. "The United States removed sanctions on Burma over the past decade based on progress toward democracy. The reversal of that progress will necessitate an immediate review of our sanction laws and authorities, followed by appropriate action," he said. Biden also called on the military in Myanmar, which is also known as Burma, to lift all restrictions on telecommunications and to refrain from violence against civilians. He said the United States was "taking note of those who stand with the people of Burma in this difficult hour." "We will work with our partners throughout the region and the world to support the restoration of democracy and the rule of law, as well as to hold accountable those responsible for overturning Burma’s democratic transition," he said. Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party won a landslide 83% in a Nov. 8 election. The army said in taking over in the early hours of Monday that it had responded to what it called election fraud. 'INTENSIVE' CONSULTATIONS White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told a regular news briefing the United States has had "intensive" conversations with allies about Myanmar. She declined to say what other actions were under consideration aside from sanctions. Asked whether Biden’s assertion that the United States was “taking note" of how other countries respond was a message to China, Psaki told reporters: “It’s a message to all countries in the region." The top Democrat on the Senate Foreign relations committee, Robert Menendez, said the United States and other countries "should impose strict economic sanctions, as well as other measures" against Myanmar's army and the military leadership if they did not free the elected leaders and remove themselves from government. Menendez also charged that the Myanmar army was guilty of "genocide" against minority Rohingya Muslims - a determination yet to be stated by the US government - and of a sustained campaign of violence against other minorities. US Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who like members of the Biden administration has had close past ties with Suu Kyi, called the arrests "horrifying" and demanded a tough response. "The Biden Administration must take a strong stand and our partners and all democracies around the world should follow suit in condemning this authoritarian assault on democracy," he said. McConnell added that Washington needed to "impose costs" on those behind the coup. The events in Myanmar are a significant blow for the Biden administration and its effort to forge a robust Asia Pacific policy to stand up to China. Many of Biden's Asia policy team, including its head, Kurt Campbell, are veterans of the Obama administration, which at the end of former President Barack Obama's term hailed its work to end decades of military rule in Myanmar as a major foreign policy achievement. Biden served as Obama's vice president. Obama started easing sanctions in 2011 after the military began loosening its grip, and he announced in 2016 the lifting many of the remaining sanctions. But in 2019, the Trump administration imposed targeted sanctions on four military commanders, including General Min Aung Hlaing, over human rights abuses against Rohingya Muslims and other minorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-threatens-us-sanctions-in-response-to-myanmar-coup/articleshow/80639997.cms||---
February 2, 2021||World||Biden threatens US sanctions in response to Myanmar coup||WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Monday threatened to reimpose sanctions on Myanmar following a coup by the country's military leaders and called for a concerted international response to press them to relinquish power. Biden condemned the military's takeover from the civilian-led government on Monday and its detention of elected leader and Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi as "a direct assault on the country’s transition to democracy and the rule of law." The Myanmar crisis marks a first major test of Biden's pledge to collaborate more with allies on international challenges, especially on China's rising influence, in contrast to former President Donald Trump's often go-it-alone "America First" approach. It also represented a rare policy alignment between Biden's fellow Democrats and top Republicans as they joined in denouncing the coup and urging Myanmar's military face consequences. "The international community should come together in one voice to press the Burmese military to immediately relinquish the power they have seized, release the activists and officials they have detained," Biden said in a statement. "The United States removed sanctions on Burma over the past decade based on progress toward democracy. The reversal of that progress will necessitate an immediate review of our sanction laws and authorities, followed by appropriate action," he said. Biden also called on the military in Myanmar, which is also known as Burma, to lift all restrictions on telecommunications and to refrain from violence against civilians. He said the United States was "taking note of those who stand with the people of Burma in this difficult hour." "We will work with our partners throughout the region and the world to support the restoration of democracy and the rule of law, as well as to hold accountable those responsible for overturning Burma’s democratic transition," he said. Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party won a landslide 83% in a Nov. 8 election. The army said in taking over in the early hours of Monday that it had responded to what it called election fraud. 'INTENSIVE' CONSULTATIONS White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told a regular news briefing the United States has had "intensive" conversations with allies about Myanmar. She declined to say what other actions were under consideration aside from sanctions. Asked whether Biden’s assertion that the United States was “taking note" of how other countries respond was a message to China, Psaki told reporters: “It’s a message to all countries in the region." The top Democrat on the Senate Foreign relations committee, Robert Menendez, said the United States and other countries "should impose strict economic sanctions, as well as other measures" against Myanmar's army and the military leadership if they did not free the elected leaders and remove themselves from government. Menendez also charged that the Myanmar army was guilty of "genocide" against minority Rohingya Muslims - a determination yet to be stated by the US government - and of a sustained campaign of violence against other minorities. US Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who like members of the Biden administration has had close past ties with Suu Kyi, called the arrests "horrifying" and demanded a tough response. "The Biden Administration must take a strong stand and our partners and all democracies around the world should follow suit in condemning this authoritarian assault on democracy," he said. McConnell added that Washington needed to "impose costs" on those behind the coup. The events in Myanmar are a significant blow for the Biden administration and its effort to forge a robust Asia Pacific policy to stand up to China. Many of Biden's Asia policy team, including its head, Kurt Campbell, are veterans of the Obama administration, which at the end of former President Barack Obama's term hailed its work to end decades of military rule in Myanmar as a major foreign policy achievement. Biden served as Obama's vice president. Obama started easing sanctions in 2011 after the military began loosening its grip, and he announced in 2016 the lifting many of the remaining sanctions. But in 2019, the Trump administration imposed targeted sanctions on four military commanders, including General Min Aung Hlaing, over human rights abuses against Rohingya Muslims and other minorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/biden-threatens-us-sanctions-in-response-to-myanmar-coup/articleshow/80640002.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Foreign e-commerce firms’ hopes for relief dashed||Government has clarified that it will implement the equalisation levy on ‘consideration for sale of goods’ for foreign e-commerce operators. This means the 2% levy would be applicable on the whole transaction when Indians transact with overseas portals of Amazon or Netflix. Global internet firms were hoping they would be allowed to pay the levy on their net revenue and not on the gross bill. E-commerce transactions through India-based entities of Amazon won’t be impacted as they pay local taxes, industry executives and tax experts said. This would be implemented irrespective of whether the product or service being offered is owned by the e-commerce operator. The clarification has also expanded the definition of ‘online supply of goods’ and ‘online supply of services’. The wider definition now includes acceptance of offer for sale, placing the purchase order; acceptance of the purchase order, and payment of consideration. “The levy is on the revenue/gross receipts of the e-commerce operator and completely overlooks the element of income or profits on which international taxation principles are based. This, when passed on to the consumer, is only likely to result in increased costs,” said Jiger Saiya, partner and tax leader in tax advisory firm BDO India. Amit Maheshwari, tax partner at consulting firm AKM Global, said the move could be very prejudicial as any of the activities performed online with regard to supply would trigger the levy. "The inclusion of the whole consideration, especially for third party products or services, into the ambit of levy is not justifiable as the e-commerce operator is merely a facilitator and it would have been prudent to only include the commission,” he said. The equalisation levy was brought in to ensure large foreign internet firms do not get away with paying less taxes on their India business as companies like Google and Facebook bill most of their India business to their overseas arms. The United States Trade Representative (USTR) recently described the levy as ‘discriminatory’. An email sent to Amazon India on the budget announcement did not immediately elicit a response. The government also clarified that transactions which are taxable as royalty or fees for technical services under the Income Tax Act would not come under the levy and will be continued to be taxed as before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/foreign-e-commerce-firms-hopes-for-relief-dashed/articleshow/80640093.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: 50,000cr to be spent on turning 15,000 schools into a class act||NEW DELHI: Focusing on the National Education Policy 2020, the government has decided to qualitatively strengthen 15,000 schools so that they emerge as a model for others. Research and innovation, another key focus of NEP, gets a boost with the announcement of Rs 50,000 crore for the new National Research Foundation by Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The minister also announced 100 new Sainik Schools to be set up in partnership with NGOs, private schools and states. The government increased allocations for Kendriya Vidyalayas (Rs 6,800 crore as compared to Rs 5,516 crore in 2020), Navodaya Vidyalayas (Rs 3,800 crore as against Rs 3,300 crore) and mid-day-meal (Rs 11,500 crore as against Rs 11,000 crore). Similarly, funds for world class institutions have been increased from Rs 500 crore to Rs 1,710 crore and scholarships for college and university students from Rs 141 crore to Rs 207 crore. While National Education Policies envisaged 6% of GDP for the sector, the Budget has witnessed a drop. The ministry of education has been allocated a total of Rs 93,224.31 crore for 2020-21, a decrease of Rs 6087.21 crore from last year’s budgetary allocation. Sitharaman also announced a central university for Ladakh and the setting up of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI), an umbrella structure having four separate bodies for standard-setting, accreditation, regulation, and funding and National Language Translation Mission to enable the wealth of knowledge on the Internet being made available in major Indian languages. The FM also announced a ‘Glue Grant’ in 9 cities hosting various centrally-funded research institutions, universities, and colleges to create a formal umbrella structure so that these institutions can have better synergy. Also the first budget amid Covid-19 saw announcement of setting up a National Digital Educational Architecture to support teaching-learning activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-50000cr-to-be-spent-on-turning-15000-schools-into-a-class-act/articleshow/80640332.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||India enters scrap-age, gets Rs 18,000 crore bus boost||NEW DELHI: The government on Monday announced the rollout of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy to phase out old and unfit vehicles. In her budget speech, FM Nirmala Sitharaman also said a Rs 18,000 crore scheme will be launched for a city bus system to increase the availability of public transport in urban areas. Sitharaman said the details of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy for commercial vehicles older than 15 years and over private vehicles older than 20 years would be announced by the road transport ministry. Welcoming the decision, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said around 17 lakh commercial vehicles are older than 15 years and do not have valid fitness certificates and similarly there are about 51 lakh private vehicles that are more than 20 years old. Read AlsoBudget 2021: A Covid ‘blessing’? Finally, biotech sector gets booster shotsAfter years of being ignored by successive FMs, the Covid-19 pandemic finally forced the government to take note of the country’s biotech sector that has been at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus.“All those who will retire their old vehicles are expected to buy new ones running on cleaner fuel. Older vehicles are 12 times more polluting than new vehicles. Moreover, the new vehicles will come with more safety features, which have been made mandatory. This policy will bring nearly Rs 10,000 crore investment and create nearly 50,000 new jobs,” he said. The policy linked to a stricter vehicle fitness regime is likely to be rolled out from April 2022. Officials said vehicles that fail to get the fitness test certificate in a fully automated testing facility will have to be scrapped. Such vehicles will also be automatically deregistered from the central database of all registered vehicles. Driving such unregistered vehicles will attract stiff penalties and the vehicles would be impounded. Read AlsoBudget 2021: 50,000cr to be spent on turning 15,000 schools into a class actFocusing on the National Education Policy 2020, the government has decided to qualitatively strengthen 15,000 schools so that they emerge as a model for others.Earlier, giving details of the plan to improve the city bus transport system, the FM said the new scheme will facilitate the deployment of innovative public private partnership models to enable private sector players to finance, acquire, operate and maintain over 20,000 buses. “The scheme will boost the automobile sector, provide a fillip to economic growth, create employment opportunities for our youth, and enhance ease of mobility for urban residents,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-enters-scrap-age-gets-18000-crore-bus-boost/articleshow/80640501.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||After stormy 2-year term, Nagaland Lokayukta quits||NEW DELHI: After a stormy two-year tenure as Lokayukta of Nagaland, Justice U N Singh tendered his resignation from the post on Monday and the Supreme Court directed the state government to accept it immediately. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, agreed to Justice Singh’s demand for security while packing his bags from Kohima and securing the files of the anti-corruption watchdog body, but rendered ineffective all “derogatory” remarks made by the Lokayukta in his official orders against state advocate general K N Balgopal. The CJI-led bench said, “Justice Singh has stated through his counsel Vikas Singh that his client is ready to tender resignation from the post of Lokayukta with immediate effect. We accept the statement and direct Nagaland government to accept the resignation immediately.” Vikas Singh said court should direct that there should be no misreporting of differences between the Lokayukta and Nagaland government and that reporting should be based only on court orders. The bench said, "How can we pass such an order that there should be no misreporting?" Justice Singh had specified that "Nagaland or any other authority or person shall not use or refer to any material or averment placed on record in the present writ petition or connected with the issue... for initiating any kind of action, complaint or proceedings or defaming him in media or any other manner whatsoever in nature which could cause any stigma in any manner to his privileges and status, professional, official or otherwise”. Trouble brewed almost immediately after Justice Singh was appointed Lokayukta in February 2019 as he sought permission to take up arbitration work despite a clear prohibition for the Lokayukta to take up any work other than those related to the statutory position. Justice Singh had later written to the government saying he would function 'online' from his Delhi residence.. Balgopal said after the Lokayukta's official residence was renovated at the state’s expense, Justice Singh demanded allocation of the chief minister's old bungalow for his residence. He also asked a senior police officer to purchase shoes for him and conducted himself in a manner to demean the socio-cultural ethos of Naga people, the AG had alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-stormy-2-year-term-nagaland-lokayukta-quits/articleshow/80640502.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal elections 2021: Exodus continues, two-term MLA resigns from Trinamool Congress||DIAMOND HARBOUR (SOUTH 24 PARGANAS): Trinamool Congress’s two-term Diamond Harbour MLA, Dipak Haldar, quit the party on Monday, marking the first major desertion in party leader Abhishek Banerjee’s Lok Sabha constituency. Ten TMC MLAs have so far defected to BJP since December in the run-up to polls. Haldar sent his resignation via SpeedPost to TMC state president Subrata Bakshi, with a copy to South 24 Parganas district president Subhasish Chakraborty. Haldar didn’t immediately announce his future plans, though he has been to BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee’s Golpark residence last month. “I am yet to make up my mind,” he said. But unlike Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, Haldar won’t resign as an MLA. “Why should I resign from the Assembly when people have elected me? I will talk to the voters of my constituency and take a decision,” he said. Haldar fell from grace way back in 2015 when police arrested him in connection with a clash at Fakir Chand College after he confronted the officer in charge. He has had to take a back seat in Trinamool politics since then. “How long can I continue with the insult? I was invited to Mamata Banerjee’s meetings in Diamond Harbour. But I didn’t get the invite when other leaders and ministers held meetings in my constituency. No senior party leader felt like talking to me when I was feeling let down,” Haldar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/exodus-continues-two-term-mla-resigns-from-tmc/articleshow/80640604.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
February 2, 2021||India||‘Bitter harvest’: Farmers’ unions up ante over MSP||BATHINDA: Farm groups have termed the Budget a “bitter harvest” sugar-coated with an implausible target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. Claiming that there was nothing worthwhile in it for them, they accused the FM of making misleading claims like MSP being 1.5 times of the input cost of crops. “FM claims the government is on course to doubling farm income by 2022, but where is the report card to show how much progress has been achieved so far on this count? Hollow claims won’t work — show us where the government and farmers stand as 2022 is only a year away. Tell us how income will be doubled in just a year,” farm leader Jagmohan Singh said. BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri questioned the formula for calculating MSP, calling it faulty. “Farmers have been demanding the fixation of MSP as per C2 plus 50% profit by calculating the cost of all the ingredients, including land and machinery rent and family labour. The government is not considering many elements while determining input costs,” he said. “What’s more, MSP is given on only two crops whereas farmers have been demanding it for all 23 crops. In all, only 6% farmers are getting the benefit, which is not acceptable,” BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said. Farm groups also criticised the Centre for not considering their demand to widen the ambit of PM-Kisan. BKU Krantikari president Surjit Singh Phool said the benefit of PM-Kisan had been extended to only nine crore instead of 14 crore farmers. “The other flagship scheme, Fasal Bima Yojna, has failed to provide benefit to farmers; so they are not coming forward to subscribe to it.” Jai Kisan Andolan’s Avik Saha pointed out that the finance minister made no mention of allocations and the status of the Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan, the price support and market intervention schemes and the PM Fasal Bima Yojna. On the Centre’s plan to bring 1,000 more markets under eNAM, farmer Gurdial Singh of Bathinda’s Sangat village said this model wasn’t working in Punjab and many other states either because the requisite infrastructure wasn’t in place or farmers hadn’t been made fully aware of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bitter-harvest-farmers-unions-up-ante-over-msp/articleshow/80640620.cms||Neel Kamal
February 2, 2021||Business||‘Bitter harvest’: Farmers’ unions up ante over MSP||BATHINDA: Farm groups have termed the Budget a “bitter harvest” sugar-coated with an implausible target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. Claiming that there was nothing worthwhile in it for them, they accused the FM of making misleading claims like MSP being 1.5 times of the input cost of crops. “FM claims the government is on course to doubling farm income by 2022, but where is the report card to show how much progress has been achieved so far on this count? Hollow claims won’t work — show us where the government and farmers stand as 2022 is only a year away. Tell us how income will be doubled in just a year,” farm leader Jagmohan Singh said. BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri questioned the formula for calculating MSP, calling it faulty. “Farmers have been demanding the fixation of MSP as per C2 plus 50% profit by calculating the cost of all the ingredients, including land and machinery rent and family labour. The government is not considering many elements while determining input costs,” he said. “What’s more, MSP is given on only two crops whereas farmers have been demanding it for all 23 crops. In all, only 6% farmers are getting the benefit, which is not acceptable,” BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said. Farm groups also criticised the Centre for not considering their demand to widen the ambit of PM-Kisan. BKU Krantikari president Surjit Singh Phool said the benefit of PM-Kisan had been extended to only nine crore instead of 14 crore farmers. “The other flagship scheme, Fasal Bima Yojna, has failed to provide benefit to farmers; so they are not coming forward to subscribe to it.” Jai Kisan Andolan’s Avik Saha pointed out that the finance minister made no mention of allocations and the status of the Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan, the price support and market intervention schemes and the PM Fasal Bima Yojna. On the Centre’s plan to bring 1,000 more markets under eNAM, farmer Gurdial Singh of Bathinda’s Sangat village said this model wasn’t working in Punjab and many other states either because the requisite infrastructure wasn’t in place or farmers hadn’t been made fully aware of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bitter-harvest-farmers-unions-up-ante-over-msp/articleshow/80640617.cms||Neel Kamal
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Census to go digital, FM sets aside 3,700cr||NEW DELHI: Allocation for the home ministry in the Budget was marginally lower at Rs 1,66,547 crore as compared to Rs 1,67,250 crore allocated in the last Budget. Though a sum of Rs 4,568 crore was earmarked in last budget for Census 2021 and National Population Register (NPR) exercise, their postponement due to Covid-19 left it largely unutilised, with the revised estimate for 2020-21 being just Rs 755 crore. Though no fresh start date has been announced yet for Census/NPR exercise, the finance minister said she was earmarking Rs 3,768 crore for the “first digital census in the history of India”. “For this monumental and milestone-marking task, I have allocated Rs 3,768 crore in the year 2021-2022,” she stated in her budget speech in the Lok Sabha. The home ministry has allocated Rs 1,03,803 crore for various central armed police forces like BSF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB and CISF, down from Rs 1,05,244 crore allocated in 2020-21 but higher than the Rs 98,202-crore revised estimate for 2020-21. Almost Rs 6,567 crore has been allocated to ITBP, which is now on winter deployment along the LAC areas in Ladakh at the centre of a standoff with the Chinese forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-census-to-go-digital-fm-sets-aside-3700cr/articleshow/80640597.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||EC shifts 3 West Bengal electoral officials||The Election Commission has transferred Bengal’s additional chief electoral officer (CEO) Saibal Barman, joint CEO Anamika Majumdar, and deputy CEO Amitjyoti Bhattacharji. There are indications that more transfers may be on the cards, reports Saibal Gupta. Sources said the three were “very experienced” in handling elections. Barman was in charge of model code of conduct and law and order. He had held office for nearly 11 years. Majumdar looked after EVMs and poll worker training while Bhattacharji handled the media cell.“All the three officers were very experienced and transferring them just before the election will have an impact on its effective handling,” a senior official at the CEO’s office said. Sources also said all three officers would be “rehabilitated” after the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-shifts-3-west-bengal-electoral-officials/articleshow/80640639.cms||Saibal Gupta
February 2, 2021||India||42 trainee Gujarat cops report side-effects after vaccine jab||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT/ VADODARA: A total of 42 women trainee Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) personnel in three Gujarat cities reported minor side-effects after they got vaccinated against Covid-19 on Sunday night and Monday morning. They were taken to government hospitals and provided primary treatment. Senior state health department officials said they had sought reports from the districts where those affected were being treated and claimed that none had any major symptoms. In Surat, 12 constables living at police headquarters complained of fever and other health issues on Sunday. In Vadodara, 16 trainee cops and two sanitation workers were taken to hospital after complaints of headache, giddiness, dizziness and mild fever. On Monday, 14 trainee LRD personnel in Ahmedabad were also taken to hospital. National Health Mission director MA Pandya said: “All these symptoms constitute minor side-effects of vaccination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/42-trainee-gujarat-cops-report-side-effects-after-vaccine-jab/articleshow/80640640.cms||---
February 2, 2021||World||Oxford kept Covid-19 vaccine trial volunteers in dark about dosing error, letter shows||LONDON: About 1,500 of the initial volunteers in a late-stage clinical trial of the Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine were given the wrong dose, but weren't informed that a mistake had been made after the blunder was discovered, documents obtained by Reuters show. Instead, the dosing mishap was presented to the trial participants in a letter dated June 8 as an opportunity for University of Oxford researchers to learn how well the vaccine works at different doses. The letter was signed by the trial's chief investigator, Oxford professor Andrew J. Pollard, and sent to the trial subjects. As Reuters reported on Dec. 24, participants were given about a half dose due to a measuring mistake by Oxford researchers. The Pollard letter didn't acknowledge any error. Nor did it disclose that researchers had reported the issue to British medical regulators, who then told Oxford to add another test group to receive the full dose, in line with the trial's original plan. There is no suggestion there was any risk to the health of trial participants. Much is riding on the British-developed vaccine, which is being rolled out across the UK and has been touted as a low-cost weapon against the pandemic. The jab has come under scrutiny because of the dosing error in the Oxford trial and a paucity of data about its efficacy in older people who are most vulnerable to the virus. Reuters shared the letter – which it obtained from the university through a Freedom of Information request – with three different experts in medical ethics. The ethicists all said it indicates the researchers may not have been transparent with trial participants. Volunteers in clinical trials are supposed to be kept fully informed about any changes. "They are not clear at all about what they need to be clear about – what's going on, what they knew, the rationale for undertaking further research," said Arthur L. Caplan, founding head of the Division of Medical Ethics at New York University Grossman School of Medicine. "It is lost in a snowstorm of verbiage." Steve Pritchard, a spokesman for Oxford, told Reuters: "The half-dose group was unplanned, but we did know in advance that there was a discrepancy in the dose measurements and discussed this with the regulators before dosing and when the dosing was revised." Pritchard also said, "We have not stated that a dosing error occurred." Pollard didn't respond to a request for comment. The spokesman's suggestion that no error was made is contradicted by documents produced last year by Oxford and its vaccine partner, drugs giant AstraZeneca PLC. In December, Reuters reported that a "Global Statistical Analysis Plan" by Oxford/AstraZeneca, dated Nov. 17 and later published in the scientific journal The Lancet, called the dosing discrepancy "a potency miscalculation." A spokesman for AstraZeneca declined to comment. The Health Research Authority, a British government agency responsible for approving medical research and ensuring it is ethical, said in a statement that changes to the study design and the letter sent to participants were approved by one of its ethics committees. The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine recently has received authorization for use in a growing number of countries, including the United Kingdom, the European Union and India. The UK became the first country to approve it, and began rolling out the vaccine on January 4. But questions surrounding the clinical trials continue to plague the vaccine. Last week, Germany's vaccine committee recommended it should only be given to people aged under 65, while the EU, which authorized it on Friday for people aged 18 and over, lowered its reported efficacy rate from 70.4% to 60%. In both cases, authorities cited a lack of sufficient data from the clinical trials. The EU also has sharply criticized AstraZeneca for cutting back its planned vaccine deliveries to the continent over the next few months. The company has said it is doing its best to boost supplies. The mistaken half-dose – which prompted the letter in June to trial participants – continues to be a factor in the reported efficacy of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine. Oxford had reported interim results in November that showed the efficacy rate for trial subjects who mistakenly received a half-dose and a subsequent full-dose booster shot was 90%, and that the rate for those who received two full doses was 62%. Combining data from the two dosing regimens resulted in an efficacy of 70.4%. In authorizing the vaccine, UK regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), accepted the pooled results, but didn't approve administering the half-dose/full-dose regimen. "There is not persuasive evidence of a real difference in" vaccine efficacy between the two different dosing regimens, it said. "Recent changes" The vaccine's late-stage clinical trial began on May 28. Within days, Oxford researchers realized trial participants had been given lower doses than planned after they displayed milder than expected side effects, such as fever and fatigue. They alerted British medical regulators. On June 5, the researchers amended the trial protocol at the request of regulators to add a new group that would receive the correct full dose of the vaccine. Three days later, they alerted trial subjects to what they called "recent changes in the study" in a two-page letter attached to an updated 13-page "Participant Information Sheet." The letter, signed by chief investigator Pollard, stated that researchers "are not sure what dose of vaccine is most likely to be protective against COVID disease" and explained that doses "are measured using standard scientific test methods." It said the late-stage trial participants received a dose measured using one method and that another group will receive a dose measured using a different test to match the dose given in another clinical trial of the vaccine. It said the lower dose is "still in the normal range of doses that are used in clinical trials" and "if it can provide protection, it might be better for use in vaccine programmes." Caplan said the explanation would be of "no interest whatsoever to the subject because it's too technical. To me, that qualifies as gobbledygook. What you want to know is, why are they doing this, we made an error, it involved dosing, we're not worried about it." He and other ethicists interviewed by Reuters said researchers are obligated to be forthcoming with test subjects when things go wrong. "As a letter purporting to explain a) an error and b) a change of protocol I find this entirely inadequate," said Simon Woods, a professor of bioethics at Newcastle University, in an email. "It reads like a routine update (and a complex one at that)." Emma Cave, a professor of healthcare law at Durham University's law school, said: "Presenting the dosing variation as a planned change in the study is potentially a breach of trust if in fact the dosing resulted from an error. The letter makes clear the dosing change but not the reason for the change."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/oxford-kept-covid-19-vaccine-trial-volunteers-in-dark-about-dosing-error-letter-shows/articleshow/80640660.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||We believe rule of law and democratic process must be upheld, says India on Myanmar coup||NEW DELHI: Myanmar slipped back into military rule on Monday, when the Tatmadaw or the military wrested control of government, detained political leaders including state councillor, Aung San Suu Kyi and President U Win Myint. Reacting to the early morning events, India expressed “deep concern”. “India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. We are monitoring the situation closely,” said an MEA statement. India, like China, refrained from outright condemnation of the developments. China said it had “noted” the developments and hoped for “stability” under the Constitution. India has deep security and developmental stakes in Myanmar. So it has believed for some time that New Delhi would have to work with all shades of the political spectrum there. Western governments have roundly condemned the military action, demanding the immediate release of the political leaders. Myanmar has already been under western sanctions on the Rohingya question. India did not subscribe to sanctions earlier and is unlikely to do so now since New Delhi does not believe they actually solve any problems. In fact, India and China will be on the same side if the Myanmar issue comes up for discussion in the UN Security Council. India joined the UNSC as a non-permanent member in January. The coup was not entirely unexpected. Diplomatic sources have been apprehensive of this after the military and their party, USDP, challenged the results of the November 2020 elections where the NLD under Aung San Suu Kyi secured a sweeping victory. Remarks by the military commander-in-chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing further intensified these fears, leading many western governments to issue cautionary statements. He was quoted as saying, “The Constitution is the mother law. We have to follow the Constitution. If the law is not obeyed, we must abolish it. Even if it is the Constitution, we must abolish it,” the military chief told trainee officers. However, the most recent statement by the military junta says they would impose emergency in Myanmar for a year and hold elections afterwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-believe-rule-of-law-and-democratic-process-must-be-upheld-says-india-on-myanmar-coup/articleshow/80640644.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||Internet resumes in 7 districts of Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Monday evening resumed mobile internet services, which had remained suspended due to the ongoing farmers’ protests, in seven more districts. These districts are: Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Fatehabad. The services will, however, continue to be banned in seven other districts — Jhajjar, Sonipat, Kaithal, Rohtak, Panipat, Jind and Charkhi Dadri. In an order released in the evening, the state home department said the ban is continuing in the seven districts in view of law and order issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/internet-resumes-in-7-districts-of-haryana/articleshow/80640675.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||‘Union Budget risks deficit to boost growth’||PATNA: The Union Budget has been presented at a challenging time when the economies across the world are struggling to get back to at least pre-Corona level. As per the estimates of the Economic Survey 2020-21, Indian economy will take at least two years to reach the pre-crisis level. The Budget has tried to meet some of the key demands to boost economic growth by risking a higher deficit. However, the Centre has mobilized its resources towards those states where elections are round the corner whereas the less developed states like Bihar could not find any special mention in the Budget. Since a major share of the receipt of Bihar comes from the central transfer given its limited sources to generate revenue, the only option left is to benefit as much as possible from that. The finance minister announced that the central government will nudge the states to increase capital expenditure, which will be a challenging task. In recent time, most of the states have observed huge reduction in capital expenditure due to falling revenue and widening deficit. Therefore, any such expectations from the states like Bihar, which depends heavily on central transfers, can be achieved only if there is an arrangement of additional revenue either through central transfers or increased borrowing. The Fifteenth Finance Commission recommendations have also been tabled along with the budget. Nevertheless, many announcements are in continuation with the initiatives taken under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to support long-term growth of the Indian economy. The 137% increase in spending on health and wellness is timely and will provide big support in developing public health infrastructure. To support the budgetary requirement of the increased expenditure on agriculture, cess on diesel and petrol has been proposed and a proportionate decrease in central excise duties is expected to keep the burden on customers unchanged. As a big relief to the income taxpayers, the assessment cases beyond three years will not be taken up for scrutiny by the department. Many of the challenges that have emerged out of the Covid-19 led health and economic crisis need a comprehensive and inclusive approach where the states can play an important role along with the Centre. The limited fiscal space of the state governments does not provide room to use its financial resources on many of the new development initiatives. The states have limited ways to generate additional revenue compared to the central government, which can borrow more and use disinvestment to augment its fiscal requirements. (The author is economist at Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance — ADRI, Patna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-budget-risks-deficit-to-boost-growth/articleshow/80637194.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||CCTV cams compulsory for all apartments by March 31||PATNA: All residential apartments, business complexes, hospitals and banks situated in Patna, Nalanda, Bhojpur, Buxar, Kaimur and Rohtas districts under Patna division will now have to ensure installation of CCTV cameras latest by March 31. The decision has been taken as a necessary measure to check crime. Those CCTV cameras already installed but not working have to be made functional by that time, divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said after the divisional security review committee meeting attended by IG (Patna) Sanjay Singh, the DMs, SPs, traffic SPs, municipal commissioners and other officials here on Monday. Agarwal asked the police stations of Patna to provide the list of the highrise apartments having residential flats in their areas to the Patna Municipal Corporation. “CCTV cameras act as watching eyes and a deterrent to crime,” said Agarwal. He said life in urban areas was changing fast and about 2,000 apartments having around 50,000 flats with 3 lakh residents have come up in Patna and Danapur areas in the recent years. Similar was the situation with the five other districts where urban areas were expanding fast and highrise apartments had been coming up. While some have functional CCTV cameras, others either lacked one or had them lying defunct. Now, the societies concerned would be made accountable for the proper working of these camera eyes. However, there was no list of these apartments. Agarwal said direction was also issued to ensure mention of CCTV camera points while passing the construction map for apartments and commercial complexes in future. The maps should show the camera points at the main entry, stairs, lift, parking, every floor and the outer location from the gate. He said the CCTV cameras helped much in the identification of suspected persons entering those premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cctv-cams-compulsory-for-all-apartments-by-march-31/articleshow/80637330.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Jewellery sector looks at revival, buyers happy too||Kolkata: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget 2021 proposal to bring the Customs Duty on gold and silver down by 5% has brought a sense of relief to buyers and jewellers. While the reduction was offset by the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC), city jewellers feel it will translate into making gold cheaper by at least Rs 120 per gram at Monday’s price. The impact was perceptible as the gold futures slumped by 3% — nearly Rs 1,500 per 10g — after the announcement. “We have been asking for a reduction of Customs Duty at 12.5% on gold for a long time. This is a welcome gesture by the government which is trying to salvage the industry which has seen its worst days during the pandemic,” said Bablu Dey, president of Swarna Shilpa Bachao Forum. While the budget proposal is to reduce the duty to 7.5%, Sitharaman introduced 2.5% AIDC on gold and silver. Over the past year, artisans and small jewellery shop owners in Bowbazar have suffered as business tumbled and many had to down shutters. “In my Panchanantala neighbourhood in Belgharia, a jewellery shop owner had to start selling groceries and another shop on the Belgharia Feeder Road is now selling flowers. The industry needs measures to survive the onslaught of economic slowdown,” said Tagar Poddar, general secretary of the Bangiya Swarna Shilpi Samiti. After the budget announcement on Monday, Chittaranjan Bag from New Alipore visited a jewellery shop in his area. “My son is getting married on February 4 and we were waiting for any reduction in price before buying jewellery,” Bag said. “The effective reduction is around Rs 120-Rs 125 per gram of gold. This will be a breather for the industry as market sentiments are going to reverse in the next month. Illegal procurement will reduce and the exchequer will gain from legal purchases,” said Rupak Saha, zonal member of Gem and Jewellery Trade Council of India. “This is a positive sign for the industry,” said Anargha Uttiyo Chowdhury, director of Anjali Jewellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jewellery-sector-looks-at-revival-buyers-happy-too/articleshow/80638592.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Cochin harbour to be made a commercial hub||KOCHI: The Cochin Fisheries Harbour (CFH), established and managed by the Cochin Port Trust (CPT), is one of the five fishing centres that will be developed as economic activity centres. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also proposed in the budget 2021-22 to develop fishing hubs in the water sector and fish landing centres on the river banks and water areas. The other fishing centres include Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Paradip, and Petuaghat. The CPT has recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) to modernize the harbour at a cost of Rs 140 crore. As per the agreement, a host of infrastructure facilities, including air-conditioned auction halls, besides a packing hall and bays for loading and unloading, will come up at the harbour The MoU, signed a few months ago, will mobilize resources from various central government schemes. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) is being launched to implement the development plans. The harbour at Thoppumpady, founded in 1928, is built on 27 acres, facilitating berthing and landing of more than 500 vessels. It has a daily average landing of 250 tonnes of fish and the fish processing industry procures a major share for exports. Other facilities to come up at the harbour include an ice plant, a reverse osmosis plant and a rainwater harvesting system besides automation equipment such as tripods, conveyor belts and pallet jacks for easier and better movement of fish within the harbour. “There has been no allocation for Kerala though the fisheries sector faces issues due to rise in fuel prices and fall in fish catch. The budget has allocated Rs 800 crore for Tamil Nadu,” said state president of Kerala Matsyathozhilali Aikyavedi Charles George.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cochin-harbour-to-be-made-a-commercial-hub/articleshow/80637952.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||BSEB inter exams: 162 expelled on Day 1||PATNA: Amid tight security arrangements, the Intermediate examinations, which are conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB), got off to a peaceful start on Monday. While 5,44,568 science students wrote the physics paper in the first sitting, 3,67,925 arts candidates appeared for the political science exam in the second sitting. Altogether 515 students of different vocational courses also took the exam in the second sitting. According to BSEB sources, the examination was held peacefully in both the sittings at 84 centres in Patna district on Day 1. Board chairman Anand Kishore made a surprise visit to some centres, including J D Women’s College and K B Sahay School in Patna and reviewed the arrangements. J D Women’s College is one of the four model centres created in the district where examinees, invigilators and security personnel are all women. All the model centres were decorated with flowers and balloons and the examinees given a grand welcome. A special help desk was also created for the students. The officials going to different exam centres, including Kishore, signed the visitors’ book on Monday. The chairman also asked the students about the standard of questions. They were given data-based books and OMR sheets for writing and marking their answers. Meanwhile, altogether 162 students were expelled for using unfair means in the state on Monday. The maximum number of such examinees was from Bhojpur (33), followed by Jamui (29) and Nalanda (27). One student each was expelled from Patna, Buxar, Supaul, Khagaria and Begusarai districts. Science students will take the mathematics exam in the first sitting on Tuesday and their arts counterparts will appear for the English examination in the second sitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/inter-exams-162-expelled-on-day-1/articleshow/80642890.cms||B K Mishra
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Agriculture-infrastructure cess takes shine off duty cut on gold||JAIPUR: For the gem and jewellery industry of Rajasthan, the import duty reduction of 5%, from 12.5% to 7.5% on gold and silver, could have been worth the wait and fight, but the agriculture infrastructure cess of 2.5% has tempered the jubilation. Jewellers in Jaipur said the savings would be meagre to have a material impact on consumer prices. Nonetheless, they said the move is a good beginning and will provide some boost to the sector. In the Budget 2021-22, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday proposed slashing of customs duties on gold and silver from 12.5% to 7.5%. However, gold and silver will now attract ‘Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess’ at 2.5%. “It will lead to a positive impact on the gems and jewellery business, albeit in a limited way. But we welcome the proposals,” said Rajiv Jain, former chairman of Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council. The reduction comes at a time when the international gold prices are trading at higher levels. Because of high prices, duty revenues of the government has gone up. In fact, Jain said by reducing the rates, the government has not lost any revenues. Ajay Kala, a city-based jeweller and honorary secretary of Jaipur Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “This is a good step, though we were expecting more. From 12.5% of import duty, it has come down to nearly 10.75%, which includes 7.5% customs duty, 2.5% agriculture cess and 0.75% social welfare surcharge.” Kala said that because of high taxes, some jewellers had relocated their business to other countries. “Hope, the reduction acts a trigger for them to come back to the country,” Kala added. However, some of the jewellers opined that the reduction will not have any impact on curbing smuggling. “In order to curb smuggling and eliminate grey market, the duty should be below 6%. So, the incentive for smuggling is still there and the menace will continue,” said Kailash Mittal of Jaipur Sarafa Traders Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agri-cess-takes-shine-off-duty-cut-on-gold-imports/articleshow/80637947.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Thane||Bhiwandi godown collapse: Lucky escape for vehicle cleaner||MUMBAI: Container cleaner Kayyun Khan (20) said if he had gone inside the godown three seconds earlier, he might not have survived the crash. He said that he had kept his mobile phone for charging in the godown. Khan said, “When we reached at 8am, the driver and I kept our phones for charging, as we had three more states to deliver products too.” He said the collapse was like an earthquake, and “remembering the incident I feel scared”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/lucky-escape-for-vehicle-cleaner/articleshow/80638970.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 2, 2021||Allahabad||Young katha vachaks, yoga gurus stealing the show at Magh Mela||PRAYAGRAJ: Young katha-vachaks (religious text narrators) and yoga gurus are stealing the show at the ongoing Magh Mela. Be it yogacharya Radhika Vaishnav camping at Balanandacharya Kapildev Naga camp at sector no. 3 in Ramanand marg or Acharya Satyam Tiwari camping at Haryana Charkhi Dadri ashram, the young yogacharya and katha vachak have turned to be the centre of attraction at the mela. Interestingly, a section of devotees who could not visit the Sangam city due to the Covid-19 pandemic, get to interact with the young gurus online and listen to the religious discourses on various social media platforms. Social media has also contributed to increasing the popularity of these young gurus. Yogacharya Radhika Vaishnav, who narrates the Shrimad Bhagwat Katha and Shri Ram Katha at her camp, says, “Devotees arrive at the camp to listen to religious discourses to earn Punya (good deed)”. She added, “The kalpwasis who arrive at the mela are keen on listening kathas during their month-long stay on the banks of Ganga and interact with seers, saints and gurus to know more about salvation, religious texts and spirituality.” She also said that Covid-19 protocols were being strictly followed at the camps and that devotees are being asked to wear a mask while attending the katha and yoga sessions. Another seer, Acharya Satyam says, “Devotees arrive at the camps of seers, saints and sadhus for discussion on topics related to religion, spirituality, moksha (salvation)." Daksha Mukund Satyam, Kriyayog trainer and meditation expert camping at Triveni road say, “Devotees of all age interact and want to know more about yoga and meditation”. She added, “We have been giving tips to yoga seekers and devotees about benefits and types of meditation." Interestingly, the number of devotees listening to kathas and attending yoga sessions has been increasing at camps of katha vachak and yogacharya after the Paush Purnima snan. Devotees, and pilgrims arriving from far-flung states or districts are attending the sessions enthusiastically. Anamika, a kalpwasi camping at sector no. 3, says, “Interacting with young katha vachak and yogacharya during kalpwas period gives a new experience and we can know more about spiritualism." Hailing from Chitrakoot, she adds, “ I have been camping at every Magh mela for last seven years and have noticed that the number of young katha vachaks and yoga trainers has been increasing with every passing year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/young-katha-vachaks-yoga-gurus-stealing-the-show-at-magh-mela/articleshow/80637385.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Varanasi||Varanasi: Missing boy’s body found dumped behind school building||VARANASI: Sensation prevailed in Paigambarpur village under the limits of Sarnath police station on Monday afternoon after body of a 9-year-old boy Vishal, who was missing since January 29, was found dumped behind a school building. On Sunday, a letter containing threat for killing Vishal in case of not paying Rs 50,000 ransom within an hour, had been received by the boy’s family. DIG Amit Pathak said that after getting the letter, Vishal’s father Manjay Kumar had gone to Chaubeypur area as directed by the kidnappers, while a sub-inspector also followed him. However, on finding no one there for over two hours, they had returned, said Pathak mentioning that police have started further investigation after sending the body for postmortem. On January 29 evening, Manjay had reached Sarnath police station to give a complaint that his son was missing since afternoon. A case was lodged by the Sarnath police under section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC, said Pathak adding that footages of CCTV installed in the buildings of the area from where the boy had gone missing, were also checked but the boy could not be found. On Monday afternoon, some passersby noticed the body and raised an alarm after which hundreds of locals gathered there. CO Cantt Abhimanyu Manglik also reached the spot and later the body was indentified as of Vishal. On the basis of the content of letter and initial investigation, police suspected that the kidnapper is local and close to Manjay’s family. They claimed that the case would be worked out very soon..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/missing-boys-body-found-dumped-behind-school-bldg/articleshow/80637693.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Bengal elections 2021: RJD leaders meet Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek||PATNA: Ahead of the assembly polls in West Bengal, two senior RJD leaders from Bihar Abdul Bari Siddiqui and Shyam Rajak on Monday met Trinamool Congress leader and CM Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee at the latter’s residence. Their meeting came a day after RJD leaders met TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishore in Kolkata on Sunday. Sources said the meeting went on for an hour at Abhishek’s residence, who is actively handling the party affairs now. Rajak confirmed that the meeting took place but did not disclose anything about their poll plans with TMC. “We had a very positive meeting today. Both RJD and TMC have the same agenda of protecting the country from BJP’s bluff and we had a discussion on these issues,” Rajak said. When asked how many seats RJD was planning to contest in West Bengal and whether they will forge an alliance or fight independently, Rajak refused to comment saying they will first submit the report of their Bengal visit to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and in another seven or so, Tejashwi will have a meeting with senior TMC leaders. Both RJD leaders also met the party workers in West Bengal on Sunday and assigned them poll tasks. The duo is expected to leave for Assam on Tuesday and explore the possibilities of contesting the assembly election there. Sources said RJD was planning to pull in the votes of Hindi speaking people settled in West Bengal who hail from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and was also eyeing the areas falling on the Bengal-Bihar border. The party may even fight as an independent with TMC’s approval, rather than forging an alliance with TMC which they feel might benefit BJP. In 2006 Bengal polls, RJD candidate Mohammad Sohrab had won as an independent from Bara Bazaar constituency in Kolkata defeating Congress’s Amitabha Chakraborti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-leaders-meet-mamatas-nephew/articleshow/80637465.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 2, 2021||Patna||People disappointed over no relief in taxes||PATNA: The Union Budget on Monday evoked mixed reactions from people in Bihar. While some appreciated it for all-round development approach, others were disappointed over the lack of concern for the middle class. “The expectations were high due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The service class people were expecting some tax relief, change in tax slab or tax deduction. However, no change in income tax structure was a disappointment for many,” said Prem Shankar, deputy manager in a bank. Ram Shankar, secretary of Patna chapter of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), also claimed that the Budget disappointed common people. “It has provided no direct solutions to people’s grievances and serves the purpose of elites only,” he said. Srishti Singh, a software engineer, said apart from no relaxation in tax slabs, lack of any support to the migrant workers was also disappointing. The budgetary provisions did not entail measures to reduce the huge economic disparity in our country, which was the need of the hour. Abhishek of Vijay Nagar defended the government for not giving any tax relief this year as the last year’s Budget had brought in new format for tax calculation and gave people a choice to remove tax exemptions. Ritesh Kumar of Jagdeopath said the focus of the Budget was to rebuild India’s economy after a difficult year. “Settings aside our own benefits, we should be considerate and understand the government’s agenda to develop healthcare and infrastructure. “Market has responded positively to the Budget. For me, it’s a Budget of hope which will help our country reach the threshold of success,” he said. Somya Amar, sourcing manager in a marketing company, said this Budget was an extension of the narrative of making India self-reliant. “Emphasis has been given on infrastructure to make India an export hub by cutting down duties on raw materials such as steel, cement and other things,” Somya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-disappointed-over-no-relief-in-taxes/articleshow/80637133.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Relief to senior citizens evokes mixed response||PATNA: The Union Budget announcement that pensioners above the age of 75 need not file income tax (I-T) returns received a mixed response. Chandi Prasad, a 76-year-old retired government officer said, “I am happy to hear that I-T returns are no longer a problem for me. It’s very rare that the government thinks of us while making policies.” “I am thankful to the Narendra Modi government for the exemption as all those who pay income tax return can use the money to fulfil their other necessities and basic requirements,” said Dr Nirbhay Kumar, a retired government doctor. However, Ram Shankar, secretary, Patna chapter of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) said the cancellation of ITR for senior citizens is ‘just a ploy’ to deviate attention from pressing issues that the budget failed to address. “The government should have slashed all penalties imposed during Covid. Instead, they introduced no ITR policy for those above 75, which affects a marginal number of people,” he said. Mala Yadav, a retired economics teacher, echoed similar views. “I don’t think it’s very helpful as only those who get pension above Rs1-2 lakh paid ITR,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/relief-to-senior-citizens-evokes-mixed-response/articleshow/80637155.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bhopal||Reforms-oriented: BJP; Forward looking: Jyotiraditya Scindia||BHOPAL: The BJP in Madhya Pradesh hailed the Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday for its focus on health care and infrastructure. BJP state president V D Sharma said that the budget is the sequel to the series of reforms initiated by the NDA government 2014 which will make the country healthy, educated and self-reliant. Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia termed the Budget as ‘forward looking’. “In 2014, the emphasis of the Modi government was on the development of infrastructure, creation of employment opportunities, betterment of agriculture and farmers and the development of remote rural areas and forest areas. The Budget 21-22 is the sequel to the series of reforms, which will make the country healthy, educated and Atmanirbhar (self-reliant),” said Sharma. BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia said that the Budget is a well laid-out plan to get the economy back on the track. “This is a forward-looking Budget. It will make good on the government's 5- trillion-dollar economy promise,” tweeted Scindia. He further said, “The government has also increased spending in major sectors like infrastructure, agriculture and healthcare. Besides, the safety net has been expanded for the vulnerable and opportunities have been opened for greater private investments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/reforms-oriented-bjp-forward-looking-scindia/articleshow/80640181.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Only 75 fresh Covid-19 cases registered in Bihar||PATNA: The number of new Covid-19 cases remained under 100 again on Monday as the state registered 75 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Officially, two deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1503. However, with 2,58,136 recoveries, there were 1,153 active cases in Bihar, which has 98.98% recovery rate. As per the health department figures, one death each was reported from Patna and Muzaffarpur. A 65-year-old male of Badhullia in Darbhanga died at AIIMS-Patna, its nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. He said four new Covid patients were admitted on Monday. Only one Covid patient was admitted to NMCH. Covid-19 cases were reported from 19 districts. Out of the 75 new cases, 29 were from Patna. However, with 51,210 recoveries and 417 deaths, there were 674 active cases in the district. Other districts reported less than ten new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-75-fresh-covid-19-cases-registered-in-bihar/articleshow/80637390.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Vadodara||Notorious criminal held in Chhota Udepur||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) have arrested notorious criminal Aslam Sheikh alias Bodiyo, who was recently booked under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GCTOC). Police said that it had received a tip-off that Bodiyo had been hiding in Chhota Udepur since the last few days. “We had received information that Bodiyo was hiding at a dargah in Bodeli taluka, following which we raided the spot early on Monday morning. He was nabbed with another gang member Shoaib Ali Saiyad and both were brought to the city,” said a crime branch official. The cops now have the custody of 17 members of the Bicchu gang that had been terrorizing the citizens, especially the trader community. The police had on January 20 booked 26 members of the Bicchu gang under the GCTOC and begun cracking down on their network. Fifteen members of the gang were arrested within 24 hours, while the cops began hunt for Bodiyo, who is the leader of the gang. Bodiyo is accused in 62 criminal cases including murder, assault, extortion, rioting and property grabbing. He, along with the other gang members, was extorting money from traders. The cops decided to go after the gang after two of its members recently committed two robberies. With Bodiyo in their custody, the police are now expected to gather detailed information about the gang’s activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/notorious-criminal-held-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/80636454.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||45 BJP activists detained for attack on TRS MLA’s house||Warangal/Hyderabad: Political heat between TRS and BJP continued on Monday as 45 saffron party activists, including six women, were detained and sent in 14-day judicial remand by a local court in Hanamkonda for allegedly attacking TRS MLA C Dharma Reddy’s residence in Warangal. BJP alleged the MLA had made objectionable remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Ram temple trust members over donations they collected for the temple. While TRS activists observed a bandh in Hanamkonda, BJP leaders, including Goshamahal MLA T Raja Singh, were detained by police when they were heading to Hanamkonda from Hyderabad. The local police first produced 39 activists before the court and later obtained special permission to produce six women, including Warangal (Urban) president Ravu Padma. Warangal (Rural) president K Sridhar was among those who were sent in judicial remand. Further, the war of words between the two parties intensified with women welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod saying that she supports Dharma Reddy. “BJP leaders are indulging in irregularities in the name of Lord Ram and collecting donations everywhere,” she said. Pointing out that there was no scope for physical attacks in a democracy, she alleged that the BJP leaders were trying to gain sympathy by going to jail. The minister also met Dharma Reddy at his residence. Meanwhile, state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar demanded that Dharma Reddy take back his words. However, the MLA stood by his comments saying, “I have not said anything wrong.” Sanjay also sought a reply from CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on the comments made by the TRS MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/45-bjp-activists-detained-for-attack-on-trs-mlas-house/articleshow/80640180.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Tax sops to boost city affordable hsg||Kolkata: After a lull in housing launches following the unprecedented disruption in business due to the pandemic, a slew of project announcements are in the offing in the affordable category following the Budget proposals announced on Monday. Usually 15,500-16,000 units get launched each year in Kolkata, of which around 70% — or 11,000 units — fall in the affordable category. With high demand for apartments priced at Rs 45 lakh or less, this stock gets sold. Last year though, less than 7,500 units were launched and though the affordable units saw good sales in the second half of the year, the stock wasn’t enough to meet the pent-up demand. Now, with eligibility of additional Rs 1.5 lakh loan interest deduction for affordable-home buyers and one-year tax holiday for developers of such projects, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) expects 12,000-15,000 affordable units to be launched this year. The tax relief to developers in Kolkata is pegged around Rs 250 crore. “Many projects were on hold. Now all those will be sent for clearance,” said Nandu Belani, chairman of Credai Bengal, the umbrella body of major developers in Kolkata. The only worry is possible delay in clearing projects as the state braces for the Assembly elections. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Credai state chapter, believes the removal of tax deduction at source on dividend will lead to inflow of foreign direct investment , particularly from low-cost countries like Mauritius and Bahamas. “The government will also unlock surplus land which may be available for real estate projects in urban areas,” said Mohta. Pioneer Property managing director Jitendra Khaitan is confident the additional deduction of Rs 1.5 lakh on interest payment against affordable housing loan up to March 31, 2022 will boost consumption. This takes the rebate and tax benefit on home loan (interest and principal component) for affordable housing from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Eden Reality MD Arya Sumant expects the reduction in import duty for steel to also help the sector. “The stamp duty cuts announced by Maharashtra government has prompted sales to go up six-fold. It is time the Bengal announced similar measures,” said Jain Group MD Rishi Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tax-sops-to-boost-city-affordable-hsg/articleshow/80638589.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Property tax waiver date extended||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Monday extended the deadline to apply for the 100% interest waiver scheme on property tax till February 28. The civic brass announced the extension on Monday as the previous deadline was January 31. According to KMC board of administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim the extension of deadline was aimed at bringing more property tax payers under the tax net as the middle class was hit hard by the pandemic. A property tax defaulter will now have to pay the amount by the same date. The KMC assessment department had introduced the scheme in October, last year. Speaking to mediapersons, Hakim conceded that the civic body couldn’t mop up desired revenue from the 100% interest waiver scheme because of the pandemic. “Now we hope to rake in some revenue as the situation is slowly returning to normal,” Hakim said. However, the KMC has approved the compilation of a list of the city’s habitual and major property tax defaulters to keep a watch on them. “If they fail to apply within the deadline, we shall be compelled to take stringent action. This may include attachment of property,” said a KMC revenue department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/property-tax-waiver-date-extended/articleshow/80637950.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Traffic home guard hurt in hit & run||Hyderabad: A traffic home guard suffered a leg fracture in a hit and run case involving a helmet less bike rider at Shamshabad. The incident happened when the traffic police were performing a check against helmet-less riding. According to Shamshabad rural inspector Y Prakash Reddy, traffic home guard Venkatram Reddy suffered a leg fracture when a speeding biker rammed into him at Thondupally toll plaza. “He is recuperating at the hospital and is out of danger. We have launched a man hunt to nab the accused biker,” the inspector said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-home-guard-hurt-in-hit-run/articleshow/80638968.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP denies merger rumours with JD(U)||PATNA: Former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) on Monday denied media reports about its merger with the ruling JD(U). “The reports running in news channels and newspapers about the RLSP merger are wrong and baseless. The RLSP will continue its struggle keeping in mind the aspirations of the party’s comrades and people of Bihar and the country,” RLSP said on Monday in a tweet posted in Hindi by its official Twitter handle. Kushwaha retweeted the post from his verified Twitter handle. “The RLSP has planned to organize around 10,000 ‘Kisan Chaupals’ across Bihar from February 2 to 28 to lodge its protest against the Centre’s three anti-farmer farm legislations. Had there been any merger plan with the JD(U) which is an ally of the NDA, the RLSP would not have decided to organize ‘Kisan Chaupals’ against the NDA government’s farm legislation. We are going to protest the anti-farmer legislation across the state,” the RLSP national general secretary-cum-spokesperson Fazal Imam Mallick told TOI over the phone on Monday. Mallick too denied media reports about the RLSP merger with any NDA ally. Earlier on Sunday, speculation was rife in the media after Kushwaha went to meet Bihar CM Nitish Kumar at his official residence at 1, Anney Marg here. Both met for nearly 45 minutes. JD(U)’s former state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh was present at the meeting. After the meeting, Singh told media persons on Sunday that he was hopeful that Kushwaha would merge his party with JD(U). It was Kushwaha’s second meeting with Nitish after the 2020 assembly polls in which the RLSP could not win any seat. Earlier, Kushwaha had called on Nitish at the CM residence on December 2 last year, fuelling speculations about a possible merger. Political analysts say, RLSP too is looking for a suitable platform after its humiliating defeat in the 2020 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwahas-rlsp-denies-merger-rumours-with-jdu/articleshow/80637415.cms||Madan Kumar
February 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Home guard jawan run over by vehicle in Purnia||PATNA: A home guard jawan was run over and another was seriously injured by an SUV carrying illicit liquor in Purnia district on Monday. The injured, Vidyanand Kumar, is undergoing treatment at the primary health centre at Baisi. The incident took place when Ganesh Paswan and Vidyanand Kumar were on duty near Dalkhola-Purnia checkpost and tried to intercept an SUV coming from West Bengal side. They signalled the SUV driver to stop the vehicle. But the driver hit the jawans at a high speed causing grievous injuries. While Ganesh died on the spot, Vidyanand was rushed to the local PHC where his condition is stated to be critical. The other cops deputed at the checkpost chased the vehicle. The driver somehow managed to escape after abandoning the SUV. Additional SHO of Baisi police station Shashikant Singh said 21 cartons of India-made foreign liquor were seized from the SUV. “Raids are on to arrest the driver,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-run-over-by-vehicle-in-purnia/articleshow/80637400.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Trade & industry bodies hail Budget||PATNA: The trade and industry bodies in the state appreciated the Union Budget, saying that it would have a positive impact on the overall economy. But they lamented that there was nothing concrete for Bihar in it. Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI) president PK Agarwal said the Budget, from a national perspective, is likely to pull the slumping economy and benefit the farmers and the middle class people. “But people in the state in general had expectations of special schemes or special status for Bihar. The state has already suffered because of freight policy and royalty on minerals and it faces floods and drought every year,” he said. Agarwal said the BCCI had sent a memorandum to the Union finance minister requesting for special support to Bihar for attracting big players to set up aluminium, petrochemical and other big industries, besides relaxations in direct and indirect taxes for opening 5-star hotels. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khetan said since the Budget for MSMEs has been doubled, it will be beneficial for industries. “The government has talked about doubling the income of farmers and working in electricity, road and other sectors. That will again boost the business. The entrepreneurs will be benefited from the relaxations extended to startups till March next year,” he said, adding, “Though there was nothing specific for Bihar in this Budget, it will depend on the state as how to get benefited from it.” Chartered accountant Subodh Kumar Goel, who is also associated with the BIA, said the proposal to reduce the time limit for reopening of tax assessments to 3 years from six years will be a big relief. He, however apprehended some negative impact of the decision to impose Rs2.5 per litre agricultural cess on petrol and Rs4 per litre on diesel. Bihar Entrepreneur Association secretary general Abhishek Singh lauded the decision to allocate a separate fund and create a department for artificial intelligence data science. He said all other sectors will get benefited and this will provide an opportunity to tech entrepreneurs. Singh said a huge amount had been allocated to the health sector and Bihar being one of the bigger states both in terms of population and density could get the benefit, if proper approach is made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trade-industry-bodies-hail-budget/articleshow/80637163.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||No major direct takeaways as Bihar draws a blank from Union Budget||PATNA: Bihar, which saw a crucial assembly election three months ago, appears to have drawn a blank with no major direct benefits from the Union Budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, except for the fund allocation recommended by the Fifteenth Finance Commission. Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), who held the finance portfolio as former deputy CM, claimed that Bihar would get Rs 4,78,751cr between 2021-26 as recommended by the Fifteenth Finance Commission. “It includes Rs35,577cr for local governance, Rs7,824cr for disaster management, Rs3,223cr for health, Rs1,694cr for road construction, Rs960cr for judiciary, Rs1,720cr for agriculture and Rs 2,267cr (for state specific grants),” SuMo tweeted. SuMo also thanked the Fifteenth Commission’ chairman N K Singh “for recommending Rs4,24,926crore as Bihar’s share in the central taxes and Rs53,825 crore as grants to Bihar.” Sudhanshu Kumar, an economist at the Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance, ADRI, said the Finance Commission’s recommendations have significant implications for the fiscal balance of state governments. Bihar depends on central transfers for almost 75% of its total receipts and needs additional support if the capital expenditure is to be increased in the state. “The approval of the central government on the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission has also been placed before Parliament. Though the transfer from the central pool based on the recommendations is welcome, Bihar needs more financial support from the Centre to meet its growth and development requirements in the state,” Sudhanshu said. He added, “The major beneficiary states of this budget are West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, whereas the less developed states like Bihar could not find any special mention in the budget.” Recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission apart, there was no mention of Bihar or any special budgetary provision for the NDA-ruled state in Sitharaman’s speech. Patna-based economist and professor of economics at AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies D M Diwakar, however, claimed that Bihar can be a major beneficiary of increased allocation for the health sector as well as rural infrastructure. “The increase in budgetary allocation to Rs2,83,846 lakh crore for the health and wellness sector and thrust on rural infrastructure development are most likely to benefit poor states, like Bihar. Besides, the integration of more mandis with National Agriculture Market (eNAM) can provide exposure to bigger markets for farmers in Bihar,” Diwakar said. Diwakar questioned the ‘monetisation’ or ‘disinvestment’ of the public sector undertakings and lack of emphasis on ‘job creation’. “The tax on solar lights has also been increased from 5% to 20%, which can increase the financial burden in the execution of state government’s Seven Resolves component dealing with the installation of solar lights in villages,” he said. Meanwhile, the few places in the budget document when Bihar has found mention, include the Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor Project, which entails the integrated manufacturing clusters spread across seven states, including Bihar. Gamhariya in Madhepura district has been identified as an IMC site in Bihar. Similarly, the Phulpur-Dhamra-Haldia gas pipeline project aims at facilitating industrialization in few economically backward states in the region, including Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-major-direct-takeaways-as-bihar-draws-a-blank-from-union-budget/articleshow/80637086.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 2, 2021||Patna||Opposition accuses Centre of ignoring people’s plight||PATNA: The opposition parties in the state lashed out at the Centre saying the Budget is aimed at promoting ‘company raj’ (read corporates) and is not for the country’s development. Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the Budget is for sale of the country. “Earlier, they sold railways, Air India, Bharat Petroleum and others. This Budget is about selling more such entities like gas pipeline, stadium, roadways and warehouses,” he said. Taking a dig at the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar, the RJD leader asked the CM what benefits Bihar got from the double-engine government in the state and at the Centre. “There is no special package for Bihar. Yet, the CM is hailing the Budget. He should explain the reason,” Tejashwi said and added that Budget has been presented keeping the upcoming elections in a few states in mind. “Yah Chunavi budget tha,” he said. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra also said the Budget was focused on the forthcoming elections in the five states. “The motive behind pumping funds in these states is not development but to get political mileage out of it,” he said and added that the Budget doesn’t talk about creation of jobs for jobless people. “Similarly, it is silent on the issue of industrial growth. Moreover, an increase in cess on diesel and petrol will adversely affect the people,” he opined. CPI(ML) general secretary said Dipankar Bhattacharya said the first post-Covid Budget makes no attempt to arrest and reverse the dangerous downside of the economy and provide immediate relief to those who have lost jobs and suffered major erosion in income and livelihood. “Instead, the Budget follows the direction of transferring the burden of crisis to the people while providing corporates with increasing opportunities for wealth accumulation,” he claimed. Referring to the farmers’ issues, he said their demand for legal guarantee of MSP for all crops has once again been ignored. “We demand a through revision of the Budget,” Dipankar added. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM has also assailed the Union Budget. The AIMIM has five MLAs in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-accuses-centre-of-ignoring-peoples-plight/articleshow/80637125.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Private sector will help plug holes in Mumbai bus service||MUMBAI: The announcement in the Union Budget of a PPP model where private players would be able to finance, acquire, operate and maintain over 20,000 buses would be beneficial for the city as it today lacks an adequate number of public transport buses, said commuter rights activists and observers. “The government or BMC does not have the money to buy and maintain such a huge fleet of buses. So it is good if private players step in and team up with the authorities to cater to new routes and more passengers,” A V Shenoy from the Mumbai Mobility Forum said. He said that in the city, BEST had just about 3,300 buses of its own and it had opted for a wet lease model to procure additional buses. “The moment the wet lease started, we got additional routes and passengers did not have to wait at the bus stops for a longer time,” he said. A public transport expert said that the proposed PPP model in the Budget should ensure better frequency and reach of buses for people in the smallest parts of the state too. “We need more AC buses if we want to dissuade citizens from bringing out their private cars and bikes on roads,” the expert said. Another expert, Ashok Datar, said a single bus carried the same number of passengers as nine cars. “Also, it occupies less space on the road, thereby reducing congestion and pollution. So, schemes promoting introduction of more public transport buses should be encouraged and the government should also consider dedicated bus corridors for smooth and faster commute,” he said. Others said buses brought on to roads with the PPP model would augment the existing service. “If there is healthy competition between operators, it will eventually lead to efficiency in service and benefit commuters in the long run,” one said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-sector-will-help-plug-holes-in-city-bus-service/articleshow/80637961.cms||Somit Sen
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath meets strawberry farmer Gurleen Chawla||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath met strawberry cultivator Gurleen Chawla on Monday and asked her to encourage other farmers in Bundelkhand to explore agricultural diversification. After the meeting, Chawla, who was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Mann ki Baat programme for the miracle of growing strawberries in the parched, arid Bundelkhand, said, “The CM said we should promote strawberry cultivation and organic farming in Bundelkhand. I will do my best to take it forward.” The CM said organic farming needs to be promoted for which laboratories should be set up to help farmers in the state. Referring to the cultivation of dragon fruit in Sultanpur and strawberries in Jhansi, the CM said progressive farmers were growing crops which were believed to be non-cultivable in their areas and directed the horticulture department to publicise their work. While inaugurating the strawberry festival in Bundelkhand on January 17, the CM had said strawberry cultivation would give a new identity to the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-meets-strawberry-farmer-gurleen-chawla/articleshow/80638808.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccination rate in Bihar drops to 40%||PATNA: The rate of Covid-19 vaccination dropped to its lowest in Bihar on Monday with only 40.5% of registered beneficiaries turning up to take the shot. The nearly 10% drop came despite several measures taken by the health department to boost the attendance of healthcare workers for the vaccination. As per data shared by state health society, 92,865 beneficiaries were targeted for vaccination on Monday, which was the highest one day target so far, out of whom just 37,572 got immunized. However, in terms of absolute numbers, Monday’s figure is the highest so far even though in percentage terms it was the state’s worst performance. The vaccinations were carried out at 698 session sites in all districts involving 3,445 personnel. The break-up shows while 36,823 got Covishield, 749 got Covaxin on Monday and the state reported four adverse events following immunization cases on Monday. So far, a total of 1,83,756 beneficiaries have got the vaccines in the first round in Bihar. The highest percentage of the vaccination was witnessed on January 16, the day when Covid-19 vaccination was launched and 61.97% of beneficiaries took the jab. Apart from Monday, when the lowest percentage was recorded, the second-lowest was recorded on December 19 when 51.1% of beneficiaries came for vaccination. An official associated with the vaccination programme said just raising the number of people to be vaccinated in a day will not help achieve the real motive behind vaccination. “The target should be that the maximum number of people take the shot,” he said. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said the government should be clear about the place and date where private healthcare workers can take the shot. “Many private doctors who have registered are not clear where they have to go for the vaccination. Private healthcare workers should be tagged with the health institute and it should be properly advertised. Proper information and tagging are a must,” said Dr Ajay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vaccination-rate-in-bihar-drops-to-40/articleshow/80637368.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Probe hair implant plaint: Panel to cops||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Monday asked the Bidhnannagar Police to investigate into a complaint lodged by a 50-year-old Belghoria resident who had gone for a hair transplant at a unit in Salt Lake and ended up being defrauded. According to the health panel, the complainant had approached one Richfeel Health and Beauty Clinic in Salt Lake for hair transplant. The man was reportedly told to register his name and sign a form saying that a finance company will pay the cost and he could pay the amount in interest-free installments. Later, on doctor’s advice, the man - who has diabetes - did not undergo the procedure. But he was aghast to find that the finance firm deducted two installments of Rs 5000 each from his bank account. “We could not trace the clinic. We have asked Bidhannagar police to investigate into this incident as this looks like a case of fraudulence,” said WBCERC chairman Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee. Meanwhile, Heritage Nursing Home was penalised with a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and AMRI Salt Lake was told to pay up Rs 3 lakh. Also, Apollo Clinic was told to refund excess amount charged for Covid test, Fleming hospital to refund Rs 2 lakh and Institute of Neurosciences to refund 50% of amount it charged from a patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/probe-hair-implant-plaint-panel-to-cops/articleshow/80637975.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||Aerodrome to be operational at UP's Kushinagar airport||LUCKNOW: The Union civil aviation ministry has assured the UP government that it will provide a licence for making operational an aerodrome of the newly constructed Kushinagar airport. The ministry has also informed the state government that steps were being taken to get flights of IndiGo and Alliance Air operated from Bareilly where a new terminal has been constructed. The development comes a day after a team of officials from the ministry led by Union civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola visited the site for the proposed airport in Ayodhya and the Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Udan Academy in Rae Bareli on Sunday. Secretary, UP civil aviation department, Surendra Singh said that the department gave a presentation to the Union ministry officials about the steps taken by the state government to give a boost to the aviation industry under the regional connectivity scheme. Singh said that the state government has also approached the Centre to get air connectivity between Prayagraj and Hindon airport in Ghaziabad. The state government also sought resumption of flights from Kanpur airport. He said that ministry officials were informed that at present seven airports were functional catering to 64 destinations. Besides, the state government is in the process of developing 12 new airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aerodrome-to-be-operational-at-kushinagar-airport/articleshow/80638823.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Don’t fall for fake Valentine’s Day offers, warn cops||MUMBAI: Cyber police on Monday warned people not to fall victim to fake offers that have gone viral on social media for the upcoming Valentine’s Day on February 14. Most of these are links to discounts in star hotels or other products. Investigators have cautioned that emails containing such links could unleash malware or lead to scammer-run copycat websites. Police said such links should be not be trusted unless the offer is from a company one has done business with earlier and that already has one’s contact information. Since January 29, over two dozen Twitter users across India have made inquiries with Taj Hotels regarding a ‘Taj Experiences Gift Card’ doing the rounds of social media which offers a seven-day stay at any group hotel for free. Two other similar offers call for completing a questionnaire and sharing links with others to avail of freebies. Responding to the flurry of queries, Taj Hotels put out a tweet stating: “Hi, a website has been promoting a Valentine’s Day initiative, offering a Taj Experiences Gift Card via WhatsApp. We’d like to inform you that Taj Hotels/IHCL has not offered any such promotion. Request to take note of this and exercise due caution (sic).” Cyber police say such links could be used to steal user data, including login credentials and credit card numbers. “We have not got any complaint so far, but the fraud offers have gone viral on social media,” DCP (cyber) Rashmi Karandikar told TOI. Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said users need to be extra careful about freebies being offered online especially when it’s close to a festival or special occasion. “In case of Taj, the domain name itself is fake and hence one should also read the URL carefully.. Such links may have malware that get executed on clicking,” said Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-fall-for-fake-valentines-day-offers-warn-cops/articleshow/80639053.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bangladesh traffickers held in joint operation by Kolkata, Bengaluru police||KOLKATA: A joint team of Kolkata Police, Bengaluru Police and Bongaon Police arrested the kingpin of a gang of traffickers from Bangladesh, Prafulla Naik, and two of his associates — Jagdish Ghosh and Tinku Biswas. According to Bengaluru Police, Naik had been trapping women from Bangladesh and Bengal by promising them lucrative jobs in beauty parlours or sales or by initiating ‘relationships’ with them. Once the women were in his net, two women from his gang, whom he would introduce as his girlfriends, used to set up a trap and sell the victims to brothels in south India. Naik started working at a fast food stall on Kalakar Street in Burrabazar in December. The owner, though, was intrigued by the number of women who came to meet him. Sources claimed that Naik been running the racket for the past five years and cops believed he might have a link with the trafficked Bangladeshi women who were rescued from the Kolkata airport two weeks ago. Just like in Kolkata, most of the sex rackets were being operated in Bengaluru under the guise of spa centres. The Bengaluru Police tracked his movements and phone as part of a one-and-half-month operation. Cops said Naik would cross over the international border illegally with the women and then keep them in a ‘safehouse’ in Bongaon under the strict watch of Ghosh and Biswas. In December, the HAL police, under the Whitefield police division, in Bengaluru received a complaint from three of the victims who were rescued. “He had brought the three women — including one from Bangladesh — to Bengaluru from Howrah station with help of the two women accomplices. A Bengaluru police team used technical surveillance and came to central Kolkata where the local divisional police and Posta police extended help to nab Naik. He is now being taken back to Bengaluru on transit remand, said Kolkata police sources. His two associates were nabbed by another Bengaluru police team with help from local police. Karnataka and Bengal have been in focus over the last decade for having some of the highest figures in human trafficking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-traffickers-held-in-joint-op-by-city-bluru-police/articleshow/80638001.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 2, 2021||Surat||Imported cotton clothes to cost more, polyester cheaper||AHMEDABAD/SURAT: Cost of cotton shirts, dresses and home linen textiles will go up after 10% basic customs duty (BCD) was imposed on the import of cotton in the Union Budget announced on Monday. Select cotton varieties that are not locally cultivated in the country like Giza, Pima, extra-long staple (ELS) and organic cotton are usually imported in India. “Rise in cost of imported cotton will cause an increase in yarn prices and subsequently will trigger an estimated 5% rise in the cost of apparels as well. These varieties of cotton are used to produce fine-count shirts, trousers and a range of home linen products as well,” said Sanjay Jain, chairman, ICC National Textiles Committee. Estimates by Confederation of Indian Textile Industries (CITI) suggest that the volume of import is barely 5% of the total consumption of cotton by mills in India. CITI data suggests that India imports up to 15 lakh bales of cotton annually vis-a-vis around 390 lakh bales of crop size cultivated in the country. However, consumers buying sarees, dupattas, kurtis and other apparels made of nylon yarn will find it cheaper with the 5% BCD reduction on caprolactam, nylon chips and nylon fibre and yarn. Caprolactam is the basic raw material for manufacturing nylon chip, using which, nylon yarn and eventually fabric is made. Surat alone produces 6,000 metric tonne nylon chips – 37% of total national production. Nylon chips manufacturer, Rakesh Choudhary said, “BCD reduction on nylon chips, caprolactam and nylon yarn will reduce working capital requirement of weavers and thus, benefits can be passed on to the end-consumers. Reduced cost of production will also positively impact the tyre, fishnet, automobile and technical textile sectors where nylon chips are used.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/imported-cotton-clothes-to-cost-more/articleshow/80637147.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bhubaneswar||For city’s sex workers, vaccine only hope of a reversal in fortunes||Here, customers scoff at social distance. The mention of Covid certificates draws peals of laughter. This is the red-light or pleasure district of the state capital — Mali Sahi. No stranger to disease, the women working in these areas are desperately hoping that the government includes them on a Covid vaccine list soon. When the lockdown dealt a blow to their business and pushed many to penury, they had no choice but to find other ways of survival. While help came from the Centre and the state government, NGOs and the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the form of ration and some cash, it wasn’t enough. When lockdown restrictions were eased, these women faced another hurdle — attracting customers with their masks on and faces hidden. Even scarier was the prospect of encountering a customer who could be a carrier of Covid. In such a scenario, the sex workers, despite initial reluctance, now want to take the vaccine and be done with the niggling worry, once and for all. “Society overlooks the fact that we have families too. If we are not given the vaccine soon, we may endanger the lives of our children, husband and parents. As it is, the number of customers has dwindled. We cannot turn away the few that have started to come. All that we are asking for is to be vaccinated soon so that there is some protection from the virus,” said Chameli (name changed). Namrata Chadha, a women’s rights activist and chairperson of the non-profit Mahila Adhikar Abhiyan, said, “Sex workers’ business is down 75%. Their rates have plummeted from Rs 200-300 a client to a meagre Rs 50 now. Now, moneyed customers are not returning to these squalid areas. It is imperative to vaccinate the sex workers before they lose all their clients.” However Chadha also said this is easier said than done. Sex workers of tier-II cities hesitate to reveal their identity, making it difficult for the government to reach out to them. She said the government must encourage the workers to declare themselves as sex workers for it to register and initiate a vaccination drive for them, if at all. Things are only slightly better for the transgender people who also work in the trade. “There is a difference in the attitude of the women sex workers and the transgender people. The latter have no qualms about flaunting their identity as society is embracing them slowly. Many of them have ID cards and are being given employment opportunities in the traffic police department, the BMC and government-run hospitals,” Chadha said. Meera Parida, the first transgender vice-president of Biju Mahila Janta Dal, said there are around 3,000 transgenders in the state as per Election Commission data. Their actual number, she said, would be 25,000-30,000. “The situation in the rural belts is good. The Naveen Patnaik-government’s support to self-help groups, of which they are a part, has been enormous. For the small percentage of transgender people who are sex workers, getting vaccinated would certainly be a big help,” she added. Meghna Sahoo, India’s first transgender driver, who also holds an MBA degree, agreed. “The fear of the virus remains among those who are into sex work. It will be helpful if the government considered vaccinating them.” Another transgender, Sonam Mohapatra, said, “Our main source of earning is from dancing during marriage ceremonies and births of children. But the ban on big gatherings had put us out of work for a long time. Sex trade is just one of the many things we do for a living. The problem arises when customers refuse to take precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-citys-sex-workers-vaccine-only-hope-of-a-reversal-in-fortunes/articleshow/80632135.cms||Rajani Yadav
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra made little progress on sanitation, water projects||MUMBAI: Progress on various water and sanitation projects has been at snail’s pace ever since the launch of the Swachh Bharat Mission in the state. The state had identified 44 cities to implement the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. As per the union ministry of housing and urban affairs website, Maharashtra submitted a plan for water and sanitation projects to the tune of Rs 7,700 crore and the Centre’s share is approximately Rs 3,500 crore for 2015-2020. As of February 2019, the Centre had released Rs 500 crore. According to the state economic survey 2019, between 2015-2016 and 2019-2020 water supply projects worth Rs 4,312 crore were approved for 34 cities, but only six projects in five cities were completed and commissioned. Similarly, the state approved Rs 3,266 crore for 31 sewerage projects. But by November end 2019, only the project for Nashik city was commissioned. For 2021-22, the Centre has announced Rs 1.42 lakh crore over the next five years for the Swachh Bharat Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-made-little-progress-on-sanitation-water-projects/articleshow/80638043.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||‘10% customs duty to hit UP's leather goods export’||LUCKNOW: Reeling under losses due to poor export due to Covid-19 pandemic, the leather goods manufacturers and exporters chambers said the Union budget 2021 provides withdrawal of certain exemptions to leather imports and imposes a customs duty of 10%, a move which would hit the competitiveness of the industry. As per conservative estimates, close to eight to nine lakh -- mostly in Kanpur and Agra -- in UP depend for their livelihood on approximately 1,600 firms engaged in export of leather goods such as shoes, jacket, apparels, bag, saddle, gloves. “Imposing 10% duty on leather imports will increase the cost of finished products like shoes. We will lose the competitive edge against countries like China, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, Portugal, Italy and others in footwear, as leather bears 60 % cost of the finished product,” said shoe baron Puran Dawar, who is a member of MSME ministry's board. Senior vice-president of Agra footwear manufacturing and exporters chamber, Shahroo Moshin said, “Till now, we are importing finished leather sheets at Rs 150 per square feet, but after 10% customs duty it will cost us Rs 165 per square feet. Due to the pandemic, our orders have already gone down. Europe is our major market, but their stores are still loaded with old stock." According to exporters’ chamber, leather obtained from cows is considered to be best for manufacturing of leather goods. However, since cow slaughter is banned in most states of India, manufacturers have no option but to import bovine leather from countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and others. “Levying duty on semi and complete finished leather is a discouraging step taken by the Indian government, however they have spared the import of raw leather obtained from bovine of Latin America, Europe, and the West Asia,” said Rajendra Kumar Jalan, the former regional chairperson of council for leather exports (central). However, tanneries owners claimed that duty is unlikely to benefit them as against the general notion. “The government should ban the import of synthetic leather and rexine, as they are the main killers of Indian tanneries. Nowadays, every sports shoe is made of synthetic or foam,” said Nayyar Jamal, vice-president of Jajmau ( Kanpur) small tanners association. There are 461 tanneries in Jajmau. Mukhtar-ul-Amin, the chairperson of Kanpur-Unnao leather export cluster, said, “The new duty will force many to shut their businesses. There are 210 footwear exporters in Kanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-customs-duty-to-hit-ups-leather-goods-export/articleshow/80638826.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||Doctor who honey-trapped UP medico held||LUCKNOW: Dr Preeti Mehra, the doctor who allegedly honey-trapped and aided in the abduction of a youth in Gonda was arrested by UP Police from Jhajjar district in Haryana on Monday. The 26-year-old medico was carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000. She was allegedly involved in the kidnapping of ayurveda medicine and surgery student Gaurav Haldar on January 18. Accused had demanded Rs 70L ransomPolice had rescued Haldar in Noida and nabbed four kidnappers Dr Abhishek Singh, Nitesh, Mohit, Rohit, and Satish. Preeti was on the run since then. The accused had demanded Rs 70 lakh ransom from Gaurav’s father who is an ayuveda doctor. SP Gonda Shailesh Pandey said a special operation groups (SOG) team was on the hunt for her. She was arrested from Dhaura village in Jhajjar. “Preeti Mehra was produced before a court on Monday which sent her to jail,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctor-who-honey-trapped-gonda-youth-nabbed/articleshow/80638940.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Leopard dies in hit-and-run||AHMEDABAD: The carcass of an eight-year-old male leopard found on a bridge near Sanathal crossroads in Sarkhej sent the forest department scrambling on Monday. Officials believe the big cat was crossing the bridge when it was allegedly knocked down by an unidentified vehicle around Sunday night. The forest department has sent the body for post-mortem examination. Ahmedabad Deputy Conservator of Forest (Social Forestry) Sakkira Begum said, “The animal was killed while crossing the bridge. Our officials traced pugmarks up to 2.5km on the left side of the bridge. We are tracing it further to ascertain if the animal has carried out any kill in the nearby villages.” She added that the search will continue on Tuesday, too. A senior forest official in Gandhinagar said, "The leopard seems to have come from the left side, which means it could have entered the city area from Sarkhej. Had it moved further to the right, it would have definitely entered human-dominated areas." However, the DCF said, “Leopards generally avoid human-dominated areas. There is a small lake and an area populated with ganda baval on the left. We cannot say for sure that the leopard would have entered the city. There’s a chance it would have turned and returned to the area it came from.” Officials said that as news of the carcass’s discovery spread, people began to speculate that it was the same leopard that was sighted on January 18 in Vastral. However, the forest department had then, based on the pugmark, declared that it was a hyena, and not a leopard. “However, we analysed the carcass of a buffalo calf killed on Sunday and found that it was neither a leopard nor a hyena. A feral dog had killed it. Anyway, the leopard that died on Sunday is not the one which was reportedly spotted in Vastral,” said Sakira Begum. Rumours of a leopard sighting spread through Vastral on Monday, too. The last time a leopard was spotted was at an ayurveda college in Kolawada, Gandhinagar in April 2020. A leopard was spotted entering the Gandhinagar sachivalaya at night in November 2018. The animal was later traced to the ravines near the sachivalaya. Where it came from Forest department officials said the leopard could have come from Bavla side of Dholka. The officials said that the possibility of the leopard coming from Nadiad side also cannot be ruled out. The officials said that they are still trying to figure out where exactly the leopard came from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/leopard-dies-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/80639121.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Varanasi||‘Budget will make nation self-reliant’||GORAKHPUR: The Union Budget 2021 was hailed by both industrialists and people at large in Gorakhpur, with most saying that it will help make the country self-reliant, though Opposition leaders termed it unsatisfactory. Former president of chamber of industries, S K Agarwal said, “The hike of 137% in health budget and 35% increase in the provision of capital investment than last budget will provide relief, spur growth and increase employment.” “The proposed road construction will help in crating the basic infrastructure further and 100% electrification of railways by 2023 will be good for environment conservation and will bring down logistics costs. The budget stresses on most sectors, including agriculture, education, environment, textile industry and will promote local manufacturing as duty on imports has been increased,” he added. “The micro, small and medium industry was adversely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic and should have been given some additional sops. The income tax slabs could also have been increased to help the salaried class,” he added. Gorakhpur district BJP president Dharmendra Singh said the budget will make the nation self-reliant and MSP for farmers will continue, which is very good. Samajwadi Party district president Ram Nagina Sahni said the budget has shown that the government works only for some industrialists and does not care for farmers. BSP district president Ghanshyam Rahi also expressed dissatisfaction and said privatization is not a solution to all problems. Congress district president Nirmala Paswan said the budget is very disappointing and there is nothing in it for farmers protesting against the new farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/budget-will-make-nation-self-reliant/articleshow/80637700.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||Allocation to agri exposes propaganda peddled by Opposition: UP BJP chief||LUCKNOW: The BJP rank and file hailed the Union Budget as one which would help strengthen and prosper all sections of society and put the country on a growth trajectory. UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh specially thanked the Centre for lending a push to the micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSME) sector, which is the backbone of UP’s industrial set-up and has helped employ hundreds of migrants who came back following the lockdown. He said that the budgetary allocation of Rs 15,700 crore for the MSME sector would help in fulfilling the resolve of making the country self-reliant. Deputy CM Keshav Maurya termed the budget as having the potential to turn dreams of the country into reality. Underscoring the emphasis given to infrastructure development, Maurya said that it showed the government’s commitment to take the country on a pedestal of development. He also welcomed the boost given to education and health sectors. Finance minister Suresh Khanna also hailed the Budget saying it will take India closer to becoming a five trillion dollar economy besides giving a boost to health services and infrastructure. Khanna, who is himself busy in preparing state’s budget, said Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has taken care of all, especially farmers and youth. He said allocating Rs 50,000 crore for research and innovation is an example of PM Narendra Modi’s vision. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said that the budgetary provisions would drive the country economically in a coherent manner and with full force. Singh said that the strong emphasis on infrastructure, health and education will infuse a fresh lease of life in the country. He said that the Budget would further the government’s objective of being atmanirbhar (self-reliant). The UP BJP president said that higher allocation for the agriculture sector exposes the propaganda peddled by the Opposition to incite people against the Centre and state. He said that the expansion given to public welfare schemes like Ujjwala, envisaging free gas connection to the people, has further cemented BJP government’s resolve to work for the betterment of various sections of society. Singh said that the government has also ensured robust social security. BJP ally and Apna Dal (S) chief Anupriya Patel too termed the Budget as one which would help in all-round development of the country. The Mirzapur MP said higher allocation to the health and education sectors would lay a strong foundation for the socio-economic growth of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/allocation-to-agri-exposes-propaganda-peddled-by-oppn-up-bjp-chief/articleshow/80638862.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||Funds for pollution control measures in UP cities||LUCKNOW: Measures to control air pollution in 15 most polluted cities of UP will get a boost with funds allocated for it in the Union Budget. “The cities to be benefited include Lucknow, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Allahabad, Bareilly, Aligarh, Moradabad and Saharanpur,” said JPS Rathore, chairperson Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). “Dust from broken roads and construction work and emissions from vehicles and industries are a major source of air pollution. As a regulatory authority, we can use these funds to support civic agencies check sources of pollution. In Lucknow, we can tell LMC and urban development agencies to construct broken roads and provide funds. Green covering material can be provided for construction sites,” he added. “Winter smog can be controlled by smog guns. Sprinkling of water can be done to check dust from mixing in the air,” he said. UPPCB will also use the money to set up more air quality monitoring stations in various parts of the state. “While 16 such stations have been installed recently in different districts, two more will come up soon,” he said. These funds will also support research by IIT-Bombay and IIT-Kanpur to check pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/funds-for-pollution-control-measures-in-up-cities/articleshow/80638896.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Transgender death: Boyfriend booked||Two days after a transgender, Payal Ansari (40), died by suicide at her Goregaon (E) home, Dindoshi police on Sunday booked her boyfriend for abetment. Ansari did not leave a suicide note, but a case was lodged based on statements by members of the community. No arrests have been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/transgender-death-boyfriend-booked/articleshow/80639137.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Budget a big let-down for all except corporates: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Rejecting the Union Budget for 2021-22 as reflective of the BJP-led central government’s “total apathy” towards middle class and farmers, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said even the vital sector of defence had not been adequately addressed despite growing border threats from China and Pakistan, while health allocation was actually down. He said the entire Budget was a “big let-down” for every section of society, except big corporates. Trashing the Centre’s claim that the health sector allotment had been increased by 35%, Amarinder said numbers had been effectively fudged to project a hike by including the Rs 35,000-crore Covid vaccine allotment. Actually, the budget was down 10%, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/budget-a-big-let-down-for-all-except-corporates-capt/articleshow/80639123.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||No Covid-19 cess, Punjab industry feels easy||LUDHIANA: The Union Budget has clicked with businessmen for sparing them any Covid cess or similar new tax they feared. Halving the time limit for reopening income-tax assessment cases to three years from six, besides the changed custom duties, makes Punjab’s engineering sector hopeful of getting cheaper iron and steel. The textile and garments sector had a mixed response after the customs duty was increased on cotton but lowered on certain other products. Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings president Upkar Singh Ahuja said: “By waiving the import duty on scrap and cutting the import duty on certain steels by 5%, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman impressed thousands of Punjab engineering goods manufacturers. For the past few months, expensive raw material was hurting the bicycle, automobile part, fastener, sewing machine, and furnace industries. The price correction will lead to revival.” Ludhiana Fasteners Suppliers Association president Raj Kumar Singla said: “Despite having little for us, this budget gave us a lot of relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-covid-19-cess-punjab-industry-feels-easy/articleshow/80639110.cms||Mohit Behl
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||UP to ramp up wheat procurement after Budget agri push||LUCKNOW: With the Union budget lending a decisive push to the agricultural sector, the UP government is all geared up to ramp up wheat procurement in the forthcoming season, a move that could potentially accelerate BJP’s farmers outreach in the run-up to the high-stakes assembly elections due next year. The move to scale up wheat procurement comes amidst a raging stand-off between farmers’ union and the Centre over three new farm laws. Top sources in the agriculture department confirmed to TOI the department has initiated the process of putting in place mechanisms to boost wheat procurement become a major contributor to national granaries. In 2020-21 fiscal, UP procured 3.55 million tonnes of wheat, which was far below Madhya Pradesh’s 12.71 million tonnes. The national wheat procurement had touched a record-breaking 38.98 million tonnes till July last year. “The idea is to ensure financial assurance to farmers by procuring maximum possible produce under minimum support price,” the official said. Sources said, the state government plans to raise produce by around 10 to 15% in coming months. The development comes after the government managed to escalate the paddy procurement from 526 lakh quintals to 634 lakh quintals – an increase of around 20%. “Besides paddy, the state government has already performed well in procurement of pulses and groundnuts,” the official said. The proposal to wheel agriculture infrastructure funds to mandi samitis is significant as the idea was pushed by the state agriculture department and accepted in the Union budget. “This will help mandi samitis to get more funds for farm facilities,” the official said. There are 225 agricultural mandis in the state, which stand to gain with the Union budget proposal. The clause of market intervention vis-à-vis high production of vegetables also finds merit in UP’s horticulture sector. Sources said, the state government plans to put in place a mechanism to regulate prices of vegetables if they slump in wake of high production. “So that would also help vegetable growers in getting a suitable price for their produce,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-ramp-up-wheat-procurement-after-budget-agri-push/articleshow/80638842.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police chief defends border fortifications||NEW DELHI: With the number of police personnel who got injured during the Republic Day violence crossing 500, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday defended the decision to strengthen the barricading at the borders and take other related measures, which have created a controversy on social media. Questioned about fortification of the borders, the police chief said he was surprised at the question as none were raised when over 500 of his men were attacked and injured. “I’m surprised that when policemen were attacked and barricades were broken with tractors, no questions were raised. What have we done now? We’ve just strengthened the barricading so that it’s not breached again,” said Shrivastava. There had been widespread condemnation of the Republic Day violence in media. From installing iron spikes, digging up roads, to stationing cranes over trolleys and creating cemented barricades, Delhi Police has taken such unprecedented steps for crowd control and maintaining law and order. Shrivastava, however, denied reports about steel batons having been formally inducted for use in the force. “Steel batons are not a part of police weaponry,” he said when asked if the batons cops were seen holding in a viral picture had been withdrawn. He also met injured cops of western zone at the office of DCP (Outer) in Pitampura. About 144 personnel of this range were injured, some of them critically, during the violence. Addressing the policemen, Shrivastava said, “The patience and control shown by you is right and commendable. We have to keep ourselves strong and prepare by focusing on intelligence reports and sticking to strategies and ideas. You remained firm, yet polite while performing your duty in such a hostile situation. You took appropriate action understanding the gravity of the situation, in the overall interest of the people of Delhi and the dignity of the force.” The top cop also lauded the personnel of Central Armed Police Forces. He asked the force to be prepared for “tougher duties in the coming days” and stressed upon practising riot control drills and giving due consideration to personal safety while facing any demonstration. “Though some financial assistance has been extended to the injured, it will not compensate them for their injuries and pain,” said a police spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-chief-defends-border-fortifications/articleshow/80657583.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||HT register photo finish win against Media Photographers||Lucknow: Hindustan Times defeated Media Photographers by three runs to win the inaugural match of the Inter-Media Cricket Tournament (T-20) at KD Singh Babu Stadium here on Monday. Electing to bat first, Hindustan Times scored 130 runs at a loss of eight wickets in the stipulated 20 overs. Openers Anshul (31 runs off 38 balls, including four boundaries) and Sharad Deep (15 off 28 balls) gave a solid start to HT. Rohit Singh and Abhinav Shukla contributed 18 and 14 runs, respectively. Media Photographers' bowlers Sharad Shukla claimed four scalps while Ashish Pandey claimed two wickets. In reply, Kashif Hasan's 52-run knock off 44 balls failed to help Media Photographers sail through. None of the batsmen, save Kayam Raza (13) and Ravindra Thapa (12), could score in double digit. The team could score 127 runs at the loss of eight wickets losing the match by three runs. Manish Singh and Anshul claimed two wickets each for HT. Anshul was declared the man of the match. Brief Scores: Hindustan Times: 130/8 (Anshul 31, Rohit 18, Sharad Deep 15; Sharad Shukla 4-23) Media Photographers: 127/8 (Kashif 52, Kayam 13; Manish 2-19, Anshul 2-30)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ht-register-photo-finish-win-against-media-photographers/articleshow/80638871.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: PGI Nursing College to raise seats from 40 to 100||LUCKNOW: Nursing seats in College of Nursing, SGPGI, will be increased from 40 to 100 soon. A PhD programme will also be started at the college. Announcing this on the 13th foundation day of the college on Monday, SGPGI director Prof RK Dhiman said: “Nurses are the backbone of a medical institution. They are the ones who make procedures happen through the care they extend to patients before, during and after the doctor’s intervention.” Prof Dhiman also stated that efforts to recruit more nurses in the institute were on and skilled persons will be required. About 40 students of eleventh batch of BSc nursing took the ceremonial Florence Nightingale pledge on the occasion. College principal Usha Rani gave the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgi-nursing-college-to-raise-seats-from-40-to-100/articleshow/80638919.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Budget against farmers and poor, says Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal termed the Union Budget proposal as “anti-farmer, anti-poor and anti-common man”. He alleged that the sole focus of the BJP-led central government was on selling off national assets to its corporate friends. Sukhbir claimed the Budget had also punished Punjabis for supporting the peaceful agitation against the three agricultural laws with nothing being earmarked for the state. At a time when there was a need to increase direct benefit transfers to farmers as well as underprivileged sections of society, the NDA government was focusing on disinvesting public sector undertakings (PSUs), he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/budget-against-farmers-and-poor-says-sukhbir/articleshow/80639152.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Four friends die in road crash on Nashik highway||BHIWANDI: Four friends from Nashik died in an accident on Mumbai-Nashik highway, at Bhiwandi, early on Monday. The car in which they were travelling collided with an oncoming bus. The four — Jwala Singh (27) who was at the wheel, Gokul Gavte (29), Pankaj Javle (29) and Gaurav Singh (27) – all from Sinnar taluka, had bought a second-hand car in Ulhasnagr. The bodies were handed over to their relatives. —Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-friends-die-in-road-crash-on-nashik-highway/articleshow/80638107.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Surat||Textile parks to boost production, jobs||The proposal for setting up of seven mega textile parks in India over the next three years is expected to bring in big-ticket investments in the textile sector. Industry players said it will help scale up production. Rahul Mehta, chief mentor, Clothing Manufacturers’ Association of India (CMAI) said that the establishment of the textile parks will bring in larger projects and help complete the entire value chain and therefore, boost employment in the textile sector. “The plug and play model of the textile park as proposed will prove beneficial to the industry in helping reduce the capital expenditure by industries,” said T Rajkumar, chairman, CITI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-parks-to-boost-production-jobs/articleshow/80637201.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata, Howrah among cities to get air pollution package||KOLKATA: Howrah and Kolkata are among the 42 cities across the country with a million-plus population that can claim a share of the Rs 2,217-crore kitty to fight air pollution. There are seven towns in Bengal where pollution levels are very poor but will be unable to tap into the fund to improve the air quality. That’s a concern that West Bengal Pollution Control Board chairman Kalyan Rudra reflected upon: “There is no doubt that local level anti-pollution action is important and sacrosanct. But the most effective battle against air pollution cannot be restricted to one or two cities. There has to be concerted efforts to clean up the airshed of the entire Indo-Gangetic plain as the air pollution is increasingly becoming a trans-border issue.” In a series of exchanges with IITs, WBPCB has found that the emission inventory of the city does not match with the level of different pollutants in its ambient air. “Any creation of funds for fighting air pollution is well intended. But its purpose will be fulfilled, if it is not seen as a problem of one or two cities,” said another PCB official. Under the targeted funding for cities, Kolkata and Howrah had received funding for clean air action last year as well. Under the new budget, another top up is expected and perhaps more cities may get added. While this is a step in the right direction, the spending requires performance-based indicators to make verifiable improvement in air quality, said air pollution expert Anumita Roychowdhury. “Mitigation action needs to move beyond the city limit to have a regional or airshed focus,” the executive director of Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) remarked. Green crusader Subhas Datta, who has fought a series of legal battles against the steady degradation of ambient air quality in the twin cities of Kolkata and Howrah, said he hoped the fund would help greater compliance of numerous orders passed by the National Green Tribunal. “City authorities have been very slow in their course of action. By the time they act under duress, the damage is done. We need a perfect marriage of money and mind (intent) in this context,” said Datta. The budget on Monday reiterated the scrapping age for automobiles: 15 years for commercial vehicles and 20 years for private vehicles. However, it will be voluntary for the latter. Private cars that cross 20 years will be required to undergo fitness tests in automated fitness centres. If it passes the test, it can ply on the roads. But if it fails, the vehicle will have to be scrapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-howrah-among-cities-to-get-air-pollution-package/articleshow/80638102.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||FM fails to impress garment industry, leaves it confused||Ludhiana: The textile and garment industry is not in a happy mood as is the engineering sector. Despite finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman claiming to have given relief to the sector by announcing seven mega textile parks in the country and reducing basic customs duty rates on nylon fibre and yarn, caprolactam and nylon chips to 5%, the businessmen said it was too early to say if these decisions were in their favour. However, they were of the opinion that overall it was a satisfactory Budget, though their sector was neglected and concrete steps should have been taken to address their problems.A disappointed Harish Dua, executive council member of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), said, “The garment and textile sector is the biggest employer in the country and Punjab as well. How will setting up of textile parks benefit the MSME units engaged in garment manufacturing? What is even worse is that there is no decrease in the income tax rate and no increase in its exemption limit, which we required the most.”According to Hemant Abbi, a shawl manufacturer and executive member of Moti Nagar United Factory Association, “None of our concerns, like setting up of a mechanism to control rates of raw material and rationalising the differential GST rates according to sale price of goods, have been taken into consideration. Moreover, there is a confusion over the announcements made regarding the increase and decrease on customs duty on different types of yarns. The exact impact of these will be known only when a detailed analysis is done.”Rashpal Bhamra, another garment manufacturer, said local sellers and exporters have been given no benefit. “Our industry was in dire need of government help due to the coronavirus pandemic. If the government was not able to reduce taxes, it could have at least introduced incentives for exports to encourage garment manufacturers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fm-fails-to-impress-garment-industry-leaves-it-confused/articleshow/80635689.cms||Mohit Behl
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Budget directionless for agri: SKM||Bathinda: Accusing the Centre of indulging in undemocratic means to crush the farmers’ protest, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to block road transport across the country for 3 hours on February 6. The chakka jam will be enforced from 12 noon to 3pm on national and state highway across the country. The morcha said going by the circumstances and ongoing protests, it was expected that the central government will take extra care of the agriculture sector in this Budget, but the reality has been noticed otherwise. Jai Kisan Andolan convener Yogendra Yadav said the government has decreased the Budget allocation for agriculture and allied sector by Rs 6,000 crore to Rs 1.46 lakh crore from Rs 1.54 lakh crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/budget-directionless-for-agri-skm/articleshow/80639159.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||No casualty, 50 contract the virus||Ludhiana: No death due to Covid-19 was reported in Ludhiana on Monday. However, 50 residents tested positive for the virus.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district fatality figure stood at 1,001 and that of outsiders at 478.To date, 6,02,806 persons have been tested.Of the 50 new cases, 17 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 11 were positive cases’ contacts, 11 from OPD, nine through tracing process and one healthcare worker, among others. Three patients from outside the district, too, tested positive here on the day.The local health department officials said the district case count has risen to 25,847 and that of outsiders to 3,932.So far, 24,501 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.79% of the total cases.There are 342 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 688. On Monday, 44 persons were quarantined and 1,352 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH.Three patients are on ventilators. Of them, two are Ludhiana residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-casualty-50-contract-the-virus/articleshow/80635695.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Five men arrested with Rs 25 lakh ganja in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The anti-narcotics cell on Sunday busted a drug peddling gang with the arrest of five men and seized 130kg of ganja worth Rs 25 lakh. ANC’s Worli unit intercepted an SUV on LBS Marg in Kurla, found the drugs and nabbed Rajesh Jaiswal, Durgaprasad Yeddu, Mohammed Sufiyan Khan, Nisar Shaikh and Nizamuddin Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-men-arrested-with-rs-25l-ganja/articleshow/80639169.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt carries out massive shuffle of IPS officers in state||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has initiated a massive shuffle of IPS officers on Monday as a prelude to the upcoming assembly elections. ADGP Yogesh Gupta, who was appointed as managing director of Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco), has been given the additional charge of the chairman of the organization, by re-designating the post as CMD, Bevco. Additional AIG (headquarters) Vaibhav Saxena will be the new Thiruvananthapuram city DCP as the incumbent Divya Gopinath has been appointed as SP, information, communications and technology (ICT). Saxena will continue to hold the post of additional AIG as well. Incumbent ICT SP Aravind Sukumar has been appointed as SP, Wayanad, from where G Poonguzhali has been transferred and posted as SP, Thrissur rural. Vigilance and anti-corruption bureau SP Hari Shankar has been posted as SP, Kasaragod, from where D Shilpa has been transferred and posted as SP, Kottayam. Incumbent Kottayam SP G Jaidev will be the Alappuzha SP, while the incumbent in Alappuzha, Sabu P S, has been appointed as SP, Ernakulam special branch. Vijayakumar N has been transferred and posted as SP security at the state special branch. Incumbent Thrissur rural SP Viswanadh R has been posted as SP Palakkad, from where Sujith Das has been transferred and posted as SP Malappuram. Present Malappuram SP U Abdul Karim has been appointed as commandant of Malabar Special Police. SP, crimes, Madhu P K has been transferred and posted as SP Thiruvananthapuram rural from where B Ashokan has been transferred and appointed as SP, state special branch, administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-carries-out-massive-shuffle-of-ips-officers-in-state/articleshow/80638115.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Greens miffed over poor allocation for forest & wildlife, environment||Nagpur: Even as forest, wildlife and climate change demand greater focus following the pandemic, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman did not even make a mention of it in her budget speech. Moreover, greens are disappointed over meagre allocation for the forestry and wildlife sector. On one hand, India’s tiger population has increased by 33% to 2,967 from 2014, but there is poor fund allocation for the development of wildlife habitat (WCCB, Project Tiger & Project Elephant). Satpuda Foundation president Kishor Rithe said, “Total demand under development of wildlife habitat for 2021-22 is just Rs414 crore, which is not enough as compared to Rs473 crore in 2019-20. This may be the total budget of the forest department of any big state. Apart from this, the demand for forestry and wildlife sector was Rs672 crore in 2019-20, which has been reduced to Rs586 crore in 2021-22.” “This shows that actual demands by MoEFCC have not been accepted as per the requirement,” said Rithe. The total allocation to autonomous institutes under MoEFCC has also been reduced. The institutes include WII, GB Pant Himalayan Institute of Environment & Development, Indian Council of Forestry Research & Education, Indian Plywood Industries Research & Training Institute. The allocation of over Rs305 crore is lower than the previous allocation of Rs340 crore. Suresh Chopne, founder of Green Planet Society, said, “The budget is disappointing for the environment, climate change and pollution mitigation. The FM allocated Rs2,217 crore only to mitigate air pollution and solid waste in 42 cities.” “The minister did not even mention in her budget speech about climate change and forestry sector. If we do not mitigate environmental problems and save forests, it will have a huge impact on the GDP,” said Chopne. “It is a mixed bag for the environment sector. Hydrogen energy mission for generating hydrogen out of green power sources and allotment of Rs1,000 crore to SECI and Rs1,500 crore to IREDA are steps towards promoting renewable energy. For preserving aquatic biodiversity an outlay of Rs4,000 crore has been made. The budget neglects forest & wildlife,” said Green Vigil founder Kaustav Chatterjee. On reduced air quality, Ajay Singh Nagpure, director, air quality, WRI India, said, “The budget saw a drop in the funds for air quality improvement from Rs4,400 crore in 2020. Incidentally, last year’s funds remained largely unutilized by the urban local bodies. This year, a consorted effort by the states and cities to develop capacity will help use the allocated funds efficiently and impact on-ground change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-miffed-over-poor-allocation-for-forest-wildlife-environment/articleshow/80640195.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||First step to boost rural health, say doctors||Nagpur: Medical fraternity has welcomed the Budget 2021 terming it as ‘Health Budget’ as it has a never before allocation and provision for health services. However, doctors are sceptical about the implementation of all announcements made in the budget speech. “At a first glance, the focus and allocation on healthcare is most welcome,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of World Medical Association. “The budget focuses on developing capacities of healthcare systems, and institutions for detection and cure of new and emerging diseases. This is the first step to boost rural health and keep country ready for emergency handling of pandemic situations,” he added. Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) vice-president Dr Vinky Rughwani termed the budget as proactive. “Keeping Rs35,000 crore for Covid vaccination is good decision. Overall, the budget is good,” he said. “Although the holistic approach to health for preventive and curative well-being is visionary, time will tell how it is practically implemented,” said Dr Anup Marar, director of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute and convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA). According to CA Amit Somani, MD of Kingsway Hospitals, the budget is growth-oriented. “It’s a very good move to invest in healthcare and education sector. Transparency on taxation and government’s move not to do business but to enable business is a welcome step,” he said. Small charitable trusts running hospitals will now get blanket exemption from tax on annual recept of Rs5 crore, instead of earlier Rs1 crore. This will benefit many trust-run hospitals in Nagpur and Vidarbha. Gadchiroli and Washim are two of the 112 aspirational districts where strategy will be intensified to improve nutritional outcomes under Mission Poshan 2.0. Pediatrician Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala welcomed the nationwide roll-out of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV). “This will save thousands of children from pneumonia and prevent child deaths in Vidarbha significantly. Presently, the pilot project in Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh has shown very good results,” he said. Doctors also welcomed special budget for pollution and environment, strengthening of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), expansion of integrated health information portal, and setting up of National Institution for One Health, which is most likely to be set up in Nagpur. Never Before Budget Separate Rs35k for Covid-19 vaccination indicates massive free vaccination in future Extension of pneumococcal vaccines in all states to save many lives in rural Vidarbha Gadchiroli and Washim districts to get benefit of Mission Poshan 2.0 Relief to small trusts running charitable hospitals will benefit many hospitals in Vidarbha Clean air budget for 42 cities with a million-plus population will benefit Nagpur National Institution for One Health at Mafsu, Nagpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-step-to-boost-rural-health-say-doctors/articleshow/80640216.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks Indrani Mukerjea’s medical report from jail||The Bombay HC on Monday sought a report from the jail authorities, by February 22, on a medical condition of Indrani Mukerjea, prime accused in Sheena Bora murder case. Mukerjea has sought bail on health grounds and merit. The HC also granted the CBI time to file its response to the bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-seeks-indranis-med-report-from-jail/articleshow/80639206.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 2, 2021||Amritsar||No relief for border farmers||AMRITSAR: Farmers having cultiviable land across the border fence have failed to get relief as the Union Budget has neither announced clearance of pending ‘inconvenience allowance’ given to them nor offered to acquire 11 feet wide ‘no-man land’ situated on the international border with Pakistan in Punjab and full compensation of 44 feet wide land with barbed fence. “We had high hopes from the Union government for clearing the backlog of compensation given to farmers who have their cultivable land beyond border fence all across the 553 km international border with Pakistan in Punjab,” said Border Area Sangarash Committee general secretary Rattan Singh on Monday. He alleged that both the Centre as well as state government never regularly pay the annual compensation of around Rs 10,000 per acre to farmers, as directed by the Punjab and Haryana high court. Sources said farmers in border districts of Punjab had been paid compensation till 2017. Puran Singh of Hardo Rattan village, who has land beyond the border fence, said they were expecting the government to announce clearance of pending compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/no-relief-for-border-farmers/articleshow/80639182.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||No relief for border farmers||AMRITSAR: Farmers having cultiviable land across the border fence have failed to get relief as the Union Budget has neither announced clearance of pending ‘inconvenience allowance’ given to them nor offered to acquire 11 feet wide ‘no-man land’ situated on the international border with Pakistan in Punjab and full compensation of 44 feet wide land with barbed fence. “We had high hopes from the Union government for clearing the backlog of compensation given to farmers who have their cultivable land beyond border fence all across the 553 km international border with Pakistan in Punjab,” said Border Area Sangarash Committee general secretary Rattan Singh on Monday. He alleged that both the Centre as well as state government never regularly pay the annual compensation of around Rs 10,000 per acre to farmers, as directed by the Punjab and Haryana high court. Sources said farmers in border districts of Punjab had been paid compensation till 2017. Puran Singh of Hardo Rattan village, who has land beyond the border fence, said they were expecting the government to announce clearance of pending compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-relief-for-border-farmers/articleshow/80639182.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Saradha scam: CBI told to probe Sudipta Sen letter||KOLKATA: The chief metropolitan magistrate at Bankshall court on Monday directed the CBI to investigate the purported letter written by Saradha kingpin Sudipta Sen in which he had taken a few new names linked to the scam. On December 19 last year, Sen had sent the letter to PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sen’s counsel Ayan Chakraborty said the chief metropolitan magistrate had asked CBI to investigate the allegations made by Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/saradha-cbi-told-to-probe-sen-letter/articleshow/80640218.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Leopard caught 9 days after its apartment visit||BENGALURU: A leopard that made two visits to an apartment complex on Begur Road in Yelenahalli in south Bengaluru in the latter half of January was rescued from the same locality early Monday. It walked into a cage that forest officials had set up behind the complex, Prestige Song of the South. A goat was used to lure it. The four-year-old male cat has been shifted to the Bannerghatta Biological Park, and it’s healthy, said range forest officer (KR Puram) Shivaratrikesha. A CCTV camera caught the leopard roaming around in the open car park of the 33-acre complex around 5.30am on January 23. It came from the nearby Bannerghatta forest. Police and forest teams rushed to the scene around 6am and conducted a six-hour search with no luck. Leopard shifted to BannerghattaAt 8.30pm the same day, the leopard was seen scaling the compound wall. The forest team placed cages at four locations and used a drone to survey the area, but there was no trace of it. Early Monday, the leopard walked into one of the traps. “A closer examination confirmed it was the leopard spotted on January 23,” assistant conservator of forest (Bengaluru Urban) G Venkatesh said. There are boulders on the edge of the vacant land and a lake. “Stray dogs live here. So food, shelter and water were readily available here,” he added. Residents of the complex are relieved. “We were worried as the leopard came here twice. We limited kids’ playing time and started walking in groups,” a resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/leopard-caught-9-days-after-its-apartment-visit/articleshow/80640789.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||After stoic silence, JJP tries to portray itself as farmers’ sympathiser||Chandigarh: Facing flak from farmers for supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government that introduced the ‘contentious’ agriculture laws, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), led by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, has been making all efforts to showcase itself as farmers’ sympathiser. The party leaders are not leaving any opportunity to express solidarity with farmers under one pretext or the other. The party, which emerged as popular regional outfit in the 2019 state assembly polls, is on the firing line for being the key ally of Manohar Lal Khattar led BJP government. There was some criticism of JJP when it had joined hands with BJP, when it managed to win 10 assembly seats in its very first election, and became part of coalition government. The criticism gotten more strong when the party leaders maintained a stoic silence even as the farmers’ protested against the agri-laws. However, since the launching of farmers agitation in September last year, when for the first time farmers had launched protest in Pipli in Kurukshetra, the JJP leaders have started to make statements now in favour of farmers. On September 17 last year, JJP leader Digvijay Chautala, younger brother of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, apologised to the farmers for September 10 incident when the state police resorted to lathi charge on the farmers protesting at Pipli. On December 4, Digvijay along with party’s state chief, Nishan Singh met Haryana home minister Anil Vij demanding withdrawal of criminal cases against the farmers registered at Kurukshetra. On December 1, Dushyant’s father and JJP chief Ajay Chautala sought written guarantee from the Centre on MSP. Again, on January 29, Digvijay defended farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been booked by Delhi Police after Republic Day violence in Delhi. According to political analysts, JJP may face more loss than its ally BJP in future elections because the majority of its voters are from rural belt that have been vigorously supporting the on-going farmers’ agitation. According to R S Chaudhary, senior INLD leader and former bureaucrat, JJP leaders know that they have lost ground in the state and are saving face by issuing occasional statements. “Problem with JJP is that if they quit coalition government, the BJP would open inquiries against them as they know their weaknesses and secrets. JJP could have retrieved the ground had they quit the alliance in the beginning of the farmers’ agitation,” Chaudhary said. He also questioned as to why JJP is using Digvijay to make such statements instead of Dushyant himself coming forward and addressing the issues. JJP’s attempts to showcase sympathy with farmers Sept 17, 2020 | Digvijay Chautala apologised to the farmers for September 10 incidents when the state police resorted to lathi charge on the farmers protesting at Pipli against the new agriculture laws Dec 1, 2020 | Dushyant’s father Ajay Chautala made a statement asking the central government to give in writing about MSP guarantee to the farmers Dec 4, 2020 | Digvijay along with party’s state chief Nishan Singh met Haryana home minister Anil Vij demanding withdrawal of criminal cases against the farmers Dec 7, 2020 | Digvijay asserted that all 10 JJP MLAs and the whole party stood in solidarity with the farmers. He said India is a country of food growers and most of the population is connected with farming families Dec 12, 2020 | Dushyant Chautala met with the Union ministers, including Rajnath Singh, Piyush Goyal and Narender Tomar and claimed that he has made an appeal to soon form a consensus on farmers demands. He also expressed hopes that the ongoing impasse to end in the next 24 to 48 hours. Jan 29 | Digvijay defended farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait who has been booked by Delhi Police after Republic Day violence in Delhi. He said Tikait is the son of the country’s most respected and legendary farmers’ leader Mahender Singh Tikait and it would be wrong to call him anti-national||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-stoic-silence-jjp-tries-to-portray-itself-as-farmers-sympathiser/articleshow/80639200.cms||Ajay Sura
February 2, 2021||Agra||Farmer told to sign Rs 5 lakh bond for inciting people in UP||AGRA: Accusing him of “instigating” people against agriculture laws, administration in UP’s Agra district has issued a notice to a prominent farmer leader asking him to sign a surety bond promising "lawful behaviour". Shyam Singh Chahar, 48, locally known as an anti-corruption crusader, has been served with the notice to sign the bond promising lawful behaviour for a year against a surety of Rs 5lakh. Chahar, meanwhile, has refused to sign the bond saying he would prefer to go jail. Based on the recommendation of local police, additional city magistrate (fourth) issued the challan of Rs 5lakh against Chahar. The notice says, “I additional city magistrate (ACM) is satisfied with the report submitted by the inspector in-charge of the Sadar police station and take cognizance of the matter under CrPC 107/116.” The notice, issued by ACM Vinod Kumar, has asked the farmer leader “why he should not be bound for one year by presenting a personal bond letter of Rs 5lakh value and guarantee of two people for security.” Chahar told TOI, “In any case, I will not submit any bond letter in court. I am talking to my lawyers and will challenge the matter in the High Court. I will continue to hold public meetings and will not halt the protest against the farm laws. I am not afraid to go to jail.” He added, “The Supreme Court has found the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders legal. It has constituted a committee to take note of farmers’ concerns related to the three farm laws. But, on the instruction of the state government, authorities are trying to spread terror among farmers.” Chahar, a resident of Rohta Bagh village, has been actively taking up issues concerning farmers for the last eight years. Locals also credit him with exposing corruption in the irrigation and agriculture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmer-leader-in-agra-told-to-sign-rs-5l-bond-for-instigating-people-against-agri-laws/articleshow/80636460.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Aam aadmi disappointed over mixed bag budget||Nagpur: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Union Budget proposals for 2021-2022 evoked mixed reactions from the aam aadmi. The reactions veered from extreme to moderate as retailers rued imposition of agriculture and infrastructure development cess on fuel prices, which they feel, would impact their disposable income, while some felt the effect of the measures announced in the budget would be visible in the long run. The government’s stringent fiscal measures focusing on capital expenditure and infrastructure development will create more jobs, feels retailer Avi Agrawal, who owns a supermarket chain in the city. According to him, main focus is on growth which is very important at a time when many have lost jobs due to the pandemic. “Game will be on its implementation and planning should be done properly,” he said and added Sitharaman’s budget has no negative or positive impact on traders. “For traders, there are hardly any gains. Cess will surely increase fuel prices. Almost everything that the middle class buys is set to get expensive. The rich and the upper middle class will feel the pinch the most,” pointed out Aayuush Daga, director of Appynitty Communications Private Limited. “It’s certainly a progressive budget that gives positive vibes,” said Pramod Batra, event manager and director, AddmAArk Events. “Reducing margin money in Startup India scheme to 15% from earlier 25% is a booster dose for youth of India. Seven textile parks and five new fishing hubs will generate huge export and employment opportunities, he said and added that increasing emergency fund to Rs30,000 crore from Rs500 crore is a very strong message to citizens of India and to the world as well. Reduction in customs duty by 5% on gold and silver will definitely boost jewellery markets in the city as it will bring down prices of both the precious metals, said city jewellers. Already retail business is very low and the cut in duty would infuse life in it, they said. “Modi government has never favoured the middle class,” feels homemaker Anuradha Bhojak. “Though ruled out by the FM, introduction of agriculture and infrastructure development cess of Rs2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs4 per litre on diesel will directly affect the middle class in the long run. This is a very disappointing budget,” she said. Mahendra Luley, vice-president, Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tankers Bus Vahatuk Mahasangh, termed the budget a major disappointment for transport industry. It was only to boost metro rail and railways in the country, he said. Already, the transport industry is in trouble due to Covid-19 pandemic and the introduction of cess on fuel prices will break the remaining backbone of the sector, he said. Anand Chandwani, who owns a mobile shop in Sitabuldi, said increase in import duty on mobile phones and parts may boost local production. But there should have been a friendly policy, he pointed out. He, however, was quick to term the budget “not a bold one”. “Basically, a visionless one. The budget would make rich richer and the poor poorer,” he said. “The middle class got nothing. The tax rates, surcharges, cess etc have been left untouched. The budget is to be seen as a sum of many parts of the policies announced in 2020,” he said. Shrawan Kumar Malu, president of Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association (VTA), said: VTA’s pending demand is somewhat fulfilled by the government by announcing voluntary vehicle scrappage policy to phase out old and unfit vehicles. Admittedly the government hasn’t changed direct taxes, however it took steps in direct tax incentives to ease compliance for taxpayers. The proposal to revise definition of small companies under Companies Act, 2013, by increasing thresholds for paid-up capital from not exceeding Rs50 lakh to not exceeding Rs2 crore and turnover from not exceeding Rs2 crore to not exceeding Rs20 crore is a welcome step, he said. VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu welcomed the budget. Farmers and infrastructure get required importance and Rs5,976 crore for Nagpur Metro’s Phase II is welcome. However, hospitality sector was expecting some relief being the worst-hit due to the ongoing pandemic, which unfortunately got missed, said Renu, who is also president of Nagpur Residential Hotels Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aam-aadmi-disappointed-over-mixed-bag-budget/articleshow/80640245.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||‘BJP misleading people to break mass movements’||Hisar: Professor Jagmohan Singh, nephew of freedom movement hero Bhagat Singh, reached Chaudharywas toll plaza in Hisar on Monday to lend suport to the ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws. He described the agitation as historic. A spokesperson for local farm groups, Subhash Kaushik, said Jagmohan was welcomed by residents of Bhiwani Rohilla village, who greeted him with 25 bullock carts bearing tricolor flags and all bulls’ horns painted in the tricolor. Addressing farmers, Jagmohan said organisations like BJP and RSS had always been misleading people to break mass movements, but now it had become clear that lakhs of farmers remained peaceful even on Republic Day. Meanwhile, under the banner of Kisan Sahyog Manch, Sarva Karmchari Union, Haryana Employees Federation and Joint Employees Union Haryana launched a signature campaign in support of farmers movement at Hisar bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-misleading-people-to-break-mass-movements/articleshow/80639208.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Restore net in Hry: Plea in HC||Chandigarh: A petition has been filed before the Punjab and Haryana high court against the suspension of internet services in Haryana on account of farmers agitation. The matter has reached the court in the wake of a petition filed by Navjeet Singh (45), a resident of Mohali district in Punjab. He had sought directions to restore internet services with immediate effect for the residents of Haryana. Services have been stopped since January 27. According to the petitioner, on January 29, while visiting Singhu border, where farmers have been protesting against Centre’s agriculture bills, he came to know internet services to the people of Haryana — including professionals working from home due to Covid-19 pandemic, students, traders and shopkeepers and common people — had been suspended by the state government. He said the decision had been taken by Haryana without any reasonable cause, resulting in violation of rights given in Article 19 of the Constitution regarding freedom of speech. Petition also stated that the people of Haryana were facing great hardships due to “illegal action” taken by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restore-net-in-hry-plea-in-hc/articleshow/80639212.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||DMCH janitor commits suicide||Ludhiana: A 54-year-old man allegedly hanged himself to death from a ceiling fan at his house near Kitchlu Nagar early on Monday.The matter came to light when his wife and daughter returned home in the morning. The deceased, Davinder Singh, 54, worked as a janitor at DMC Hospital. Davinder was alone at home as his wife and daughter had gone to meet his elder daughter. In the morning, when the two returned home and knocked on the door, they got no response. With the help of neighbours they broke open the door and found Davinder hanging. Additional SHO at PAU police station sub inspector Ajit Singh said, “We have recorded the statements of the family. They told that Davinder was a heavy drinker and had been upset for the past some days. We have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dmch-janitor-commits-suicide/articleshow/80635735.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Agra||‘Budget has very less to offer to farmers’||Agra: Farmers in Agra region didn’t find any beneficial announcement in the Union budget presented in the parliament on Monday. Farmer leaders said by increasing the agriculture credit target at Rs 16.5 lakh crore for the financial year 2021-22, the government wants to keep them in debt. More loan will only worsen the already poor financial situation of the producers. Farmer leaders who watched the entire speech of the finance minister said no concrete plan was presented to double the income of the farmers. Besides, there was no mention of any plan to put a tab on stray animals causing major losses to the farmers. Small farmers were expecting an increase in benefit under the income support scheme PM- Kisan. Farmers of Agra region, which is the largest potato producer in the country, were also expecting an announcement for setting up a potato processing unit. Agra district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajveer Lawaniya said, “We are totally dissatisfied with this budget. The government didn’t come up with any concrete plan to provide minimum support price (MSP). The BJP government has been talking about doubling the farmers’ income but there was nothing to fulfil that in the budget. Farmers were expecting that the government would make at least 50 percent increase in the Rs 6,000 annual handout under the PM-Kisan scheme. The long-standing demand of a potato processing unit in Agra region was also not addressed. Overall, the budget had very less to offer to the farmers. It was disappointing.” Agra-based farmer leader Somveer Yadav said, “We had expected the government to declare MSP for potato and wheat. However, there was no word on it. In the entire budget, the finance minister only tried to mislead the farmers. The budget has no concrete plan to increase the income of the farmers. Instead of increasing the agri-lending target, the government should have made efforts to put a tab on the dependences of farmers on loans. Farmers are distressed as they are not getting the right price for their crops.” General secretary of potato producers’ association of Agra region Mohammad Aamir said, “Potato is cultivated on around 72,000 hectares in Agra district. At present, there are 270 cold storage facilities in the district with a capacity of over 25 lakh metric tonnes. Since past several years we have been raising the demand for a potato processing unit which was promised by PM Modi before 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Farmers were expecting that the government would address that demand in the budget. But there was no mention of it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/budget-has-very-less-to-offer-to-farmers/articleshow/80636494.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||All teachers of govt senior sec schools to be tested for Covid||Ludhiana: As many teachers of various government senior secondary schools have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past some days, the health department has asked the education department to share with them a list of all teachers. The health department plans to collect samples of teachers of all government senior secondary schools in the district to contain the spread of the virus.Recently, 14 teachers of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan, Jagraon, had tested positive for Covid-19. One of them had succumbed to the disease on January 23. Days later, five teachers, including the principal, of Government Senior Secondary School, Gidder Widdi, Sidhwan Bet, were confirmed to have contracted the virus. The health department officials said on January 30, a 40-year-old teacher of Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Dakha, had also tested positive. Besides, a 44-year-old teacher of Government High School in Mandiani and a 42-year-old educator of a private senior secondary school in Ludhiana were also down with the disease, they added. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said, “The health department has asked the district education officer (DEO-secondary) to share the list of teachers of government senior secondary schools so that they could be tested. Besides throwing light on the source, this will help ensure the disease doesn’t spread and students are not infected. Once we get the list, we will start testing.” The officials said, “Many teachers had tested positive during contact tracing. We had planned their testing earlier as well, but didn’t get a good response.” “Ghalib Kalan Government Senior Secondary School’s 14 teachers, 27 students and two of their contacts have so far tested positive,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-teachers-of-govt-senior-sec-schools-to-be-tested-for-covid/articleshow/80635742.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Trains diverted, short-terminated||ROHTAK: Hundreds of farmers travelling by the Kisan Express from Bathinda to Delhi had to deboard at the Rohtak railway station after the train was short-terminated on Monday by the local administration. The farmers, who were going to Delhi to join the ongoing protests against the three new farm laws, hired autorickshaws at the railway station to travel further. Several other Delhi-bound farmers who had boarded the Punjab Mail (Ferozpur-Delhi-Mumbai route) were also stranded when the train was diverted from here to Rewari-Alwar towards Mumbai route. Meanwhile, the Ganganagar-Haridwar-Bathinda Express train that reached the Rohtak railway station at 11.45am with several farmers from Punjab on board was made to halt for 15 minutes before being allowed to move further towards Bahadurgarh in Haryana and short-terminated. DSP Gorakhpal Rana told media persons that they had received information of farmers from Punjab travelling in trains in large numbers to reach Delhi to join the protesters against the new farm laws. Rohtak railway station master B S Meena refused to comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/trains-diverted-short-terminated/articleshow/80639213.cms||Sat Singh
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Labourer, 21, arrested for raping 14-year-old neighbour||LUDHIANA: The police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old labourer for raping his 14-year-old neighbour. The minor’s mother said in her police complaint, “The accused lives alone here and knows our family. On Sunday night, my daughter had gone to the washroom. When she did not return for some time, I went looking for her and saw the accused raping her there. On seeing me, he escaped.” Inspector Davinder Kumar said, “We have arrested the accused, who hails from Uttar Pradesh and works as a labourer here. He is an orphan and has a sister who is married in UP. An FIR under section 376 (rape) of the IPC and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been lodged.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labourer-21-arrested-for-raping-14-yr-old-neighbour/articleshow/80635743.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Industry’s worries ironed out with steely measures||BUDGETLudhiana: Unlike her last budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman this time managed to please businessmen by allaying their fears of new taxes or Covid cess due to the setback faced by the government in the pandemic. Ludhiana businessmen were happy with the measures announced to control the incessant increase in the rates of iron and steel raw material. The steps included reducing import duty on semis, flat, long products of non-alloy, alloy and stainless steel. Exempting import duty on scrap was another major relief for furnace and other allied industries. The announcement of vehicle scrapping policy has fulfilled the long-pending demand of the auto parts’ and fasteners’ industry and it may boost the demand. Pankaj Sharma, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) vice-president, said, “Though this Budget was more south and east India-centric, we are satisfied. Addressing the biggest problem of the engineering sector—the increase in the rates of iron and steel raw material in the past few months— the FM has reduced the import duty on several products. This will not only reduce the rates of imported raw material, but the local steel producers too will have to lower rates of their products to compete in the market.”Though saddened by no major relief in tax reduction and income tax exemption limit enhancements, Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of the United Cycle and Parts’ Manufacturing Association (UCPMA), said they were happy that no new taxes were imposed. “Besides, several revolutionary steps have been taken related to direct taxes, which will eventually benefit the business community,” he said. Jaswinder Singh Bhogal, CICU vice-president, also felt that the budget focused more on southern and eastern states. “But we are happy about the commitments made on the healthcare sector. Though more could have been done for the farming sector, the announcement of adding 1,000 e-mandis is a good initiative. For micro, small and medium enterprises, allocation of Rs 15,700 crore is a welcome step, but it is yet uncertain where and how this amount will be spent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/industrys-worries-ironed-out-with-steely-measures/articleshow/80635749.cms||Mohit Behl
February 2, 2021||Surat||Surat’s lab-grown diamonds set to get more glitter||SURAT: The domestic lab-grown diamond or synthetic diamond industry is set to get a major boost with the union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman increasing the basic customs duty (BCD) on the import of cut and polished synthetic diamonds from 7.5% to 15%. The lab-grown diamonds cut and polished in India are attracting buyers from new markets such as Germany, Italy and Australia with the economic uncertainty caused by the coronavirus pandemic making the natural diamonds unaffordable for most of the consumers in the global markets. In recent times, the Indian consumers, too have turned to the lab-grown diamonds during the pandemic to flaunt their jewellery with the sparkling gems. Industry sources said about 95% of the lab-grown diamonds manufactured in Surat are exported to the US sa they are 60% cheaper than the natural gems. Many leading diamond jewellery brands in the US, including Signet Jewellers, the largest retailer of diamond jewellery, now sell lab-grown diamonds. Lab-grown Diamond and Jewellery Promotion Council (LGDJPC) chairman Shashikant Shah told TOI, “The increase in the customs duty on synthetic cut and polished diamonds is going to boost the domestic lab-grown diamond manufacturing. About Rs 500 crore worth of lab-grown polished diamonds are imported in the country per annum.” Shah said the lab-grown diamond exports have achieved double-digit growth during the Covid-19 pandemic when the exports of natural diamonds dipped. “There are over 2,000 small and medium units in Surat manufacturing lab-grown diamonds. After unlock-1, the lab-grown diamond units are working at their full capacity due to increased demand. These diamonds are studded in gold and bling jewellery in the US,” added Shah. According to the figures of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the export of lab-grown diamonds between April-December 2020 increased 64% to Rs 3,600 crore compared to Rs 2,200 crore during the same period in previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-lab-grown-diamonds-set-to-get-more-glitter/articleshow/80638198.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Tannery owners hope for production expansion||Kolkata: The Centre’s withdrawal of exemption on imports on certain types of leather would boost both production as well as manufacturing units in Bengal, tannery owners and manufacturers said. It will provide impetus to leather traders who were badly hit due to import of leather from neighbouring countries. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech announced the withdrawal of exemption and imposing of 10% customs duty. “We are withdrawing exemption on imports of certain kinds of leathers as they are domestically produced in good quantity and quality, mostly by micro, small and medium enterprises,” the finance minister said in her speech. The withdrawal will, however, not help importers of leather and finished products. Bengal is the hub of production, manufacture and export of leather goods in India, having about 50% share of total exports in this category. Of around 2,000 tanneries in India, Bengal has about 538 units, accounting for 26.6% of the establishments. The industry employs 2.5 million people, and a large part (nearly 60%-65%) of the production is in the small/micro sector. The number of leather footwear units in Bengal is about 230 and that of leather goods units 436. “The government has raised import duty on three varieties of leather, which are wet blue, crust leather and finished leather. This is going to help the tannery owners in the state. We produce all the three varieties here,” said Ramesh Juneja, regional chairman of Council of Leather Exports. The Calcutta Leather Complex in Bantala, which is spread over 1,100 acres is Asia’s largest integrated leather complex with centralised effluent treatment plant. Currently, there are close to 425 units inside, employing close to 2.5 lakh people. “The leather industry has suffered hugely due to several reasons, ranging from policies to pollution. This step by the government will help boost the industry and increase demand of the domestic products,” said Mohammad Shakil Ansari, joint secretary of Calcutta Footwear Association in Topsia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tannery-owners-hope-for-production-expansion/articleshow/80639229.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Agra||Mathura court re-issues production warrant for Rauf accused in PFI case & kept in Kerala prison||Agra: A Mathura court on Monday re-issued a production warrant for the third time for central leader of the Campus Front of India (CFI) Rauf Shareef who was arrested in Kerala by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a case of funding and stirring up protests after the assault and death of a 19-year-old girl in Hathras last year. The court also extended judicial custody of four PFI men, including a journalist, to 14 days. District government council Shivram Singh told TOI that Shareef failed to appear in the court of the additional district and sessions judge (I) Anil Kumar Pandey for the second time. The STF obtained Shareef’s production warrant from the court on Monday and will produce him before February 16. Since January 1, this is the third production warrant issued by the court. Meanwhile, the court extended the judicial custody of four PFI men booked under charges of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by Mathura police on October 5 last year, to 14 days on an application filed by STF. The four - Siddique Kappan (41), a journalist with a Malayalam-language news site in Delhi, Atikur Rahman (28) of Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad (28) from Bahraich, and Aalam (37) from Rampur, are at present lodged in Mathura jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-court-re-issues-production-warrant-for-rauf-accused-in-pfi-case-kept-in-kerala-prison/articleshow/80636511.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Rs 45 lakh looted, guard shot dead in Supaul||PATNA: Two unidentified criminals looted Rs 45 lakh from the cash van of a private agency after killing its security guard in Supaul district on Monday. In two other incidents, the owner of a medical store was robbed of Rs5 lakh in Muzaffarpur while criminals looted Rs 2 lakh from a trader in Gaya district the same day. In Supaul, police said the criminals intercepted the security guard and an employee of a private agency under Jadia police station area at around 4.15pm when they were about to load the cash in the State Bank of India (SBI) ATM located on the Kumarkhand Road. The injured was rushed to Triveniganj hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. The deceased belonged to Pipra police station area in the district. One of the criminals standing near the ATM fired on the guard, Sanjay Kumar (30), when he resisted the loot. He received bullet injuries on his head. The criminals escaped with the cash on a motorbike that they had parked on the road, Triveniganj SDPO Ganpati Thakur said. Ashish Kumar, the employee of the agency assigned to load cash in ATMs in the region, told the police that the security guard was shot when he offered resistance. Jadia police station SHO Pankaj Kumar said raids were on to nab the criminals. The CCTV footage is being obtained to ascertain the identity of the robbers, who were stated to be in the 20-25 years age group. In another incident, miscreants looted Rs5 lakh from medical store owner Krishna Mohan Kumar near Dholi Agriculture College when he was on way to deposit the cash in Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank under Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur district. The victim’s medical store is located at Sabaha under Muraul block in the district. Sakra police station SHO Ramnath Prasad said an FIR has been lodged against two unidentified criminals on the statement of the victim. In yet another incident, one Manoj Sao was robbed of Rs2 lakh at gunpoint under Mufassil police station area in Gaya district on Monday. Sao, a resident of Pale village under Wazirganj police station in Gaya, was robbed when he was going to a local fuel outlet on his motorbike after withdrawing the cash from a bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs45l-looted-guard-shot-dead-in-supaul/articleshow/80638240.cms||Ramashankar
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Jind farmers block highway to protest ban on mobile internet||JIND: The farmers of Kandela village blocked the Chandigarh-Jind national highway on Monday evening after the Haryana government extended the ban on internet services in seven districts, including Jind, till 5pm on February 2. Two days ago, a dozen Jind khaps had announced that they would block highways if internet services were not restored. A farmer from Kandela, Raman Kumar, said the government has been harassing them and their children by extending the ban on internet services in Jind and six other districts in the state. “We are carrying out peaceful protests, but the government continues its dictatorial role by extending internet ban. Instead of hearing farmers’ problems, the government has created problems for our children too,” he added. After the government banned the internet services, farmers decided to use temple loudspeakers to make their voice heard and reach out to the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jind-farmers-block-highway-to-protest-ban-on-mobile-internet/articleshow/80639216.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
February 2, 2021||Trichy||Operation Smile to rescue missing kids||Trichy: A special camp -- Operation Smile-- aimed at rescuing missing children was inaugurated at Trichy railway junction on Monday.Superintendent of police, government railway police (GRP), Trichy T Senthilkumar said that the camp will be held under the jurisdiction of 24 government railway police (GRP) stations and six outposts in Trichy railway police limit from February 1 to 15.GRP with the support of Railway Childline organisation will be carrying out the process throughout the 15 days. “The special camp will focus on rescuing the missing children, runaway children, bonded labourers and those being trafficked from other states. During the camp, we will be reviewing the pending cases as well,” said Senthilkumar.He also informed that there will be a helpdesk functioning at all the places and a child welfare police officer will be on duty. Chairperson of child welfare committee (CWC), Trichy R Kamala said that CWC Trichy came across 695 rescued children during the lockdown period. The rescued children included 80 runaway children and 176 children rescued from child marriage, sexual offences etc. “Our objective is to provide care and protection to the children,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/operation-smile-to-rescue-missing-kids/articleshow/80639221.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||‘4k vehicles leave Punjab for Delhi’||Bathinda/Patiala: Nearly 4,000 farmers left from Punjab for the protests on the state borders of Delhi on Monday. The protesters left in 292 vehicles, mainly tractor-trolleys and canters, from 12 districts, claimed farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). It has asked its activists not to prefer going to Delhi by train and reach there only on own vehicles. Nearly 1,000 farmers had to suffer harassment when they were headed for Delhi on the Ferozepur-Mumbai Punjab Mail train in the wee hours of Monday. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said the central government was doing everything to stop farmers from assembling at Delhi borders. “Spikes are being put on road and concrete barricades are being put there to stop movement of vehicles. The railways are harassing farmers by diverting route. Farmers, despite all this, are determined to reach Delhi borders and leave from Punjab as today over 4,000 farmers left for Delhi,” he said. Group trains volunteers BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has been motivating farmers sitting at protest sites to avoid using Nishan Sahib flags. It has trained volunteers to keep a watch on anyone who does and also to counter miscreants by identifying them at the protest site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4k-vehicles-leave-punjab-for-delhi/articleshow/80639223.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Trichy||Bomb threat to airport turns hoax||Trichy: Security was beefed up at the Trichy International Airport after one of the staff there received a bomb threat call here on Monday. According to police, the terminal manager had received the call at around 8am on Monday. The caller – a woman, had told that a bomb would explode at the airport. Subsequently, the official informed the airport director S Dharmaraj who in turn alerted the central industrial security force (CISF). The CISF personnel conducted a thorough check along with the bomb squad and a sniffer dog in the terminal. However, the threat turned out to be a hoax, airport sources said.Based on a complaint by the airport authority, Airport police registered a case and conducted an inquiry. There were no disturbances for the regular flight operations at the airport due to the threat, Dharmaraj told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bomb-threat-to-airport-turns-hoax/articleshow/80639225.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Agra||Python brings Agra’s busy road to a halt||Agra: A seven-foot-long Indian Rock python brought traffic to a standstill on the busy Ambedkar Bridge here on Sunday evening. The python was spotted coiled up near the boundary wall of the over bridge between Yamuna river and the road. Commuters soon alerted police, who sought help from Wildlife SOS, an NGO, to rescue the python. The reptile was rescued and is currently kept under observation. It will be released back in its natural habitat once deemed fit, said NGO’s officials. According to Wildlife SOS, a team of two trained snake rescuers arrived at the spot where a large crowd of curious bystanders had gathered around the busy road to witness the rescue operation. The team carefully transferred the reptile in a safe transport container, specially designed for the purpose. “During winters, cold-blooded animals such as reptiles are forced to seek shelter in warmer places around human habitation,” said Baiju Raj M.V, director, Conservation Projects for Wildlife SOS. The Indian Rock Python (Python molurus) is a non-venomous snake that mostly inhabits mangrove forests, scrub jungles, rainforests and grasslands. They primarily feed on rodents, fruit bats, birds, civets, deer and wild boar. This species is protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and listed under Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES), which regulates the international trade of wildlife species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/python-brings-agras-busy-road-to-a-halt/articleshow/80636530.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Amritsar||‘Agri provisions bitter harvest sugar-coated’||BATHINDA: Farm groups have termed the Union Budget a “bitter harvest for farmers being sold as sweet harvest”. Claiming there was nothing worthwhile in the Budget for them, they said the claims of doubling farm income by 2022 were nowhere to be seen in reality.  They alleged that misleading claims were being made on minimum support price (MSP) which was being given only on two crops and the benefits of that too were not being availed by most farmers. They said they had already rejected the claim of the Union government of MSP being 1.5 times of the input cost of crops and had demanded that the ambit of PM Kisan should be enlarged but it was not done. “Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman totally lied while making claims of providing 1.5 times of cost as MSP on wheat and paddy. The formula of calculating the price is faulty. The farmers have been demanding the fixation of MSP as per C2 plus 50% profit by calculating all the ingredients, including rent on land, family labour and rent of machinery, but the government is not considering many elements while determining the input cost. What’s more, MSP is given on only two crops whereas farmers have been demanding on all 23 crops. In all, only 6% farmers are getting benefit of MSP, which is not acceptable,” said BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. Farm leader Jagmohan Singh said, “FM claims the government is on the way to doubling farm income by 2022, but where is the report card to show how much progress has been achieved so far on the count. Only hollow claims will not work, show us where government and farmers stand as 2022 is only a year away. Tell us how the income will be doubled in just one year.” BKU Krantikari president Surjit Singh Phool said the benefit of PM Kisan had been provided to only nine crore farmers, whereas it was to be given to 14 crore farmers. “Why its ambit was not enlarged to cover all the 14 crore farmers. The other flagship scheme Fasal Bima Yojna has failed to provide benefit to farmers so they are not coming forward to subscribe to it,” he claimed. Jai Kisan Andolan’s Avik Saha said the FM in the Budget speech did not share details about flagship schemes like doubling of farmers’ income by putting up a scorecard, allocations for Pradhan Mantri Anndaata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA), price support scheme-market intervention scheme (PSS-MIS), PM Fasal Bima Yojna, its allocation and status. The government claimed that 1,000 more markets would be covered under eNAM but this model was not working in Punjab and many other states because the infrastructure had not been put in place and farmers had not been made fully aware of it, said farmer Gurdial Singh of village Sangat in Bathinda. Minister Sitharaman told Parliament, “In case of wheat, the total amount paid to farmers in 2013-14 was Rs 33,874 crore. In 2019-20, it was Rs 62,802 crore and in 2020-21, it was over Rs 75,000 crore. The number of wheat growing farmers that were benefited increased in 2020-21 to 43.36 lakh compared to 35.57 lakh in 2019-20.” For paddy, she said, the amount paid in 2013-14 was Rs 63,928 crore. In 2019-20, it increased to Rs 1,41,930 crore and was estimated to increase to Rs 1,72,752 crore in 2020-21. Number of paddy farmers benefited increased from 1.2 crore in 2019-20 to 1.54 crore in 2020-21. In pulses, Rs 236 crore was paid to farmers in 2013-14 and in 2020-21, it was at Rs 10,530 crore, more than 40 times increase from 2013-14. “Similarly, Rs 90 crore was paid in 2013-14 to cotton farmers, while Rs 25,974 crore has been paid in 2020-21 as of January 27,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/agri-provisions-bitter-harvest-sugar-coated/articleshow/80639228.cms||Neel Kamal
February 2, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar praises ‘balanced budget’||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday hailed the Union Budget 2021-22 presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, calling it a “balanced budget” despite the Covid-19 pandemic, and difficulty in revenue collection. “The budget is praiseworthy. I congratulate the Union government for presenting a balanced budget,” Nitish said, adding, the budget of Rs 34.8 lakh crore presented for FY 2021-22 is more than the estimated budgetary expenditure of Rs 30.42 lakh crore for the FY 2020-21. He further said 41% share would go to the state governments as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. “Besides, a provision of Rs 2,23,000 crore has been made in the health sector, which is 137% more than the previous year. Additionally, there is provision for setting up of National Institute of World Health,” Nitish added. “The Centre has decided to provide LPG cylinders to additional one crore families under the Ujjawala Yojana. This step is praiseworthy. Besides, 100 new cities would get gas pipeline,” Nitish said. The Bihar CM further pointed out, “There is a plan to develop seven mega textile parks with world-class infrastructures in the country in the next three years. This will not only provide new employment opportunities but also increase exports from the country.” Nitish said the Bihar government has already decided to install pre-paid smart power meters in each household. The Centre has now decided to extend this work in other states. He said the necessary steps have been taken in the Union Budget to promote the use of solar and renewable energy and funds would be provided to control air pollution. “It is a good step towards protection of the environment in the country,” Nitish said. “There is a target of spending Rs 5.50 lakh crore as capital expenditure for infrastructure development. It is more than last year’s budget proposal,” he said. Nitish also hailed the Centre’s decision to exempt the pensioners above the age of 75 years from filing income tax returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-praises-balanced-budget-despite-pandemic/articleshow/80638297.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||ST bus topples in Goregaon, driver who had fled held||MUMBAI: Two people sustained injuries after a state-run bus, on city transport duty, toppled on one side in Goregaon injuring a passenger and bus conductor around 11.30pm on Thursday. The driver who fled the scene has been arrested. The driver, Dattatreya Dahakale was held on Friday.A case of rash driving has been registered. The injured conductor told the police that the driver fled without taking them to a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/st-bus-topples-in-goregaon-driver-who-had-fled-held/articleshow/80638312.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress leaders meet Shah to find persons missing since R-Day||Chandigarh: Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, MP Manish Tiwari and MLA Dr Raj Kumar on Monday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi to take up the issue of persons from Punjab missing in the national capital since Republic Day kisan tractor parade. Randhawa later told media that in order to fight the legal cases of persons arrested by Delhi Police, the Punjab government had constituted a team of 40 advocates who had already started their work. He said the advocates would meet arrested persons and their families and fight legal battle to provide justice to these persons free of cost. The minister said they also appealed the central government to take a lenient view towards the arrested persons. Randhawa said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had contacted the Union home minister and this led to Monday’s meeting being held to know the whereabouts of these missing persons. “During the meeting, the Union home minister informed that the list of arrested persons has been uploaded on the home ministry`s website and if the state government provides any other list of missing persons, the central government would leave no stone unturned to find such persons,” said Randhawa. He added Shah’s response was positive. The minister said Shah also informed them that the central government was ready for talks and waiting for farmers` response regarding the three farm laws. “The CM has called an all-party meeting on February 2 to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of farm laws and farmers agitation in the light of recent developments in Delhi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-congress-leaders-meet-shah-to-find-persons-missing-since-r-day/articleshow/80639239.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Trichy||Sasi return won’t save AIADMK from poll defeat, says Elangovan||Trichy: Former TNCC chief E V K S Elangovan has said there is no chance of the AIADMK coming back to power whether V K Sasikala returns to the party or not. “It is good to hear that V K Sasikala has completely recovered. Nothing will happen with the AIADMK whether she returns to the party or not. One thing is sure is that the AIADMK will not come to power again,” he said .He said hundreds of farmers from across the country were protesting in Delhi demanding withdrawal of the three agriculture acts. Despite 10 rounds of peace talks, no consensus was arrived at and now the Union government was oppressing the strike. It does not behove of a democracy. “If this situation continues, the general public will get involved in the struggle in support of the farmers,” he added. The AICC will decide on the number of seats the party will have in the DMK alliance for the upcoming assembly election. Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Tamil Nadu has boosted the party’s prospects in the state. So the seat allocation will also be based on that, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sasi-return-wont-save-aiadmk-from-poll-defeat-says-elangovan/articleshow/80639235.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||City bizmen welcome balanced budget||Nagpur: Businessmen heaved a sigh of relief as their fears of a Covid cess being imposed in the budget did not come true. Calling it a balanced budget, city businessmen said there was a general feeling the government may impose a Covid cess due to the pandemic, which did not happen. There was initial enthusiasm about the move to exempt senior citizens from filing returns if they only have pension and interest income. However, reading the fine print shows that it may not bring any major difference. This is because interest income has to come from the same bank in which pension is deposited, pointed out chartered accountants Tejindersingh Rawal and Naresh Jhakotia at the Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA). The industrialists at VIA, however, appreciated the move to reduce the number of years for reopening of returns from six to three years in investigation cases. “In fact, we had demanded that it should be reduced to five years but the budget has brought it down to three,” said Ashok Chandak, a chartered accountant. “Moreover, the reopening of returns cannot happen without the approval of officer of Principal Chief Commissioner’s rank,” added VIA president Suresh Rathi. The move to disallow expenditure if the contribution towards provident fund is delayed was also appreciated by the industrialists here. Shiv Kumar Rao, president of Vidarbha Economic Development Council (VED), described the budget as historic and excellent. “The capital expenditure has been increased to boost demand. Taxes have also not been increased. Growth sentiments will thus continue. VED will make efforts to attract a mega textile park in Vidarbha. The minister also said that national logistics policy would be announced soon, which is long awaited,” he said. Rao further said that Vidarbha stands to benefit from east-west and north-south railway corridors. Pradip Khandelwal, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA), said that FM had cleared Nagpur Metro phase II and credit went to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. “The government has increased cess on petrol and diesel, which is a bad thing. Similarly, duty on solar products should not have been increased. Additional tax exemption of Rs1.5 lakh has been given for affordable housing, which is welcome. It is good that the government tried to reduce prices of raw material, including steel,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-bizmen-welcome-balanced-budget/articleshow/80640329.cms||Shishir Arya
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Kasimedu harbour to get new berth, finger jetty, cams||Chennai: The Kasimedu fishing harbour, the biggest fish landing centre in the state, is set to get a new berth, a finger jetty and a perimeter wall, with nearly Rs 150 crore being sanctioned in the Union budget on Monday. A senior Tamil Nadu fisheries department official told TOI the new berth, on the northern side of the breakwater, can anchor 75 trawlers and deep-sea fishing vessels. The 150-metre-long finger jetty, set to come up close to Nagoorar thottam, can anchor more than 100 small fibre boats fitted with outboard motors. While the proposed perimeter wall, which will cover the entire boundary of the harbour, is to be 1,350 metres long, the department also plans to have closed-circuit television cameras all around the harbour to improve the security, said the official. At present, there are more than 2,000 boats in the fishing harbour that sprawls over 24.28 hectares on the land side and 48.56 hectares on the water side. Welcoming the proposal to improve the fishing harbour, South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association president K Bharathi said over the years, the number of boats (of different sizes) at the harbour had increased considerably. But, the existing area is not adequate and the new facility will help decongest the area, he said. The setting up of CCTV cameras was what boat owners had been demanding over the last couple of years as most the anchored boats would have different types of nets, outboard motors, tools for repairing, while some would also store fuel, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kasimedu-harbour-to-get-new-berth-finger-jetty-cams/articleshow/80639243.cms||P Oppili
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Is someone manipulating Madanapalle sisters’ social media?||Tirupati: Is someone trying to manipulate the social media accounts of the two girls who were killed by their parents at Madanapalle in Chittoor district on January 24? While police investigation continues, an online friend of Alekhya, the elder of the two sisters, suspects someone may have manipulated the deceased sisters’ social media accounts to divert the investigation. Lucknow-based Mrinaal Prem Swaroop Srivastava, who used to chat with Alekhya regularly during the lockdown months, told TOI that someone is carefully moulding public perception towards Alekhya by trying to portray her as the perpetrator of the crime. “Alekhya and I were good friends for nearly 10 months. I have never seen a more rational person than her ever in my life. She wasn’t as spiritual as she is being depicted and was a girl with a modern mindset. Her focus was mainly on meditation. Despite being from a wealthy family, she always wanted to be financially independent. She even signed up with Chegg (a California-based education technology company) and would stay awake till 3 am to tutor students online,” Srivastava said. Alekhya said many times she wanted to settle down in Delhi and travel across the country, he recalled. “I was shocked and numbed when I heard about her death. I still can’t get it out of my head. We used to connect and chat regularly on various social media platforms. I have seen her younger sister’s (Sai Divya) comments on multiple posts of Alekhya on both Facebook and Instagram accounts,” he added. “But something is not right with their social media accounts now. While Sai Divya’s FB account has been deleted, her Instagram page only has Alekhya’s pictures with no posts to show. What is shocking is Alekhya’s Insta page was not in the public domain earlier. But after her deaths, someone seems to have manipulated the security settings of her account so that private information could be made visible to everyone. It is clear that someone is trying to portray her as the villain by completely scrubbing off Sai Divya’s online presence,” Srivastava said. When contacted, Madanapalle DSP Ravi Manoharachary said police are investigating the case from multiple angles, including scrutinising the social media accounts of the deceased sisters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/is-someone-manipulating-madanapalle-sisters-social-media/articleshow/80638270.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Budget cuts a Rs 25,000 crore road upgrade from Kolkata to Siliguri||KOLKATA: The Rs 25,000 crore allotted to Bengal’s national highway projects will help develop 675 km of national highway network and augment the Kolkata-Siliguri road connectivity, both of which will pass through places with high political stakes. “The Bengal government has already built 88,841 kilometres of rural roads. The Centre has awarded the state for it. In the state, 5,111 kms of state highways have already been built and 1,165 km is under construction,” said state finance minister Amit Mitra. “They have woken up only now. Why? Because of the elections.” Officials at National Highways Authority of India said 235-km Kharagpur-Burdwan-Morgram (Murshidabad) national highway would be one of the most important projects that would connect two growth centres in West Midnapore (Kharagpur) and East Burdwan and reduce travel time as well as take a lot of load off NH2 and NH6. The ministry of road transport and highways wants completion of two stretches in Bengal, which will cost around Rs 4,214 crore, on build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis. The two projects are six-laning of Panagarh to Palsit (68 km) at Rs 2,021 crore and six-laning of Palsit to Dankuni (64 km) at a project cost of Rs 2,193 crore. But the major focus will be on NH34, which connects Kolkata with Siliguri. The Budget allotment was expected to boost the final phase of four-laning of NH34, work on which was likely to start shortly, a senior NHAI official said. A 67km stretch of the highway between Barajaguli and Krishnagore in Nadia would be taken up for four-laning, he said. Due to unavailability of land for the four-laning of a 17-km stretch in Barasat, reportedly despite payment of Rs 200 crore as compensation, the widening project will now begin from Barajaguli. “Thw four-laning in Krishnagore will begin on Monday. There are some land-related issues on a 4km portion,” NHAI CGM R P Singh said. “A Rs 1,100-crore engineering procurement and construction (EPC) contract is expected to be executed in 30 months.” He added once over, 95% of 500km of NH34 between Kolkata and Dalkhola in North Dinajpur would be four-lane. The 130-km distance between Dalkhola and Siliguri is already a four-lane stretch on NH27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/budget-cuts-a-rs-25k-crore-road-upgrade-from-kolkata-to-siliguri/articleshow/80639241.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||‘Punjab got lion’s share of stubble help’||New Delhi: Punjab received 46% of Rs 1,727 crore central funds for curbing stubble burning in the last three years but saw a 15% increase in farm fires over the 2017 figures while Haryana and Uttar Pradesh significantly reduced crop residue burning during the same period, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, gave details in an affidavit about the steps taken by the newly-set up Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas. It said feedback had been sought from the Punjab chief secretary on making available crop residue management (CRM) machines at farmers' doorsteps as well as popularising the use of Pusa bio-decomposer technology along with CRM machines for in situ management of stubble. The ministry said after a surge in incidents of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the Centre decided to fund a programme for promotion of agricultural mechanisation and in situ management of crop residue for three years from 2018-19. The Centre allocated Rs 1,727 crore, of which Punjab got Rs 793 crore, Haryana Rs 500 crore, UP Rs 374 crore, Delhi Rs 4.5 crore, Indian Council of Agricultural Research and other central agencies Rs 55 crore. Though Punjab received the largest amount, the number of farm fires went up by 15% in 2020-21 as compared to 67,079 stubble burning incidents in 2017-18. The ministry said both Haryana and UP saw significant reduction in stubble burning incidents over the years. The commission on air quality has also advocated coordination between Indian Space Research Organisation, Punjab State Remote Sensing Application Centre, its counterpart in Haryana and National Crop Forecasting Centre for identification of farm fires on real-time basis for quick administrative response/action. On managing Delhi's air quality and reducing pollution caused by heavy vehicles, the commission has directed South Delhi Municipal Corporation not to permit any commercial vehicle without RFID tag to enter Delhi through 13 toll plazas where the RFID system and infrastructure has been in place since January 1. The ministry said the commission, along with other stakeholders like Central Pollution Control Board and Delhi Pollution Control Committee, carried out a comprehensive review of potential use of indigenously developed ‘Photonics’ based air quality mapping and monitoring system called Air-Quality Unique Monitoring system for a pilot trial in Delhi. "CPCB and DPCC have been requested to fund this pilot project," it said. The commission has asked all thermal power plants in areas under its jurisdiction to adhere to timelines for installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation system, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/punjab-got-lions-share-of-stubble-help/articleshow/80657805.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||KMSC activists protest use of force||Amritsar: Activists of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) burnt an effigy of the Modi government on Sunday to protest the use of force against the farmers agitating at various borders of Delhi against the three agriculture marketing laws. Farm leader Gurbachan Singh Chaba on Monday said their ‘rail roko’ agitation near Jandiala had entered 131st day and would continue till the three laws were repealed. “BJP and RSS had connived to attack the farmers and commit atrocities upon them including slapping false cases against the farmers,” he alleged. He said KMSC would continue to stage statewide protests against the Centre, corporate houses of Adani and Ambani and set ablaze their effigies till Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kmsc-activists-protest-use-of-force/articleshow/80639247.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Parents yet to be shifted to Vizag mental care hospital||Tirupati: V Purushotham Naidu and his wife Padmaja, who are accused of killing their two daughters in Madanapalle on Jan 24, continue to be at Madanapalle sub-jail even after clear orders from the magistrate to shift them to a government mental care facility. Jail authorities blame lack of response from the armed reserve wing for the delay. The accused parents were produced before a local magistrate on January 26 following their arrest and were shifted to Madanapalle sub-jail on judicial remand. A team of government psychiatrists led by Dr Radhika recommended the jail authorities to shift them to a psychiatry facility immediately as they needed treatment for their delusions. As there is no such facility in Chittoor district, it was decided to shift them to the government general hospital for mental care in Visakhapatnam. But Naidu and Padmaja are yet to be shifted from the sub-jail as the armed reserve wing has not responded to repeated pleas of arranging an escort team to accompany the two accused to Visakhapatnam. Madanapalle sub-jail superintendent Ramakrishna Yadav said that though the jail authorities have approached the Chittoor armed reserve wing thrice since January 30 to arrange an escort vehicle for the accused, nothing has been done so far. “This has led to a delay in shifting the prisoners,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parents-yet-to-be-shifted-to-vizag-mental-care-hospital/articleshow/80638328.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro waits for budget fine print||KOLKATA: The Centre is likely to release the Pink Book on Wednesday, detailing the budgetary allotment for railway projects, including that for Metro. “Only after the Pink Book is published can we find out how much funds have been allotted project-wise. Today’s Budget announcement broadly wrapped up the Metro allocations under the ‘infrastructure’ head. The breakup will be shown in the Pink Book,” said Manoj Joshi, general manager, Metro Railway.  Kolkata is the only city, where Metro is run by the railways.  “From the Pink Book, each zonal railway gets to know whether the work is in progress or a new work has been included in the current-year Budget,” a Metro official said. Officials expect the budget to give a thrust to the ongoing Metro projects in Kolkata, at least, four of which are headed for completion by 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-waits-for-budget-fine-print/articleshow/80639249.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||69,000 frontline workers register for Covid jab in Nagpur division||NAGPUR: The process to vaccinate frontline workers has started in Nagpur division. As on date, 68,736 employees of urban local bodies, revenue department and agencies falling under the ministry of home affairs have been registered in six districts of Nagpur division. Trial for creating vaccination site for these workers was also successfully conducted on Monday. The number of beneficiaries is likely to increase as the state government on Monday approved inclusion of staff of panchayat institutions working on Covid-19 front. Deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, told TOI, “Total 35,542 frontline workers have been registered in Nagpur district, followed by 13,159 in Gadchiroli, 6,501 in Chandrapur, 4,866 in Bhandara, 4,472 in Wardha and 4,196 in Gondia. Registration is a continuous process so the numbers are likely to increase.” Employees of zilla parishad and gram panchayats could not be registered earlier owing to their large numbers. Nagpur Zilla Parishad CEO Yogesh Kumbhejkar said, “As the government has accepted our request to consider staff of panchayat institutions for the vaccination, registration of those working on the Covid front will start on Tuesday.” The government had uploaded the list of frontline workers in Co-WIN application through which vaccination of healthcare workers is being done since January 16. Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “The government had asked to conduct trial of scheduling of frontline workers on Monday, which was successfully done using the Co-WIN application.” The Centre had announced vaccination of frontline workers along with healthcare staff from the first week of February. However, authorities here are yet to receive any official communication in this regard. Also, if the government starts vaccination of frontline workers, the number of centres administering doses are likely to increase in all districts. As per Centre’s announcement, people above 50 years of age and those below 50 but having comorbidities will get the jab after frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/69k-frontline-workers-register-for-covid-jab-in-nagpur-div/articleshow/80640410.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 2, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu gem cutters cheerful over import duty hike||TRICHY: The increase in duty on imported artificial gemstones from 7.5% to 15% has come as a saviour for traditional gem cutters here. As the gem cutting and polishing industry was affected by aggressive pricing of Chinese gemstones, the move is expected to promote local production. Trichy was home to around 5 lakh artificial gem cutters till the 1990s before Chinese stones and state-of-the-art machinery from there dominated the Indian market. The low cost and mass availability of gemstones in various sizes, shapes and colours attracted jewellers to gemstones from China. Several representations were made to the Union government through trade bodies such as CII and Tiditssia in this regard. Sources said buyers here purchase a kilogram of finished synthetic stones from China for $270. “Now we can offer locally cut gemstones for the same price or even lower. Local cutting of gemstones can be redeemed if customs duty is increased further,” said T Rajasekar, an artificial gem cutter in Trichy. Gem cutters opined that about 40% of the synthetic gemstones produced in China is sold in India as the jewellery industry is huge and heavily relies on artificial stones. M Kalyani, a Manachanallur-based gem cutter, said governments should financially support the local gem cutting industry to take on Chinese low-cost gemstones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gem-cutters-upbeat-over-import-duty-hike/articleshow/80644632.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu gem cutters cheerful over import duty hike||TRICHY: The increase in duty on imported artificial gemstones from 7.5% to 15% has come as a saviour for traditional gem cutters here. As the gem cutting and polishing industry was affected by aggressive pricing of Chinese gemstones, the move is expected to promote local production. Trichy was home to around 5 lakh artificial gem cutters till the 1990s before Chinese stones and state-of-the-art machinery from there dominated the Indian market. The low cost and mass availability of gemstones in various sizes, shapes and colours attracted jewellers to gemstones from China. Several representations were made to the Union government through trade bodies such as CII and Tiditssia in this regard. Sources said buyers here purchase a kilogram of finished synthetic stones from China for $270. “Now we can offer locally cut gemstones for the same price or even lower. Local cutting of gemstones can be redeemed if customs duty is increased further,” said T Rajasekar, an artificial gem cutter in Trichy. Gem cutters opined that about 40% of the synthetic gemstones produced in China is sold in India as the jewellery industry is huge and heavily relies on artificial stones. M Kalyani, a Manachanallur-based gem cutter, said governments should financially support the local gem cutting industry to take on Chinese low-cost gemstones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gem-cutters-upbeat-over-import-duty-hike/articleshow/80639253.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab releases ‘112’ to trace those missing in Delhi, Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Amid growing concerns over more than 100 persons from Punjab reportedly missing in Delhi-Haryana region since the Republic Day tractor rally, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced helpline number 112 to report all such instances, even as 70 lawyers were appointed by the state advocate general (AG) to provide free legal aid to farmers facing cases in the national capital. Assuring all possible help by his government in tracing the missing persons, he said his cabinet colleagues had met the Union home minister on the issue and he would personally take up the cases of such missing persons/farmers with the ministry of home affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-releases-112-to-trace-those-missing-in-delhi-haryana/articleshow/80639251.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Zero Covid cases reported in 3 dists||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 64 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,87,900. This is the fourth time in the last three weeks for the state to record less than 100 cases. The toll increased to 7,154 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Krishna district. East Godavari reported 15 new infections on Monday. Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari did not report any new case. The remaining 9 districts posted single-digit case numbers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zero-covid-cases-reported-in-3-dists/articleshow/80638339.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers fear politicians trying to encash protest||Amritsar: When Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal went to Ghazipur border on Sunday to honour farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, the issue of politicians trying to encash the agitation became a topic of discussion again. Earlier, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary had arrived at Ghazipur to meet Tikait and announced his support to farmers agitation. Prior to that, former Congress president, Rahul Gandhi had also asked the farmers ‘to not move an inch’ and had assured Congress’s support. Many feel that politicisation of farmers agitation may dilute the core issues on which the movement is built and pave way for the political opportunities and self aggrandizement of a select few. “Sukhbir had earlier stated that none of the senior leaders of his party will go to the site of farmers’ agitation. And the farmers who had announced that they will not let politicians address from their stage, are now accepting siropas from them,” said Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader. While condemning SAD (B) president for trying to politicise the farmers agitation, he also said Tikait should have refrained from meeting a political leader at the site of agitation. However, he hailed Tikait for changing the course of agitation just as it appeared that the movement was losing ground. “Tikait gave an opportunity to the politicians to intervene in the farmers’ agitation. The farmers’ organisations who have been camping at Tikri and Singhu borders have so far not allowed the politicians to intervene in their agitation,” said former sarpanch of Manjwind village Sukhdeep Singh Sidhu. Stating that Tikait had political ambitions since he himself is a politician who had lost assembly and Lok Sabha elections in the past, Sidhu said the entry of politicians would give credence to the BJP leaders’ allegations that opposition is fuelling the farmer’s agitation. “Time will tell, how long the Punjab’s farmer leaders will keep the politicians away,” he said. Satnam Kaur (name changed), wife of a farmer leader who is camping at Singhu border, said the issues for which the agitation had begun could be lost in political oneupmanship. According to her, before the issue could become purely political, the farmers should boycott the politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-fear-politicians-trying-to-encash-protest/articleshow/80639257.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Cops had no option but to use teargas: MHA to Lok Sabha||New Delhi: The home ministry told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that Delhi Police had no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force for crowd control after large convoys of protesting farmers riding on tractors and tractor trolleys broke police barricades to forcibly enter Delhi on January 26 and resorted to rioting and use of criminal force to deter public servants from discharging their duty. Stating that the rioting and chaos by farmers at multiple locations in the national Capital inflicted injuries on many Delhi Police personnel, minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, quoted Delhi Police to say that apart from indulging in rioting, the protesting farmers violated social distancing norms by gathering in large numbers without face masks amid the pandemic. “The farmers’ actions left Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd,” he said, adding that Delhi Police had informed MHA that 39 cases were registered against farmers protesting against the farm laws between September and December 2020. He added that Delhi Police had further informed that one suicide case was reported during the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders. A protester was killed during the violence on January 26 after his tractor overturned after hitting a police barricade. Meanwhile, MoS (home) Nityanand Rai, responding to another Lok Sabha question on the number of farmers who had died during the agitation, said ‘police’ and ‘public order’ were state subjects and the responsibility of investigation, registration and prosecution of crimes, conviction of accused and protection of life and property rested primarily with state governments. Asked specifically if the Centre had any evidence of terrorist outfits infiltrating the farmers’ agitation, he merely said the central government kept a constant watch on activities of individuals and organisations having a bearing on national security and public order, through its security and law enforcement agencies. “Requisite action is taken as per law, whenever necessary,” he said. Delhi Police functions under the direct supervision and control of the home ministry. Yet, Reddy on Tuesday seemed to suggest that the Centre’s role was limited to issuing alerts and advisories to the law enforcement agencies whenever any threat to internal security was perceived. Also, he said the Centre was providing central armed police forces upon request from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-had-no-option-but-to-use-teargas-mha-to-lok-sabha/articleshow/80657828.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Twitter suspends a/cs linked to stir, govt hand alleged||Bathinda: The Twitter accounts of those associated with the farmers protest against three contentous laws have been suspended temporarily, according people managing the handles. The accounts of Kisan Ekta Morcha, the IT cell of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Tractor2 Twitter (being operated by some professionals led by Sydney-returned IT professional Bhavjit Singh), farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan, a news magazine and many more were suspended on Monday. All accounts which have been suspended were active in spreading information about happenings at the protests. SKM has termed the move an example of an undeclared emergency in the country. It also said the central government was misleading the nation and the world by making claims that Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was a phone call away in resuming talks on proposal given by government, but it was doing the opposite and stopping the outflow of information. Baljit Singh, head of SKM IT cell whose Twitter handle Kisan Ekta Morcha was suspended, said, “Every day in the morning, we were giving a hashtag for Twitter users to use. It used to get tens of thousands of posts in only few hours from India and many other countries, and the point used to get viral. Going by it, Twitter on Monday suspended our account and many other accounts. It has been done under directions of the government to stop flow of information.” Bhavjit Singh, who is running Tractor 2 Twitter, said their account was suspended on Monday, describing Twitter’s action as shameful. “It shows Twitter is acting on the directions of the central government to stop the flow of information from going to the outer world. It seems the government is planning a big crackdown as suspension of such a large number of Twitter accounts points towards it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/twitter-suspends-a/cs-linked-to-stir-govt-hand-alleged/articleshow/80639262.cms||Neel Kamal
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||Budget fails to fulfil expectations, say farmers||Pilibhit: The 2021 Budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on Monday fell short of farmers’ expectations in Pilibhit. Accusing the government of being silent on guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP), Paramveer Perry, a farmer of Surajpur village in Amaria block expressed disappointment, saying there were no provisions for inclusion of pulses, oilseed, vegetable and fruit under the MSP. “We were also expecting a hike in MSP in proportion to the increase in the prices of agricultural inputs. The demand to increase quota of subsidized foundation seeds of wheat, paddy and sugarcane was not fulfilled,” said Perry said. Shravan Dutt Singh, a farmer of Gajraula village said while the Budget hiked the volume of agricultural credit, there was no provision for providing relief from debt to farmers. “Should we meet the needs of agricultural investments only by seeking bank loans?” he asked. Farmer Manjeet Singh of Puranpur tehsil and vice-president of Rashtriya Lok Dal said the Budget failed to address the problem of timely payment of cane dues to farmers. Besides, the Budget did not propose upgrading crushing capacity of sugar mills in the cooperative sector. This hinders farmers from supplying their entire cane yield to mills on state advised price (SAP). The finance minister also made no proposal to check blackmarketing of inputs by creating a buffer stock of fertilizers and regulating distribution through the agriculture department, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budget-fails-to-fulfil-expectations-say-farmers/articleshow/80635829.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||MNS state unit vice-president joins Shiv Sena||KALYAN: MNS state unit vice-president and Dombivli unit president Rajesh Kadam left Raj Thackeray’s party and joined the Shiv Sena on Monday. Kadam joined the Shiv Sena in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde in Mumbai. Two councillors from Ambernath, Sunil Soni and Tulsiram Chaudhari, left the BJP and joined the Shiv Sena at the same induction event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mns-state-unit-vice-president-joins-shiv-sena/articleshow/80638383.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||No road, no vote: Kurnool village urges poll boycott||KURNOOL: Electors from a village in Kurnool district have decided to boycott panchayat elections citing poor road connectivity. The villagers of Puduru in Kodumur assembly constituency have decided to stay away from filing papers in protest over the lack of a proper road to their village from the mandal headquarters. The election process in the village is will start on Tuesday as part of schedule for the second phase of gram panchayat polls. Sources said that the state election commission had directed district collector Veera Pandiyan to inquire into the villagers’ decision and convince them to participate in the elections in order to have their grievances resolved. Village elders had appealed to electors to keep away from filing their papers despite pressures from political parties and local leaders. “We are unable to impress upon the leaders for the past two decades. Why should we participate in the elections when there is no use electing a local body?” asked a resident. Taking into account the calls of boycott by locals into consideration, Kodumuru legislator Dr J Sudhakar held talks with villagers and promised resolutions for their grievances. “I told them that boycotting elections will not help their cause. Having an elected body will resolve their issues as local representatives can exert pressure on the officials,” Sudhakar told TOI. The legislator said that the village was located in the far-end his constituency and he had already put the process for construction of the road on the fast track. He, however, said that he was not making any promise to the villagers at this juncture as it would be a violation of the code of conduct. He said he had only made an appeal to the locals to participate in the elections and get the road issue resolved. Sources said that the contractor who was awarded the road work during the TDP regime, had stalled work citing financial problems. After repeated requests from the locals, officials of the panchayat raj department readied the revised estimations and sent it for clearance. The road work, which was estimated to have been completed at a cost of Rs 3 crore, will now cost Rs 5 crore. “We are planning to start the work after the elections,” said a panchayat raj official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-road-no-vote-kurnool-village-urges-poll-boycott/articleshow/80638374.cms||Samdani MN
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Docs go on hunger strike against mixopathy||Coimbatore: Around 70 doctors with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in the district launched a hunger strike on Monday to protest the Central Council of Indian Medicine’s notification approving a MS general surgery degree (Shalya Tantra and Shalakya Tantra) for ayurveda students. The strike would go on until February 14.A bike rally, with a participation of 20 doctors, was also conducted from Tirupur to Trichy to create awareness on the issue.Doctors said they would fast from morning to 5pm daily till February 14, demanding the Union government to withdraw its plans for one country, one system of medicine and dissolve the four - medical education, practice, public health and medical research - committees formed by NITI Aayog for the same.The committees were set up to find the means to integrate all forms of medicine into one system called mixopathy.The IMA is likely to take out a massive nationwide rally on February 14 and 15, if the Union government fails to meet its demands by then.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/docs-go-on-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy/articleshow/80638379.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Man held for sexually assaulting minor girl||Coimbatore: A 32-year-old man was arrested for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl. The all-woman police (west) said M Rizwan, from Al-Ameen Colony near South Ukkadam, had sexually harassed the girl while she was standing near a shop in the city on Sunday night and threatened her of dire consequences if she were to reveal the incident to anyone. Her parents came to know about the incident and lodged a police complaint. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/80638381.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||One more conman arrested||Coimbatore: A 37-year-old ex-serviceman, who was absconding in a cheating case for the past one year, was arrested by the economic offences wing police in the city on Monday.Police said K Mani, 44, an ex-serviceman from Coonoor in Nilgiris district, with another ex-serviceman Manjunatha, 37, of Kollegal at ChamrajaNagar in Karnataka, started a Ponzi scheme. Claimed that they were administrative officers of a private cement manufacturing company, the duo lured people with a promise of giving Rs 22,500 per month for 10 months and 10g gold coin as dividend for an investment of Rs 1.75 lakh with the company. Several schemes of similar nature were also announced by them.Believing their words, many army men and ex-servicemen from Coonoor and their family members invested huge amounts in the Ponzi scheme.Meanwhile, Lara Vinnarasi, 35, of Konavaikkalpalayam in Coimbatore, invested Rs 5 lakh on various installments from 2017 with the duo. As she didn’t get any return, Lara Vinnarasi lodged a complaint with the EOW who registered a case against the duo. Preliminary inquiries revealed that both the ex-servicemen had cheated at least 500 people of Rs 20 crore. Police registered a case last year and arrested Mani in March 2020.However, Manjunatha was absconding. EOW police arrested Manujunatha at Gandhipuram bus stand in the city on Monday. He was produced before the special court for TNPID Act cases and later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-more-conman-arrested/articleshow/80638385.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP-backed candidates to head Kangra, Solan, Una zila parishads||Shimla: The incumbent BJP on Monday clinched zila parishads of Kangra, Solan and Una as candidates supported by it were elected chairman and vice-chairman of the respective district councils. BJP-supported Ramesh Brar was elected chairperson of Kangra zila parishad. Ramesh Thakur was elected chairperson of Solan zila parishad, while Neelam Kumar became the chairperson of Una zila parishad. Snehlata Parmar became the vice-chairperson of Kangra zila parishad, Kamlesh Panwar became vice-chairperson of Solan zila parishad, and Krishad Pal was elected vice-chairperson of Una zila parishad. In Kangra, Brar got 30 of the total 54 member votes, while Congress-supported Sanjay Rana got 23 votes and one member voted for NOTA. Snehlata got 31 votes, while Congress-supported Veena got 23 votes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-backed-candidates-to-head-kangra-solan-una-zila-parishads/articleshow/80639271.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Former MLA Relu Ram Punia’s murder convict found in UP||YAMUNANAGAR: Two years after jumping parole, the man who killed Haryana legislator Relu Ram Punia and seven members of his family 19 years ago was on Monday found living as a baba at Meerut in western Uttar Pradesh. Sanjeev Kumar (45), who carries a bounty of Rs 1 lakh, is married to Sonia, who is Punia’s daughter and co-accused in the crime. Sanjeev, who is from Saharanpur’s Laxman Puri Colony in UP, had assumed the identity of Onkar ‘Omanand Giri’. An Ambala special task force (STF) arrested him. STF’s officer in charge, DSP Kulbhushan, said: “We will produce him in the court on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fromer-mla-punias-murder-convict-found/articleshow/80639274.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Infra push: AIIMS gets Rs 310 crore extra; more funds for others too||NEW DELHI: All India Institute of Medical Sciences got a hike of over Rs 310 crore in the Union Budget 2021-22. The Centre approved an outlay of Rs 3,800 crore for the hospital in Monday's Budget when it had allotted Rs 3,490 crore last year. The doctors at the hospital say the institution needed this hike to expand the infrastructure. “There is large-scale expansion of infrastructure taking place at AIIMS. An increased outlay will help complete that and transform the hospital for the better,” said a senior doctor. Recently, the hospital has started burns and plastic surgery facilities. Sources said the newly-constructed surgery and geriatric blocks would also get operational soon. Apart from AIIMS, Centre has increased the Budget outlay of other major hospitals in Delhi too. Safdarjung has been allocated Rs 1,515 crore, an increase of Rs 227 crore from last year’s Rs 1,318 crore. Ram Manohar Lohia has been allocated Rs 950 crore. The Budget outlay for Lady Hardinge Medical College and Sucheta Kriplani Hospital are Rs 600 crore and Rs 145 crore, respectively. In total, a Budget outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore has been proposed for health and well-being in 2021-20, an increase of 137% over previous year, with Rs 35,000 crore earmarked for Covid-19 vaccine in the upcoming fiscal. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia, says one of the greatest lessons this pandemic has taught the world is that health needs to be a priority. “The focus on health in India’s Budget announcement is a testimony to the country’s commitment to not just fight the novel coronavirus pandemic but also build a stronger and resilient health system,” she added. “India has not only proactively and belligerently dealt with the Covid pandemic but also continues to support countries in South-East Asia and beyond to protect vulnerable populations against the pandemic.” Watch Budget 2021: Govt announces Mission Poshan 2.0 for universal nutrition and health||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/infra-push-aiims-gets-rs-310-crore-extra-more-funds-for-others-too/articleshow/80640430.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Budget offers no direct benefits, says Kovai Inc||Coimbatore: The Union Budget received mixed reactions from micro, small and medium enterprises in the district on Monday.While small and medium industries welcomed investments in infrastructure like road and railways, micro industries felt the Budget had no direct benefits for them — either with reducing GST on steel, waiving of interest for six months of last year or reducing or subsidizing interest on loans.Industrial associations, including the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ICCI) and the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia), welcomed the decision to allocateRs 1.03 lakh crore for road development in Tamil Nadu, Rs 16.75 lakh crore for agriculture credit loans and 2.87 lakh crore for Jal Jeevan Mission.“It’s a good budget, because the government is spending heavily on infrastructure development, which will improve logistics and through that bring a lot of business going to China, to India,” said V Sundaram, vice-president of the Coimbatore chapter of ICCI. “The government has also announced creating a debt fund institution for lending to MSMEs with a capital of Rs 5 lakh crore, which will be beneficial.”Codissia president Ramesh Babu also welcomed the infrastructure investments and the plan to set up seven textile parks. “We are particularly happy with the decision to reduce import duty on steel and copper from 15% to 7.5%, as it would reduce prices of the metal in local markets,” he said. “The 0% duty on melting steel scrap will benefit foundries and construction industries here.”But the budget did not allocate adequate funds for small and tiny businesses, said K Maniraj, president of the Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association (Kopma). “While the budget outlay of Rs 15,700 crore for MSMEs is double of the earlier outlay of Rs 7,800 crore, it is still too low as there are six crore micro and small industries.” GST on steel rods has not been reduced from 18% despite several requests, said M Raveendran, president of the Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association ((Cocia). “We feel cheated also because the Budget offers no reduction on bank loans to construct industrial sheds,” he said.Not waiving interest charged by banks during the moratorium period has hurt them the most, said J James of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises (Tact). “Within 24 hours of the six-month moratorium finishing, banks deducted six months interest from our accounts, leaving no capital to run our business. They should have waived the interest for tiny companies for a year or at least six months.” However, all industries welcomed the decision to exempt companies with a turnover of Rs 10 crore and 95% digital transactions from filing income tax audit. “The exemption was earlier for companies with a turnover of Rs 1 crore. It was increased to Rs 5 crore last year. This will reduce compliance and audit costs and work involved,” said ICCI vice-president C S K Prabhu. “Forcing companies to pay PF and ESI contributions within the due date or losing the opportunity to write it off as expenses is also to be welcomed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budget-offers-no-direct-benefits-says-kovai-inc/articleshow/80638380.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||2 men from Bihar arrested for solving CTET paper on behalf of youths in UP||Bareilly: In what police said could be part of a larger racket, two men from Bihar were arrested for allegedly appearing in the Central Teaching Eligibility Test (CTET)-2021 and solving the paper on behalf of youths in UP's Moradabad, on Sunday. The CTET examination was being conducted at nearly 70 centres across the district.During inspections at two private schools that were turned into exam centres in Civil Lines and Majhola area, two accused, identified as Pankaj Kumar and Rakesh Kumar Yadav, were found appearing on behalf of Khilendra Singh of Bijnor and Irshad Ali of Amroha. The accused - both residents of Bihar - have been arrested and a case registered, police said.The invigilator on exam duty at the Civil Lines centre informed police that the photograph of the applicant Khilendra Singh on the roll number sheet did not match with the person appearing for the test. On being questioned, the youth admitted his name was one Pankaj Kumar from Hamirpur village in Bihar.Similarly, the staff at another centre in Majhola area detained one Rakesh Kumar Yadav, from Madhubani, for appearing on behalf of a UP candidate.When contacted, Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary told TOI, “Two men from Bihar were found to be appearing in the CTET examination in place of candidates from UP. It appears that the accused belong to a larger paper-solving gang. The men have been arrested. Interrogation is underway. We are trying to bust the gang and nab the kingpin.” Separate FIRs have been registered in Civil Lines and Majhola police station, he added.Civil Lines SHO, Moradabad, Darvesh Kumar said, “Both the accused have been arrested. An FIR has been registered against all four individuals, including the candidates, under IPC sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), among others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-men-from-bihar-arrested-for-solving-ctet-paper-on-behalf-of-youths-in-up/articleshow/80635842.cms||Maria Khan
February 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Theatres await govt nod to operate at full occupancy||Visakhapatnam: Though the Centre has given the green signal for operating cinema halls at full occupancy, the state government is yet to ratify the order. Theatre managenents at most places, however, followed the Centre’s order by selling tickets for all seats. As per rules, theatres in the state follow the AP Cinema Act. Speaking to TOI, joint secretary of Andhra Pradesh Film Chamber of Commerce Perla Sambamurty said the Tamil Nadu government ratified the Centre’s order to operate threates at full capacity, but the Andhra Pradesh government was yet to act on the order as on Monday. Sources said the government, which is busy with gram panchayat polls, would take some time to act upon the order. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/theatres-await-govt-nod-to-operate-at-full-occupancy/articleshow/80638384.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Orange City hospital sets record, vaccinates 170 in 8 hours, highest in one day||NAGPUR: Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) has set yet another record of sorts. It vaccinated 170 health care workers within eight hours on Monday, which is probably the highest in a single day at any of the 111 centres located in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Director of OCHRI Dr Anup Marar told TOI, “Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) scheduled 150 health care staff for our centre on Monday. But only 34 of them turned up. Some private hospitals in nearby areas are always inquiring about their turn. With due permission from NMC, we scheduled 136 registered health care workers in Co-WIN application on the spot.” Dr Marar thanked NMC officials, including medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar. “Our centre did not have adequate vials. Dr Chilkar and team arranged vials immediately, which helped in vaccinating 170. OCHRI team is selflessly trying its best to sensitize fraternity to value this precious vaccine, which is being provided free of cost to health care workers,” he said. Thus, OCHRI vaccinated around 21-22 health care staff in one hour. During dry run, 25 dummy staff were covered in two hours without actual vaccination. OCHRI’s first record was that it did not waste a single dose in the last three days. The record continued for the fourth day too, with 170 covered on Monday. The centre at NMC’s Isolation Hospital also vaccinated 155 persons on Monday, which is probably the second highest. The achievement of OCHRI and Isolation Hospital was 170% and 155%, as all authorities are calculating the percentage as per 100 per centre, despite scheduling 120-150 vaccinations per centre. The turnout at Kingsway Hospital was 148% followed by 141% at Alexis Hospital, 129% at ESIS Hospital, 126% at NMC’s Pachpaoli Hospital, and 104% at Wockhardt Hospital. Thus, 7 of 17 centres in city recorded achievement over 100%, which is probably for the first time since start of vaccination on January 16. TOI had on Monday highlighted only 440 (20.79%) of 2,116 health care workers of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the single centre for Covaxin in six districts of Nagpur division, had turned up for inoculation in 10 days. On Monday, GMCH registered its highest vaccination in a single day. At one centre, 78 took the jab and 65 at second centre, for a total of 143. After a gap of two days, vaccination programme resumed on Monday, with 7,813 (70.39%) of targeted 11,100 health care workers having taken the jab in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Amravati district was the only from the region to achieve target above 100%. Total number of health care workers administered vaccine in the region increased to 62,735 (39.35%) out of the total 1,59,427.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/orange-city-hosp-sets-record-vaccinates-170-in-8-hrs-highest-in-one-day/articleshow/80640426.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Rebuffed on funds, Delhi deputy CM Manisha Sisodia slams Central govt||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia claimed Delhi government had once again been treated in a step-motherly fashion by the central government after Monday’s Union Budget left the city’s expectations unmet. Its revenue collection having declined 42% due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had requested the Centre for an enhanced allocation of at least Rs 8,555 crore in the 2021-22 Budget. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also slammed the central government, tweeting, “This is a Budget to benefit a handful of big companies. It will increase inflation and lead to problems for common people.”  In a detailed statement, Sisodia said: “There has been an unprecedented rise in the prices of petrol and diesel under the current government. Rising fuel prices also result in high food inflation. In the last year alone, price of petrol has increased from Rs 75 to Rs 86 a litre — and increase of Rs 11 in just one year. Diesel price has gone up from Rs 68 to 77 — a rise of Rs 9. By further adding a cess of Rs 2.5/litre on petrol and Rs 4/litre, the government has shown it doesn’t care for the middle class or the economy.” However, the finance minister also said in her speech that the additional cess would not affect the consumers since the basic customs duty on petrol and diesel would be reduced. The grant in lieu of a share in central taxes provided for 2021-22 remained stagnant at Rs 325 crore, and is now unchanged for two decades. The total grants/loans/transfer from the central government to Delhi has been reduced from Rs 1,116 crore to Rs 957 crore. “This year, there was great anticipation around the Union Budget and the people of Delhi had high hopes from the central government that justice would finally be done to them, particularly amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which has devastated the lives of many,” Sisodia said, adding that though Delhi residents annually contributed Rs 1.5 lakh crore as tax to the Centre’s pool, Delhi had received only Rs 325 crore as grant. The deputy CM also pointed out the municipal bodies of Delhi had again been left high and dry. “The BJP government did not give a single paisa to the BJP-ruled municipal corporations when it has given Rs 2 lakh crore to other municipal corporations across the country. During the last municipal elections, BJP had promised to bring funds directly from the Centre for the corporations,” Sisodia said, adding that Delhi government was providing 12.5% of its annual net tax collection to the local bodies. Delhi government was also critical of the lack of sensitivity to Delhi’s requirement for disaster funds. Sisodia’s statement noted, “Grant towards disaster response has reduced from Rs 161 crore to Rs 5 crore. The additional central assistance for projects has reduced from Rs 150 crore to zero.” The AAP leader urged Delhi’s MPs, including Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, to fight for justice for the people of the city before passing the Union Budget in Parliament. “The Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir, which is constitutionally on a similar footing with Delhi, has been provided a grant of Rs 30,757 crore compared with Rs 957 crore for the capital,” noted Sisodia. “There are three Union territories with legislatures in India. Delhi gets the least amount of grants among them in absolute terms and ridiculously low amount in terms of per capita grant.” The deputy chief minister said the Budget bypassed education and health sectors and would spell doom for the poor, the middle class and farmers. It has “shockingly” reduced the budgets of the health ministry by 10% and of the education ministry by 6% from last year. Pointing out that the price of LPG in Delhi had increased from Rs 594 in November 2020 to Rs 858 today, an increase by 30% in three months, Sisodia said, “The middle class, which is still recovering from the income shock of the pandemic, was hoping to receive income tax exemptions, but no changes were announced by the central government on this front.” He said the Budget had absolutely nothing for the poor, the unemployed and farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rebuffed-on-funds-sisodia-slams-govt/articleshow/80640415.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Singhu gets steam back as more farmers pour in||NEW DELHI: After remaining in an introspective mood in the days following the events of January 26, the Singhu protest site now appears reinvigorated. The spunk is back and tractors are blaring Punjabi music and Haryanvi raginis. The participation of farmers from Haryana has visibly increased, and there is a cheery intermingling of elderly farmers wearing white dhoti-kurta and safas with the turbaned Sikhs, who have primarily captured the border space on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway since November 27 last year. More khaps and women’s groups keep pouring in from various Haryana villages in tractor trolleys. Women of all ages arrived at the main protest dais on Monday from Cholka village in Sonipat and began raising slogans against the central government and the contentious farm laws. Shivanshi Dahiya, a 16-year-old among the newcomers aged from 8 years to 87 years, said, “We have come to protect the interests of farmers. We will lose everything if the farmers are defeated this time.” The viral video of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait crying and other distress videos released by farmers’ unions have touched a chord with the agricultural community. Randhir Singh, 85, of Deswal in Jind district disclosed that more Haryanvis would join the protest. “The tears we saw on January 28 have turned into a sea of community sentiments,” the octogenarian said. “I have worked as driver for Chaudhry Devilal and participated in movements led by Mahendra Tikait and I know this movement is our last stand. We will not go back without laws being repealed.” The newcomers revealed that meetings were being held in villages across Haryana and representative groups will keep circulating. Many villages will bear the cost collectively. Om Prakash Dahiya, an ex-serviceman from Nahra village, was firm. “We won’t let the government create a Hindu-Sikh divide among farmers. We can’t see our leaders crying. Who are they fighting for? Isn’t it for us?” Dahiya said. While several hundred tractors reached Singhu on Monday from Saroha khap, a group from bar associations in Panipat also arrived to show solidarity. Advocate Sandeep Ror, advisor to Panipat Kisan Union, said that 100 lawyers had come to counter the narrative that farmers were deshdrohi. “We were alarmed when political representatives came to Singhu and pelted stones at the peaceful protesters. This repression and conspiracy cannot be allowed to succeed,” declared Ror. On Monday, singer-actor Tarsem Jassar was spotted at the Samyukta Kisan Morcha stage, where he also sang a song that went, Kise da Ram, kise da Allah, Kise de bahute, kise da kalla (One prays to Ram, while the other prays to Allah. Some people have too much money, and others, not enough to survive). A concrete wall was put up under the supervision of Delhi Police to stop the protesters. But even as Singhu’s access to the internet, water and the Delhi side of the border is now restricted, the spirit still remains high. Watch Farmer's stir: Concrete wall built to block entry at Singhu border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/singhu-gets-steam-back-as-more-farmers-pour-in/articleshow/80657896.cms||Paras Singh
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Withdraw import duty on cotton: Sima||Coimbatore: The Southern India Mills’ Association (Sima) on Monday requested the Prime Minister to withdraw the 10% import duty on cotton and cotton waste to ensure competitiveness of Indian textiles and apparel industry in the global market. Sima chairman Ashwin Chandran said the duty will not help cotton farmers, as 12 to 14 lakh cotton bales are imported, constituting hardly 3% of the Indian cotton produced and consumed. The textile industry has to import extra long staple (ELS) cotton, organic cotton and contamination-free cotton to meet the demands of global customers and apparel segment in domestic market, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/withdraw-import-duty-on-cotton-sima/articleshow/80638409.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||‘NEP for BJP was a jumla, it has cut education budget by Rs 6,000 crore’: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Criticising the central government for reducing the education budget by Rs 6,000 crore, deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Monday said it seemed the National Education Policy was a “jumla” as it had recommended a spending of 6% of the Budget on education. The education budget estimate has been reduced from Rs 99,312 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 93,224 crore in 2021-22. Sisodia tweeted: “BJP government after making a lot of noise over NEP has reduced the education budget by Rs 6,000 crore. NEP had a recommendation of allotting 6% of the budget towards education. It now is proven that NEP for BJP was only a jumla.” He stated that only 0.6% of the Budget was allocated to education. “This shows the government’s commitment to education. History tells us that be it family or the country, only those who invest in the education of their children become atmanirbhar,” said Sisodia. “Any government that cares for children should have provided additional allocation in education to make up for the setback suffered because of schools and colleges remaining shut for the past one year,” added Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nep-for-bjp-was-a-jumla-it-has-cut-edu-budget-by-rs-6k-cr/articleshow/80640436.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Middle class wears a frown: Waited, but nothing for us||NEW DELHI: Disappointment was writ large on the face of the common man on the street after the Union Budget was presented by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman with many saying that it had nothing much for the middle class. Rakesh Sharma, a 61-year-old senior accounts manager with a private firm in the capital, said: “The Budget might be good for small shopkeepers, but it didn’t meet my expectations. I was hoping to get a subsidy on LPG and lower taxes on petrol. The agriculture cess might increase the prices of lentils and the end consumer will have to bear the brunt of it.” Though tax exemption has been given to senior citizens aged 75 and above earning pension and interest, Sharma said the age limit should have been decreased. “The Budget is very good when it comes to reforms in infrastructure, agriculture and healthcare, but there is nothing much for the middle class. I had been waiting for the Union Budget for quite some time and hoping that there would be something for me and people like me. However, there is nothing that will benefit me directly,” said Meghna Singh, a banker. Another banker, Pritika Mathur, had the same concerns as Singh and said there was nothing exceptional about this year’s Budget. “I sat through the entire Budget presentation hoping for some provision for us. However, just like the budgets of the past few years, even this one turned out to be a disappointment. A lot is being done for agriculture and infrastructure, but nothing that affects us directly,” the banker added. Vikram Nagar, a Delhi-based businessman, said, “The vehicle scrapping policy is one of the highlights of the Union Budget. It will get old vehicles off the road and boost the automobile industry. But unlike other budgets, this one did not have groundbreaking policies.” Tapan Dey (62), a retired executive, said his family’s expenses would only increase and no relief would come his way. “An agri cess of 10%-50% will be levied on kabuli chana, lentils and peas. Even Customs duty has been increased for automobile parts. This will certainly affect our Budget. The central government has not changed the tax slabs for the past three years. We were expecting some relief in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/middle-class-wears-a-frown-waited-but-nothing-for-us/articleshow/80640444.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Political parties continue to plaster public spaces with posters||Dehradun: Despite claims by officials from the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) that political parties are being penalised for placing banners and posters on lampposts and public walls, the menace continues unabated in the city. In the recent such instance, scores of birthday greeting banners were put up on Sunday by the supporters of Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi. The posters, say observers, are in blatant violation of rules as the Prevention of Defacement of Public Property Act, 2003 prevents “unsystematic public display of political hoardings, posters, and banners.” The Act was passed by the ND Tiwari government in Uttarakhand but is rarely being enforced as political partries flout it with impunity. As a result, posters can be seen plastered all over the city — even on road signs and direction pointers, causing inconvenience to the people new to the city and tourists. Ramesh Singh, a resident of Jogiwala area, said, “The political posters put up in our area have even covered private boards of shopkeepers and are a big eyesore .” Sanjeev Gothalwal, another resident said, “The authorities should ensure that either these posters are taken down as soon as they are put up or penalise those putting them up. Since many of the posters are put up on public property and even on road signs, they are a big nuisance.” When TOI tried to contact Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama on the issue, he was unavailable even after repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/political-parties-continue-to-plaster-public-spaces-with-posters/articleshow/80637325.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||E-registration puts tourists in a pickle||Udhagamandalam: Most of the tourists visiting the Nilgiris get stranded at check posts because of lack of awareness about e-registration, which is mandatory to enter the district.As network connectivity at check posts at ghat sections such as Burliar and Kunjapanai is poor, tourists have to drive back at least two kilometres to get e-registration done.“After reaching Burliar check post on the Coonoor-Mettupalayam Road, we were asked for the e-registration details. But we were not aware of it,” said S Balasubramanian from Chidambaram. “Officials at the check post explained about the procedure. However, due to lack of network connectivity at the check post, we were forced to drive back and look for a place where network was available. It took just 10 minutes to finish the procedure online.”B Lokesh from Chennai also faced the problem at Kunjappanai check post on the Kotagiri-Mettupalayam Road. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said the administration will install boards at the starting points of the ghat sections to create awareness about the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/e-registration-puts-tourists-in-a-pickle/articleshow/80638394.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Summons issued to Kangana Ranaut on Javed Akhtar’s complaint||MUMBAI: A metropolitan magistrate in Andheri on Monday issued summons to actor Kangana Ranaut and posted on March 1, a private complaint filed by veteran lyricist Javed Akhtar against her. Akhtar’s complaint alleged defamatory statements were made by her to a news channel in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death last year. Juhu police filed a report of inquiry. The court heard arguments by the complainant’s lawyer on the inquiry report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/summons-issued-to-kangana-on-akhtars-plaint/articleshow/80638424.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police get Rs 237 crore for infrastructure upgrade, training||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has been allocated Rs 8,644.1 crore in the Union Budget 2021-22. Of this, Rs 8,100.2 crore has been earmarked for establishment-related expenditure, Rs 237 crore for upgradation and expansion of communication infrastructure, modernisation of equipment, installation of traffic signals and upgradation of training and procurement of vehicles for policing. Anil Mittal, additional PRO, Delhi Police, said, “Around Rs 306 crore will be exclusively spent on police infrastructure, including construction of office buildings, residential buildings and development of the new headquarters. Around Rs 11 crore has been allocated for safety of women (finance from Nirbhaya Fund) in addition to the total allocation for construction of the building for special units for women and children and Northeast region, apart from various other activities for awareness and gender sensitisation.” In last year’s Budget, Delhi Police was allocated Rs 7,881.8 crore of which Rs 7,334.3 crore was earmarked for the revenue section, which comprises the administrative section, the road safety cell and the development and communication network. The amount saw nearly 8% increase from the last Budget outlay of Rs 6,791.6 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-get-rs-237crore-for-infra-upgrade-training/articleshow/80640449.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Bar association boycotts Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha’s court over hearing||CHANDIGARH: Apparently upset over the non-resumption of physical hearing of judicial proceedings at the Punjab and Haryana high court, the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) on Monday resolved to boycott the court of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, demanding his transfer to another high court. The Bar also removed Atul Nanda, advocate general (AG) Punjab, from its membership for his “continuous working against physical hearing and acting against the interest of the bar”. In its general house meeting, HCBA also decided to remove all those Bar members who had attended the virtual hearing of the court despite the strike call. “The court of Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court Bar Association shall be boycotted until complete opening of physical courts or until his transfer. The Chief Justice of India and the Union law ministry shall be requested to immediately transfer the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court to any other high court,” says a press release signed by HCBA president G B S Dhillon and secretary Chanchal K Singla. The association has also resolved that the HCBA executive committee would only meet the judges, bar and bench coordination committee and the chief justice and would not attend a meeting where the state representative, advocate generals, additional solicitor general, standing counsel of UT are present. According to the HCBA, when all sectors of economy are functioning full capacity, the continuous closure of the high court is sending wrong signal in the society apart from taking away the livelihood of lawyers, stenos, clerks and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bar-assn-boycotts-chief-justice-jhas-court-over-hearing/articleshow/80639280.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Police to forego vax till end of elections||VIJAYAWADA: In view of the ongoing gram panchayat election process, director-general of police D Gautam Sawang announced on Monday that police personnel across the state have decided to forego vaccination till the polling process is complete. Addressing a press conference at AP Police Headquarters in Mangalagiri, Sawang relayed the voluntary decision taken by the Andhra Pradesh Police Officers Association (APPOA) to the media. Sawang explained the practical difficulties for police officers to get themselves vaccinated while on duty. “The vaccination programme is driven by the government of India’s Covid portal where the data has been uploaded. This portal will generate the sequence of who will be vaccinated when and where, and at what time. Leaving his (police personnel) assigned place and going for vaccination will disrupt their duties and responsibilities of election bandobust,” Sawang said. He pointed out that unlike other election duty staff; police would be engaged in all phases the of elections. The DGP also said they would be working out a plan to exempt from fieldwork officials above 50 who come under the high-risk category. “There is a huge need of manpower for phase II of the elections as it is going to be held in more places. Entire police will be involved in the election process from February 7 to 21 and they will be moved from one place to another place,” Sawang added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-to-forego-vax-till-end-of-elections/articleshow/80638396.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur, Amravati districts report Covid deaths in region||NAGPUR: Only two districts, Nagpur and Amravati, reported Covid-19 death in Vidarbha on February 1. Nagpur reported seven deaths — three of them from city, one from Nagpur rural while three deceased were patients from other state/division referred to Nagpur in a critical condition. Amravati reported one death. This took the Covid toll of Vidarbha to 6,976 for case fatality rate of 2.54%. February began for the region with more recoveries and fewer new cases. The region reported 448 new cases while 608 patients recovered in a day. Out of the 2.73 lakh cases of Covid-19 reported in Vidarbha till date, 2.60 lakh have recovered for recovery rate of 95.2%. Decline in fatalities and number of under-treatment patients is a good indicator for the region. On February 1, only 6,080 patients were under treatment which is 2.2% of total cases reported till date. Over 70% of these patients are under home isolation. So, hospitalization rate is low in Vidarbha. Barring Nagpur (218) and Amravati (92), all other districts reported less than 50 new cases on Monday. They are Buldhana (39), Yavatmal (36), Akola (15), Bhandara (10), Wardha (10), Washim (10), Gondia (8), Chandrapur (6) and Gadchiroli (4). Recoveries came from Nagpur (291), Amravati (90), Buldhana (65), Wardha (36), Akola (36), Yavatmal (26), Washim (23), Bhandara (15), Chandrapur (13), Gondia (8), and Gadchiroli (5). Washim: The district reported 10 new cases while 23 patients recovered on Monday, taking the caseload to 7,154 and recoveries to 6,859. The recovery rate is near 96%. As no death was reported, the toll remains 154 while 140 patients are under treatment. Akola: The Covid count of district reached 11,633 after detection of 15 new cases. The last 24 hours saw 36 patients recovering from the disease, taking the total recoveries to 10,600. Akola’s recovery rate is 91.1%. The toll remains 336 while 697 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 39 new cases while 65 patients recovered during the day, taking the caseload to 14,012 and recoveries to 13,483. Recovery rate is 96.22%. Now, 360 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: With four new patients and five recoveries; Gadchiroli’s caseload reached 9,366, including 9,207 recoveries. Recovery rate is 98.30% which is best in Vidarbha. The district has reported 105 deaths till date. Total 54 patients — lowest in Vidarbha — are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported eight new cases and eight recoveries on Monday, taking caseload to 14,195 and recoveries to 13,886. With 181 deaths reported till date, 127 patients are under treatment. Recovery rate is 97.8% Bhandara: The day saw 10 new cases and 15 recoveries in the district. No death was reported. Now, the district has 13,232 cases, 12,756 recoveries and 322 deaths. Now, 154 patients are under treatment. Recovery rate of Bhandara is 96.4%. Wardha: Out of 90 tests reports received on Monday, 10 were positive for Covid infection. Also, the district saw 36 getting discharge in the day, taking the total recoveries to 9,454, Now, the number of patients under treatment stands at 337. No death was reported on Monday and the Covid toll remained at 306. Yavatmal: The administration received 167 test reports on Monday of which 36 were positive. As on February 1, 495 patients are under treatment across the district. Out of total 14,466 patients treated so far, 13,545, including Monday’s 26, have recovered. Chandrapur: The district witnessed six new Covid patients being detected and 13 getting discharge on Monday. No Covid death was reported during the day and the toll remained at 392. As on Monday, 121 patients are under treatment. The Covid caseload has now climbed to 23,080, while total recoveries rose to 22,567. Amravati: One Covid death was reported from the district on Monday. The district also reported 92 new Covid patients and discharge of 90. As on February 1, 342 patients are under treatment, while the Covid toll is now at 418. The total Covid patient count of the district stands at 21,979 of which 21,220 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-amravati-districts-report-covid-deaths-in-region/articleshow/80640468.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala aims to attract students from other states, abroad: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||KOCHI: Kerala aims to become a higher education destination for students from across India and also from abroad. Also, there is a need to transform colleges and universities in the state into world-class centres of excellence (CoE), said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, after launching the youth-centric and higher education sector-focused programme ‘Nava Keralam Yuva Keralam’, at Cochin University of Science and technology (Cusat) on Monday. He said that the heads of universities must know the requirements and expectations of companies and industries from the students, and courses must be designed to meet them. “Universities should transform into CoEs and rise to global standards. The changes should be visible in all aspects including infrastructure, qualified teachers, libraries, use of digital platforms to support learning, new generation courses, skill training etc. The state government gives much importance to higher education sector and aims to attract students from other states and countries to pursue higher education in Kerala’s institutions,” he said. The state-level inaugural event of the programme, which aims to involve college students in the formulation of growth policies focused on higher education sector by urging them to suggest opinions, was held at the open air auditorium at Cusat. CM interacted with 200 selected students, who have proven their mettle in various fields. He urged students and teachers to make maximum use of information technology and digital platforms and said K-FON project will minimize the digital divide in the society. “University heads should interact with industry leaders to know what they expect from the graduating students and design the courses accordingly. Students are now becoming employers too with the thriving startup culture and the government aims to support it. More focus will be given on research programmes in institutions as student researchers have the potential to bring development in diverse sectors. Higher education minister K T Jaleel presided over the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-aims-to-attract-students-from-other-states-abroad-cm/articleshow/80638430.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Meerut||NGT panel recommends Rs 8.7cr fine against civic bodies in West UP for not tapping toxic drains||Meerut: A panel appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has slammed civic bodies in western UP districts and recommended a fine of Rs 8.7crore against them after it found that 133 drains along the course of Hindon river were still discharging waste into it.In a latest report, NGT-appointed Oversight Committee has observed, “Out of the total 133 drains present in the stretch of Hindon, 113 are still untapped or are in the process of getting tapped. No interim measure has been taken to prevent flow of these drains into the rivers. The committee recommends that Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) must send the notices within a week for deposition of Environment Compensation (EC) of Rs 8.7crore to the local bodies concerned and ensure realization at the earliest.”The penalty is against 29 drains for the period between July 2020 and January, 2021 at the rate of Rs 5lakh per drain per month. And these drains are in Saharanpur to Ghaziabad.The report pertains to a six-year-old case in which a local NGO in Baghpat, Doaba Paryawaran Samiti (DPS), had filed a petition in NGT highlighting the plight of hundreds of villagers residing on the banks of Krishna river, a tributary to Hindon, and suffering from dreaded diseases like cancer and bone deformities. Investigations revealed toxic water of the river to be the main cause.Speaking to TOI, president of the NGO and a petitioner in the case, Chandraveer Singh, said, “I had filed a petition at NGT highlighting the plight of Gangnauli village in Baghpat where residents were suffering from cancer, bone deformities, etc. And this was happening because of the toxic water of Krishna, which had also contaminated the groundwater. Tests conducted by government approved labs also corroborated the presence of heavy metals. And, the worst part is that it is not just Gangnauli but hundreds of villages located on the banks of these rivers in six districts. Today’s order will have far reaching consequences and will certainly make life better for these villagers.”In 2020, NGT had appointed a committee headed by retired High Court judge SVS Rathode to prepare a ground report to ensure safe drinking water to the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ngt-panel-recommends-rs-8-7cr-fine-against-civic-bodies-in-west-up-for-not-tapping-toxic-drains/articleshow/80637339.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP removes Punjab transport cell chief||Jalandhar: BJP Punjab transport cell president Ajay Joshi was arrested on Monday, after six cartons of liquor were seized from him. After this, BJP relieved Joshi from the party post. Joshi had remained the general secretary of BJP’s Jalandhar district unit. He is a resident of Harnamdas Pura here. It is learnt that a car was intercepted by police at police naka near Paragpur on national highway. When searched, cops seized six cartons of whisky. Joshi was driving the car. When questioned, Joshi told the police he brought the liquor from Ludhiana, so it could be sold in Jalandhar, as there was a price gap between the two cities. He was booked under Excise Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-removes-punjab-transport-cell-chief/articleshow/80639285.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||IIA hails budget as a shot in arm for MSMEs, commoners disapprove hike in diesel price||Bareilly: Indian Industries Association (IIA) has welcomed a hike in the import duty on finished products, which can be manufactured by Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, and decreasing the import duty on steel and copper by the Union budget on Monday. On the other hand, many disapproved the new agri cess on petrol and diesel for the current fiscal, saying that “the government is trying to find new ways to rob the public’s purse”. “The government has doubled the budget for the MSME sector from Rs 7,572 crore to Rs 15,700 crore this year,” said IIA vice-president Suresh Sundrani hailing the budget presented by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “We are also happy that new taxes are not imposed on the industries. It’s for the first time that such a budget has come. We also welcome Rs 35,000-crore allocation for the Covid-19 vaccination to save lives.” Accusing the government of “cheating people”, Avinash Singh, a bank employee, told TOI, “The government is trying to loot our savings. The tax slab has not been increased, which means now apart from paying tax on our income, we will have to pay extra taxes on almost everything we buy, because an increase in the price of diesel will directly affect the prices of many articles, including fruits and vegetables. The life of middle-class people is going to be more difficult. I am very disappointed.” Shalu Gupta, a housewife, said, “The budget has nothing for the middle class. Budgets, in general, either benefit the financially weak section or the industrialists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/iia-hails-budget-as-a-shot-in-arm-for-msmes-commoners-disapprove-hike-in-diesel-price/articleshow/80635865.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Situation under control in Mettupalayam, says top cop||Coimbatore: A day after the tense moments in Mettupalayam, the rural police on Monday registered a case against 10 BJP and other Hindu outfit functionaries for promoting enmity between religious groups.Police had arrested BJP executive committee member R Kalyanaraman, 54, and BJP functionary D Sathishkumar, 49, on Sunday night. They were remanded in judicial custody on Monday and lodged in the Avinashi sub-jail. Police are on the lookout for eight more people.“We held talks with BJP functionaries and Jamaath office-bearers, who have promised to maintain communal harmony. As many as 500 cops are deployed in Mettupalayam. The situation is under control,” said police superintendent Ara Arularasu.BJP had organised a demonstration near Abhirami Theatre in Mettupalayam on Sunday evening to condemn the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for defaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a protest held at the Mettupalayam bus stand on January 26. Kalyanaraman, who addressed the party cadres, used derogatory words against Prophet Muhammad, a police officer said. “A J Mohammad Sherif, president of Ikkiya Jamath and Islamic Federation, lodged a complaint on Sunday, which said that Kalyanaraman made a provocative speech. SDPI cadres Yasin, 27, Thippu Sultan, 40 and Ibrahim, 40, advised the event organisers to stop the demonstration. But BJP functionaries attacked the trio using stones, knives and wooden logs. Yasin suffered injuries on his forehead and abdomen, Thippu Sultan suffered injuries on his head and Ibrahim suffered injuries on his right leg. Based on the complaint, we registered a case against 10 BJP and other Hindu outfit functionaries,” he said.Police have booked the BJP functionaries under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153 (B) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Indian Union Muslim League national president K M Kader Mohideen urged the state government to take action against Kalyanaraman. “BJP is attempting to create problems ahead of the assembly election. Such activities should be stopped immediately,” he said.BJP state vice-president K Annamalai tweeted that the party respects others’ religious beliefs. “We condemn those who denigrate Prophet Muhammad.”BJP leader H Raja condemned police for arresting Kalyanaraman. “Police didn’t arrest lyricist Vairamuthu, who used defamatory words against Andal,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/situation-under-control-in-mettupalayam-says-top-cop/articleshow/80638422.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||School edu sector excited by budget announcements||Nagpur: New sainik schools, new central varsity and ambitious plan to upgrade 15,000 existing schools in country has got the academic sector excited. The full text of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s speech even went on to mention exam reforms for CBSE, which will be implemented in a phased manner from 2022-23.The FM also reiterated that in 2021-22, the new apex body for higher education will be operational. Higher Education Commission of India had been proposed to replace University Grants Commission (UGC), but the project had not taken off.For school education, the biggest takeaways were opening up of 100 sainik schools in addition to the existing 33 across the country, and new Eklavya (tribal area) schools. FM added that sainik schools shall be opened in partnership with NGOs, private schools and/or state governments. Around 15,000 existing schools will be upgraded as per the vision entailed in National Education Policey (NEP). These upgraded schools are expected to emerge as exemplary schools in their regions, hand-holding and mentoring other schools to achieve the ideals of NEP.For higher education, the big takeaway is the focus on vocational skilling, setting up of a new central varsity in Leh and creating a special fund for increasing synergy between government run institutions. The government will create formal umbrella structures so that these institutions can have better synergy, while also retaining their internal autonomy. The FM cited example of Hyderabad, where 40 such institutions are present. She said in nine other such cities, the process of creating greater synergy shall be taken forward.Yeshwanth Raj Parasmal, co-founder and principal director at 21K School, said, “The Union budget certainly provides a stimulus to the education policy but the informal education sector led by EdTech space had no mention and was disappointing. We expected budgetary allocation to push greater adoption of digital education in the Tier 2 cities and rural areas.”AK Srikanth, CEO of KLAY Preschool & Daycare, said, “A 9% higher allocation to the Ministry of Education over the revised 2020-21 estimate, and a doubling of the budgets for Digital e-Learning has been a welcome move.” He added that the government has failed to address the importance of collaboration between public and private players to boost the early childhood care and education sector, and encourage and promote the concept of early learning.Kaushik Sharaf, CEO and founder of Cymatic EduTech, said, “We expect the policy of whiteboard and digital education in every school just like the Radhakrishnan Commission recommendation of blackboards in every schools. We could also expect mission tablet, where tablet to be provided to teachers as well as students within the context of digital-first mindset.”Rohan Parikh, managing director of The Green Acres Academy, said, “We welcome the much needed partnership between private and government schools which will help in sharing best practices and improving the overall quality of education in our nation.”INFO GFXLESSONS LEARNTOver 100 new sainik schools, in addition to exiting 33Increase in budget allocation for setting up Eklavya (tribal area) schools to Rs38 crore (per unit) New central university to be set up in LehSpecial fund to create synergy between higher education institutes run by governmentIncreased focus on research in higher educationIncrease in post-matric scholarship for SC students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-edu-sector-excited-by-budget-announcements/articleshow/80637620.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||VZM cops to use body cameras for panchayat polls||Visakhapatnam: In their effort to maintain law and order and ensure that the upcoming gram panchayat elections are conducted in a smooth manner, Vizianagaram police will wear body cameras during the nomination process and polling in the district Gram panchayat elections will be held in Vizianagaram in the second and third phases. The camera will be attached to the uniform of personnel and will film the election process. Over 60 to 70 cameras will be used. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzm-cops-to-use-body-cameras-for-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80638431.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Seaweed park to come up in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Recognising seaweed farming as an emerging sector, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget presentation on Monday proposed to establish a multipurpose seaweed park in Tamil Nadu. At present, fisherfolk involved in seaweed collection in the state have no facilities for production and processing of seaweed, farming of which is done in Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin and Pudukottai districts. The proposal is part of the Union government’s Central Salt and Marine Chemical Research Institute (CSMCRI). A researcher from CSMCRI at Mandapam in Ramanathapuram said, “At present the fisherfolk collecting seaweed sell raw seaweed to companies that process it.” The institute, headquartered at Bhavnagar in Gujarat, had successfully raised weeds and helped the fisherfolk there as part of a pilot project. Taking a step forward the government is going to create large-scale facilities in Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. The exact location will be announced shortly, said the scientist. In India, there are about 320 species of seaweeds, of which only eight are being commercially raised. From food items to the beauty industry and manure, seaweed has myriad uses. But in the past four decades, production of seaweed in the state has declined steadily said the scientist, primarily due to pollution from sewage and prawn farm wastes released into the sea and higher water temperatures. M Kanagambal, of Mangadu in Rameswaram, who started seaweed farming 17 years ago, said she used to harvest 250kg of seaweed for every 50kg of cultivation in 2004. “At that time, we used to get Rs 4.50 per kg dry seaweed. Now, the price is Rs 50 per kg but the yield has dropped drastically to a mere 75kg per harvest for every 50kg of cultivation,” said the 56-year-old. There are 10,000 women who are directly or indirectly involved in seaweed collection. M Aarayi, 48, of Sambai in Rameswaram, said she expects the government to provide better quality high-yielding seeds and technology that would help them in value addition of the products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/seaweed-park-to-come-up-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80639290.cms||P Oppili
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||FM green flags Nagpur Metro’s second phase, Nashik Metro||Nagpur: Even though the Union cabinet is yet to clear Nagpur Metro phase-II, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave the project a go-ahead, announcing it in her Budget speech. She also announced allocation of Rs2,092 crore for Nashik Metro, which too will be executed by MahaMetro.The cost of Nagpur Metro phase-II will be Rs6,708 crore. Sitharaman mentioned a figure of Rs5,976 crore as she did not include the contribution of Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation (MIDC) and Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC).A MahaMetro official said the contributions of the government of India and government of Maharashtra were Rs998.2 crore each. "In addition, both will pay us Rs197 crore as subordinate debt towards central taxes. The foreign loan component is Rs3,585.6 crore. MIDC will contribute Rs50 crore and give a Rs234 crore grant for land, rehabilitation etc. MADC will give a grant of Rs284 crore. The automatic fare collection (AFC) system will be implemented through the public-private partnership (PPP) mode at the cost of Rs149 crore," he added.MahaMetro had satisfied all queries of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), the nodal ministry, more than a month ago. It then sent the detailed project report (DPR) to all other ministries concerned. The queries of these ministries, replies by MoHUA and the DPR will soon be forwarded to finance ministry for approval. It will then be sent to the Union cabinet.A MahaMetro official said he expected the Union cabinet’s approval within a month.The central government took its its own time in clearing the second phase of Nagpur Metro. The state cabinet had cleared the DPR in January 2019. However, MoHUA took almost two years to clear it. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari wanted the central government to clear the project before 2019 general elections. However, this did not happen.Phase II has a length of 43.8km with 32 stations.Commenting on the development, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said, "Nagpur is attaining new heights and MahaMetro is happy to be a part of the process. Phase-I is being successfully completed. It is rare that phase-I is not yet complete and phase-II has been sanctioned. Ridership of phase-I is rising by the day."Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis thanked Sitharaman for clearing Nagpur Metro phase-II and Nashik Metro. "Both these projects were sanctioned during our time," he said.On Nashik Metro, a MahaMetro official said, "It is like a tram running on elevated track. It will be powered by batteries, which will be charged electrically. The cost of such a system is Rs75 crore per km against Rs150 crore of conventional Metro. Nasik Metro will also be soon cleared by Union cabinet."Phase-II Corridors 1) Automotive Square to Kanhan — 13km length and 12 stations. The corridor will cater to the areas of Khasara, Lekha Nagar, Kamptee and Dragon Palace2) Mihan to Butibori MIDC ESR — 18.7km length and 10 stations. The corridor will have the catchment area of Jamtha, Dongargaon, Mohgaon, Butibori, MHADA colony, Indorama Colony3) Prajapati Nagar to Transport Nagar — 5.5km length and 3 stations. The corridor will cater to the vicinities of Ambe Nagar, Kapsi, Transport Nagar & Asoli4) Lokmanya Nagar to Hingna — 6.6km length and 7 stations. The corridor will pass through Nildoh, Gajanan Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Raipur and Hingna village including surrounding MIDC areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fm-green-flags-nagpur-metros-second-phase-nashik-metro/articleshow/80637334.cms||Ashish Roy
February 2, 2021||Meerut||Farmers' protest: Over 15,000 attend ‘mahapanchayat’ in UP’s Bijnor||BIJNOR: After Muzaffarnagar, Mathura and Baghpat, another kisan mahapanchayat was organized in Bijnor on Monday. Attended by over 15,000 farmers from western Uttar Pradesh, the gathering was also addressed by farm leaders from Karnataka and Maharashtra who emphasized that the protests were not confined to North India. President of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s youth wing, Gaurav Tikait, said, “Over 150 farmers have lost their lives fighting against the new farm laws. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi never uttered a word on the demise of these farmers. He turned a deaf ear to the grievances of the farming community. This government is full of ego and the farmers should unite for this agitation.” “The government is trying to crush the agitation and defame the farmers in the name of Khalistan. We are neither Pakistani nor Khalistani, we are Indian farmers, fighting against the laws that will destroy us,” Tikait said. In his address, Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary called the current regime “a government of deceivers, who have surrendered to the capitalist forces”. He asked the crowd if any farmer’s income had doubled in the past seven years, “as this government claims”. Chaudhary referred to the farmers as “Hanuman” and asked the gathering to recognize their strength and power to demolish the “BJP’s Lanka”. “The UP chief minister is not paying heed to the grievances of the farmers. Government has not declared the price of sugarcane for the current crushing season nor did he do anything to clear the dues of the farmers,” the RLD leader claimed. The BKU leaders said that farmers from Bijnor will move to the Ghazipur border in large numbers. Senior police officials, including DIG Ramit Sharma, are already camping in Bijnor. Following BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal to the farmers to join protests, Bijnor police had sealed the district borders. Local superintendent of police had even declared the Ghazipur border protests “illegal”, warning farmers against leaving the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-15000-attend-mahapanchayat-in-ups-bijnor-farmer-leaders-from-ktaka-maha-also-join-them/articleshow/80637328.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 2, 2021||Pune||398 PMC schools buzz with students from standards V to VIII||PUNE: Students of standards V to VIII returned to schools run by the Pune Municipal Corporation on Monday for the first time this academic year. Of the 950 schools under the PMC’s jurisdiction, the inspection was completed in 480 schools of which 398 schools reopened, officials from PMC said. Shubhangi Chavan, deputy education officer for primary education, said the response has been good in the civic schools. “The exact number of students would be available tomorrow as the data is being compiled. About 40-50% students turned up on the first day and by the end of the week, we will see almost 100% attendance. The students who have migrated will be a problem as many schools have been unable to contact them. But the rest will be in the classrooms,” she added. Suman Memane, principal of Veer Netaji Palkar Model School, said between standards V and VII, she had 51 students of who 20 had attended classes on Monday. “They had come with permission letters from their parents and the teachers clapped and welcomed them back to school. It was a very happy moment for all of us. Students seemed to have calmed down. During the pandemic, only 60% of our students had Android phones hence it was difficult for the remaining 40% to keep learning. Parents and students are happy that schools have reopened and I am expecting a better turnout as the week progresses,” Memane said. She also got a parent whose daughter was studying in a lower class who wanted the primary section to start. “Parents of students studying in PMC schools want to send the kids to school. We are hoping that they will reopen the lower classes soon,” he added. Schools across Maharashtra were allowed to reopen on January 27 for 78 lakh students, including 7 lakh in Pune district, from standards V to VIII. Authorities had said they would maintain hygiene and social distancing between the younger children. Schools’ opening now have the added challenge of ensuring that the government’s norms are followed until the vaccination drive is complete. It will also be a challenge to get the children reacquainted with the schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/398-pmc-schools-buzz-with-students-from-stds-v-to-viii/articleshow/80638446.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Absence of Centre’s nod mars vaccination drive||Coimbatore: With the Union government yet to give nod for the vaccination of state government staff, who are frontline workers, confusion reigned on the first day of drive in the district. While frontline workers were turned away in some locations, they were vaccinated without entering their details on to the CoWIN app in other locations. Officials also refused to give numbers of frontline workers vaccinated on Monday.In all, 374 people were vaccinated at five sites on the day. While 110 of them took the shot at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), 100 took the vaccine at Arisipalayam primary health centre (PHC), 16 at Pollachi government hospital, 30 at Mettupalayam government hospital and 118 at SLM Home. The break-up of frontline workers and health workers was not disclosed.“We also had sessions at the ESI Hospital, all block PHCs and in eight corporation PHCs,” said Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health.Private hospitals were handed over the vaccines only on Monday morning. Hence, they could start the vaccination only around 3pm or 4pm. “We distributed around 3,000 doses (300 vials) to 11 hospitals on Monday. We expect them to finish vaccinations by Thursday,” the officer said.The hospitals, meanwhile, managed to vaccinate 463 staff on the day. While six hospitals could administer only a single dose, 22 staff got the jab at the PSG Hospitals and Royal Care. “We will administer the vaccine on our registered workers from 9am to 4pm from Tuesday,” said the medical officer (incharge) at the PSG Hospitals.Gem Hospital vaccinated the most number of people at 279, followed by KG Hospital (100) and KMCH (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/absence-of-centres-nod-mars-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80638444.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Meerut||Edu officials asked to finish pending school infra devp work under Op Kayakalp||Meerut: In an inspection carried out via interactive voice response services (IVRS), the Uttar Pradesh government has found out that work on its flagship Operation Kayakalp project — which aims at improving infrastructure of schools in the state — has not been completed in various districts. Education department authorities have now been instructed to ensure that the works are completed post haste.“In an inspection conducted via IVRS, we found that infrastructural work under Operation Kayakalp is yet to be completed in various districts of Uttar Pradesh. All education authorities have been instructed to ensure the work is completed immediately, or else action will be taken against those at fault,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP.“All districts should ensure that work under Operation Kayakalp is completed, to ensure there is no loophole in improvement of school infrastructure, and all students get the desired facilities,” said Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/edu-officials-asked-to-finish-pending-school-infra-devp-work-under-op-kayakalp/articleshow/80637350.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Help polling officers cast votes, ECI told||Coimbatore: Members of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers’ Association urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to set up polling and auxiliary polling stations on the premises of election returning officers at least five to seven days before the election date for those on election duty to cast their votes.In a statement, A Mayavan, president of the association said, “At least 4,35,003 government employees and teachers were involved in election duty in the 2019 parliamentary elections. However, postal ballots were distributed only to 3,97,291 employees. Of them, 24,912 postal ballots were rejected for not getting gazette signatures.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/help-polling-officers-cast-votes-eci-told/articleshow/80638442.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records highest GST collection in January this fiscal year||CHANDIGARH: With the collection of over Rs 1,185 crore as goods and services tax (GST) in January – the highest in a month in the 2020-21 fiscal year — the Punjab government has been able to achieve growth in GST collection continuously for the fifth month since September last year. These are indicators of economic recovery, but due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic the Punjab government only managed to collect 17.89% less GST revenue this fiscal compared to 2019-20 till January 31. Punjab’s net GST collection remained at Rs 9,067 crore till January 31 this year compared with Rs 11,042 crore as on January 31, 2020. Even the state’s January GST collection (Rs 1,185crore) is lower than Rs 1,194 crore collected in January 2020. As the Punjab government had set the annual GST collection target of Rs 15,858 crore in 2020-21, it had been able to collect Rs 9,067 crore till January 31, which comes to 57% collection. At the same time, the cash-strapped Punjab government got some relief after the central government released an amount of Rs 1,820 crore as GST compensation in the first month of this year. Still, Punjab’s GST compensation pending with the central government as on January 31 remains Rs 8,253 crore. The Centre had last month released Rs 1,841 crore as GST compensation to Punjab for the first time after it was stopped after March 2020. “In the last five months, there has been a growth over the past year in terms of GST collection. There is a consistent growth. This January, the GST collection is almost at par with January 2020,” said Punjab taxation commissioner Nilkanth S Avhad. Punjab has recorded a growth of over 21% in the collection of value-added tax (VAT) in January this year (Rs 531 crore) against the collection of Rs 436 crore in January last year. The overall VAT growth of this fiscal year reached 10% as against the last year. The state government has succeeded in collection of Rs 4,875 crore VAT this year till January 31 against Rs 4,429 crore collected till January last year. “We have covered up the loss for April, May and June, and have registered 10.08% net growth this year in collection of VAT,” said the taxation commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-highest-gst-collection-in-jan-this-fiscal-yr/articleshow/80639293.cms||Sanjeev Verma
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Capt gives Rs 1cr cheque to slain cop’s wife||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday handed over a cheque for Rs 1 crore as ex-gratia compensation to the family of Punjab Police constable Jagmohan Singh, who was killed in Manuke Gill, Moga, in June 2020. A 2011 batch constable, Jagmohan, 46, was a resident of Manuke Gill village and had died after a criminal opened fire at the police team that reached Khosa Pando village of Moga while following up a complaint of arson on June 8, 2020. Prior to joining the Punjab Police, Jagmohan had also served in the Army. tnn The chief minister, accompanied by DGP Dinkar Gupta, handed over the cheque to Sukhwinder Kaur at the Punjab Civil Secretariat and also promised a job to the police martyr’s son after he completes his Class XII. The CM clarified that the compensation amount was given by the HDFC Bank under the Special Insurance Cover of ₹1 crore for the Punjab Police personnel in case they die in the line of duty and is in addition to the other benefits funds given under government rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-gives-rs-1cr-cheque-to-slain-cops-wife/articleshow/80639352.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||6 die as van knocks down pedestrian, crashes into bus||Krishnagiri: A pedestrian and five passengers of a minivan were killed, and three others injured in a road accident involving the minivan and a government bus near Kaveripattinam on Salem-Bengaluru National Highway here in the early hours of Monday. Following the incident, traffic came to a halt on the stretch for nearly three hours.The Kaveripattinam police said the incident occurred when seven friends - P Sivakumar, 24, Linga alias Lingeswaran, 24, Surendhar, 21, Prashanth, 25, Gowtham, 18, Ashok, 18 and Pani, 23 - from Bhavani in Erode were on their way to Bengaluru for a leisure trip. “They had hired the minivan, which was driven by V Boopathi, 25,” a police officer said.When the van neared Kaveripattinam around 4am, the officer said, the government bus in front of them stopped on roadside. “One of the passengers, 29-year-old P Devaraj, suddenly crossed the highway to attend nature’s call. Caught unawares, the minivan driver tried not to hit him. However, he ended up hitting Devaraj, while the vehicle crashed into the government bus from behind.”Devaraj, Sivakumar, Linga, Surendhar, Prashanth and Boopathi died on the spot. When alerted, the Kaveripattinam police rushed the injured - Gowtham, Ashok and Pani - to the government hospital in Krishnagiri town. Their condition is said to be stable. The dead bodies were also sent to the same hospital for postmortem.Traffic was restored after removing the damaged vehicles from the road. The Kaveripattinam police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-die-as-van-knocks-down-pedestrian-crashes-into-bus/articleshow/80638432.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Two SDPI functionaries arrested for defaming PM||Coimbatore: The rural police on Monday arrested two SDPI functionaries for defaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a rally held in Mettupalayam on January 26 in support of protesting farmers in New Delhi.The arrested has been identified as K Mohammed Nowfal, 33, from Odanthurai in Mettupalayam and J Zubair Ali, 40, from SM Nagar in Mettupalayam. While Nowfal is the district general secretary of SDPI, Zubair is Mettupalayam town president of the party. They were remanded in judicial custody on Monday and lodged at the Avinashi sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-sdpi-functionaries-arrested-for-defaming-pm/articleshow/80638438.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dilip Chhabria now held in Rs 25 crore case||MUMBAI: City EOW recently arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria in an alleged cheating case of Rs 25 crore. He was remanded to police custody. He was earlier arrested in a dual registration racket and for cheating comedian Kapil Sharma. Indermal Ramani, from Chennai, said Chhabria and his firm lured him into the spare parts business and duped him. Police booked Chhabria and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dilip-chhabria-now-held-in-rs-25cr-case/articleshow/80638450.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||Murder convict escapes from high-security Bareilly Central Jail||Bareilly: In an alleged jailbreak, a murder convict escaped from the high-security Bareilly Central Jail in Izzatnagar area on Monday morning. Accused Narpal, alias, Sonu, 36, — lodged in the jail since 2012 — escaped by scaling the wall with the help of an iron rod during early hours, said police.Police said Narpal was serving life imprisonment in a rape and murder case following a Bijnor court's order, said police, adding that Narpal was transferred to the Bareilly central jail due to administrative reasons. There was some construction material stored in a godown on the jail campus, and Narpal used a rod to scale the wall and fled, said police. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “Police have sounded a high alert in the region. Besides, we have also shared his photos widely. We will arrest him soon. An FIR was registered at Izzatnagar police station.”Meanwhile, senior jail superintendent JN Pandey ordered an enquiry against the deputy jailor and other staff on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/murder-convict-escapes-from-high-security-bareilly-central-jail/articleshow/80635883.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Funds for Regional Rapid Transit System stretch doubled||NEW DELHI: The country’s first high-speed Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor being constructed between Delhi and Meerut got a major boost with Rs 4,472 crore being allocated in this year’s Union Budget to National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is executing the project. This amount is nearly double of the Rs 2,487 crore allocated last year. The Union Budget has allocated Rs 23,500 crore for Mass Rapid Transit System projects, which includes all Metro projects across the country and the RRTS project. There is no separate allocation for Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which is currently constructing three priority corridors of its Phase-IV project. In all, Rs 18,998 crore has been allocated to Metro projects and Rs 30 crore for “transport planning and capacity building in urban transport”. “In recent years, the Union ministry of finance has been providing a Budget for all Metro projects in India in totality instead of separately to each undertaking,” a source said. Until a few years ago, grants to DMRC were allocated separately. The source added that DMRC would ask for funds according to its requirement from Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, which is the nodal authority for all Metro projects. The allocation for Metro projects also includes equity investment of Rs 3,454.9 crore, pass-through assistance of Rs 13,825.3 crore and Rs 1,717.8 crore as subordinate debt, which is the cost of land acquisition and central taxes. Construction of the 82-km Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor is on in full swing. Recently, work started on the 17-km priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai and also the Delhi portion. This year’s Budget allocation is a massive jump compared with Rs 0.01 crore allocated in 2017-18. It increased to Rs 659 crore in 2018-19, Rs 1,000 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 2,487 in last year’s Budget. The nearly 80% jump compared with the previous fiscal reflects the pace at which the project has been progressing. Out of the eight RRTS corridors identified to connect the various towns of NCR under the functional plan on transport for NCR-2032, three priority corridors of Phase-I are Delhi-Meerut, Delhi-Alwar and Delhi-Panipat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/funds-for-rrts-stretch-doubled/articleshow/80640458.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Daily positive case tally lowest in seven months||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday reported 423 recoveries against 253 new cases of Covid-19 — the lowest since 220 people tested positive for the contagion on June 9 last year — taking the total cure count to 3.65 lakh and the positive case tally to 3.79 lakh. The region reported five deaths due to the infection on Monday, pushing up the toll to 9,064. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad reported two deaths each, while one patient succumbed in the rural area. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and rural areas reported more recoveries than new Covid-19 cases. But areas in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits added more patients than discharges. Some experts attributed the rise in discharges and the drop in positive cases primarily to fewer tests conducted on the weekend. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 5,350 samples were checked in the region on Monday. The PMC tested 2,431 samples, while 1,310 and 1,609 tests were conducted in the PCMC and the rural areas, respectively. The test tally of the region increased to 21.09 lakh on Monday evening. The PMC has so far tested over 10.3 lakh samples, the highest in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). The testing in the PCMC and the rural areas reached 6.17 lakh and 4.61 lakh, respectively. The officials from the health department said they had increased the testing in the areas with positive cases in the municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The tally of active patients in the region continued to remain above 5,000. On Monday evening, the region’s active caseload was at 5,136. Of these, a total of 3,293 patients were in home isolation, while 1,843 patients were admitted to various hospitals for treatment. Health officials said though cases were on the decline, people needed to exercise caution. “With the vaccination drive in full swing, letting one’s guard down could lead to rise in cases again. People should abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep the infection at bay. Wearing masks when venturing out should become a habit now,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-positive-case-tally-lowest-in-seven-months/articleshow/80638453.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||250 families to be shifted to shelters to facilitate Ukkadam flyover project||Coimbatore: The state highways department, along with the city corporation, is constructing temporary shelters at Pullukadu near Ukkadam at a cost of Rs 2 crore to accommodate about 250 families from CMC Colony on Perur bypass road for two years till the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) constructs a housing unit for them. A source privy to the developments said the highways department wanted to acquire about 494 cents corporation land at CMC Colony to construct a loop as a part of the Ukkadam flyover project. “At least 736 families are residing on the land to be acquired and they have refused to relocate. Hence, officials have decided to accommodate them at a housing unit that TNSCB would construct at the colony itself.” On Sunday, municipal administration minister S P Velumani had laid foundation stone for the housing unit near the fish market at a cost of Rs 49.40 crore. The unit will have 520 flats.Whenever TNSCB reconstructs its housing units, the source said, it would provide a one-time shifting charge of Rs 8,000 per family for temporary relocation. “The highways department decided to construct the temporary shelters on the corporation land at Pullukadu to reduce the families’ struggles to find rental houses.”The source said the civic body and the highways department had started constructing 248 temporary shelters on 4,000sqft area about two months ago. The work is expected to be completed by February-end.“The shelters will be allotted to single families on a priority basis. Another 112 families will be accommodated along with their close relatives at a TNSCB housing unit at Pullukadu and another 25 at a housing unit at Vellalore,” the source said.Pointing out that 96 families were residing at dhobi khana, which also falls on the land to be acquired, the source said the TNSCB had been constructing a dhobi khana behind the fruit market at Pullukadu and that would be ready in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/250-families-to-be-shifted-to-shelters-to-facilitate-ukkadam-flyover-project/articleshow/80638448.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 2, 2021||Meerut||Woman cop shot at by colleague dies, accused critical||Bijnor: A woman constable with Amroha police who was allegedly shot at by a colleague succumbed to injuries in a Moradabad hospital late on Sunday night. Her fellow constable who turned the gun on himself after shooting her is battling for his life. The shooting appears to be a fallout of a love relationship, said Suniti, Amroha superintendent of police. According to police, both are from 2018 batch of UP police. While constable Manoj was with dial 112 in Amroha’s Saidnangali police station, constable Megha Chaudhary was posted at Gajraula police station. On Sunday, Manoj allegedly barged into Megha’s residence in Avantinagar locality in Gajaraula town and shot at her before shooting himself. Both were referred to a hospital in Moradabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-cop-shot-at-by-colleague-dies-accused-critical/articleshow/80637356.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Students call for gender literacy, transgender teachers||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan responded positively to the suggestions given by the students during the interaction at the launch of the ‘Nava Keralam Yuva Keralam’ programme and assured further discussions on most of them at the government level. The suggestions that caught CM's attention include the introduction of community service-based education, support for more startups in ‘space sector’, transgender teachers in colleges, training to ensure gender and social literacy among students and setting up virtual offices in colleges to help students know the corporate world. Stressing on each of the suggestions, he said that most of them will help the government to bring in positive changes in the higher education sector and urged students to write to him more about their suggestions. As many as 200 students were selected from five universities: Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS), APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (APJAKTU), National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS) and Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS). Out of them, 33 students presented their opinions and doubts before the chief minister. Responding to the suggestion by Anand of NUALS about creating job opportunities for homemakers who were affected by the pandemic, CM said that it will be done through a dedicated web portal and the procedures were started already. He also said that shared workspaces with all facilities will be set up at regional levels to support work-from-home culture. CM said that he will discuss with officials about the request by Reshma of Cusat to launch a centralized system for awarding scholarships and the suggestion by M P Manu to create virtual offices in colleges. When KUFOS student Rahul Krishna suggested the creation of a uniform exam calendar, CM said that the government has already started working on it. Vinod C from Cusat, who is the first PhD scholar belonging to the Cholanaikkan tribe, said that special skill training programmes for tribal students need to be formulated. The CM assured that adequate focus will be given to it. When Ardra Joy from Cusat talked about the need to train students in attaining gender and social literacy, CM said that it is a very important matter and assured to discuss it with the higher education council. Responding to the suggestions by KUFOS students, CM said that fish farming will be expanded as part of Subhiksha Keralam project. He also said that people belonging to transgender community have every right to become teachers in colleges provided they have the requisite qualifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/students-call-for-gender-literacy-transgender-teachers/articleshow/80646811.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||One killed, 7 hurt as portion of Bhiwandi godown collapses||Bhiwandi: A person died and seven were injured after the portion of a 15-year-old one-storey godown of an e-tailer collapsed here on Monday morning. The owner was illegally constructing an additional floor and the structure could not bear its weight, an official said. Bhiwandi has many godowns used by e-trailers. Bhiwandi tehsildar Aadik Patil said he would ask Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the planning authority, to conduct a structural audit of godowns. The floors of the building, which housed two godowns and were given out on rent to Shadofax Godown Pvt Ltd and Max Infax Pvt Ltd, crashed at 10.12am in Harihar compound at Mankoli. Narpoli police, Bhiwandi fire brigade, Thane Disaster Response Force and 15 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel rescued seven injured persons and retrieved a body from the debris. The deceased was Saurabh Tripathi (35), a security guard. Bhavesh Mali, Abhishek Mali, Devendra Patil, Rupesh Patil, Shailesh Tare, Ritik Patil and Kalpana Patil were taken to private hospitals. Of them, Rupesh, Shailesh and Ritik suffered serious injuries. Ritik, whose leg was stuck below a pillar, was rescued after seven hours. His mother Jaimala told TOI, “My two sons work in the godown. Ajay had not gone on duty.” Sachin Ratne, a guard posted on night duty who had left for home at 8am, said, “Saurabh was with the company for two years and is survived by wife and a young daughter, who resides in UP, while he was living in a rented home in Bhiwandi.” Officials said in both godowns at least 70 people work, of which half collapsed, trapping 31. Regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam, whose team rescued maximum people, said “Of those rescued, one died, three suffered major injuries, while the remaining had minor injuries.” Staff at the godown said it belongs to Nilesh Patil. Officials said 15 days back he had started adding a floor to a portion of the godown. Assistant commissioner of police (Bhiwandi) Prashant Dhole said, “We are awaiting a report from the planning authority to find out the exact cause. Based on the findings legal action will be taken against those responsible.” Last September, Jilani building had collapsed, killing 38 persons. A civic probe committee blamed it on negligence on the part of the builder. Container from Delhi saved 15 Workers were loading goods onto a container when a portion of the godown collapsed. Half the container was inside the godown when it collapsed. Five took shelter inside the container, while around 10 came out of the godown. It acted as a shield from debris as a pillar got stuck on the container so some staff came out. Irfan Khan, the driver from Delhi, told TOI, “After parking it, to load goods, I was in the driver’s seat. I was shocked to see something fall on the backside of the container and it shook.” Lucky escape for cleanerContainer cleaner (20) Kayyun Khan said if he had gone inside three seconds earlier, he might not have survived. He had kept his mobile phone for charging in the godown. Khan said, “When we reached at 8am, the driver and I kept our phones for charging, as we had three more states to deliver products too.” He said the collapse was like an earthquake, and ”remembering the incident I feel scared”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-killed-7-hurt-as-portion-of-bhiwandi-godown-collapses/articleshow/80637987.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Marathwada region’s developmental backlog not addressed: Stakeholders||AURANGABAD: No specific budgetary allocation for Marathwada, in almost any sector, has irked different stakeholders who highlighted the need for such provisions against the backdrop of a significant developmental backlog in the region. Pointing out that Aurangabad is the administrative and industrial capital of Marathwada as well as the tourism capital of Maharashtra, MP Imtiaz Jaleel said: “Aurangabad has been ignored as there is no immediate assembly election scheduled here. Our demands pertaining to improved train and air connectivity, educational institutes, allocation of funds for pending works etc. have been ignored. With the announcement on selling PSUs, the BJP-led government is all set to sell off national assets and hand over the country to private players.” Mukund Kulkarni, the Marathwada chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), said the Centre should have considered Aurangabad and a few other cities for providing metro rail services. “Nashik city has almost the same profile as Aurangabad, and it has been considered for the metro project. However, our city has been left out. The public transport system would have boosted growth,” he said. Hingoli MP Hemant Patil said, “Our demands for improving infrastructure and connectivity have not been considered. Issues related to farmers as well as the cooperative movement have been ignored. Instead, privatisation is now officially being promoted by the BJP government.” Jaswant Singh, the president of Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation, added: “The tourism sector contributes nearly 10% to the GDP, yet it has failed to find any budgetary allocation. Aurangabad, the tourism capital of Maharashtra, was first feel the blow from Covid-19 and the last one to be revived. We were expecting some sops, but the budget offered nothing,” he said. Congress office-bearer Jitendra Dehade said the Centre could have made Marathwada-specific budgetary allocations as the region has emerged as the epicentre of farmers’ suicides. “The region has developmental backlog in irrigation, industrial and education sectors for years. Like every year, Marathwada has been neglected again. The economy of the region has been badly hit by the Covid outbreak,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-regions-developmental-backlog-not-addressed-stakeholders/articleshow/80636646.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Not possible to follow SOPs if schools reopen: Teachers||Coimbatore: A day after the state government announced reopening of schools for Class IX and XI students, teachers on Monday urged the government to consider conducting classes on a rotational basis. Citing insufficient infrastructure and teaching faculty in many schools, they said it was not possible to ensure smooth functioning of schools with 25 students per class.S Arunan, state president, Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers’ Welfare Federation, said the government had strictly directed the schools to accommodate only 25 students in a class to ensure social distancing when schools were reopened for Class X and XII students in January. “The government has now announced that Class IX and XI students could also visit schools from February 8. Many schools, especially the government ones, do not have sufficient classrooms to accommodate all the students as per the standard operating procedure.” Pointing out that the situation would be unmanageable in higher secondary schools, he said the government should allow the schools to conduct classes either on alternative days or in two (morning and evening) sessions a day. T Arulanantham, state treasurer, Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers’ Association, said the workload of teachers would also go up. “When schools were functioning normally, a teacher used to engage about 28 periods five days a week. Now that only 25 students are allowed to sit in a class, each class is considered a different section and timetable is prepared accordingly. Just for Class X, a teacher is taking about 30 to 33 classes a week now.” If classes were to begin for Class IX and XI students, he said, the situation would become unmanageable for teachers, who are already handling more than a subject in some schools. “Many teacher posts are yet to be filled as the school education department has not conducted counselling this year.” Arulanantham also suggested conducting classes on a rotational basis. “But this might also push 25% of students, who had no access to any electronic gadgets and could not study during the lockdown, to a difficult situation as they have only limited time to prepare for board examinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/not-possible-to-follow-sops-if-schools-reopen-teachers/articleshow/80638447.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Students call for gender literacy, transgender teachers||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan responded positively to the suggestions given by the students during the interaction at the launch of the ‘Nava Keralam Yuva Keralam’ programme and assured further discussions on most of them at the government level. The suggestions that caught CM's attention include the introduction of community service-based education, support for more startups in ‘space sector’, transgender teachers in colleges, training to ensure gender and social literacy among students and setting up virtual offices in colleges to help students know the corporate world. Stressing on each of the suggestions, he said that most of them will help the government to bring in positive changes in the higher education sector and urged students to write to him more about their suggestions. As many as 200 students were selected from five universities: Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS), APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (APJAKTU), National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS) and Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS). Out of them, 33 students presented their opinions and doubts before the chief minister. Responding to the suggestion by Anand of NUALS about creating job opportunities for homemakers who were affected by the pandemic, CM said that it will be done through a dedicated web portal and the procedures were started already. He also said that shared workspaces with all facilities will be set up at regional levels to support work-from-home culture. CM said that he will discuss with officials about the request by Reshma of Cusat to launch a centralized system for awarding scholarships and the suggestion by M P Manu to create virtual offices in colleges. When KUFOS student Rahul Krishna suggested the creation of a uniform exam calendar, CM said that the government has already started working on it. Vinod C from Cusat, who is the first PhD scholar belonging to the Cholanaikkan tribe, said that special skill training programmes for tribal students need to be formulated. The CM assured that adequate focus will be given to it. When Ardra Joy from Cusat talked about the need to train students in attaining gender and social literacy, CM said that it is a very important matter and assured to discuss it with the higher education council. Responding to the suggestions by KUFOS students, CM said that fish farming will be expanded as part of Subhiksha Keralam project. He also said that people belonging to transgender community have every right to become teachers in colleges provided they have the requisite qualifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/students-call-for-gender-literacy-transgender-teachers/articleshow/80638460.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia launches AAP’s membership drive ahead of assembly elections||Dehradun: Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister of Delhi, on Monday launched the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) membership drive titled ‘Uttarakhand mein bhi Kejriwal’ from Dehradun ahead of the assembly polls slated to take place next year. Sisodia flagged off 70 video vans which will go to each assembly constituency in the state and make people aware of the party’s development vision and its ‘Delhi model of governance’. During the campaign — to run for the next 45 days — AAP aims to enroll one lakh new members and reach out to 10 lakh houses, said Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia. He added that the party will organise 6,500 meetings in 70 assembly constituencies. “During the next 45-days, AAP workers will go to each assembly constituency and tell people about the failure of the BJP government in the state and about the development model adopted by the Kejriwal government in Delhi,” said Sisodia. It is to be noted that AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal had announced to contest all 70 seats in the Uttarakhand assembly polls, likely to take place in early 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-launches-aaps-membership-drive-ahead-of-assembly-elections/articleshow/80637360.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Chennai couple dive to say 'I do' 60 feet under ocean||CHENNAI: It wasn’t so much the stars that decided this wedding date, but the changing tides. At the crack of dawn on February 1, when all was well with the ocean, V Chinnadurai and S Swetha tied the knot 60 feet underwater off the coast of Neelankarai. “It was a traditional marriage ceremony, only it was underwater. We dived in at an auspicious time in the morning and exchanged garlands and tied the thaali before 730am as per instructions from our priest,” says groom Chinnadurai, a software engineer and a licensed scuba diver. His bride, Swetha, also a software engineer, began her course in scuba diving about a month ago to prepare for her wedding day. “I was nervous and so were my parents, but we had eight divers with us. It was exciting too because we’ve been trying to tie the knot since last week,” she says. “It was all in the hands of the sea.” Although the couple practiced in wet suits, on Monday both bride and groom were dressed in traditional attire – Swetha in a koorai saree and Chinnadurai in a veshti – with all the loose ends velcroed firmly in place. The ceremony was video graphed and bride and groom emerged to cheering family members waiting on the seashore before they continued with the rest of the rituals. “The entire wedding depended on the ocean currents,” says SB Aravind of Temple Adventures who helped the couple organize their unique wedding. “I had to tell them to leave the date of the wedding blank on the invitation. It was filled in only this morning when we confirmed the waters were calm enough for a dive.” Word has already spread, says Aravind, with divers lining up to say their vows in the deep blue. There’s another Chennai wedding in February and one in the waters off the Puducherry coast in March. Who said lockdown weddings were watered down affairs?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/couple-take-the-plunge-with-a-dive/articleshow/80640689.cms||Kamini Mathai
February 2, 2021||Aurangabad||7.5% customs cut to boost steel industry||Aurangabad: The steel industry in Jalna, one of the largest steel manufacturers in the country, is expecting a mega boost after the finance minister announced 7.5% deduction in customs, apart from removing steel scrap duty for micro, small and dedium Enterprises (MSMEs) and scrap traders. Jalna Steel Manufacturer Association’s Nitin Kabra, who is also the director of Bhagyalaxmi Rolling Mills Pvt Ltd, said, “The removal of 2.5% duty from the scrap will bring down the price of raw material by Rs 600 per tonne. In terms of finished goods, the price will fall by Rs 700 per tonne. The deduction in customs will create a win-win situation for the industry and the customers.” He said the industry was grappling with raw material supply issues, which led to a surge in the price of finished steel over the past few months. Taking cognizance to this, the government took some concrete steps, following which, January witnessed a fall in steel prices by about 15%. According to the members of the fraternity, the announcements will bring down the price of steel by another 5%. Jalna has about seven large scale and 13 medium-scale steel industries, with a total capacity of manufacturing three million tonne of steel per annum. The industry provides direct employment to 20,000 people and an equal number of people are indirectly employed. The cumulative turnover for these units in Jalna is estimated to be over Rs 7, 000 crore per year. Speaking of the long-term policy announced by the government, Ghanshyam Goyal, the president of the association, said, “The long-term policy to scrap older vehicles, will ensure there is no dearth of raw materials for our industry.” The sufficient flow of raw material will bring down the cost of the finished goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-5-customs-cut-to-boost-steel-industry/articleshow/80636686.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Man consumes poison over unemployment||Rudrapur: Upset over not getting work, a 27-year-old mason consumed poisonous substance to end his life in Udham Singh Nagar on Monday. He died shortly after being admitted in Jawaharlal Nehru district hospital in Rudrapur. According to the police, Avtosh Kanjilal, a resident of Rajpura number 2 in Gadarpur town of the district, was upset as he wasn’t getting work since the imposition of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. He was rushed to a private hospital after he consumed the substance. Subsequently, he was referred to the district hospital where he breathed his last before the treatment could start. After conducting a postmortem, the police handed his body over to the bereaved family. He is survived by his wife and two kids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-consumes-poison-over-unemployment/articleshow/80637388.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Discom choice could benefit 2.6 crore in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Power experts and consumer rights activists welcomed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement to put in place a framework to allow electricity consumers to choose from more than one distribution company. State power minister Nitin Raut, however, said there were attempts to “privatise” the power sector. If implemented in Maharashtra, it will benefit more than 2.6 crore consumers who have to deal with the monopoly of MSEDCL. and who had no option to switch discom during complaints of hefty billings last year, said a consumer activist. In Mumbai, however, there is a choice between BEST and Tata Power in the island city, and consumers can choose between Adani Electricity and Tata Power in the suburbs. But for Bhandup and beyond till the rest of Maharashtra, MSEDCL has a monopoly in power distribution. Power expert Ashok Pendse said, “If the Centre’s plan is approved by states and gets a nod by regulatory authority, consumers can choose the discom for carriage and content. It could also be any generator of electricity across the country who can ensure power supply through existing lines and available infrastructure.“ Raut said MVA government will not allow privatisation. “We had asked the Centre for an interest-free financial assistance of Rs 20,000 crore but our request was turned down. Instead, Centre offered us a loan at an interest rate of 9-10 %, which is unwarranted,” Raut said. Pendse added, “Increase in solar panel inverter prices will increase solar tariffs, which discoms and ultimately consumers will have to pay.” At present, to encourage domestic production, government plans to raise duty on solar inverters from 5% to 20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/discom-choice-could-benefit-2-6cr-in-maha/articleshow/80637917.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||Recoveries exceed new Covid cases in Goa||PANAJI: Goa reported 60 new Covid-19 cases, 86 recoveries and no Covid-related casualties on Monday. With recoveries being more than new cases, the tally of active cases was reduced to 723. The case positivity rate was at 4% with 1,363 swab tests conducted while recovery rate was at 97%. The day saw 33 hospital admissions and 46 patients were isolated at home. 15 patients are being looked after in covid care center of South Goa which has a capacity of 60 beds. The covid care centre of North Goa was shut down more than a month ago with people choosing to be isolated at their homes rather than staying in a covid care centre. Panaji and Porvorim, both centres having active cases of over 50, did not see a rise in numbers on Monday. All other centres of North have cases below 40. Margao urban health centre and Ponda primary health centre also did not report new cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recoveries-exceed-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80639355.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||Stalin promises edu loan waiver if voted to power||Dharmapuri/Krishnagiri: Hitting back at the AIADMK and its allies who were accusing the DMK of making false promises to win the election, DMK president M K Stalin said he would fulfil the promises he was making for the assembly polls as well as those he made during the last Lok Sabha elections.Addressing the party workers and public at ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ programme in Krishnagiri on Monday, Stalin recalled the promise he made during the run-up to the Lok Sabha election in 2019 that the education loans would be waived. “Unfortunately, our alliance was not able to come to power at the Centre in the parliamentary elections. But once we win the assembly elections, we would impress upon the Centre to waive the education loans,” he said.Collecting the petitions from the public, Stalin said the petitions would be locked inside a box and sealed. “The day after DMK wins and the swearing in ceremony is over, the box will be opened. Thereafter, the grievances raised in the petitions would be addressed in 100 days,’’ he said. The villagers had sought old-age pension, education assistance, drinking and electricity supply to their villages and their houses, roads and basic amenities to their villages in the petitions, Stalin said.Recalling the promises kept by the DMK whenever the party formed government, Stalin said it was the DMK which granted free electricity to farmers, formed separate welfare board for Narikurava community, brought Hogenakkal drinking water project and another water project for Ramanathapuram.“Still, villages are complaining that they are not getting enough water under the Hogenakkal project. Once the DMK comes to power, we will ensure water reaches every village,’’ he said.Stalin alleged that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had failed to protect the interests of Tamil people in general and farmers in particular. He has betrayed farmers by supporting the three farm bills, Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-promises-edu-loan-waiver-if-voted-to-power/articleshow/80638454.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Containment zone number remains nil in PMC limits||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to keep all areas under its jurisdiction completely free of micro-containment zones. The first review of the containment zones in the new year and the decision of not introducing any new containment zones was taken on Monday. “The containment zones in the civic areas were declared as ‘zero’ on December 31. It will continue as is. The civic areas will not have any containment zones,” Vikram Kumar, the PMC commissioner, said. He said even other regulations pertaining to social distancing and commuting would remain the same. According to PMC officials, the civic administration introduces containment zones based on the positive cases in a particular area or housing complex. But, since a month, there hasn’t been a massive increase in such cases. For the first time since the Covid outbreak, the PMC had sealed the Peth areas, Maharshinagar to RTO and parts of Kondhwa, on April 6. After that, some other areas including Nagar Road, Parvati Darshan, Patil Estate were sealed on April 13. For eight months since then, some areas in the civic limits were under containment zones. On December 31, the PMC reduced the zones to zero, following the massive decline in deaths and new cases, a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-zone-number-remains-nil-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/80638458.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Coimbatore||SDPI man arrested for attacking BJP functionary||Coimbatore: A member of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) was arrested on Monday for pelting a car with stone at Cooperative Colony at Mettupalayam on Sunday evening.Police identified the accused as R Mohammed Ashraf, 27, of Poovathal layout in Mettupalayam. A tailor with a garment unit at Avinashi in Tirupur district, he was nabbed based on a complaint lodged by Karamadai area BJP women wing secretary N Vetriselvi, 37, who said two men had pelted her car with stones, injuring her head and damaging the vehicle’s windshield while she was returning home to Chettipalayam near Sirumugai after participating in a party demonstration in Mettupalayam on Sunday evening.Police booked a case under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act and arrested Mohammed Ashraf, who was remanded in judicial custody.Police identified the second accused as I Ahmed, 20, of Mettupalayam. He is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sdpi-man-arrested-for-attacking-bjp-functionary/articleshow/80638455.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra water minister assures probe into OCW agreement||NAGPUR: Maharashtra water resources minister and state president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Jayant Patil on Monday assured former party corporator Vedprakash Arya of a state-level probe by the urban development department into privatizing water supply in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Arya had staged a dharna outside NMC premises in Civil Lines demanding scrapping of Orange City Water Limited’s contract. He ended his fast following assurance from Patil who was accompanied by home minister Anil Deshmukh. Arya has been claiming since 2012 (when the NMC had entrusted OCWL to launch the 24X7 water supply) that it was a loss deal for the civic body. Till 2010-2011, when NMC was operating the city’s water supply system, the civic body had made a profit of Rs3 crore from drinking water supply. In the NMC, the BJP entrusted OCW with the job on the basis of its majority in the House. “All the terms and conditions of the contract were made to benefit the private firm. Since 2012, NMC has incurred a loss of Rs562 crore. Besides this, NMC is increasing the water rate by 5% per annum to benefit OCW,” Arya told the minister. Many areas were getting water supply for just 30 minutes. Some localities were even receiving contaminated water and 24X7 water supply project claimed by Devendra Fadnavis remained a distant dream despite expenditure to the tune of crores of rupees sanctioned by the Central and state governments, alleged Arya. The demand to stop the annual water rate hike by 5% will also be inquired into by the department as it was okayed by it before appointing the firm. Patil later asked the civic chief to look into the issues related to contaminated water and low pressure supply raised by Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-water-minister-assures-probe-into-ocw-agreement/articleshow/80640474.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nashik||Budget allots funds to put metro rail projects on track||Nashik: Nashik city’s innovative metro project received a boost on Monday when Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced allocation of Rs 2,092 crore for it in the Union Budget. The FM also announced allocation of Rs 5,976 crore for the second phase of the Nagpur metro project. Both metro projects are being implemented by MahaMetro, a joint venture between Union and state governments. While Union and state governments would each provide 20% of the project cost, the remaining 60% would be raised through borrowings from international financial institutions.Unlike conventional metro projects, the Nashik’s Metro-Neo has been developed on the lines of trams and would have two-three cushy air-conditioned rubber-tyre coaches. The coaches would run on dedicated corridors by drawing power from overhead wires. There will also be provision for the buses to ply on batteries too. The sitting capacity of each metro rail would be 200-300.MahaMetro MD Brijesh Dixit told TOI that this mass rapid transport system would be a game-changer for Nashik and propel the city’s growth.“Nashik is the first tier-II city in the country where this unique environment-friendly and cost-effective metro project is being implemented. Other tier-II cities would replicate Nashik’s metro project. MahaMetro had worked hard to conceptualize and prepare this new metro model for smaller cities,” he added.Under this project, there would be two corridors. While one corridor of 10 km from Gangapur to Mumbai Naka would have 10 stations, the second one, connecting Gangapur with Nashik Road would be of 22km length with 15 stations. This apart, there would be two feeder corridors connecting with the two main corridors.For the Nagpur metro phase II, Sitharaman has allocated Rs 5,976 crore. MahaMetro officials said they had satisfied all the queries of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, the nodal ministry, more than a month ago. It then sent the detailed project report to all other ministries concerned. A MahaMetro official said that he expected the Union cabinet’s approval within a month. The phase II has a length of 43.8 km with 32 stations.Commenting on the development, Dixit said, “Nagpur city is attaining new heights and MahaMetro is happy to be a part of the process. Phase I is being successfully completed. It is very rare that phase I has not been completed and phase II has been sanctioned. Ridership of phase I is rising by the day.”Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis thanked Sitharaman for clearing the Nagpur metro phase II and Nashik metro. “Both these projects were sanctioned during our time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/budget-allots-funds-to-put-metro-rail-projects-on-track/articleshow/80636692.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||‘Incentives should have been offered with policy on scrapping old vehicles’||MUMBAI: Citizens and environmental experts welcomed the new voluntary scrapping policy for private vehicles over 20 years old and commercial vehicles over 15 years. However, car owners and transporters feel there should have been some accompanying incentive to junk vehicles that may no longer be roadworthy. “It would be nice to get some rebate on a new car or free insurance or freebie, while voluntarily sending old cars to junk. Otherwise people just abandon their cars once they are done with them,” said businessman Adnan Shaikh of Byculla. Nitin Dossa, executive chairman of Western India Automobile Association, said they had suggested including the word “voluntary” to the Central government. “We welcome the FM’s announcement. We had also made other suggestions like offering incentives or discounts to people who buy new cars after scrapping old vehicles and hope these suggestions are accepted. This policy will improve the quality of vehicles on the road and reduce pollution,” Dossa said. A senior RTO official said there is already a voluntary scrapping policy sans incentive. As for creating a deterrent for older vehicles, in Mumbai, there is an HC order banning polluting heavy vehicles from being on roads for more than eight years. Older buses and trucks must move out of Mumbai or switch to CNG. “As for the 11 lakh private cars in Mumbai, owners must compulsorily pay a green tax after the vehicle completes 15 years,” he added. Transporter Bal Malkit Singh, however, termed the policy “unilateral, coercive and intended to help the automotive sector and OEMs (original equipment manufacturers)”. “The final policy document is not shared with stakeholders, affected parties or the public. Nor were any comments and concerns invited.” (Inputs by Bella Jaisinghani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/incentives-should-have-been-offered-with-policy-on-scrapping-old-vehicles/articleshow/80638472.cms||Somit Sen
February 2, 2021||Pune||Apps designed for elderly help many senior citizens find new interests||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: A clutch of apps is now trying to draw in senior citizens who have been housebound by the pandemic. There’s even one that promises to be an “e-commerce destination” for the elderly. ‘Evergreen Club’, developed by Seniority, has been designed to help the over-55 to “digitally meet” over a range of interests — from yoga to gardening to dance therapy. Tapan Mishra, founder of Seniority, said, “Senior citizens have limited entertainment choices. We wanted to do something to help their emotional well-being during such challenging times.” Another called ‘Empowerji’ helps seniors keep up with technologies such as video-calling and social media. Its developers said the app lets seniors learn at their own pace, without assitance from the young. Users said they they have found old connections. “I have learnt how to use email. And I didn’t have to call up my son who lives in another city,” said Sanjay Bhagaonkar, a 67-year-old retired professional. There are also fitness apps — such as ‘Hearty Seniors’ and ‘Senior Fitness’ that are providing training videos. “My daughter uses apps for exercise. But I couldn’t keep up with them. We can end up hurting ourselves if we attempt exercises designed for a 30-year-old. But these new apps for the elderly have really helped me improve my health,” said 62-year-old Brija Kotwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/apps-designed-for-elderly-help-many-senior-citizens-find-new-interests/articleshow/80638464.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Book clubs invite members back for face-to-face readings as norms ease||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: As the pandemic restricted face-to-face meetings, members of the city’s book clubs discussed and reviewed the new arrivals from the confines of their homes almost throughout the last year. Now, these venues have started inviting members back for sit-down discussions. “We now organise a hybrid event called Books Chai and More every second Sunday of the month. The participants can either visit our centre at Lullanagar or join us on Zoom. We have a large screen and projector. Everyone can participate in the discussions since we have members from teenagers to septuagenarians. Most often, if a movie has been made on a book then our discussions are followed by the screening of a film,” said Aiman Mehta, director, Raah, a literacy and cultural centre. Tara Turner, a retired professional and a member of various book clubs in the city, said, “Since I live close by, I love to attend the sessions at Raah, but I also participate in other online book clubs. We’ve read and discussed many topical books since the lockdown, such as Todd Henry’s Die Empty, Barrack Obama’s A Promised Land, and Sharayu Summanwar’s Unlocked, which is a boy-meets-girl story set in the turbulent times of the 2020 lockdown. It is good to go and meet other readers and discuss thoughts and opinions about these books with them face-to-face.” Mohini Khot, head of the department of English at St Mira’s College, has been running her book club for 18 years. “It started at Poona Club, then moved to Gyaan Adab, and now we have it online, too. We usually have 40-50 people coming for the sessions, but I am told that over 300 people view the sessions that are broadcast live on Facebook. A lady from New York recently presented a book, The Immigrant, and another participant from Toronto presented Isabel Wilkerson’s Caste and compared the racial discrimination in America to the caste system in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/book-clubs-invite-members-back-for-face-to-face-readings-as-norms-ease/articleshow/80638475.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Procurement at MSP up, but other hiccups remain||Nagpur: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech cited figures highlighting growth in procurement of crops at minimum support price (MSP). This included cotton, pulses and paddy — which are grown in Vidarbha also. Reacting to the FM’s claims, farmers here said selling cotton or pulses at the procurement centres on MSP does not happen without hassles. This is followed by delayed payment, they said, also alleging that even traders manage to sell their stock at the centres.“Procurement at the centres run by Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) was rather slow last year. There were shutdowns due to Covid lockdown,” said Nitin Khadse from Jalka village in Yavatmal.There are similar hassles at tur procurement centres, run by National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed). There have been instances when procurement was stopped due to shortage of gunny bags. Delayed payments remain a problem, said Khadse.Majority of the farmers, however, also accepted that the CCI has purchased record quantity of cotton this year, which has ultimately led to open market rates going up. Rates of tur are already above the MSP this time.If the cotton and tur growers of Western Vidarbha complained of hassles, paddy growers in the East find the system to be rather convenient.“The procurement has been smooth, so far. The government has also announced bonus of Rs700 a quintal. This fetches paddy farmer Rs2,500 for a quintal,” said Govind Bhendarkar, an activist from Chandrapur — a paddy growing area.Private mills engaged by the government to process paddy into rice also find it a profitable deal. The rice is later sold through the public distribution system, he said.To Sitharaman’s statement that the amount paid towards procurement on MSP has grown over the years, activists say it was only because the rates have increased.Activists also agreed that delayed payments have dogged procurement of cotton and tur in the region. This also gives chance to the middlemen, who purchase the produce at a discount if a farmer is in urgent need of money, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/procurement-at-msp-up-but-other-hiccups-remain/articleshow/80637401.cms||Shishir Arya
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University gets Rs 5 crore grant to set up e-learning facility||MUMBAI: Mumbai University received a grant of Rs 5 crore from Rashtriya Uchchatar Shikshan Abhiyan in the current financial year, which will be used to set up an e-learning facility and for developing existing infrastructure on the campus. This is in addition to the Rs 1.2 crore received as research grants and Rs 5 crore donated by an alumnus to Mumbai School of Economics and Public Policy. The university’s vice-chancellor, Suhas Pednekar, made this announcement during the online annual convocation ceremony on Monday. Over 1.9 lakh students graduated from the university this year. While 140 Ph Ds and M Phils were awarded, 16 medals were given to students with exceptional performances in their respective subjects. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari who presided over the convocation urged students to become innovators, job creators and creators of wealth and even appealed to them to get acquainted with emerging technologies like artificial intelligence. The university has shortlisted 10 start-ups that will work from the incubation centre on Hcampus, said Pednekar, while reading the annual report. He said the number of autonomous colleges under the university has risen from 34 last year to 40 now. Pednekar proposed to implement the ‘school concept’ (setting up schools of engineering, management etc) to enhance interdisciplinary research, academic exchange and collaborations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-univ-gets-rs-5cr-grant-to-set-up-e-learning-facility/articleshow/80638485.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||U'khand's first-ever women’s day-night cricket match held in Doon||Dehradun: In a major step for upliftment of women’s cricket in the state, the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) held the state’s first-ever day-night women’s match of a BCCI recognised tournament at the Tanush Cricket Academy in Dehradun on Monday. The CAU organised the Hansa Dhanai T-20 Women’s Challenger Cup from January 23 to February 1, 2021. The tournament final between CAU Red and CAU Blue was held on Monday with the Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya being the chief guest. The final was a day-night affair and has been hailed as the state’s first official day-night women’s cricket match. “The tournament was organised to give a boost to women’s cricket in Uttarakhand. It is one of our flagship projects and we intend to create proper avenues for the state’s female cricketers,” Mahim Verma, secretary of CAU, said. Batting first, CAU Blue scored 103 runs in their allotted 20 overs which proved not enough to defend as CAU Red chased down the target with ease and won the match by eight wickets. Anju Tomar was adjudged as the 'Woman of the Match' for her all-round effort. Tomar scored an unbeaten 38 and took a wicket in the final. The tournament consisted of five teams. Each team consisted of players from different categories, including junior, senior and U-19 female cricketers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-first-ever-womens-day-night-cricket-match-held-in-doon/articleshow/80637403.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 2, 2021||Pune||PMR: Makeshift Covid jumbo hospitals likely to be dismantled in March||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region’s two jumbo Covid-19 hospitals — at College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), and Annasaheb Magar Stadium — may be dismantled in March. The two facilities had stopped admitting new patients from January 1, due to the drop in cases across the PMR. Only patients who were already admitted were treated till January 15. Suhas Diwse, commissioner, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), said there was now no need to run these facilities after February. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said the civic body will wait until February 28 before deciding the final course of action. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19 and former director general of health services (Maharashtra), said the jumbo units will continue operations, at least for the next two months. “We already have these facilities with state-of-art medical equipment. The number of Covid cases has not reduced enough to let our guard down,” he said. House leader in the PCMC, Namdev Dhake, said if the Magar stadium unit is dismantled, its medical equipment should be transferred to the civic-run hospital. Sangram Kapale, director of MedBros — the agency running the two units — said they are now in the stage of preparing bills for the regional administration. “We will submit our bills to the PMRDA on Tuesday. We hope for speedy approval,” he said. Kapale added the administration has settled dues of staff who were awaiting salaries after the facilities were shut on January 15. Both units were designed to be makeshift hospitals to treat Covid-19. They were supposed to take the burden off actual hospitals in the region — by providing isolation beds and even intensive care. However, operational problems early on and the eventual dip in new cases meant they never could reach full patient capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/makeshift-covid-jumbo-hospitals-likely-to-be-dismantled-in-march/articleshow/80638480.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Revising customs duty may affect domestic rates of farm produce||Nagpur: The agriculture infrastructure and development cess (AIDC) that covers 25 items is expected to have a mixed impact on the domestic rates of farm commodities covered in the list. This can make import of some of the commodities cheaper, which can be a factor in reducing domestic prices. The list has 10 agricultural items ranging from apples to cotton. It has been proposed to reduce the basic customs duty (BCD) on the commodities but add a cess on the duty. The cess ranges between 2.5% to 100%. For example, if the BCD is at 10%, a cess of 50% would be added on the amount of duty chargeable.The net affect duty on a number of items is down as the surcharge is only levied on the BCD and not the cost, said chartered accountant Tejindersingh Rawal.The proposal includes 5% duty on cotton imports and 5% cess on the duty from nil at present.There is a view that the move is expected to be advantageous to cotton growers like those in Vidarbha, but only in the long run.On the other hand, apple imports may get cheaper The current customs duty on apples is 75% in general and 40% from preferential areas. The budget proposes to take the BDC to 15% of BCD and add a 35% cess. This makes imported apples cheaper which can have an adverse impact on the rates of the domestic produce.The duty has been revised for peas, Bengal gram, kabuli chana and lentils (masoor) too. In this case, imports will be cheaper than before. For example, the current duty for peas is 50% and 40% for preferential areas. The budget proposes a BCD of 10% and 40% cess.The customs duty on lentils (masoor) is at 50% and 20% for preferred areas. Again, the budget proposal makes imports cheaper than earlier.The BCD has been proposed at 10% with a cess of 20% on duty. This duty barrier puts the domestic grower at a disadvantage.The same is for other commodities like kabuli chana, Bengal gram and chick peas.On cotton, veteran farm leader Vijay Jawandhia said it may provide some cushion to the growers, when rates touch a low in the international markets. The duty barrier will help in supporting domestic rates.Arun Sheskaria of M/s DD Cotton said it may not have any major impact on local rates. This is because imported cotton includes the extra-long staple and contamination free varieties which are not grown in India.President of Cotton Association of India (CAI) Arun Ganatra too had a similar view. Ganatra said the move may not even have any effect on domestic rates, even in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/revising-customs-duty-may-affect-domestic-rates-of-farm-produce/articleshow/80637396.cms||Shishir Arya
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Hry schools reopen for Classes V to VIII||Karnal: After a gap of over 10 months, schools for Classes V to VIII reopened on Monday in Haryana. The reopening of schools evoked good response in Karnal district. However, parents and students faced some difficulties in the absence of medical fitness certificates. As per the guidelines, students have to get a general medical check-up done from health centres for Covid-19 symptoms before entering the school for the first time. Though there were concerns among some parents in view of the pandemic, a majority felt that the decision to reopen the schools were a need of the hour in view of upcoming exams. Students followed safety protocols. Manshi, a clash 7th student, said, “I feel very happy to be back to school after a long time. I used to attend classes online, but face-to-face interaction in the class is much better than that.” The Union government had announced closure of education institutions in March 2020 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. However, Classes IX to XII had gone offline since November. Mohan Singh, principal, JPS School, Assandh, said, “The classrooms were sanitised on Sunday. The students were allowed after thermal screening, hand sanitisation and with the consent of parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-schools-reopen-for-classes-v-to-viii/articleshow/80639359.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Two goons arrested under MPDA||NAGPUR: Two dreaded goons, Shaikh Sameer alias Raju Yerurkar and Manya Jagtap, were arrested under the stringent Maharashtra prevention of dangerous activities (MPDA) Act last week. The two goons had several offences against them. Sameer was arrested for his role in the sensational murder of Tunnu in Dharampeth. He was slapped with MPDA by Koradi police. MPDA was also invoked against Jagtap for his role in relentless anti-social activities at Yashodharanagar. Zonal DCP Neelotpal initiated the action against Sameer and Jagtap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-goons-arrested-under-mpda/articleshow/80640477.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Budget futuristic for BJP; disappointing, says MVA||Nagpur: Finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman’s budget evoked a mixed reaction from politicians of the city. Expectedly, BJP legislators hailed it, terming it “futuristic”, while Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena leaders slammed it, dubbing it as “disappointing”, “anti-farmer” and “anti-youth”.“For the first time, infrastructure has got priority in the budget. It would not only boost investment in the sector, but also generate employment. Budget for our ministry has been increased from Rs91,000 crore to Rs1.18 lakh crore. I will soon launch the new scrapping policy announced by the finance minister. It has huge employment potential,” said Union minister Nitin Gadkari while terming the budget “revolutionary”.Slamming the Centre’s plans to privatize the power distribution sector in Maharashtra as “unfortunate”, state energy minister Nitin Raut said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government would not allow it to succeed. “We had demanded a Rs20,000 crore loan for revamping the power sector. However, the Centre put the condition of 9%-10% interest for availing it. We had also requested for funds to install pollution controlling systems at thermal plants, but no declaration has been made in this regard.”Endorsing Raut, home minister Anil Deshmukh said the budget was not only disappointing for the common man, but also for farmers as well as the youth. “No announcements have been made with regard to boosting employment, particularly in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic which rendered thousands jobless. Except for some funds for metro rail’s second phase, there’s nothing beneficial for Nagpur.”Animal husbandry and sports minister Sunil Kedar said the budget has disappointed farmers who have been protesting since the last two months for their demands. “Such a big agitation is taking place for the first time since independence. Even for sports, there’s nothing to boost infrastructure for its promotion. There’s been no announcement regarding animal husbandry around which the entire rural economy revolves. There’s nothing for Mihan as well.”Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said there’s nothing for Maharashtra, particularly for Vidarbha and Chandrapur. “For the first time such a budget with 9.5% deficit has been presented by any government. No steps have been taken to reduce inflation for the common man. It seems Maharashtra is out of bounds for the Centre despite paying the highest taxes.”Terming the budget historic, BJP MLCs Pravin Datke and Girish Vyas said the allocation for metro rail’s second phase would help it to connect the other city areas and generate employment. “The general public will gain because of the low housing schemes and a decision on MSP would help the farming community. Steps have been taken to boost the rural economy and promote a self-reliant India,” the duo said.While hailing the allocation of funds for metro’s second phase that will have a reach till his constituency, Shiv Sena’s Ramtek MP Krupal Tumane said the budget has nothing for agriculture, farmers and industries. “The budget was planned to target voters in the forthcoming assembly polls in five states. The Centre’s move to sell government-run companies would make only a select few rich while the others would be pushed to poverty,” said Tumane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/budget-futuristic-for-bjp-disappointing-says-mva/articleshow/80637407.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 2, 2021||Goa||Authorities urged to relocate kiosk at Panaji bus stand||Panaji: The construction of a kiosk at the Panaji bus stand has turned out to be a matter of concern as it has obstructed the movement of passengers from the bay area to the terminus. In a letter addressed to the North Goa collectorate, Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC), transport department and the traffic cell, Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) has sought immediate intervention in this regard “in the interest of the safety of passengers” using the KTC bus stand. “The kiosk being constructed has blocked the alternate passage available, thereby forcing passengers to use the ramp meant for disabled persons and senior citizens. We fear that the blockage will create huge problems in the event of a fire or stampede as it will lead to loss of lives, especially women and children,” the letter stated. Goacan has suggested that KTC move the kiosk to another location on the bus stand. “If KTC wishes to construct the kiosk for commercial activity, they can locate it elsewhere on the bus stand without blocking the main passage. Moreover, it will also create a blockage to the zebra crossing which needs repairs,” the letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/authorities-urged-to-relocate-kiosk-at-panaji-bus-stand/articleshow/80620262.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||No new Covid case in 5 Haryana districts||Chandigarh: Haryana on Monday recorded 92 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths, with 21 of the state’s total 22 districts reporting less than 10 cases. Five did not get a singe case. Only 782 got the Covid vaccine as a polio innoculation drive is underway in the state. The state recorded122 recoveries. Haryana’s positivity rate rose to 5.18%, while the death rate was 1.13%. Two deaths were reported from Yamunanagar, and one each from Hisar and Palwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-new-covid-case-in-5-haryana-districts/articleshow/80639386.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Above 60 years? No BJP ticket for you||GANDHINAGAR: State BJP president C R Paatil has laid out rather stringent criteria for those aspiring for tickets of the forthcoming urban and rural local body elections, something which is bound to upset several established leaders in the party. On day one of the three-day state BJP parliamentary board meeting, which got underway at CM Vijay Rupani’s residence in Gandhinagar, Paatil said, “The party has decided that those above the age of 60, those who have completed 3 terms as elected representatives, and those who are relatives of any political leader will not get the party’s ticket to contest the upcoming local body and civic elections.” The meeting is underway to select candidates of the party for upcoming elections of six municipal corporations and other local bodies. The party has to finalize over 8,000 candidates for approaching elections of municipal corporations, taluka and district panchayats and municipalities. BJP has been in power in all the six municipal corporations and a majority of the municipalities which are going to polls. The Congress is in power in about two-thirds of the taluka and district panchayats for which elections will be held. Congress's first list out: The Gujarat Congress on Monday announced its first list of candidates for the coming local body elections. It announced names of 21 candidates in Bhavnagar, 27 candidates in Jamnagar, 22 candidates in Rajkot, 52 candidates in Surat and 20 candidates in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/above-60-yrs-no-bjp-ticket-for-you/articleshow/80638492.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nashik||Bhusawal freight corridor to aid transport of perishables||NASHIK: The Bhusawal division of the Central Railways will now get a dedicated freight corridor (DFC) that will connect the east and west corridors. The corridor will ensure timely delivery of perishable goods from the Nashik region to the markets in eastern India. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman has announced that a detailed project report (DPR) will be made for the first phase of the construction of the east-west DFC from Bhusawal to Dankuni in West Bengal via Kharagpur, said Shivaji Sutar, the chief public relations officer of the Central Railways. “The dedicated freight corridor will give agriculture and industrial goods produced in Nashik and adjoining area access to the eastern and northeastern regions of the country,” said Satish Patel, an industrialists in Nashik. “Agriculture products, especially onions, are in demand in the eastern parts of the country and even Bangladesh. The new DFC will help in faster delivery of goods. Moreover, a Railway Container Terminus is coming up at Lasalgaon. Just as Kisan Rail started from Nashik to Muzaffarpur is delivering great service to the farmers, the DFC and the RCT will boost the transportation facility from Nashik,” said Keshav Kadam, an onion trader from Niphad. It must be noted that the work on laying additional tracks between Mumbai and Bhusawal is currently on. Once completed, the traffic speed between Mumbai and Bhusawal will get a boost and the new tracks will serve semi high-speed as well as freight trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhusawal-freight-corridor-to-aid-transport-of-perishables/articleshow/80636716.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Three rescued, five arrested from brothel||NAGPUR: New Kamptee police have arrested five persons, including two women, after raiding a brothel in Ramanagar on Monday. Three women were rescued from the flesh trade by the police. The five arrested have been identified as Sangita Sakhre, Reena Sakhre, Dinesh Shetty, Yuvraj Domke and Harshal Lahud. It’s learnt that Sangita was the mastermind behind the racket. This is the second time that Sangita’s brothel was raided under the supervision of zonal DCP Neelotpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-rescued-five-arrested-from-brothel/articleshow/80640481.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||1 death, 197 fresh cases in Punjab||Chandigarh: As many as 197 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Punjab in the last 24 hours. One person also died of Covid in Jalandhar. The new cases were in Ludhiana (50), Jalandhar (27), Mohali (20), Bathinda (17), Kapurthala (15), Hoshiarpur (14), Patiala and Amritsar (12 each), Nawanshahr (6), Ferozepur (5), Gurdaspur, Fazilka and Sangrur (3 each), Mukltsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Barnala and Tarn Taran (2 each) and Moga and Ropar (1 each). tnn Total Summary till Date Total suspected cases | 4490598 Total patients tested positive | 173470 Cured | 165753 Total deaths | 5616 Active cases | 1848||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-death-197-fresh-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/80639395.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Budget to boost economy: Gujarat Inc||AHMEDABAD: A budget focussed on healthcare and infrastructure sector, with a slew of other proposed reforms across various sectors will go a long way in boosting demand, and triggering growth of the Indian economy, feel industry veterans. Most industrialists in the manufacturing sector have hailed measures aimed at boosting Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. “Market was relieved as government avoided any extra cess or increase in securities transaction tax while pushing for domestic manufacturing by announcing ‘Atmanirbhar’ package and reducing custom duties. Budget has been proactive in addressing concerns of asset quality and credit loss. Increased allocation to housing, infrastructure, health and textiles are steps in right direction. Overall, budget has managed to strike a balance between supporting growth and modest deficit reduction,” said Aasif Hirani, director, Tradebulls. Keeping direct tax rates unchanged will help the industry’s growth, according to experts. “The move to incentivize one person companies (OPCs), will propel growth of startups,” said Natubhai Patel, president, GCCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/budget-to-boost-economy-guj-inc/articleshow/80638507.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand completely ignored in budget, says Opposition Cong||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Congress state chief Pritam Singh said that the Union budget 2021-22 presented on Monday had virtually nothing for Uttarakhand. “There was so much anticipation regarding a green bonus but it turned out to be a big disappointment. No new rail or metro project was mentioned for Uttarakhand in this budget. The MSME sector, which has been suffering for the past many years, has not been provided any respite. Overall, Uttarakhand has been ignored and the budget is a disappointment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-completely-ignored-in-budget-says-opposition-cong/articleshow/80637457.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Speaker at BJP parliamentary board meeting sparks row||GANDHINAGAR: The presence of Gujarat assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi at the state BJP parliamentary board meeting in Gandhinagar on Monday, sparked off a controversy, with the Congress asking whether the speaker will be able to maintain objectivity while conducting assembly proceedings next month. Trivedi had resigned as BJP primary member before taking oath as speaker. He was among the leaders who attended the meeting at the CM’s residence in Gandhinagar on Monday to finalize candidates for local body polls. State Congress president Amit Chavda said, “The speaker’s post is considered to be above party lines. Trivedi decided to attend the BJP’s meeting. Will he be able to maintain objectivity in the assembly?’’ When contacted, Trivedi was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/speaker-at-bjp-parl-meeting-sparks-row/articleshow/80638498.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Civic areas propel Pune Metropolitan Region’s daily vaccination to 98%||PUNE: Areas in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits propelled Monday’s vaccination to 98% in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), with 4,498 of the listed 4,600 beneficiaries taking the shots at 45 designated sites. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas accounted for the most vaccinations at 116% and 118% respectively, while the the rural parts lagged behind with 77% inoculation, data by district health authorities showed. As per the data, the 23 vaccination sites in the PMC and PCMC areas collectively inoculated an additional 409 people. “Some of the private health hubs like Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Noble and Bharati hospitals vaccinated more people than the daily target. This aided in achieving better immunisation for the day, despite lower-than-expected vaccinations in the rural parts. This underlines vaccine eagerness has replaced initial hesitancy,” said PMC health department chief Ashish Bharati. The 15 sites in the PMC inoculated 1,745 beneficiaries as against the target of 1,500. “A sizable number of vaccinations were administered to those who simply walked in for the shots after initial verification of their registration on the CoWIN app,” Bharati said. An additional three private hospitals are likely to be designated as vaccination centres in the PMC. “We are planning to rope in Sahyadri hospital and Poona hospital from Wednesday. Beneficiaries will be called for the second dose from February 16,” Bharati said. The vaccination of frontline workers is likely to begin this week. “We are sorting out technical issues regarding linking the online data of registered frontline workers with the vaccination centres,” he said. In the PCMC, eight sites had a target of vaccinating 900 beneficiaries on Monday. “But our centres inoculated as many as 1,063 people,” a PCMC health official said. The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital and Thergaon hospital vaccinated 281 and 233 beneficiaries respectively, the highest to date. The 22 sites in the rural parts of Pune vaccinated 1,690 of the expected 2,200 beneficiaries. A women’s hospital in Baramati, Navale medical college and hospital, MIMER medical college and hospital and Symbiosis medical college and hospital recorded more than 100% vaccinations. Aundh hospital inoculates all listed recipients The lone Covaxin site at the District Hospital (DH) in Aundh vaccinated 59 healthcare workers on Monday. According to hospital officials, all recipients allotted to the site have received the first shot. “Now, we will be vaccinating beneficiaries from other hospitals as part of the drive,” a hospital official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-areas-propel-pmrs-daily-vaccination-to-98/articleshow/80638495.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 2, 2021||Nashik||Benefits for women, children in Maharashtra's Nandurbar||NASHIK: The announcement — ‘intensified strategy to improve nutritional outcomes across aspirational districts’— in the Union Budget has raised the hopes in Nandurbar, where people face several issues including forced migration every year. The authorities are also hopeful that the issues of the people in these areas will be considered by the government, thus bringing down the malnourishment rate. ”Migration is a big problem in Nandurbar. People go to other places in search of jobs between January and May. During that time, they fail to claim the benefits of various welfare schemes, including Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Amrut Aahar Yojana in tribal areas,” said Raghunath Gawde, the chief executive officer, Nandurbar. “We are waiting for the fine print of the government’s efforts,” said Gawde. Dr Krishna Rathod, the officer of the Integrated Child Development Scheme, who is in-charge of Nandurbar district, said the special steps in the region were required, including early registration of women for the Aahar Yojana so that their preconception health is checked and they are counselled accordingly. “Currently, women enrol themselves through the Anganwadis in the third month of pregnancy. Aahar and other benefits are delivered about a month after registration. The vital time for the nutritional support to the foetus is lost. We propose that the women, within days of their marriage, register with the local Anganwadi, who will monitor their health,” Rathod said. This would help ensure preconception health of the woman, checking for anaemia, counselling the women and her in-laws about health issues and starting correctional nutrition as required. “These are exclusive problems of the region and are difficult even under the normal circumstances. We are confident that the intensified strategy will also provide provision to pregnant women, lactating mothers and the babies wherever they go using their Aadhaar number,” Dr Rathod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/benefits-for-women-children-in-nandurbar/articleshow/80636721.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||Over 15,000 attend ‘mahapanchayat’ in UP’s Bijnor, farmer leaders from Karnataka & Maharashtra also join them||BIJNOR: After Muzaffarnagar, Mathura and Baghpat, another kisan mahapanchayat was organized in Bijnor on Monday. Attended by over 15,000 farmers from western Uttar Pradesh, the gathering was also addressed by farm leaders from Karnataka and Maharashtra who emphasized that the protests were not confined to North India. President of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s youth wing, Gaurav Tikait, said, “Over 150 farmers have lost their lives fighting against the new farm laws. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi never uttered a word on the demise of these farmers. He turned a deaf ear to the grievances of the farming community. This government is full of ego and the farmers should unite for this agitation.” “The government is trying to crush the agitation and defame the farmers in the name of Khalistan. We are neither Pakistani nor Khalistani, we are Indian farmers, fighting against the laws that will destroy us,” Tikait said. In his address, Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary called the current regime “a government of deceivers, who have surrendered to the capitalist forces”. He asked the crowd if any farmer’s income had doubled in the past seven years, “as this government claims”. Chaudhary referred to the farmers as “Hanuman” and asked the gathering to recognize their strength and power to demolish the “BJP’s Lanka”. “The UP chief minister is not paying heed to the grievances of the farmers. Government has not declared the price of sugarcane for the current crushing season nor did he do anything to clear the dues of the farmers,” the RLD leader claimed. The BKU leaders said that farmers from Bijnor will move to the Ghazipur border in large numbers. Senior police officials, including DIG Ramit Sharma, are already camping in Bijnor. Following BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal to the farmers to join protests, Bijnor police had sealed the district borders. Local superintendent of police had even declared the Ghazipur border protests “illegal”, warning farmers against leaving the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-15000-attend-mahapanchayat-in-ups-bijnor-farmer-leaders-from-karnataka-maharashtra-also-join-them/articleshow/80640930.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Order on Sivasankar’s bail application tomorrow||KOCHI: Ernakulam additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) would pronounce its order on the bail application by former principal secretary M Sivasankar in the currency smuggling case on Wednesday.  Though Customs filed an objection report on Monday, there were no detailed arguments, suggesting that the agency was not looking to press their objection against granting bail to the former bureaucrat. Hence, the defence is hopeful that he would be granted bail, paving way for his release.  On Monday, when customs filed an objection to the bail, the court asked the agency’s counsel whether it shall post the petition for the orders if there is no submission and the counsel for customs agreed. However, in the objection report Customs stated that the allegations in the present case against the petitioner are very serious in nature. “His conduct, if proved, will undoubtedly injure the economy of the country, harm the interests of the state,” Customs said in the objection report.  The court said on Monday that from the evidence submitted by the Customs, the agency has found that Sivasankar was aware of currency smuggling but his involvement is not as intense as it was in the gold smuggling incident. The case pertains to Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, the former finance head of UAE consulate allegedly smuggling out $1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.3 crore) to Cairo via Oman from Trivandrum Airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/order-on-sivasankars-bail-application-tomorrow/articleshow/80638514.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||GFP: Rs 300cr is trade-off for Mhadei, Mollem projects||Margao: Reacting to the Union Budget, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Monday criticised the government for not having provided anything meaningful for Goa which, he said, could help the state which is “facing its biggest debt-crisis in our modern-day history.” He said that the Rs 300 crore grant allotted for Goa in the Budget towards celebration of the state’s 60th year of Liberation was not a priority for the state. “(Chief minister) Pramod Sawant and BJP do not understand Goa, and do not care about Goa,” he said in his press statement. He said the Budget ought to have addressed Goa’s priorities . Sardesai added that Goa’s local industries were in urgent need of stimulus packages, and sectors which include traditional occupations, manufacturing, agriculture, and pharmaceuticals, also needed to be provided a boost. Tax incentives for Goan-owned tourism ventures are the state’s urgent requirements, he said. In a caustic remark, Sardesai alleged that the Rs 300 crore grant provided for Goa, was a trade-off by the central government to facilitate Mhadei water diversion and to push the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects passing through Mollem forest which are detrimental to Goa’s interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-rs-300cr-is-trade-off-for-mhadei-mollem-projects/articleshow/80639465.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nashik||Malegaon & Ichalkaranji miss out on textile park, feel pinch of customs duty||NASHIK: The powerloom stakeholders in the textile towns of Malegaon and Ichalkaranji in Maharashtra said the imposition of 10% customs duty on cotton would hit them. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the customs duty to help local farmers earn a better price for their produce. Satish Koshti, president of Ichalkaranji powerloom weavers association, said, “We are not against the farmers getting good price for their produce. Due to increase in customs duty, there will be shortage of cotton in the market and we will have to procure it at higher costs. The finished cloth and garments imported will be much cheaper than our product.” Several stakeholders said the sector is reeling under severe crisis as the demand for grey cloth that they produce is not picking up. The textile manufacturers have been demanding a ban on cheaper garments imported from nearby countries such as Bangladesh. “We were expecting an announcement to do away with anti-dumping duty that is levied by Centre on import of raw materials from countries like China, Vietnam and South Korea to make yarns like polyester, which we use to make grey cloth,” said Sajid Ansari, the president of Malegaon power-loom udgoy vikas samiti. The Centre announced seven textile parks but Malegaon and Ichalkarani did not feature in the list. Nitin Gawali, regional MIDC officer, said they are developing a textile park on their own on 113 hectares at Sayane in Malegaon taluka of Nashik district. “Around 84 hectares has been acquired and infrastructure like road, water supply, streetlights, approach road has been developed so far. We will start allotment of the land at the textile park from next month,” he added. Some stakeholders were expecting funds for upgrading the machinery. Ex-minister for textiles Prakash Awade said, “We expected big amount to be set aside for upgradation. The financial package was expected to overcome demonetisation and lockdown effects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-ichalkaranji-miss-out-on-textile-park-feel-pinch-of-customs-duty/articleshow/80636725.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Email hacked, firm loses Rs 94 lakh||AHMEDABAD: When the senior accountant of a city firm found an email regarding replacement of a SIM card, alarm bells started ringing. A thorough check revealed that someone had used the company’s mail id to change the authorised phone number for bank transactions and siphoned off Rs 94.57 lakh. A complaint in this regard has been filed by Vivek Patel, HR manager with Trident India Limited, with cybercrime cell of the city police on Sunday. Police said, “The money was withdrawn from the company’s accounts with the Law Garden branch of Nutan Nagrik Sahkari Bank. All the transactions took place in December. We are tracing the IP log address of the device from which the firm’s authorised email ID was tampered with.” According to the FIR, the whole thing came to light when senior accountant Ravi Joshi read a mail about SIM card replacement request. The FIR mentions that he immediately informed his seniors who found that Rs 94.57 lakh had been transferred through phone banking to accounts in other private banks. “We are tracking details of the accounts into which the money was credited. Very soon, we will establish the identity of those involved in the scam,” said a senior official of cybercrime cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/email-hacked-firm-loses-rs-94l/articleshow/80638512.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Family of gold ‘thieves’ held for duping jeweller in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Four members of a family and two of their aides, including a cabbie, have been arrested for allegedly looting a jeweller in Malad (east). The Pune-based Wani family allegedly stole ornaments worth Rs 2 lakh from a jeweller in Malad (east) recently. They have been involved in crimes previously in Chhatisgarh, Telangana, Karnataka and parts of the state — Pune, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Beed, Thane, Kolhapur and Navi Mumbai, the police said. They visited stores in a group. While some distracted the staff busy with enquiries about products, the others stole ornaments with a sleight of hand. Later, they left without buying anything. By the time the owner learnt of the theft, it was too late.  The police checked CCTV footage that led them to cabbieAshutosh Mishra (33) from Kurla. From his leads, they nabbed the others. Two of the gang are missing. The stolen ornaments weighing 45gm have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/family-of-gold-thieves-held-for-duping-jeweller/articleshow/80645441.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chandigarh||Day 15: 75% receive vaccine’s first dose in HP||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh recorded 75% coverage during its Covid-19 vaccination drive as against the target of 7,614 healthcare workers, 5,700 were vaccinated in the state on Monday. The vaccination drive was carried out in government health facilities of 10 districts, except Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti, of state. So far, total 33,452 persons have been vaccinated in the state. Vaccination drive on hold on January 24, 25 and 26 in the state. During the vaccination drive on Monday, adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported in six persons, including one in Shimla, two in Bilaspur district and three in Kangra. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. Districts have already been given instructions to complete the vaccination drive for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine for the health workers in the state by February 9. State had received a consignment of 87,500 vaccine doses, in addition to 93,000 doses received earlier. Vaccine wastage in the state is only 2.55% against the permissible limit of 10%. AEFI has only been reported in 1.16% of the vaccinated beneficiaries and that too are minor in nature and resolved after management as per the standard protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-15-75-receive-vaccines-first-dose-in-hp/articleshow/80639414.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Shimla||Day 15: 75% receive vaccine’s first dose in HP||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh recorded 75% coverage during its Covid-19 vaccination drive as against the target of 7,614 healthcare workers, 5,700 were vaccinated in the state on Monday. The vaccination drive was carried out in government health facilities of 10 districts, except Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti, of state. So far, total 33,452 persons have been vaccinated in the state. Vaccination drive on hold on January 24, 25 and 26 in the state. During the vaccination drive on Monday, adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported in six persons, including one in Shimla, two in Bilaspur district and three in Kangra. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. Districts have already been given instructions to complete the vaccination drive for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine for the health workers in the state by February 9. State had received a consignment of 87,500 vaccine doses, in addition to 93,000 doses received earlier. Vaccine wastage in the state is only 2.55% against the permissible limit of 10%. AEFI has only been reported in 1.16% of the vaccinated beneficiaries and that too are minor in nature and resolved after management as per the standard protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/day-15-75-receive-vaccines-first-dose-in-hp/articleshow/80639414.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Family of gold ‘thieves’ held for duping jeweller in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Four members of a family and two of their aides, including a cabbie, have been arrested for allegedly looting a jeweller in Malad (east). The Pune-based Wani family allegedly stole ornaments worth Rs 2 lakh from a jeweller in Malad (east) recently. They have been involved in crimes previously in Chhatisgarh, Telangana, Karnataka and parts of the state — Pune, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Beed, Thane, Kolhapur and Navi Mumbai, the police said. They visited stores in a group. While some distracted the staff busy with enquiries about products, the others stole ornaments with a sleight of hand. Later, they left without buying anything. By the time the owner learnt of the theft, it was too late.  The police checked CCTV footage that led them to cabbieAshutosh Mishra (33) from Kurla. From his leads, they nabbed the others. Two of the gang are missing. The stolen ornaments weighing 45gm have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/family-of-gold-thieves-held-for-duping-jeweller/articleshow/80638518.cms||---
February 2, 2021||India||Jharkhand tribal families caned, fined in conversion backlash||GARHWA: Three Korwa tribal families in a Jharkhand village were allegedly fined, caned and made to do sit-ups after a kangaroo court declared them social outcasts for converting to Christianity recently. The incident occurred at Khala village under Dhurki block of Garhwa district on January 22, sources said. Jaiwardhan Kumar, the subdivisional magistrate of Banshidhar Nagar, confirmed receiving information about the alleged backlash against conversions in the area. "Reports of some villagers being targeted in Khala village have come to my notice, but there is no official confirmation yet. Can't say anything more before an investigation into the matter is carried out," he said. The Korwas are officially categorised as a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group. Around two dozen families from both the Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste communities have converted to Christianity in the area over the past year, villagers claimed. The three Korwa families allegedly targeted for converting were fined Rs 25,051 each, besides being subjected to caning and forced to do 110 sit-ups. "A priest from Bihar has been staying in a rented accommodation at Dhurki for around a year. It seems he, along with two of his aides, are responsible for the conversions," Dhurki block pramukh Vinod Korwa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jharkhand-tribal-families-caned-fined-in-conversion-backlash/articleshow/80640941.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Union Budget focuses on overall development, assures 1.5 times more MSP for farmers: CM Rawat||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat lauded Union budget 2021-22 presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, saying that despite the Covid-19 challenge, the Centre has come up with a budget which aims at the overall development of the country with a focus on health, agriculture, self-reliance, and infrastructure. “The new MSP regime assures 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities. Some people are trying to mislead the farmers but in my opinion, both the Union Budget and the farm laws are in favour of the agriculture sector,” said the CM. Rawat did not fail to mention that the amount deposited in the bank accounts in the Modi government was double the amount deposited in the UPA term. “During his tenure as Gujarat CM, Narendra Modi had ensured that farmers got more water supply than what they demanded. Since his early days, PM Modi has been working to help the farmers and double their income. Some people are trying to guide the farmers in the wrong direction,” said the chief minister He pointed out that the decision to open 100 Sainik Schools would “vastly benefit Uttarakhand as youth in big numbers join the armed forces from the Himalayan state”. The CM further said, “We are confident of getting a Sainik School. Youth in high numbers join the armed and the para-military forces from Uttarakhand each year and the Sainik Schools would provide a good opportunity to our children,” the CM added. Rawat also appreciated the proposal of Investment Textile Park and said it would create job opportunities for the youth. “If we go through the budget, it provides a major boost to the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Massive funds have been allotted to improve the health sector. We must not forget that the health sector saw a tremendous change during the Covid-19 phase. Now, we have ICU in each of the 13 districts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/union-budget-focuses-on-overall-development-assures-1-5-times-more-msp-for-farmers-cm-rawat/articleshow/80637488.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 2, 2021||Aurangabad||Clean air boost for Pune, 5 other cities in Maharashtra||PUNE: Six cities in Maharashtra — Nashik, Aurangabad, Pune, Greater Mumbai, Nagpur and Vasai Virar — are among the 42 cities, in 15 states, that will reap the benefits of the budgetary allocation of Rs 2,200 crore for air quality improvement. Cities with population of more than 10 lakh were shortlisted for the purpose. The six Maharashtra cities will collectively get Rs 396.5 crore with which, local bodies are expected to start initiatives to clean the air. Greater Mumbai has got the lion’s share of the allocation in the state — Rs 244 crore (almost 61%). Next in line is Pune with Rs 67 crore. Nagpur and Nashik have been allocated Rs 33 crore and Rs 20 crore, respectively. Meanwhile, Aurangabad and Vasai Virar have been allocated Rs 16 crore each. Amar Durgule, the Nashik region officer of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), said the funds will be utilized judiciously. Nashik has already received Rs 20 crore from the Centre during the current financial year, and the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has prepared a blueprint to improve the air quality of the city by using the said funds. The blueprint includes the provisions of automated road sweeping machines, electric crematorium in all six divisions, installation of purifiers, charging stations for electric vehicles and awareness programmes. More projects will be planned. The Centre’s initiative is based on the recommendations of 15th Finance Commission. The funds will be given to the state government, which will then transfer the same to local bodies. The state government will transfer the amount within 10 working days of receiving the budgetary allocation. The state government will have to pay the interest in case of delay in transfer of the amount. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her speech that the grant will help the local bodies undertake air quality measures, including capacity-building, in their jurisdictions. The budgetary statement said the beneficiary local bodies shall entrust one urban body as a nodal entity to receive the grants. This entity will also have the responsibility of achieving the performance indicators for the entire jurisdiction, the statement said. Experts studying Pune’s air quality told TOI the funds could be used for infrastructural changes in the city, which could help improve the air quality. A senior MPCB official said: “The money could be spent on measures like e-transport, CNG conversion of vehicles, traffic diversions, flyovers to reduce congestion, green belt development, installing experimental equipment (as has been done in Sion and Bandra in Mumbai) that improve the air quality etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nashik-aurangabad-among-six-maha-cities-to-get-funds-for-clean-air/articleshow/80641218.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad-Botad gauge conversion by March||AHMEDABAD: The railways has announced that the much-awaited Ahmedabad-Botad gauge conversion will be commissioned by March 2021, and redevelopment of Gandhinagar station will also be over by March. Officials said the electrification projects that are expected to be completed by March 2021 included Mumbai-Abu Road section and connectivity to Pipavav Port. They added that the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor and Eastern DFC are expected to be commissioned by June 2022. The officials, however, are awaiting fineprints of new projects announced in Budget 2021. The newly laid Ahmedabad-Botad line passes through Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi, Sarkhej among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-botad-gauge-conversion-by-march/articleshow/80638519.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nashik||Clean air boost for Pune, 5 other cities in Maharashtra||PUNE: Six cities in Maharashtra — Nashik, Aurangabad, Pune, Greater Mumbai, Nagpur and Vasai Virar — are among the 42 cities, in 15 states, that will reap the benefits of the budgetary allocation of Rs 2,200 crore for air quality improvement. Cities with population of more than 10 lakh were shortlisted for the purpose. The six Maharashtra cities will collectively get Rs 396.5 crore with which, local bodies are expected to start initiatives to clean the air. Greater Mumbai has got the lion’s share of the allocation in the state — Rs 244 crore (almost 61%). Next in line is Pune with Rs 67 crore. Nagpur and Nashik have been allocated Rs 33 crore and Rs 20 crore, respectively. Meanwhile, Aurangabad and Vasai Virar have been allocated Rs 16 crore each. Amar Durgule, the Nashik region officer of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), said the funds will be utilized judiciously. Nashik has already received Rs 20 crore from the Centre during the current financial year, and the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has prepared a blueprint to improve the air quality of the city by using the said funds. The blueprint includes the provisions of automated road sweeping machines, electric crematorium in all six divisions, installation of purifiers, charging stations for electric vehicles and awareness programmes. More projects will be planned. The Centre’s initiative is based on the recommendations of 15th Finance Commission. The funds will be given to the state government, which will then transfer the same to local bodies. The state government will transfer the amount within 10 working days of receiving the budgetary allocation. The state government will have to pay the interest in case of delay in transfer of the amount. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her speech that the grant will help the local bodies undertake air quality measures, including capacity-building, in their jurisdictions. The budgetary statement said the beneficiary local bodies shall entrust one urban body as a nodal entity to receive the grants. This entity will also have the responsibility of achieving the performance indicators for the entire jurisdiction, the statement said. Experts studying Pune’s air quality told TOI the funds could be used for infrastructural changes in the city, which could help improve the air quality. A senior MPCB official said: “The money could be spent on measures like e-transport, CNG conversion of vehicles, traffic diversions, flyovers to reduce congestion, green belt development, installing experimental equipment (as has been done in Sion and Bandra in Mumbai) that improve the air quality etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-aurangabad-among-six-maha-cities-to-get-funds-for-clean-air/articleshow/80636732.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Senior citizen duped of Rs 9.85 lakh by chat friend||NAGPUR: A 66-year-old man, who retired from a private company, was cheated to the tune of Rs9.85 lakh by a London-based woman chat friend, who had introduced herself as Leeda Thompson. The woman had also trapped the victim by assuring to return one and a half times of the borrowed money. The senior citizen, who is now in a state of shock, was cheated in October last year but Bajaj Nagar police registered the offence on Sunday after conducting the preliminary inquiry. The elderly man is learnt to have accepted the woman’s friend request and started chatting. She had promised to come to Nagpur to meet him. In October last year, the trickster called the man seeking Rs55,000 to urgently clear ‘custom dues’. After getting Rs55,000 transferred to her account, the woman requested for another Rs2.9 lakh claiming the amount would be required to clear ‘legal dues’. She later sought another Rs six lakh from the victim promising to return one-and-half times more that what was lent to her. After the money was transferred, the senior citizen was left stunned when the woman stopped communicating with him. An offence of cheating was registered at Ranapratap Nagar police station following his complaint. Police said the details of the mobile phone calls are now being sought from the service provider. “A letter has also been sent to the bank to ascertain the branch where the money was transferred,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senior-citizen-duped-of-rs9-85l-by-chat-friend/articleshow/80640485.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Eye on suburbs as VMRDA mulls new layouts||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) is planning to develop a few new layouts in the suburbs. The urban development authority is exploring options to develop these layouts either on its own or in a PPP (public-private partnership) model. The VMRDA has land parcels on all four sides of the city. The joint venture ‘Fortune Hills’ in Dakamarri was the last layout developed up by the VMRDA back in 2016. Despite selling the HIG (high-income group) and MIG (middle-income group) plots at a premium price, the auction of LIG (low-income group) plots in this layout is still pending due to technical and policy reasons. While the VMRDA did auction a few land parcels in 2019, they were not in a single layout. These land bits, scattered in various parts of Vizag city and suburbs, received overwhelming response. For instance, a plot located at MVP Colony in the city, measuring 387 square yards, received the highest bid of Rs 1,08,700 per square yard against the upset price of Rs 56,400 fixed by the VMRDA. Similarly, setting a new record of Rs 95,960 per square yard in the Madhurawada area, a 230 square yard land parcel fetched a record Rs 2 crore to the VMRDA. According to observers, the litigation-free nature, clear titles and leaving sufficient space for social infrastructure development make the VMRDA layouts a lucrative choice for the buyers. Speaking to TOI, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that urban development authority is looking for ways to mop up its revenue. “In this process, we want to develop a few layouts. We are in the process of identifying suitable land pockets for this purpose. Covid-19 has impacted the revenue of the urban development authority,” said Koteswara Rao. Vizag city has witnessed a lot of attention on the realty front in the last one year, thanks to the government’s plan of making it the executive capital. There has been a clear surge in land prices by about 20–30%. This phenomenon is particularly evident on the northern side of Vizag city which has high odds of becoming the seat of power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/eye-on-suburbs-as-vmrda-mulls-new-layouts/articleshow/80638005.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 2, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Budget allocates Rs 180cr to three higher edu institutes||Visakhapatnam: The Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), Visakhapatnam established under the aegis of the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas has got Rs 95 crore in the Union budget released on Monday while Central University, Andhra Pradesh has been allocated Rs 60 crore. Central Tribal University, Vizianagaram is likely to get about Rs 27 crore as about Rs 54 crore has been earmarked for the two tribal universities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The IIPE, which is currently being operated out of a temporary campus, is in the process of building a boundary wall on land allocated for the permanent campus near Sabbavaram. Speaking to TOI, IIPE director Prof VSRK Prasad said Monday’s budgetary allocation is the second-biggest for the institute. “The institute has speeded up the permanent campus works with the help of district officials. We are planning to launch physical offline classes for the students on a voluntary basis from March,” Professor Prasad said . Meanwhile, the search for suitable land for the permanent campus of the Central Tribal University in Vizianagaram is still on. Recently, special chief secretary (higher education) Satish Chandra and other officials visited some land parcels in the district to check their suitability and connectivity. There were no separate budgetary allocations for other premier educational institutions such as Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati, Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam, National Institute of Technology, Tadepalligudem, Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Tirupati and Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City as they are already part of the Union education ministry’s Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA). For example, allocations for the IITs were merged under the head of ‘Support to Indian Institutes of Technology’ in the budget. Under HEFA, these institutions can draw any amount out of the sanctioned funds to the respective institute upon submitting utilisation certificates. HEFA—a joint venture of MHRD and Canara Bank for financing the creation of capital assets in premier educational institutions—will generate internal resources as well as allow investments through market borrowings that can be repaid over a longer period. For example, if an institution is promised Rs 500 crore funding by the Union government, the respective institute can utilise all funds within two to three years based on requirements and submission of utilisation certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/budget-allocates-rs-180cr-to-three-higher-edu-institutes/articleshow/80637726.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 2, 2021||Kozhikode||Cinematographer Nivas dead||Kozhikode: Noted cinematographer P S Nivas, who had wielded camera for several films in Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu and Hindi, passed away here on Monday. He was 76. Nivas, who has been living at Engapuzha near here for the last three years, had been under treatment for cancer. He died at the Institute of Palliative Medicine at 11.45am. He had won the National Film Award for Best Cinematography (Black and White) for the 1976 Malayalam film ‘Mohiniyaattam’. Nivas is known for his work in films like ‘16 Vayathinile’, ‘Sagara Sangamam’, among others, and had won the Nandi Award for Best Cinematographer instituted by Andhra Pradesh government for the film ‘Nimajjanam’. He is survived by wife Shobha, son Dawn Nivas and daughters Diana Nivas and Dhanisha Nivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cinematographer-nivas-dead/articleshow/80638523.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man held months after double murder of partner, her mum||TIRUPATI: The accused in the double murder of a 35-year-old woman and her 65-year-old mother several months back was arrested at Yetigadda Thanda in Chittoor district’s Thamballapalle mandal on Monday. The accused, identified as Moulali, was also sexually exploiting the daugther of the deceased woman. According to Madanapalle DSP Ravi Manoharachary, the accused had been in a live-in relationship with Sarala, a resident of Govindavaripalle village. Sarala was a widow, living with her 65-year-old mother and three children. Moulali moved them to his farmhouse at Yetigadda Thanda so that he could continue his relationship with Sarala. Moulali had started suspecting Sarala of having another affair and angered by this, he killed her and discarded her body near the Pedderu project on September 29 last year. When Sarala’s mother asked Moulali about the whereabouts of her daughter, he killed her too by strangulating her and discarded her body near a local water body on October 1. Later, Moulali who shifted Sarala’s children to an undisclosed location in Karnataka, began sexually assaulting her minor daughter. Following a missing persons complaint lodged by an elderly woman belonging to Govindavaripalle village last week, Tamballapalle police arrested Moulali and retrieved the bodies of the deceased from the nearby water bodies on Monday. The children will be moved to a state-run shelter home as police continue to investigate the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-months-after-double-murder-of-partner-her-mum/articleshow/80638051.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Leaders across parties in AP disappointed with budget||VIJAYAWADA: Leaders of various political parties, including the ruling YSRC, expressed their disappointment over the poor budget allocation for Andhra Pradesh. YSR Congress parliamentary party leader V Vijayasai Reddy, said the Centre has shown step-motherly treatment towards Andhra Pradesh. He said that the Union finance minister did not consider any of their requests. He regretted that there was no mention of Special Category status, special incentives for industries in the state, metro rail, funds for Polavaram and other projects, new railway zone at Visakhapatnam, Steel plant at Kadapa, sea port at Ramayapatnam and several other issues which concern the people of the state. He regretted that the budget is silent on even the revenue deficit due for the state. AP agriculture mission vice-chairman, M V S Nagi Reddy, said there was nothing in the Union budget for agriculture sector. He said the government allocated 5% funds for agriculture sector in the last budget of which only 4.2% was spent. This year, the allocation is down to 4.25%, bringing down the total allocation for agriculture sector by Rs 6,474 crore, Nagi Reddy said. Nagi Reddy said PM Kisan scheme has Rs 10,000 crore less allocation in this budget. Similarly, subsidy on fertilisers was reduced by Rs 2,742 crore while interest subsidy on short term loans was scaled down by 1Rs 707 crore, Nagi Reddy said. Peddireddy Mithun Reddy, YSRC floor leader in Lok Sabha, said: “We will put pressure on the Centre to get funds under NREGA and road projects.” TDP leader and former finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishunudu said the Centre has not granted SCS and financial assistance to backward districts due to the failure of YSRC MPs. Jayaprakash Narayan, former IAS officer and Loksatta president, lauded the budget for setting its focus on health and infrastructure sectors. He said the budget allocations should not be seen state-specific as it was for the entire nation. AP Congress president Dr Sake Sailajanath said the budget opened floodgates for foreign direct investment (FDIs). The budget had forced the people to save money to pay taxes, he added. Former MP, Dr Yalamanchili Sivaji, said that the rise of Sensex indicates the corporate connection. He said the budget has no support for the service sector which has major share in the GDP. Vizag MP MVV Satyanarayana said the budget was a big disappointment for north coastal AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/leaders-across-parties-in-ap-disappointed-with-budget/articleshow/80637939.cms||Gopi Dara
February 2, 2021||Nashik||Nashik civic body to seek Rs 300 crore for city bus service||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to seek Rs 300 crore from the Union government as part of the new projects announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the Budget for the financial year 2021-22 to strengthen the urban transport system. While presenting the Budget for the upcoming financial year, the finance minister announced the provision of Rs 18,000 crore for augmentation of public transport services and facilitate deployment of innovation PPP models enabling private players to finance, acquire, operate and maintain over 20,000 buses. According to Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav, the civic body will be seeking funds from the central government under this scheme for the losses it will incur in running the city bus service, which the NMC is planning to launch in a month or two. This is for the first time that the NMC will be taking over the city bus service from the Maharashtra Road Transport Corporation Ltd (MSRTC) and running 250 buses in phase-wise manner. “We have already procured 250 buses through private contractors who would be operating and maintaining the city buses. We have planned to start the city bus service in the interest of city residents even though we will be incurring a loss of around Rs40 crore per year,” Jadhav said. “We will incur a loss of around Rs 200 crore during the next five years for operating the city bus service. Moreover, we will also require Rs 100 crore funds to improve the infrastructure for city bus service,” he added. The municipal commissioner said he has already instructed the civic officials concerned to prepare a proposal at the earliest and the same would be sent to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-body-to-seek-rs-300cr-for-city-bus-service/articleshow/80636745.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman raped by tuition class owner||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old woman from Juhapura has accused a tuition class owner of raping her frequently over the past two years under the pretext of marrying her. A complaint in this regard was filed with Vejalpur police on Sunday. In her FIR, the woman stated that she met the accused Fazal Shaikh (30) in 2019 because she wanted to take tuition classes for Class 12. She had dropped out of school and she wanted Shaikh to help her clear high school so that she could get admission to some graduate course. She told police that when she began taking tuition from him, Shaikh raped her at the tuition class in Fatehwadi and also at different places in the city. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-raped-by-tuition-class-owner/articleshow/80638521.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Vadodara||51-year-old neighbour held for raping minor in Sevasi||VADODARA: A 10-year-old girl was raped several times allegedly by a 51-year-old man living in her neighbourhood in Sevasi over last two months. The accused Nilesh Thakkar, who works as a casual labourer, was detained on Monday and has been kept in quarantine. According to police, the girl opened up to her mother recently when she was asked about the pain near her private parts and refused to go to Thakkar’s house. The girl told her mother that Thakkar used to allegedly grope and rape her by taking her to his house under the pretext of playing with her. Thakkar committed the crime five to six times in last two months, the girl told the police. The girl’s mother was shocked to hear about the crime and registered a case of rape, sexual assault and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Sunday evening with the Vadodra taluka police station. Since Thakkar and the girl’s family lived in the same locality, the accused used to visit their house often and take the girl out for few hours and drop her back. On Sunday, police also visited the spot showed by the girl where Thakkar had committed the crime. “The accused will be arrested on Tuesday as he has been kept in quarantine until his Covid-19 test the report arrives,” said a police official. The girl’s father works as a labourer in a local factory in Sevasi. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/51-year-old-neighbour-held-for-raping-minor-in-sevasi/articleshow/80636574.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Vij to get dedicated freight corridors||Vijayawada: Accepting Indian Railways proposal of Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFCs), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman during her Budget speech on Monday announced that both East Coast Corridor from Kharagpur to Vijayawada and North South Sub-Corridor Vijayawada-Nagpur-Itarsi would be undertaken. The finance minister said that the two projects are part of an overall 4000km DFCs which is considered the next big ticket railway infrastructure in the country. The new East Coast corridor from West Bengal’s Kharagpur to Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada measures 1,115-km while the North South sub-corridor Vijayawada-Nagpur-Itarsi (Madhya Pradesh) route stands 975 km long. Sitharaman said the detailed project reports (DPRs) will be undertaken in the first phase soon. Railway officials said the DFCs to major ports in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are expected to be completed by this year. With four ports being in development in Andhra Pradesh, officials previously estimated that the DFC would help in handling 300 to 350 metric tonnes of cargo by 2024-25. Currently, the state ports are handling 100 metric tonnes per annum. The four non-major greenfield ports in pipeline for development by 2024 include Bhavanapadu port in Srikakulam district, Kakinada SEZ port in East Godavari, Machilipatnam port in Krishna district and Ramayapatnam port in Prakasam district. Other benefits that are predicted is reduction in pollution as most of the DFCs would be running in electrified railway lines at the same time reduce time taken for travel as the routes allows freight trains to run at 100 km/hr speed. “This will also help in reducing the cost of freight transport as the fuel consumption is reduced and bigger and larger trains can travel on these routes,” a senior railway official told TOI. Officials have already held meetings with respective chief secretaries of states. Survey work for the new corridors have started and are expected to be completed by 2021, while the construction of these new corridors is expected to be completed by 2030.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-to-get-dedicated-freight-corridors/articleshow/80637839.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 2, 2021||Vijayawada||Speaker takes up privilege notice against Nimmagadda||Vijayawada: Assembly speaker Thammineni Sitharam on Monday took up the privilege notice filed against state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar by ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. The ministers sent the privilege notice to the speaker’s office on December 30, alleging that the SEC caused damage to their privilege by complaining to the governor that they violated the model code of conduct by making derogatory remarks against him. Satyanarayana and Reddy further said that the SEC made “several castigating remarks which are libellous in nature and far from truth”. “The tone and tenor of the SEC’s letter to the governor is intimidating. Making such allegations without any substantial proof amounts to breach of privilege,” the ministers said and requested the speaker to take up the case, who has referred them to the privileges committee of the House for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/speaker-takes-up-privilege-notice-against-nimmagadda/articleshow/80637971.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur experts want better infrastructure||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) met on Monday to discuss the Budget and the opportunities for Kolhapur-based industries. Some industrialists said the direct or indirect effects of the policies will be of little benefit without good quality public infrastructure. Anand Mane, an industrialist, said, “Projects such as developing the Mumbai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor has been on paper for several years. Now, a new announcement has been made to connect Mumbai with Kanyakumari by road. This project is impossible in the near future.” Traders also claimed that while the taxation policy has been made simple, there has been no relief for the pandemic-hit small businesses. Ajit Kothari, trader and director of KCCI said, “We expected some stimulus or direct cash transfer for the small businesses. No policy or measures have been announced for youths who lost their jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-experts-want-better-infra/articleshow/80636752.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||CA results: 12 from Pink City in top 50||JAIPUR: The Pink City has yet again proved to be the epicentre of CA toppers in the country. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has informed that 10 students from the city have made it to the top 50 ranks in the new course, while two students have made it to the top 50 in the old course. The result was announced on Monday. Officials informed that the result was on expected lines and like previous years, Jaipur students have secured place in the top 50. The new course’s top 10 rankers include — Priyankar Jain (6), Gunjan Jain (14), Narayan Jhanwar (18), Roshni Shewaremani (27), Harsh Mittal (33), Tanmay Gupta (35), Nikhilesh Jain (39), Nikunj Maheshwari (42), Nancy Agarwal (46) and Yash Khandelwal (48). While the two rankers in the old course are — Mayank Singh (3) and Ashima Rathore (13). “The presence of 10 students from the city in the top 50 indicates that Jaipur is fast catching up as a CA coaching hub, like Kota is known for JEE and NEET,” said Anil Kumar Yadav, chairman, ICAI Rajasthan chapter. The pass percentage in both Group-I and Group-II in the old course was 25%, while in the new course format, the percentage was 40.96%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ca-results-12-from-pink-city-in-top-50/articleshow/80638529.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Instead of polio drops, 12 kids given sanitizer in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: The callous approach of health workers deployed at a polio booth in Yavatmal district saw 12 children under the age of five years being administered sanitizer instead of polio drops on Sunday. The children, who are from Kapsi Kopri village in Ghatanji tehsil of the district, started vomiting and showing symptoms of uneasiness after being given sanitizer drops. All were brought to the paediatric ward of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Yavatmal. Doctors told TOI that the condition of the children is stable and that they continue to be under observation. Parents of the children alleged that the health workers at the booth were reluctant to shift them to GMCH and tried to cover up the issue. But they had to inform their seniors after three of the kids started continuously vomiting. Purushottam Meshram, whose sons Ansh and Harsh were among the 12 kids, said that initially the health workers were casual about the incident. “They called us back from home after some time and administered the polio dose to my children. But they did not reveal reason behind giving it again. We realized their mistake only when our children started vomiting,” he said. When four of the 12 children started showing symptoms like vomiting and dizziness, the on-duty officials admitted them to the local public health centre (PHC). But, following some pressure by sarpanch Yuvraj Marape and other villagers, they started the process to shift the children to Yavatmal. Finally, all kids were shifted to GMCH shortly after Sunday midnight. Yavatmal’s district collector M Devender Singh spoke to parents of the affected children at the GMCH. As PHCs come under zilla parishad, ZP CEO Shrikrishna Panchal was asked to conduct an enquiry. Panchal told TOI on Monday evening that health workers deployed at booth would be suspended. “I received a preliminary inquiry report from the district health officer (DHO) in which he has held that a community health officer, Asha worker and an anganwadi sevika guilty of negligence. They will be suspended immediately and further action will be taken after the probe,” said Panchal adding that the on-duty officials did not inform seniors till late Sunday night. District guardian minister Sanjay Rathod said from Mumbai that he has asked the ZP CEO to inquire into the issue and take action against the concerned employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-ytl-kids-given-sanitizer-instead-of-polio-drops/articleshow/80640505.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||100% occupancy permitted in cinemas halls, theatres||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Monday directed for the implementation of the SOP issued by the Centre for cinema halls and theatres. According to the orders issued by the state, 100% occupancy has been permitted in cinema halls and theatres. However, no films or theatres would be allowed in containment zones. Adequate physical distancing of at least six feet has been maintained outside auditorium, common areas, and waiting areas all the time. Covid-19 regulations like wearing of face mask is mandatory for the entire duration of the movie and hand sanitisation facility would have to be made available at all the entry and exit points. Thermal screening of staff and visitors would be carried out at the entry points and only asymptomatic persons would not be allowed inside. Staggered show timings would be allowed in the multiple screens to avoid crowding. The show commencement time, intermission, and the end time of a show would be decided in a manner so that it does not clash with timing of other shows in multiplexes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/100-occupancy-permitted-in-cinemas-halls-theatres/articleshow/80637586.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Drunkard warned for brawl runs over sub-inspector in Tamil Nadu||TUTICORIN: A police sub-inspector was fatally run over by a drunk goods vehicle driver who was angry with the cop for warning him to behave in Tuticorin district late on Sunday. V Balu, 55, sub-inspector (SI) attached to the Eral police station, was riding pillion behind constable Pon Subbaiah, 35, when R Murugavel, 39, rammed their bike with a goods van at high speed. Balu died on the spot, while Subbaiah is in hospital. Murugavel fled the scene and evaded the cops, who formed 10 teams to track him, and surrendered before the Vilathikulam magistrate on Monday morning. The magistrate ordered that he be remanded in the district jail and produced before the Srivaikuntam court on February 5. CM announces Rs 50 lakh solatium for kin of slain copThe magistrate ordered that he be remanded in the district jail and produced before the Srivaikuntam court on February 5. This is the second murder of a policeman in Tuticorin district in less than five months. On August 18, 2020, constable Subramanian, 28, was killed when a history-sheeter he was chasing threw a country bomb at him. District superintendent of Police S Jayakumar told TOI that around 9.30 pm on Sunday Murugavel had picked a quarrel in an eatery in Eral Bazaar, a couple of kilometres from Valavallan. Balu who was on night patrol warned him and left. Fifteen minutes later the police got another call that a drunk man was creating a ruckus at another hotel in Eral Bazaar. SI Balu went to the spot and found it was Murugavel again. Since he was drunk, the SI took away his goods carrier and told him to collect it from the police station nearby in the morning, the SP said. A couple of hours later, Murugavel borrowed a goods carrier to bring his wife home from the Tuticorin medical college hospital. She had attempted suicide after harassment by her husband, police said. After dropping her at home he was standing on the street around 12.30 am when he was spotted by Balu and Pon Subbaiah who were on night patrol. They warned him to go home and not create any further trouble. This apparently infuriated Murugavel. “A few minutes later Murugavel chased the bike that the policemen were riding about a kilometre from his house and knocked them down from behind at high speed. Balu and Subbaiah were thrown 25 to 30 feet away. The accused fled the scene and abandoned the goods vehicle in a burial ground four km away,” said the SP. Balu was buried with full state honours at his native village, Mudivaithanendal. He is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son. CM Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh to the kin of the deceased and a government job. Injured constable Pon Subbaiah will get Rs 2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drunkard-warned-for-brawl-runs-over-si-in-tn/articleshow/80638534.cms||M K Ananth
February 2, 2021||Goa||AAP: Budget favours select corporates||Margao: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday criticised the Union budget saying that it was “in favour of only selected corporates to boost their profits” and that it had “no consideration for any tax and fiscal relief to the ordinary individual and working class of the country.” AAP’s state convenor Rahul Mhambre also expressed his disapproval over the lack of any incentives or relief in the budget for the tourism industry in the state. “Tourism is a main industry in Goa on which 50% of people are dependent. No incentives or relief has been given to boost the tourism industry that is completely on the verge of closure due to the pandemic. This will adversely affect the Goan economy,” he told TOI. Mhambre also demanded that the Rs300 crore grant announced in the budget to mark 60 years of Goa’s liberation should be utilised by the state government to give relief to the common man who is “already burdened by spiralling prices and petrol touching the Rs100 mark, and reeling under the terrible stress of the pandemic.” He added, “But past experience shows that the chief minister is least concerned about the common man and will splurge the Rs 300 cr ore only so that cronies profit from it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-budget-favours-select-corporates/articleshow/80639605.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||At 236, Mumbai’s Covid toll in January lowest in 10 months||MUMBAI: The city recorded 236 Covid-19 deaths in January, the lowest in 10 months and second-lowest since the pandemic began. Seven deaths were registered in March last year, and the fatalities zoomed to 281 in April. On Monday, Mumbai recorded 9 deaths while the state added 27, lowest in 274 days. The state also reported 1,948 cases, while the city recorded 328, lowest in 282 days (242 on April 24). The drop was partly due to reduced testing on Sunday. The highest number of deaths in a month in the city, 3,277, was recorded in June. On the sharp decline in Covid-19 deaths in the city, Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the death audit committee, said the mortality rate was under 2%. “These numbers are encouraging. The weekly death rate hovers between 1.2% and 1.9%,” he said, adding that several municipal wards did not witness deaths for most of January. “Wards such as A and B didn’t see any deaths for some weeks, while deaths have dropped to a single digit in other wards,” Dr Supe said. In the early days of the pandemic, deaths would occur within 48 hours of hospitalisation. This trend changed in November, with most deaths now occurring after 10 days of hospitalisation. “We no longer see deaths occurring within 24 hours or 48 hours of hospitalisation,’’ Dr Supe said. The trend nowadays is that once the caseload drops in a particular municipal ward, the mortality numbers start dropping after two weeks. Wards in the western suburbs report more deaths than the rest of the city. Dr Rahul Pandit, head of intensive care from Fortis Hospital and a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said most hospital admissions were now among the elderly who stayed home for the first nine months of the lockdown and ventured out after the Covid-19 decline in November. “When the positivity is consistently below 5% for weeks, we can call the disease endemic instead of a pandemic situation,” Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-236-citys-covid-toll-in-jan-lowest-in-10-mths/articleshow/80639575.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 2, 2021||Delhi||At 74.4%, Delhi sees dip in jab count||NEW DELHI: The number of healthcare workers turning up at 106 vaccination centres for Covid shots on Monday declined as compared to the last vaccination session, with only 7,894 individuals getting the shots out of 10,600 people expected to get the jab. Monday’s percentage turnout was 74.4% as compared with 82.7% reported during the last session. The turnout has not touched even 85% since the government increased the number of vaccination centres from 81 to 106. Each centre is supposed to inoculate 100 healthcare workers each day. As part of the upscaling plan, the government slowly wants to increase the vaccination centres number to 176 and then further up. Meanwhile, only 15 adverse events were reported across 11 districts, with south, New Delhi and Shahdara reporting three adverse events each, followed by southeast and west districts, which reported two each. Four districts did not report even a single adverse event. The number of adverse events is declining and the confidence among healthcare workers is fast growing. It has resulted in higher demands for the shots. Due to the rise in demands, the government increased the number of vaccination sites. An official said the percentage decline may be because Monday is usually a busy day at work for all, thus slightly a smaller number of people turned out for vaccination. Dr Neeraj Roy, west district surveillance officer, who got the shot on Monday along with 22 healthcare staff whom he took along with him, said the vaccine is completely safe. “I want to urge all the healthcare workers to come forward to get the shots,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-74-4-city-sees-dip-in-jab-count/articleshow/80638533.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Financial constraint likely behind family’s suicide pact||Nagpur: Severe financial crisis is likely to be behind the suicide pact in which three members of Narnaware family had jumped into the Vainganga river from a bridge at Ambhora last week. The bodies of Shyam, his wife Savita and their daughter Samita alias Sameeksha were fished out from the river on Sunday. Police said the suicide seemed to be a pre-planned one as the Narnaware family had left behind their valuables at home. Shyam’s gold ring, his wife’s gold chain and their daughter’s silver anklet were found during searches at their residence by Veltur police. Savita had even left behind her mobile phone at home but Shyam took his handset which led to their identification. One of the relatives shared with police that few days ago Savita had asked her to distribute the jewellery among them. Police said Shyam was earning Rs14,000 as a cashier when he took a loan of Rs75,000. Later, the salary reduced to Rs10,000. The family also paid Rs4,000 as rent. It’s learnt Savita was suffering from sickle cell. Veltur police station’s in-charge Anand Kaviraj said no suicide note could be found. Nothing suspicious or adverse was found against any of the three deceased except their weak financial condition. A case of accidental death was registered by police earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/financial-constraint-likely-behind-familys-suicide-pact/articleshow/80638548.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbaikars fear new agri cess will fuel rise in prices||MUMBAI: The Union budget did not evoke much enthusiasm among Mumbaikars who were seeking relief from inflation and record fuel prices. The common disappointment centred around not receiving any relief in income-tax exemption, plus the burden of a new agricultural cess that will make fuel, and consequently all other items, costlier. However, the move of sparing pensioners above the age of 75 the trouble of filing I-T returns was welcomed. Khar resident Sanjay Talreja said, “In a pandemic year when people have lost jobs and salaries have been halved, we expected some relief in I-T. But the budget makes kitchen items like edible oil, masoor dal and kabuli chana more expensive.” Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA) said, “We were expecting fuel to be brought under GST. Instead, the government has introduced a new cess on it. It is high time the Centre brought fuel under GST instead of going on increasing taxes, which snowballs into higher prices of all products.” Experts were not expecting the I-T slab to be lowered in a Covid-19 year. Tax expert Sushma Bandelkar said, “Not raising exemption limits is understandable. But I am very happy for pensioners above the age of 75 as they are spared the trouble of filing I-T returns. As TDS is already deducted from pension and bank interest, it was an unnecessary task.” Investment advisor Sujata Kabraji pointed out that more could have been done to ease the pressure on senior citizens. “With low interest rates, many are finding pensions and FD interest income insufficient,” she said.  The clouds over the bullion, jewellery and diamond industry lifted a little with the reduction in import duty and customs duty. Colin Shah, chairman, GJEPC, said, “The drop in import duty from 12.5% to 7.5% will help gem and jewellery exports become globally competitive. Reduction in duty on raw materials will give a much-needed boost to the sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-fear-new-agri-cess-will-fuel-rise-in-prices/articleshow/80638550.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Boy from Jaipur secures AIR-6||JAIPUR: Priyankar Jain (22) from Jaipur has secured 6th rank in the CA results announced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) on Monday. He scored 578 marks in the new syllabus. Jain drew inspiration from his three cousins who are also CAs. “Two of my brothers and one sister, who are a few years my seniors, are CAs and have always inspired me to crack the exam,” said Jain, who went to BMB Vidhyashram school in Jaipur. He is looking for a job at the moment and later in his career, he plans to go for his own company. His keen interest in economics always attracted him towards subjects like accounts and business management. Jain says he plans to open an NGO to educate homeless children, once he settles down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-from-jaipur-secures-air-6/articleshow/80638541.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Majority of people in Chennai now pay property tax online: Greater Chennai Corporation||Chennai: The number of people paying property tax online in the city is consistently increasing and has now crossed the 50% mark, official data of the city corporation shows. A few years ago, only around 30% of the people used to pay their property tax online. “Now, around 55% of the 12.3 lakh assessees pay their tax online,” a senior Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) official said. To make things even simpler for the residents, the corporation has tied up with the online payment system, Bharat Bill Pay (BBPS), which is managed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). Already, the state power utility Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) offers an option for power consumers to pay their bills through this, which can be linked through their Unified Payment Interface (UPI) systems. Once this is integrated, every time the payment is due, it will automatically show up on the citizen’s UPI application on the phone. “This will further increase the number of people who pay their taxes online,” the corporation official added. Currently, the corporation offers residents an option to pay property tax online through a link on its website. It also has tie-ups with various banks where people can pay their taxes. This is known as a bank walk-in payment. As on date, the corporation has collected around Rs 350 crore in property tax for the 2020-21 financial year against a target of around Rs 830 crore. The civic body has announced a rebate of 5% for those who pay their tax from first to the 15th of the month (October or March). Using this, 95,000 assesses had paid their tax to get a rebate in October and the corporation had managed to collect Rs 65 crore during this period. Property tax accounts for a lion’s share of the corporation’s revenue and delay or default in payments affects implementing of necessary civic infrastructure projects. Residents living in the city’s suburbs have also raised a demand for availing a facility of online tax payment. But it is complex or non-existent as most of these civic bodies don’t have their own websites. David Manohar, an activist living in Pallavaram municipality, south of Chennai, said there was no awareness among residents about such a system in the municipality. Tharanitharan, an activist in Avadi corporation, west of the city, said though there was a facility, people faced glitches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/majority-of-people-in-chennai-now-pay-property-tax-online-greater-chennai-corporation/articleshow/80638542.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Chennai couple dive to say ‘I do’ 60 feet under ocean||CHENNAI: It wasn’t so much the stars that decided this wedding date, but the changing tides. At the crack of dawn on February 1, when all was well with the ocean, V Chinnadurai and S Swetha tied the knot 60 feet underwater off the coast of Neelankarai. “It was a traditional marriage ceremony, only it was underwater. We dived in at an auspicious time in the morning and exchanged garlands and tied the thaali before 7.30am as per instructions from our priest,” says groom Chinnadurai, a software engineer and a licenced scuba diver. His bride, Swetha, also a software engineer, began her course in scuba diving about a month ago to prepare for her wedding day. “I was nervous and so were my parents, but we had eight divers with us. It was exciting too because we’ve been trying to tie the knot since last week,” she says. “It was all in the hands of the sea.” Though the couple practiced in wet suits, on Monday both bride and groom were dressed in traditional attire – Swetha in a koorai saree and Chinnadurai in a veshti – with all the loose ends velcroed firmly in place. Wedding depended on ocean currentsThe ceremony was videographed and the bride and the groom emerged to cheering family members waiting on the seashore before they continued with the rest of the rituals. “The entire wedding depended on the ocean currents,” says S B Aravind of Temple Adventures who helped the couple organize their unique wedding. “I had to tell them to leave the date of the wedding blank on the invitation. It was filled in only this morning when we confirmed the waters were calm enough for a dive.” Word has already spread, says Aravind, with divers lining up to say vows in the deep blue. There’s another Chennai wedding in February and one in the waters off the Puducherry coast in March. Who said lockdown weddings were watered down? Watch Chennai couple take wedding vows 60 feet underwater||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-couple-dive-to-say-i-do-60-feet-under-ocean/articleshow/80638539.cms||Kamini Mathai
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Couple arrested for abducting, stripping MP man in Jhalawar||Jhalawar police arrested a 30-year-old man and his wife on Sunday for allegedly abducting a 50-year-old man from Rajgarh district in Madhya Pradesh. They later severely thrashed, undressed and tortured him by spraying chili powder on his genitals before leaving him unconscious outside a house in Neem ka Kheda village, Jhalawar. The accused made a video of the act and uploaded it on social media. The victim, identified as Amar Singh Tanwar, a resident of Anchalpura in Rajgarh was abducted by his younger brother Shiv Singh and wife Kamli when he was going to his village with his son on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-arrested-for-abducting-stripping-mp-man-in-jhalawar/articleshow/80638545.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Transport bodies plan more e-buses on PPP model||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) are planning to increase the number of e-buses in their fleet through public private partnership (PPP) following Rs18,000 crore allocation in the Union Budget to support augmentation of the public transport services. “Now, we have 150 e-buses. The Centre provided a subsidy of Rs55,000 for each bus. Recently, under FAME (faster adaption and manufacturing of electric vehicles), the PMPML has given work order towards procurement of additional 150 e-buses through the PPP model. For this, the Centre is providing a subsidy of Rs50lakh per bus,” a PMPML traffic section official said. The official said that the PMPML board would soon give permission for procurement of additional 350 e-buses. Rajendra Jagtap, the PMPML CMD, said, “We need to look at how we can get the amount under which scheme and the process involved. Once this is made clear by the ministry, we can get the best possible option for Pune,” Jagtap told TOI. “ We are going ahead with procurement of 100 e-buses based on the same model in the first phase. Then the process of getting another 50 will be initiated,” Shekhar Channe, MSRTC vice-chairman and managing director said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-bodies-plan-more-e-buses-on-ppp-model/articleshow/80637614.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ticket sales jump 51% over Friday’s as general public throngs stations||MUMBAI: Despite travel time restrictions, Monday, the first day of local trains allowing the general public aboard in over ten months, saw a 51% increase in ticket sales from Friday, the previous weekday of operations. Thirty-four lakh passengers are estimated to have travelled on Monday, which was still just 42% of the 80 lakh commuters who would take local trains before Covid’s disruption. However, there was not much over-crowding on trains during the off-peak hours between noon and 4pm, which is one of the three time slots the general public is now permitted to travel, the other slots being ‘start of services till 7am’ and ‘9pm to end of services’. An official said that many may have thronged the ticket counters only to get their season pass extended. Strict vigil was maintained to ensure people did not travel without masks. “We fined around 275 people, with the help of BMC, for not wearing masks,” CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. On WR, this figure was 237, with each offender asked to pay a Rs 200 fine. CR also fined 1,600 people for traveling without ticket; the corresponding figure for WR was 500. “On Central Railway (CR), it is estimated that 19 lakh passengers travelled, which is 6 lakh more than the actual number of passengers who travelled on January 29, when only essential service category (and other specified) passengers were allowed,” said CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar. “As for Western Railway (WR), it is estimated that 15 lakh passengers travelled as compared to 9.5 lakh on January 29,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR. Official passenger figures for both CR and WR would be made available after formal tabulations. The city’s suburban rail network was closed from March 22 to June 14 last year, after which services were started in phases, allowing in several categories of commuters, beginning with essential workers. On Monday, at many stations crowds thronged to buy card tickets or renew season tickets. Though officials said that the trains weren’t crowded, videos of overcrowding and long queues at booking counters at stations like Nallasopara and Diva went viral. “The crowds were cleared by station staff at such stations,” said Thakur. “The general public can book tickets only during the time slots when they are permitted to travel,” he clarified. The first half of the day saw a roughly 20% increase in general passenger traffic, said Thane station officials, following which activists suggested alternatives to the administration. “The rise in commuter density was barely 20% in the morning session while it increased in the afternoon. We feel that the commuter volume would increase gradually after they schedule their respective work timings,” said station manager RK Meena. A station official said the rush was more towards season ticket renewals. Nandkumar Deshmukh, president of the Thane Railway Passenger Association, urged the administration to allow the general public to travel in the down direction (Mumbai-Kalyan) during morning and in the up direction (Kalyan-Mumbai) during evening peak hours. This, he said, would not just ensure safety and convenience for passengers, but also optimize the running capacity of trains which otherwise run empty at those hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ticket-sales-jump-51-over-fridays-as-general-public-throngs-stations/articleshow/80639663.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Theatres, multiplexes in Rajasthan to open up to 50% capacity from February 8||JAIPUR: The state’s home department, in its guidelines issued on Monday, for surveillance, containment and caution in view of Covid situation for the month of February, allowed opening of classes from 6 to 8, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, swimming pools and exhibition halls from February 8. However, classes 1 to 5 will remain closed till further orders. For marriage related gatherings, the government has permitted a maximum number of guests up to 200. The order, issued by principal secretary (home), Abhay Kumar, states, “Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and similar places are permitted to open from February 8, up to 50% of capacity, subject to SOP issued by ministry of information and broadcasting in consultation with MHA (ministry of home affairs). Swimming pools are allowed to open from February 8 subject to SOP issued by ministry of youth affairs and sports in consultation with MHA. Exhibition halls are allowed to open from February 8 subject to SOP issued by the department of commerce in consultation with MHA. (A maximum of 50% of hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons).” For social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and gatherings, the maximum number of guests allowed shall be: (a) in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 people; (b) in open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/space in view with a ceiling of 200 people. Maximum number of people allowed in funerals/last rites shall not be more than 20. “Classes for 6 to 8 are permitted to open from February 8. All universities and colleges of the state have also been permitted to open for ﬁnal year students. Regular classes for all other students are allowed to open from February 8,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/theatres-multiplexes-to-open-up-to-50-capacity-from-february-8/articleshow/80638547.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: C-DAC’s expertise to guide national language mission||PUNE: The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) in Pune will play a big role in the National Language Translation Mission announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union Budget on Monday. The demand to access online services in local Indian languages has been growing steadily over the years. Experts maintain that knowledge should be accessible in local Indian languages. It would boost the economy, provide employment, ensure good governance and bridge societal gaps. C-DAC is leveraging this need with machine and human translation to make science and technology accessible facilitating teaching and research material bilingually, in English and regional languages. Director-general of C-DAC, Hemant Darbari, said, “We are going to focus on government, agriculture, science and technology sectors and build an ecosystem through the government’s initiative for translation of languages. Our aim is to deploy innovative methods and engage as many startups as possible in this project.” Darbari said the work had started long ago and he has been working on it for 32 years. “We have adopted a mission to remove the barrier of English language requirement and make science and technology accessible to all. Using machine and human translation, the mission will eventually enable access to teaching and research material,” he said. The mission aims at translating governance and policy-related information available on the internet into regional languages. It is in tandem with the National Education Policy 2020 where the stress is on creating content and its delivery in Indian languages. The mission aims to promote knowledge text translation in all major disciplines taught in colleges and universities. It will run certification and training programmes for translators. It will promote machine-aided translation between English and Indian languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/c-dacs-expertise-to-guide-national-language-mission/articleshow/80637612.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Rajkot||One of MP’s robber gang held||RAJKOT: Jamnagar police arrested a man from Madhya Pradesh associated with a gang for robbers that had fired at the team of cops last month. Five other members of the gang are still at large. Police arrested Sunil Minva from a village of Dhar district in Madhya Pradesh. Five of his gang members Kama Minva, Golu Mandloi, Bharat Mandloi, Somla and Rahul, residents of Dhar and Alirajpur districts of Madhya Pradesh are still at large. According to case details, a retired railway employee was looted at knife point last month in Mewasa village of Bhanvad taluka. The robbers stole the gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 5.37 lakh from the house of the Gordhan Paresa (60) and escaped in his family car. After the family called the cops, a team traced the robbers on Lalpur road around 3 am. Seeing the cops, the robbers had pelting stones them and escaped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-of-mps-robber-gang-held/articleshow/80636772.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Provisions for direct, indirect taxes go down well with bizmen, experts||Ludhiana: In spite of failing to meet aspirations of majority of residents to reduce the income tax rates and increase the exemption limit of income tax, several key announcements made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman with regard to the provisions regarding direct and indirect taxes are being welcomed by businessmen and tax experts. In one of the major steps undertaken by the FM is the reduction in the time limit for re-opening of the income tax assessment to three years, which is presently six years. Besides this, in case of re-opening of serious tax fraud cases the time limit is unchanged at 10 years, but two conditions have been set by the FM. These include approval of the principal chief commissioner for opening such cases and evidence of concealment of income of Rs 50 lakh or more in a year. In terms of indirect taxes, the GST audit has been abolished and other similar steps had been taken by the government. According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, “Formation of a dispute resolution committee for small tax payers will prove to be of great help to the business community of the city, where there is a huge number of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) units. In addition to this, the decision to allow faceless electronic hearings in the income tax tribunals is appreciable as it will reduce litigation cost and will result in huge time saving for the assesses and department too. Tax holiday for startups will also prove to be a booster for such venture amid such critical times.” Speaking to TOI , Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “We welcome the measures taken by the finance minister to bring reforms in the rules and regulations of income tax. The biggest relief for the tax payers in this Budget is the reduction in the time limit for re-opening of the income tax assessment to three years from six years. In addition to this, in order to ensure that there is full transparency in the serious fraud cases, permission from the principal chief commissioner has been made mandatory for re-opening of a case.” According to city-based chartered accountant Ankur Gupta, “Everyone had high hopes that this time the income tax rates will be reduced, but at the same time there were apprehensions that Covid cess will be imposed on the rich, but neither of the two happened. But even then as far as direct and indirect taxes are concerned, this Budget really deserves 80 out of 100 for the reforms which have been brought by the finance minister. If we talk about GST, the GST audit has been abolished and now if the employer will not deposit any employees contribution in time, expenses will be disallowed. As far as income tax is concerned, the step of including pre-filled data of capital gains and post office interest in ITRs is another good initiative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/provisions-for-direct-indirect-taxes-go-down-well-with-bizmen-experts/articleshow/80636775.cms||Mohit Behl
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Budget session of U’khand assembly from March 1 at Gairsain||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s nine-day-long budget session would be held at Gairsain — state's summer capital — from March 1, this year. Confirming the budget session, CM Rawat on Monday said, “We will be holding the nine-day-long session starting from March 1 at Gairsain.” He maintained that the state government was committed to the cause of developing the entire area. “Be it issues related to water, infrastructure or development, we are moving ahead in a planned manner,” said the CM. During the session, Trivendra Singh Rawat would also review the ongoing developments works and lay the roadmap for new projects to develop the entire Gairsain area in Chamoli district of the Himalayan state. In March 2020, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat caught everyone by surprise by announcing Gairsain as the summer capital of Uttarakhand. After consent from Governor Baby Rani Maurya, an official notification was issued in this regard on June 8, 2020. In the wake of Covid-19, the previous two assembly sessions – in September and in December – were held at Dehradun. Meanwhile, the BJP government has already announced the construction of a secretariat building at Gairsain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/budget-session-of-ukhand-assembly-from-march-1-at-gairsain/articleshow/80637613.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Woman dies by suicide||Nagpur: Komal Bopche, 26, working with a private hospital, died by suicide at her residence in Kapsi Khurd on Saturday. She was undergoing treatment for depression. Police said Komal was not well for the last two weeks. She did not attend to her work too in the past fortnight. Komal, prior to taking the drastic step, had lunch with her parents. She was later found hanging in her room, following which the family raised an alarm and rushed her to the hospital where the doctors declared her dead. A case of accidental death was registered at Kapil Nagar police station. Unidentified man ends life at hospital Body of an unidentified man, aged around 50-55 years, was found hanging from a bamboo scaffolding set up for painting work behind the ward number three of Mayo hospital. The body was found in the early hours of Sunday. The deceased is likely to be a patient or relative who had been staying at the hospital premises. Police, who are yet to identify the body, could not arrive at any conclusion regarding the reason behind the death. A case of accidental death was registered at Tehsil police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-dies-by-suicide/articleshow/80640510.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||RTO banks on voluntary scrap policy||Pune: RTO officials on Monday said the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Budget could help Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, which collectively have close to 13 lakh private and public vehicles that are over 15 years old. A regional transport official said, “Spotting such vehicles is difficult unless caught on the road. There must be vehicles running without any registration and many must have been scrapped. The voluntary scrapping policy will encourage people to come forward and get rid of their old vehicles.” According to the policy announced, owners of private vehicles plying for over 20 years and public vehicles that are over 15 years old can opt for voluntary scrapping. Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra Rajya Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said, “Around 40% of buses, trucks, autorickshaws, taxis and other registered commercial vehicles in the state are more than 15 years old.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-banks-on-voluntary-scrap-policy/articleshow/80637624.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Rajkot||Ship recycling to create 1.5 lakh more jobs in three years||RAJKOT: India aims to attract ships from Europe and Japan for scrapping, mainly in Alang, one of the biggest ship breaking yards of the world. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that by bringing in more vessels the aim is to double the recycling which is presently 4.5 million light displacement tonnage (LDT) by 2024. LDT is the weight of the ship after removal of cargo, passengers, crew, fuel, ballast water, internal storage etc. The doubling of recycling capacity is expected to generate an additional 1.5 lakh jobs in the ship recycling industry. At present, Alang employs around 50,000 labourers skilled in breaking ships. Europe and Japan account for nearly 35% of the total ships dismantled across the world. But European countries don’t send the vessels for scrapping outside the EU due to its regulations. The government plans to achieve this with compliance to the European Union regulations. Haresh Parmar, joint secretary of the Alang Ship Recycling Industries Association said, “EU laws with regard to ship recycling are very stringent. These need to be eased for Alang and we hope the central government will take the required steps. The government may upgrade some facilities at Alang and if the EU gives some relaxation, many European ships would come here.” India had enacted the Recycling of Ships Act in 2019 and acceded to Hong Kong International Convention (HKC). According to Sitharaman, post-enactment of the law, around 90 ship recycling yards at Alang in Gujarat have already achieved HKC-compliant certificates. Alang ship recycling yard has 90 plots that fully comply with the HKC norms and are expecting to get more ships from Japan, Korea and other countries. India’s share in the global ship recycling business is around 30%. India recycles 70 lakh gross tonnage of ships per annum while Bangladesh recycles 68 lakh gross tonnage. Pakistan recycles 37 lakh gross tonnage of ships followed by China which recycles 34 lakh gross tonnage per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ship-recycling-to-create-1-5-lakh-more-jobs-in-3-yrs/articleshow/80636807.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 2, 2021||Pune||PMC tells bulk generators to process waste||PUNE: The civic administration gave bulk garbage generators two weeks to start processing wet waste on their premises on Monday, the same day the Centre announced the budgetary allocation for the next phase of the Swachh Bharat initiative. In the 2021-22 Union Budget, the central government allocated nearly Rs1.42 lakh crore to Urban Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0. Additional PMC commissioner Kunal Khemnar said they have submitted a proposal for Rs380 crore for innovative waste-to-energy projects in the city. He said they would study the provisions of Swachh Bharat 2.0 and submit another proposal. PMC solid waste management department head Madhav Jagtap said the civic body would suspend tax benefits for societies with defunct processing units. “Over 3,000 such establishments have been identified,” a PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-tells-bulk-generators-to-process-waste/articleshow/80637618.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Nothing for middle class in budget: Deols||Ludhiana: For the Deol family of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, the Union Budget-2021 is a complete flop, which has nothing to offer for the middle class family. The family stated that due to Covid-19 outbreak, followed by a long lockdown period, they were expecting some special compensation from the government, but to no avail. Amarjit Kaur Deol, 62, has retired as a senior bank manager while her husband Gurmel Singh, 65, has retired from Punjab education department as a Punjabi master. Their son Harsimran Singh, 23, is graduate in engineering and is preparing for competitive exams. The entire family feels that the Budget had nothing to offer to middle class families or to any age group. Gurmel said, “The Union Budget is not for the common man. It has mentioned about pensioners above the age of 75 years that they don’t need to file income tax return (ITR), however, it is not clear if the tax will be deducted on their savings, etc. or not. Besides, there is no relaxation in the tax slab, which is disappointing.” Amarjit said, “At least, the interest rates of the banks should have been increased, but the government has not even touched that sector. The Budget also does not mention anything related to home appliances, electronic goods and other household goods. I feel the government is not bothered enough for the middle class families.” With the couple dissatisfied with the Budget, their son Harsimran Singh also did not find anything for the youth. He said, “I hold an engineering degree and am looking for a good job, but no good avenues are in sight. The government has done nothing to increase job opportunities and in this Budget too there seems to be no effort to generate employment. Even after holding a degree with good marks if we get a job, we have to compromise with the remuneration, which is not justified. A big thumbs down from my side to this Budget.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nothing-for-middle-class-in-budget-deols/articleshow/80636781.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Violent clash between solar co contractor, villagers in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: In a violent clash between a contractor and villagers over starting work at a site of a solar company near Lala Karada village in Jaisalmer district, stones were pelted and shots were fired. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/violent-clash-between-solar-co-contractor-villagers-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80638583.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand doctors start ‘relay hunger strike’ against Centre’s decision to allow Ayush doctors to conduct surgeries||Dehradun: Doctors from Dehradun and Haldwani on Monday observed a ‘relay hunger strike’ announced by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The strike is being observed by doctors associated with IMA throughout the country. According to the IMA authorities, 10 doctors from different districts will observe a fast while on their daily OPD and emergency service, as a mark of protest against Centre’s decision of ‘mixopathy’ that allows doctors other than allopaths to conduct surgeries. IMA officials said that doctors in Bazpur will continue the relay on Tuesday followed by those in Haridwar and Roorkee on Wednesday. On February 5, the relay fast will be observed by doctors of Jaspur and Rudraprayag, followed by doctors of Srinagar and Khatima on February 6 and those of Nainital, Vikas Nagar, Sitarganj and Kiccha the next day. In Tehri, Kotdwar, Pantnagar, Pithoragarah and Rishikesh, the strike will be observed between February 8 and 14, the officials said. Dr Amit Singh, president, IMA Dehradun chapter, who was part of Monday’s protest, said that the aim of the fast was to voice resentment against the government’s decision and to bring it to their notice that it will prove to be “one of the worst decisions in medical education and practice”. “Ours is a Gandhian effort of observing a strike without disrupting services at hospitals. Our aim is mainly to restore the sanctity of the modern medical profession. We are not against other systems of medicine but are opposed to mixing them with allopathy,” added Dr Singh. To recall, Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) had last month notified 58 surgical procedures, including general surgery, ENT operations, ophthalmology, urology, surgical gastroenterology and dental medicine that can be performed by Ayush doctors who have completed their post-graduation. IMA has been protesting against the decision ever since it was notified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-doctors-start-relay-hunger-strike-against-centres-decision-to-allow-ayush-doctors-to-conduct-surgeries/articleshow/80637627.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 2, 2021||Goa||Congress labels Budget ‘anti-common man’||MARGAO: Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat on Monday termed the Union Budget 2021 “pro crony capitalist” and “anti-common man.” “This Budget has absolutely nothing to uplift the common man and the marginalised sector from the huge financial burdens on them after the collapse of the economy post the Covid pandemic. The economically weaker section is completely let down by the government, with most of the Budget proposals focusing on pro-crony capitalist schemes,” Kamat said. State Congress president Girish Chodankar, too, criticised the Budget calling it a “headless exercise” that will only make the common man and people of country suffer. “The headless government has turned the entire serious fiscal exercise into a narrative, that too without any wisdom and separated from ground reality. The first paperless Budget has turned out to be a headless time-pass speech, which is indeed hollow,” he said. He also said that the issues of rising inequality, soaring poverty, increasing unemployment, poor plight of job losers, stressed financial sector, dilapidated manufacturing and the bleeding MSME’s have been ignored . Reacting to the Rs 300 crore granted to the state by the finance minister for the 60th Liberation Day anniversary celebration, Kamat demanded that the chief minister immediately announce a package of Rs 100 crore for “revival of the marginalised sector.” “Today, people engaged in traditional occupations such as motorcycle pilots, rickshaw, pickup and tempo drivers, khajekars, fulkars, chanekars, render and poders, kakankars, nustekars, mechanics, barbers, cobblers and others are all anxiously awaiting financial packages from the government,” he said. Kamat also highlighted the reduction in the state’s share of central taxes, which has been reduced by almost Rs 900 crore after the Budget estimate for 2021 was revised from Rs 3,026 crore to Rs 2,100 crore. This, he said, would severely impact the state’s finances. “The Budget appears to be an election propaganda package for the three states - West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala -going to polls in the next few months,” he said. The opposition leader also said the Budget was silent on generating employment and that there was “no focus on revival of the MSME sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-labels-budget-anti-common-man/articleshow/80639670.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Greens hope allocation will clear air in urban areas||Mumbai: A huge budget allocation of Rs 2,217 crore to tackle air pollution in 42 urban areas has shown how badly air quality has deteriorated in cities, pointed out environmentalists, who welcomed the attention given to the issue. Debi Goenka of Conservation Action Trust said, “While I welcome the decision to sanction a large grant, it is to be seen as to how and where the money will be used in big cities like Mumbai metropolitan region, where air quality has consistently gone down.” The ministry of environment, forest and climate change has to urgently make a blueprint to properly disburse funds, so that it is not wasted or ends up in wrong hands, Goenka added. Goenka said, “In MMR regions like Chembur-Deonar, Thane-Belapur industrial area, Kharghar-Taloja and even central regions like Dadar-Mahim have been experiencing air pollution. But there is no proper monitoring; hence part of the funds will have to go to set up modern, hi-tech air pollution monitoring machines in various regions.”' D Stalin of Vanashakti NGO said, “Even if local authorities spend money to buy and install air pollution monitoring units, will that ensure the quality of air improves? On one hand, healthy green trees are being brazenly cut in hundreds for infrastructure projects (like Metro rail), while on the other we are planning to spend thousands of crores to resolve air pollution. The root cause has to be tackled, or else we will have to buy oxygen cylinders to breathe good air in future.” NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said, “Tackling air pollution is very much needed in urban centres, so whatever funds will be given to our civic body will be utilized properly to monitor and improve air quality. I have instructed the administration to grow more trees, even in traffic islands and by the roadsides, besides public parks, as trees naturally filter air. Everyone has to now think on how to improve the air.” Activist Sumaira Abdulali of Awaaz Foundation has been reminding the state government on ill-effects of burning garbage and plastic trash in urban and rural areas; hence effective monitoring has to be done to check this source of air pollution. NatConnect Foundation director B N Kumar argued: “This budget allocation seems to be only on paper. Industrial activity is among the main factors for air pollution; yet the government wants to do away with Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) in the proposed Environment Act this will only lead to more air pollution. If government is serious to combat air pollution holistically, then all factors, root causes, tree-cutting, burning of forest hill slopes must be fully accounted for.”' Mangesh Ranawade of Kharghar-Taloja Colony Welfare Association, said, “The latest air monitoring systems which give real-time reports on pollutants in localized atmosphere, are expensive. Hence, part of the budget should go here, as then we will have scientific evidence that air quality is poor. We have been struggling for over two years to have our grievance heard; now we may have to lodge an FIR if air pollution worsens. It is sad that we have to fight for good air.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/greens-hope-allocation-will-clear-air-in-urban-areas/articleshow/80637835.cms||Vijay Singh
February 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Budget increases Kerala’s borrowing limits to 4%||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The central government’s decision to increase the borrowing limit of state governments from the existing 3% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) to 4% has come as a major reprieve for Kerala, which is reeling under heavy financial stress. “The net borrowings for states will be allowed at 4% of GSDP for FY 2021-22 as per the recommendations of 15th Finance Commission. Part of this is earmarked for incremental capital expenditure. Additional borrowing ceiling of 0.5% of GSDP will be provided subject to conditions. States (are) expected to reach a fiscal deficit of 3% of GSDP by 2023-24 as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission,” stated the Union Budget. The increased limit will enable the state to borrow a little over Rs 8,000 crore, additionally, during FY 2021-22. The state was eligible for a borrowing of Rs 24,000 crore when the borrowing limit was set at 3%. This was a long pending demand from all states. Kerala had on several occasions asked the Centre to increase the borrowing limit from 3% to 5%. The one-time permission — recently given by the central government on account of the financial crisis due to Covid-19 — had given the state a conditional permission to mobilise an additional 2% of GSDP from the market. The condition-linked additional borrowing of 0.5% announced in the Budget is expected to give further leeway to the government. Planning board member K Ravi Raman said that the good part of the Union Budget is the increase in borrowing limit, allocation of Rs 65,000 crore for national highway development and Rs 1,957 crore allocated for the second phase development works of Kochi Metro. “But, there are some worrying facts. There is a sharp decline in the allocation to rural employment under MGNREGA. There are no measures for support to planation crops,” he said. Experts, in general, are of the opinion that the borrowing limit will help Kerala to offset the impact of proposed salary hike of government employees on perilous state coffers. “The enhanced borrowing limit would ensure that the state won’t slip into the abyss of acute financial crisis. But, it would not be sufficient to meet capital expenditure needs,” said former chairman of state finance commission B A Prakash. The financial burden on state exchequer on account of pay revision alone is Rs 4,810 crore. This, in effect, would drain around Rs 6,000 from state coffers, he added. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and finance minister T M Thomas Isaac were silent on the borrowing limit enhancement, a demand which both of them had been raising relentlessly over the last four-and-a-half years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/budget-increases-states-borrowing-limits-to-4/articleshow/80638568.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Funds flow for FTII; focus on better infrastructure, campus||PUNE: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget had some good news for Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) in terms of funding for the 2021-22 fiscal, with a marked increase from the actual corpus allotted in the current financial year. FTII is on track to receive Rs58.48 crore from the information and broadcasting ministry, as per the expenditure statements in the 2021-22 Budget. Though Rs49.40 crore was allotted in the 2020-2021 fiscal, the actual outlay, after revisions, ended up at Rs37.97 crore. The revised outlay for 2020-21 was still higher than the actual outlay of Rs 29.56 crore for the 2019-20 financial year. An official privy to the development said the increased outlay was due to various rationalizations in funding heads, such as infrastructure development and upgrade and modernization of the FTII campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/funds-flow-for-ftii-focus-on-better-infrastructure-campus/articleshow/80637629.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||52-year-old woman killed by biker||NAGPUR: A 52-year-old woman, Heerabai Indurkar, was killed after a biker, Shankarlal Punyani, dashed her from the rear on Central Avenue on Friday. Indurkar and Geetabai Tirpude were heading towards their residence on foot when Punyani’s vehicle hit the women leading to the serious injuries. While Tirpude survived with injuries, Indurkar was declared dead at a hospital. An offence was registered at Lakadganj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/52-year-old-woman-killed-by-biker/articleshow/80640513.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Anti-encroachment drive carried out in Prem Nagar||Dehradun: Teams from district administration carried out an anti-encroachment drive in Prem Nagar area and demolished the encroached structure outside shops. During the drive, the team had to face resentment from the shop keepers. However after an hour of argument between the officials and the shopkeepers, the structures which were identified as encroachment were razed down. The officials said that the structures — like shades and ramps — which were demolished were mostly temporary. The extended structures hamper the movement of traffic and even cause inconvenience to the pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anti-encroachment-drive-carried-out-in-prem-nagar/articleshow/80637640.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Nothing in Budget to stop economic slowdown: Finance minister||ALAPPUZHA: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said that the Budget was disappointing as it lacked measures to check the country’s economic slowdown. “There is nothing in the Budget to pave the way for GDP growth. As per the economic survey, GDP is expected to grow by 11.5% in 2021-22. But, as per the Budget, it will not happen and 11.5% GDP growth is nonsense. The Budget admits that our economy will not come back to pre-Covid-19 period,” he said on Monday. “Budget has allotted Rs 1,957 cr to Kochi Metro. Actually, Centre will give only its share of Rs 358 crore from the Budget. Kerala government should also provide Rs 358 cr. The balance amount will be the loan taken by Metro. Don’t cheat people with false statements,” Isaac said. The finance minister added that Budget didn’t give importance to the agri sector. “The amount set aside for agriculture and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is low compared to the allocation in the previous year’s budget. As per the budget, allocation for agri sector has decreased to 1.48 lakh crore from 1.54 lakh crore. Allocation for MGNREGS dipped to 0.73 lakh crore from 1.11 crore,” Isaac said. The minister said that the allocation of Rs 65,000 crore for NH development in state was the amount National Highways Authority of India would take as loan and it had announced the same earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nothing-in-budget-to-stop-economic-slowdown-fm/articleshow/80646955.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Traffic police starts anti-encroachment drive in city||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana traffic police on Monday started an anti-encroachment drive in various parts of the city. During the drive, the encroachers were served notices, asking them to remove encroachments within 15 days. Besides, during the ongoing 32nd National Road Safety Month, the city police have also called for an online contest and quiz as well. Joint commissioner of police (JCP), city, Deepak Pareek said the anti-encroachment drive started in the city on Monday. Various teams of police personnel, traffic cops and employees of municipal corporation are serving notices to street vendors and all those who have done encroachments on the chosen 100 roads of the city. Pareek added that for the first 15 days only notices would be served and people would be requested to remove the encroachments. If they fail to do so, then in the next 15 days the police will lodge an FIR against the violators and will get the encroachments removed with the help of the municipal corporation. The JCP said, “The only purpose of removing encroachments is to make city roads decongested and chaos free. People are urged to cooperate with us.” Further, the official said that besides the anti-encroachment drive, the police had also started daily quizzes on the official twitter handle of Ludhiana traffic police. Under this, the traffic cops are posting pictures of a traffic signboard, asking people to give the right answer. “The city police are also organising a road safety awareness contest in which people are being asked to participate under three different categories, including poster masking on the theme of traffic, photos of traffic police on duty and jingles or songs related to traffic. The city residents participated by sending their creations either on the official FB page of Ludhiana traffic police or on cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in. The last date of submission is February 6. The top three winners will get a free full driving course, besides 10 consolation prizes,” added JCP Pareek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traffic-police-starts-anti-encroachment-drive-in-city/articleshow/80636814.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman SI carries body after village refuses help||Palasa (Srikakulam): A woman sub-inspector on Monday carried the body of a homeless man for over one kilometre after no one came forward to help. The incident took place at Adavikotturu, a village on the outskirts of Sampangipuram in Kasibugga-Palasa, an area known for its cashew industries, in AP’s Srikakulam district. After Kasibugga police received information about the body, SI Kotturu Sirisha reached there along with constables. “We noticed the body of an unknown person, aged around 80 years, who locals said was a beggar. But bringing the body from the fields to the vehicle was difficult as there was no road. We requested the villagers, but no one came forward,” Sirisha told TOI. The sub-inspector, who is a native of Vizag city and holds a pharmacy degree, said it was not a case of suspicious death as there were no injuries on the body. “It is likely the man died due to starvation as he was very frail and weak,” she said. When no one came forward to help shift the body, Sirisha took the initiative and carried the body on a makeshift stretcher with the help of a member from Lalitha Trust. It took them about 25 minutes to reach the police vehicle. After seeing the woman police officer carrying the body, some villagers stepped forward and extended help to cremate the body. Sirisha, who is the mother of a 12-year-old, told TOI she preferred a police job as her mason father wanted to see one of his four daughters join the force. She also worked in the prohibition and excise department. She said she did not have any fear or sentiment when she decided to carry the body. “I joined the police force to serve people and extend my services to the society. The dead deserve dignity too. I only did my duty,” she said. DGP Gautam Sawang also lauded the humanitarian gesture of Sirisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-si-carries-body-after-village-refuses-help/articleshow/80640514.cms||Siva G
February 2, 2021||Goa||Centre gives Goa Rs 300 crore for 60 years of liberation||PANAJI: Goa, which is in its diamond jubilee year of liberation from Portuguese rule, got an unexpected bonanza from the Union Budget with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing a grant of Rs 300 crore for the celebrations. CM Pramod Sawant, who had sought Rs 100 crore from the Centre for the year-long festivities, was quick to thank Sitharaman and Union home minister Amit Shah for the grant. While Sitharaman mentioned Goa’s liberation struggle twice in her speech, the state did not find mention in the schemes and projects outlined for other states. “2021 is the year of many important milestones for our history. I mention a few of these: It is the 75th year of Independence, 60 years of Goa’s accession to India,” said Sitharaman. “Goa is celebrating the diamond jubilee year of its liberation from Portuguese rule. From the government of India’s side, I propose a grant of Rs 300 crore to the government of Goa for the celebrations.” The speech did not offer clarity on when the funds would be disbursed and if they would come for any specific purpose. Though Goa’s mining and tourism sector were given a miss, the state’s private sector welcomed the finance minister’s speech. Investments in infrastructure development and the promotion of MSMEs is expected to have a trickle-down effect on Goa’s industrial sector. While welcoming the grant of Rs 300 crore, the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) said the state’s economy depends on tourism and it would have benefited if the Budget had made some provisions to encourage the tourism sector along with fisheries. “Unprecedented allocations on sectors like healthcare, infrastructure, financial sector, education and skilling etc may upset the fiscal prudence that the government has been observing thus far. But the government has preferred growth over fiscal prudence,” GCCI vice-president Ralph de Sousa, said. The state government has already begun working on the year-long events to mark 60 years of Goa’s liberation from colonisation. It plans to organise at least one programme in the capitals of various states and Union Territories to showcase Goa’s culture and tourism as part of the festivities, which commenced on December 19. Goa was liberated on December 19, 1961 after being under at least 450 years of Portuguese rule. With the state set to complete 60 years of freedom, the BJP government will be keen to use the occasion to its advantage ahead of the 2022 state assembly elections. While a series of exhibitions, seminars and cultural events have been planned to highlight Goa’s identity, Sawant had also said the state would renovate all historic monuments and preserve historic places that will serve as study centres for the younger generations. “Sixty years of Goa’s liberation is a significant milestone in India’s rich history. I thank the Union finance minister for the special mention in her budget speech,” Sawant tweeted on Monday. “I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the allocation of Rs 300 crore in the Budget to mark 60 years of Goa’s liberation. I also thank the Union home minister Amit Shah for his continued guidance and support,” he said in a subsequent tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-gives-goa-rs-300cr-for-60-yrs-of-liberation/articleshow/80639694.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Nothing in Budget to stop economic slowdown: Finance minister||ALAPPUZHA: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said that the Budget was disappointing as it lacked measures to check the country’s economic slowdown. “There is nothing in the Budget to pave the way for GDP growth. As per the economic survey, GDP is expected to grow by 11.5% in 2021-22. But, as per the Budget, it will not happen and 11.5% GDP growth is nonsense. The Budget admits that our economy will not come back to pre-Covid-19 period,” he said on Monday. “Budget has allotted Rs 1,957 cr to Kochi Metro. Actually, Centre will give only its share of Rs 358 crore from the Budget. Kerala government should also provide Rs 358 cr. The balance amount will be the loan taken by Metro. Don’t cheat people with false statements,” Isaac said. The finance minister added that Budget didn’t give importance to the agri sector. “The amount set aside for agriculture and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is low compared to the allocation in the previous year’s budget. As per the budget, allocation for agri sector has decreased to 1.48 lakh crore from 1.54 lakh crore. Allocation for MGNREGS dipped to 0.73 lakh crore from 1.11 crore,” Isaac said. The minister said that the allocation of Rs 65,000 crore for NH development in state was the amount National Highways Authority of India would take as loan and it had announced the same earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nothing-in-budget-to-stop-economic-slowdown-fm/articleshow/80638585.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Three Metro corridors find no mention in Sitharaman speech||Pune: The three Metro corridors coming up in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad did not figure in Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s speech for the Union Budget 2021-22 on Monday. Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA), which is executing the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar line, said it was expecting formal allocation of the Centre’s 20% share (Rs1,224 crore). “The project needs to be implemented in three years. The state government has allocated land for monetization, while the Centre’s ‘assured’ share is awaited,” a senior PMRDA official said.The PMRDA said it was also waiting for funds for the 123 km ring road, to be executed under the Bharatmala project. MahaMetro, which is developing the Vanaz-Ramwadi and Pimpri-Swargate corridors, said the project was well funded for the moment. “Through 2021-22, we expect Rs2,000 crore for the project from various sources,” MahaMetro chief Brijesh Dixit said.State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “Funds will be needed for future expansions to Pune Metro. The central government will take a call on this when the time comes.”Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs2,092 crore for the Metro Neo project in Nashik, and Rs5,976 crore for the second phase of the Nagpur Metro project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-metro-corridors-find-no-mention-in-sitharaman-speech/articleshow/80637635.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Educators hope Pune receives honour as umbrella structure||PUNE: The city’s large number of research institutes, private universities and a state university with over 800 affiliated institutes should make it just fit for an umbrella structure for better cooperation among all institutes as announced in the Union budget. Vidya Yeravdekar, principal-director of Symbiosis Society, said, “Pune should be chosen. This is the age of collaboration and therefore higher educational institutes in Pune should find synergy so that students benefit.” Nitin Karmalkar, VC of Savitribai Phule Pune University, said an overall structure will be a huge boost for research. “Pune is much ahead in terms of research institutes as well as colleges and hence it will definitely be one of the cities to be chosen,” he added. The Pune Knowledge Cluster aims to bring together academia, R&D institutions and the industry of Pune . Its nodal agency is at Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics and the functioning is facilitated by the office of its director, Somak Raychaudhury. He said Pune is uniquely placed for it has ample industries and educational and research institutes. “If the government wants an umbrella organisation, Pune will be one of the best choices. This is a common model of industry-academia partnership which has been successful worldwide and, once set up, would immensely improve the innovation and entrepreneurial enterprises here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/educators-hope-pune-receives-honour-as-umbrella-structure/articleshow/80637639.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Union Budget: Provident - Finance minister eyes your PF with interest||NEW DELHI: Budget 2021 has restricted avenues for tax-free returns for middle-class taxpayers. From April 1, returns on investment of more than Rs 2.5 lakh in two of the most popular instruments — provident fund and unit linked insurance plan (ULIP) — will be taxed. This, say industry sources, will bring ULIPs on a par with mutual funds, doing away with the edge they have had since 2018 when long term capital gains was introduced. So far, returns on investment of any amount in voluntary provident fund (VPF), along with EPF and ULIP, are tax-free on maturity. Union Budget: How long can I go on putting money that fails to perform?With this amendment, return on investment up to Rs 2.5 lakh in PF will remain tax-free while the return on the portion exceeding that amount will be treated as income in the investor's hand. This portion will be taxed at the rate at which the investor’s income is taxed, said Sonu Iyer of Ernst and Young. Budget 2021: Complete coverageIn case of ULIP, if the investment in a year exceeds Rs 2.5 lakh, the investor will not get the benefit of tax exemption at all. The entire income will be taxed at the rate of 10% plus surcharge, treating the ULIP as an equity-oriented investment plan, said Jay Mehta (Partner) PWC India. The Memorandum Explaining Provisions of Finance Bill, 2021, says there are instances of some employees contributing huge amounts to PF, and the entire interest accrued being exempt from tax under clause 11 and clause 12 of Section 10 of the Income Tax Act. “This exemption without any threshold benefits only those who can contribute a large amount to these funds as their share,” said the memorandum. Read AlsoUnion Budget 2021: Are you richer or poorer? Here’s the bottomlineNo change in tax rates or slabs means that your income tax payout is, for most people, unaffected by this Budget. But if your salary’s high or you use voluntary provident fund (VPF) contributions, there’s a bit of bad news for you.From April 1, 2021, the Memorandum stipulates, income on the contribution made by a person exceeding Rs 2.5 lakh would not be tax-free. “However, the rate at which it would be taxed has not been specified,” Iyer said. If it is treated as interest income, it would be taxed at a marginal tax rate in the hand of recipient, he pointed out. In the case of ULIP, any sum received after January 31, 2021, which entails premium payments exceeding Rs 2.5 lakh in any financial year during the policy term, would be taxable in the year of receipt as capital gains, said Mehta. Such sums’ taxability would be on a par with those received on the transfer of equity-oriented mutual funds. The limit of Rs 2.5 lakh would be applied across ULIPs held by the same policyholder. However, sums received upon death will continue to be exempt. Read AlsoAre you now a gig worker? Top 9 things you need to knowA harsh fallout of the pandemic were job losses. If you have joined the freelance economy – be it as a freelance graphic designer, interior designer, an architect, a consultant etc – the fees you get from your clients will be taxed under the head ‘Profits and Gains from Business or Profession’.To enjoy the tax-free benefits of ULIP, investors have to buy a policy where the annual premium is not more than 10% of the sum-assured. Though the term of ULIP is 10 years, one can get the pre-maturity tax-free amount after five years of the policy being enforced. The new provisions in both schemes apply from February 1, 2021. ULIPs issued up to January 31, 2021 would remain unaffected, Mehta said. “ULIPs were on a par with mutual funds before long-term capital gains were introduced in 2018. Returns on ULIPs were superior to mutual funds after the seventh year because of the nature of charges in insurance. After the tax was reintroduced, insurance schemes generated better returns after six years. Now, it is back to seven years,” said an insurance industry official. Read AlsoUnion Budget 2021-22: Spend it like Nirmala SitharamanThe politically bold Budget defied the punditry that aggressive protests against the agricultural laws have pushed the Modi government on the back foot, and that it would be wary of attempting another set of reforms.The amendment seeks to close the loophole used by insurance companies to structure schemes for high net-worth individuals to avoid tax by reporting investment gains as proceeds from a maturing insurance policy, industry sources said. “This tends to reduce the competitive advantage that ULIPs enjoyed as compared to other short-term investment vehicles,” said Tarun Chugh, MD & CEO of Bajaj Allianz Life. Watch Budget 2021: Watch out for the devil in the fine print||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/provident-fm-eyes-your-pf-with-interest/articleshow/80640962.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man absconding since 30 years held||NAGPUR: Sitaram Sharma, accused in a case of house-trespass and mischief in 1991, was arrested by MIDC police on Saturday after a gap of 30 years since the offence was registered against him. Sharma had also changed his address and was staying elsewhere under a different identity. Sharma fled after getting bail from the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC). The court had issued standing orders to arrest Sharma following which he was traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-absconding-since-30-years-held/articleshow/80640515.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||Couldn’t go against party’s stand: D’Sa||Margao: Irked over their local MLA Wilfred D’Sa having failed to vote against the three contentious projects in the House, locals gathered at his residence on Monday and demanded an explanation over his behaviour. D’Sa told the crowd that as he was bounded by the whip of the party, he couldn’t do anything that went against the party’s stand on the floor of the House as that could have attracted his disqualification. The private member’s resolution moved jointly in the House by Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai and Curtorim MLA Alexio Reginaldo Laurenco was defeated by division of votes by 20 to 11. Several turncoat BJP MLA’s, including D’Sa, remained absent from the House during the voting, and so did BJP’s Alina Saldanha, who has been quite vocal against the projects. The locals told D’Sa to hold talks with other BJP legislators who abstained from voting, and chalk out a strategy to bear pressure on the government to scrap the three projects. The resolution has recommended the government that the three linear projects be scrapped “in the interest of the public”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/couldnt-go-against-partys-stand-dsa/articleshow/80639759.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||AAP Uttarakhand vice-president Razia Beg booked for violating Covid guidelines||Dehradun: A case has been registered against AAP Uttarakhand vice-president Razia Beg on the charges of violating Covid-19 guidelines during a party event in Dehradun on Monday. According to the police, Beg submitted an application seeking the permission to participate in the event along with 45 workers. However, according to the police, there were 500-600 workers present at the spot and many of them were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distancing. The case has been registered under section 269, 279, and 188 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-uttarakhand-vice-president-razia-beg-booked-for-violating-covid-guidelines/articleshow/80637652.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 2, 2021||Ludhiana||Jagraon MC polls: Waste dumps, poor roads, water-logging to be main issues||Jagraon: As civic body polls in Jagraon are slated for February 14, ‘mismanagement’ remains a major issue in the coming municipal council elections. This, they say, is the root of all problems like potholes on roads, water-logging and poor hygiene in the town. “One of the main examples of mismanagement in the town is that we have a municipal park which has two garbage dumps in its vicinity. So, if you have an infrastructure which was constructed by spending crores of rupees and has such garbage dumps near it, does it not speak of mismanagement of the MC. It also affects the religious sentiments of people,” said Harwinder Singh, secretary of the committee of a gurdwara, which is near the municipal park and has a garbage dump close it. “Also, the other major problem is the water-logging in the town, including Kamal chowk, where I run a shop and where water gets accumulated during the rains. This problem is not confined to Kamal chowk, but water-logging is common across the town, including in front of MC office and even Purani Anaj Mandi gets submerged in water. The reason for this is that there were eight points in and around Jagraon from where rainwater would flow out, but those have been encroached upon because of which water gets accumulated in the town.” The residents said that mismanagement had also resulted in potholes on various roads. “Potholes on roads and garbage dumps in the city are going to be main issues in the coming civic body elections. There is a garbage dump even near Lala Lajpat Rai Park. I think the dumps need to be shifted out of the town but then those collecting garbage have hand-driven carriers and need motorised vehicles for the purpose. Also, pot holes on the roads is another problem which is a cause of suffering for the people,” said Nanesh Gandhi, a city resident who runs ‘Kar Bhala, Ho Bhala’ group. Another resident said that lack of hygiene was a problem in the city. “The level of cleanliness in the town is not up to the mark. The problem gets worse during the monsoon when the lack of proper hygiene in the town becomes a risk for the health of residents as there is a threat of disease break out due to mosquitoes and other related issues,” said another resident asking not to be named. A social-cum-political activist, who has been critical of the ‘mismanagement’ and ‘corruption’ in the MC, says that he had to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court to highlight such issues. “Tenders for development works totalling Rs10 crore were floated by the government and of Rs 3 crore were given to a party which was already black-listed. To probe where the funds have gone, I approached the municipal council authorities, vigilance bureau and even the chief minister’s office, but there was no response, so I approached the high court. Last week, a team of vigilance bureau had come to Jagraon and seized the record of the MC and collected the samples of road,” said Gopi Sharma, a social activist who is member of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He alleged that inadequate material and bad quality stuff was used in the laying of interlocking tiles. Box SDM denies allegations Reacting to the allegations against the civic body, SDM Jagraon Narinder Singh indicated that there is no mismanagement in MC and every voter was linked to a political party so they make such allegations. He added that development was happening in Jagraon and once the model code of conduct is over, more works including that of roads will be taken up. Asked about the sewerage problem, SDM said that water gets accumulated even in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-mc-polls-waste-dumps-poor-roads-water-logging-to-be-main-issues/articleshow/80636825.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Speeding SUV injures constable on Jodhpur-Jaipur highway||A police constable was seriously injured when a speeding SUV hit him and fled when he signaled to stop the vehicle near Dangiawas on Jodhpur-Jaipur highway on Monday morning. Ajeet Singh was rushed to MDM Hospital where his condition is said to be critical. “We have started a hunt for the vehicle. On the basis of the registration number, we have traced it to one Imran Khan from Kota district. But it could be ascertained only after contacting him, if it belonged to him or has been sold or even if the vehicle was stolen,” said SHO (Dangiawas) Kanhaiyalal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speeding-suv-injures-constable-on-jodhpur-jaipur-highway/articleshow/80638587.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vaccination drive in Gujarat: 42 trainee cops report side effects||AHMEDABAD: A total of 42 women trainees of the Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) in three cities of Gujarat reported minor side effects after they were vaccinated on Sunday night and Monday morning. They were taken to government hospitals and provided primary treatment. Senior state health department officials said they sought reports from the districts concerned and claimed that none had any major symptoms. In Surat, 12 trainee cops living at the police headquarters complained of fever and other health issues on Sunday night after which they were taken to New Civil Hospital. In Vadodara, 16 cops and two sanitation workers of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) were taken to the government hospital after complaints of headache, giddiness, dizziness and mild fever. On Monday morning, 14 trainee LRD personnel in Ahmedabad were also taken to Civil Hospital with similar complaints. Of 12 personnel in Surat, two had complications including fever and shivering, said Civil Hospital officials, adding that one had complained of tenderness at the vaccination spot. “All the cops are out of danger and have minor symptoms that can happen to anyone after vaccination. The majority of them will be discharged as soon as their condition normalizes,” said a health official of Surat Municipal Corporation. Director of the National Health Mission, M A Pandya, said all the police personnel suffered from headache, giddiness, dizziness, mild fever etc. “All these symptoms are minor side-effects of the vaccination,” said Pandya. “It is good that these trainees sought medical help. Some were kept under observation too, but no serious event was reported,” said Pandya. LRD cops in Ahmedabad had got vaccinated at Civil Hospital on Monday. They showed symptoms after they were back at city police headquarters. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said the complaints were minor. “None required hospitalization. Temporary effects are expected in some of the beneficiaries, but the number is minuscule,” he said. Vadodara cops had taken their jabs at the Pratapnagar headquarters and at Makarpura on Sunday. “In all, 16 Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) women personnel were brought to hospitals. Thirteen with only minor complaints were allowed to go soon, while three others were kept at the hospital for observation and were discharged later in the day,” said SSG Hospital superintendent Dr Ranjan Aiyer. Meanwhile, health officials claimed the postmortem report of a 30-year-old sanitation, Jignesh Solanki, who died after receiving the vaccination revealed that he died of cardiac complications. “Solanki had underlying cardiac disease. He died of cardiac failure. We will send his viscera samples for testing to further ascertain the cause of death,” said principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccination-42-trainee-cops-report-side-effects/articleshow/80638967.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||MVA slams budget, says it’s ‘meant for poll-bound states’||MUMBAI: The Maha VIkas Aghadi government on Monday criticised the Union budget for allegedly treating the state that gives the highest revenue to the Centre unfairly. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar urged all MP's from the state to meet the finance minister to seek “justice” for the state. He alleged that there was nothing in the budget for Maharashtra and that provisions have been made for Nagpur and Nashik metro only because there are polls in these cities. Ajit Pawar said there was nothing in the budget for the backward, tribal and minority sections of society. “There is nothing substantial for women’s schemes. The hopes of the middle class, who were expecting relief in income tax, have been quashed,” he said. CM Uddhav Thackeray said, “The budget should have been for the country and not for the elections.” State Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat called the budget as one “only for poll-bound states and an attempt to privatise national assets.” Thorat said the budget has given only disappointment to farmers, labourers, youth, women, working class and the middle class. Ex-CM and PWD minister Ashok Chavan said the budget was anti-people and anti-farmer. “It’s a directionless budget. It has failed to renew the hopes of people adversely affected by the pandemic and lockdown. We were expecting drastic changes in the income-tax system, but as no changes have been made, the common man is unhappy,” Chavan said. Meanwhile, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement to put in place a framework to allow electricity consumers to choose from more than one distribution company didn’t find favour with state power minister Nitin Raut. Raut said the budget contrives to create a monopoly in the power sector for crony capitalists by dismantling state-owned power distribution companies. The Shiv Sena termed the budget a “political party budget,” considering the provisions made for a few states with an eye on the assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “The budget is for the country or a ‘fund distribution’ of a political party?’ asked Sena MP Sanjay Raut. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “We are happy the Government of India appreciates our innovative approach and accepts the model of Nashik metro as a national project. The Government of India has made a provision of Rs 2,092 crore for Nashik metro. Nagpur Metro’s Phase 2 too got Rs 5,976 crore. Both these proposals were sent during our tenure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-slams-budget-says-its-meant-for-poll-bound-states/articleshow/80637656.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Senior citizens look for clarity on I-T return dispute redressal||PUNE: Senior citizens feel that the Budget proposal of exemption from filing income tax returns for people aged above 75 years is “just one hassle removed”, but they want clarity about dispute redressal. In her Budget speech, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said senior citizens aged 75 years or above with only interest and pension income would not have to file I-T returns. Surgounda Patil, 75, said it was still a concern about how to resolve any conflict arising out of any discrepancy in amounts deducted by banks without the senior citizens filing their tax returns. Patil said, “My question is how accurately the government will calculate our tax without us filing it, and what will happen if there is any miscalculation. When we file our taxes, we know the amounts. Even if it is not required by the government anymore, it will still be important for us to calculate the taxes to know how much money will be deducted.” Anjali Raje executive, director of International Longevity Centre-India (ILC-I), said, “This provision was already there for people aged above 80. But it is good that the age limit has been reduced to 75. It is a convenience for those living alone and have to manage their own finances.” She added, “The provision shows that the government is thinking of this demography and planning for them. However, it would have been even better if the government had also thought about GST concessions for services provided by care homes in the senior citizens’ interests.” V V Kulkarni, 83, said, “It is a good initiative for us because sometimes we can forget or some might not have the means to do it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sr-citizens-look-for-clarity-on-i-t-return-dispute-redressal/articleshow/80637644.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Sarpanch, tout in ACB net over bribe for issuing a lease deed||The ACB on Monday arrested the sarpanch of gram panchyat Gadretha of Shahabad tehsil in Baran district and a tout for allegedly taking bribe of Rs 30,000 in Samraniya village of the area.The accused sarpanch had demanded a bribe of Rs 80,000 through the tout for issuing a lease deed (patta) for a plot.The sarpanch Jitendra Shakyawal, 29, a resident of Fareduha village and tout Vivak Jain, 33, of Sameriya town were on Monday arrested while accepting the bribe from Champalal Mehata, said Gyanchand Meen, inspector, ACB, Baran. The accused sarpanch had demanded Rs 80,000 from Mehata and later through negotiation the bribe amount was settled at Rs 30,000, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-tout-in-acb-net-over-bribe-for-issuing-a-lease-deed/articleshow/80638590.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Kochi Metro’s Phase II extension gets Rs 1,957 crore||KOCHI: The Union Budget has given impetus to the Kochi Metro rail project by allocating Rs 1,957 crore for Phase II Kakkanad extension. The revenue department has already started land acquisition for the Metro extension from Jawaharlal Nehru (JLN) Stadium to Infopark at Kakkanad. Though the Union Cabinet is yet to formally clear the second phase, the Budget allocation indicates that Centre’s nod is just a technical issue which is to be done soon. According to KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma, the agency will soon start measures to appoint a project management consultancy for preparing a design and measures to float tenders will be completed within a couple of months. “We require a perfect design for the extension project. So, we will have to rope in a project management consultant. The work on the project, mainly piling, may be started by September,” Sharma said. As the preliminary works like preparation of tenders and design can be done in the next two or three months, there may not be delay in the execution of the project due to the ensuing assembly polls. Revenue department has almost completed the land acquisition for the extension. “We will hand over the land parcels to the Metro agency without delay,” district collector S Suhas said. This will help start the widening of Palarivattom-Kakkanad Road and subsequent piling works for Metro constructions. It is expected that the new extension will increase the ridership and hike the revenue. Phase II will cover 11.170km and the cost estimated a few years ago was around Rs 2,400 crore. The chances of cost escalation are high. Roads will have to be widened to 22m along the metro corridor. As per initial survey, at least 46 shops on the Palarivattom-Kakkanad stretch will have to be pulled down, while 275 shops will have to be partially demolished. More than seven acres will have to be acquired for widening the road along the JLN Stadium-Kakkanad stretch. There will be 11 stations along the stretch. It is via Seaport-Airport Road that the Metro’s alignment goes to Infopark. At Chittettukara on Seaport-Airport Road, the alignment will take a sharp turn to the left via four-lane highway to reach Infopark. At the same time, Hibi Eden, MP, criticized the Union government for delaying the Phase II extension. “The project was given in-principle approval in February 2019. The clearance from the public investment board and approval of the Union Cabinet were required. The Union government delayed these approvals for two years with an eye on the state assembly polls,” Eden said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-metros-phase-ii-extension-gets-rs-1957cr/articleshow/80638598.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||15th finance commission recommends Rs 90 cr for U’khand||Dehradun: The 15th finance commission has recommended Rs 89,845 crore to the Centre for Uttarakhand. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat lauded the move of the commission members and said that the amount would be used in development activities across the state. “The Commission understood the state’s requirement and gave its crucial recommendations,” Rawat said. He pointed out that the funds would be extremely useful in making rural roads, strengthening disaster management mitigation efforts and the Panchayati Raj institutions in the state. Out of this Rs 89,845 crore, the state’s share in Central taxes amounted to Rs 47,234 crore. The state’s share in central taxes has increased by 1.1%. A revenue deficit grant of Rs 28,147 crore has been recommended to Uttarakhand. Earlier, Uttarakhand had received a revenue deficit grant of Rs 5,176 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15th-finance-commission-recommends-rs-90-cr-for-ukhand/articleshow/80637654.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 2, 2021||Rajkot||Three minor cousins buried alive in sand pit in Kutch||RAJKOT: Three cousins who went to play near the riverbank got buried under the sand of a pit they had dug to play on Sunday evening near Khavda in Kutch. The missing children were traced from their slippers. According to the police, three cousins aged between 13 and 16 years of Dhrobana village, usually went to the riverbank to play. They went on Sunday evening too but failed to return till late in the night. Worried family members started searching for them and to their horror found that the children had been buried alive in the sand pit they had dug on the river bed. According to the police, sand must have suddenly started pouring in the pit with such force that the children could not save themselves and got buried inside. The victims have been identified as Munir Sama (13), Razaulla Sama (14) and Kalimulla Sama (16).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-minor-cousins-buried-alive-in-sand-pit/articleshow/80636833.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||45-yr-old woman burnt alive as hut catches fire in Chittorgarh||A 45-year-old woman was burnt alive when a hut caught fire in Rolheda village under Chanderiya police station of Chittorgarh district on Monday afternoon. The victim Noji Bai, wife of Mangilal Bheel, was alone and asleep on a charpoy inside a room when the house caught fire. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained though it is assumed to have happened due to a short circuit in the electricity line. According to police, Noji Bai was bedridden for two years after suffering a paralytic stroke and couldn't move by herself. Her husband and two sons Kalu and Bhuralal were labourers who were at work when the mishap took place. Meanwhile, A four-year-old boy was burnt alive when a hut caught fire at Sutharon ki Dhani in Balotara sub-division of Barmer district. While the kid’s mother was able to rescue her other son, the four-year-old could not be rescued in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-yr-old-woman-burnt-alive-as-hut-catches-fire-in-chittorgarh/articleshow/80638593.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Businessman who nearly ran over cop held at Mumbai airport||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police on Sunday arrested Kalyaninagar businessman Utkarsha Balasaheb Patil (36) from the Mumbai airport in a case of attempt to murder. Patil was arrested after he nearly ran over a constable while speeding away in a car from the Yerawada police station around 2am on January 26. Patil, who runs an Internet connectivity business, was brought to the police station in connection with a production warrant issued by a court in Port Blair (Andaman & Nicobar Islands), in a dud cheque case filed there. He had driven away in a bid to evade arrest, police said. Constable Vinayak Mudholkar was standing in front of the stationary car at the time, and just managed to jump out of the way as Patil started the vehicle and stepped on the accelerator, police said. A police officer said Patil managed to give them the slip in Pune for the next few days before reaching Mumbai to board a flight to Delhi. “However, in Mumbai, he switched on his mobile phone for a while. That gave his location to the police, who managed to arrest him before he could board the flight,” the officer added. A team comprising crime branch inspector Rajnish Nirmal and sub-inspector Jaideep Patil arrested and brought Patil back to Pune, before handing him over to the Yerawada police. Inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police said, “Patil told police that he wanted to avoid the 14-20 days quarantine period in Port Blair and, so, drove away from the police station.” On the night of January 25, a Yerawada police team had brought Patil to the police station. The questioning and arrest procedure went into the early hours of the following day. Patil, who was standing in the police station’s veranda with Mudholkar and assistant sub-inspector Krishna More, said he was feeling cold and asked to be allowed to sit inside his car and turn on the heater. On entering the car, Patil started the vehicle and shoved away More, who was standing near the driver’s window. He then stepped on the accelerator. Mudholkar was standing in front of the car and managed to jump out of the way as the car sped away, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-who-nearly-ran-over-cop-held-at-mumbai-airport/articleshow/80637663.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Banquet hall owners want cap on guests to be lifted||NEW DELHI: Banquet and tent house associations have welcomed the Delhi government’s revised Covid-19 guidelines allowing utilisation of 50% of hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces and no capping in open spaces. However, they want the restriction of 200 people for a closed space also to be lifted in the wake of improving Covid situation. Industry representatives claim that unless restrictions are lifted completely, people would avoid booking banquet halls for social gatherings or cultural programmes. “We appreciate Delhi Disaster Management Authority for lifting restrictions for open spaces. But since a majority of banquet halls have space for more than 200 people and in social functions, people gather in large numbers, we would be happy if the restriction of 200 people is also lifted. We recently met Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and may convey our concerns to him again,” said Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association, Delhi. “Now that the cases of coronavirus are coming down, we want the cap on the number of guests to be removed by February-end,” said Dang. “My banquet facility is spread over an area of 5,000 sq yard and a crowd of 200 will be barely visible. Also, why would people invest money in booking such a huge complex for just 200 people? We are requesting minister Satyendar Jain to remove this capping,” said Sandeep Madan, vice-president and treasurer of Community Banquet Association, Delhi. Pankaj Shokeen, general secretary, Delhi Tent Owners’ Federation, said: “I am glad that restrictions have been lifted. But the decision may not help much as there are just two auspicious dates for Hindu marriage inFebruary and March months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/banquet-hall-owners-want-cap-on-guests-to-be-lifted/articleshow/80638588.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: St Xavier’s Loyola duped of Rs 3 crore||AHMEDABAD: The accountant of a Jesuit school in Naranpura has been accused of siphoning off Rs 3.21 crore from the institute’s funds. The accused, who has been working in the school for 21 years, allegedly committed the crime between 2019 and 2020. A complaint in this regard was filed with Gujarat University police by Fr Xavier Amalraj, principal of St Xavier’s Loyola School on Sunday. He told police that Manisha Vasava, a resident of Sterling City in Bopal, had transferred Rs 2.84 crore from the school’s funds and Rs 33.65 lakh in school fee to the account of her accomplice Jayesh Vasvani, a resident of Sardarnagar. “We have to conduct an audit of our accounts every year. When I asked Vasava to submit the records to the auditors, she began avoiding me and suddenly stopped coming to school. This raised my suspicion. Meanwhile, the auditors also found serious anomalies in the accounts,” Fr Amalraj stated in the FIR. School authorities checked details of the bank accounts and found that money had been transferred RTGS (real-time gross settlement) and cheque into Vasvani’s account. On further inquiry, they found that former principal Fr Charles Aruldas had signed the cheque. However, Fr Aruldas denied having signed such a cheque. It was later established that Vasava had forged his signature to divert the funds illegally. In the FIR, Amalraj stated that Vasava had hatched a conspiracy to cheat the school out of Rs 3.21 crore. Gujarat University police have registered a complaint of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against her and Vasvani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/st-xaviers-loyola-duped-of-rs-3-crore/articleshow/80638591.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Boost for state green transport proposal, Bengal expects share of Rs 18k crore pie||Kolkata: The city and other towns in Bengal expect a sizeable share of Rs 18,000 crore pie for the augmentation of public bus transport service that will be green and run by alternative clean energy. Among all major metropolitan cities, Kolkata has had the most robust bus transport system where private operators play a major role. The city roads that have far exceeded the saturation point because of the enormous growth of personalised vehicles like cars and bikes need to reinvent its inherent strength in public transport, particularly green buses. The public-private partnership (PPP) model in operation and maintenance of buses also suits the city where nearly 70% passengers are ferried by private buses only, said Aniruddha Nandy, a transport economist. “Our focus is to bring in more electric buses. However small the fleet size is, the citizens and operators have understood the value of electric buses in the long run. The opex model of operation in the FAME-II scheme widened the opportunity of participation of private players,” said a senior transport department official. The scheme, the Union finance minister said in her budget speech, will facilitate the deployment of innovative PPP models to enable private sector players to finance, acquire, operate and maintain over 20,000 buses. The scheme will boost the automobile sector, provide fillip to economic growth, create employment opportunities for youths and enhance mobility for urban residents, she added. As a metropolitan city, Kolkata can expect at least 10% of the pie. The state government has also planned to develop charging infrastructure across the metropolis. “Since electric vehicles — both public and personal vehicles — are future automobiles for the city, we need to make the charging facility available at different parts of the city. They can be developed in PPP model only for effective maintenance and management, said an official. State transport undertakings like WBTC in Kolkata will need to identify suitable bus routes where the introduction of electric buses are technically and economically feasible. One can look into the hybrid buses in order to reduce emission in a phased manner, if not 100%, said Alekhya Datta, Fellow and Area Convenor, Electricity and Fuels Division, TERI, who has been advising the WBTC on rolling out electric buses. There is also a need to consult with private bus operators so as to see the requirement for viability gap funding, he added. Unrestricted access to the charging stations (apart from depot charging option) and involving private players to provide opportunity charging facilities/ infrastructure to the city electric buses are required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/boost-for-state-green-transport-proposal-bengal-expects-share-of-rs-18k-crore-pie/articleshow/80638608.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Occupancy of beds reserved for Covid goes down in city||Jaipur: The state health department is planning to make Jaipuria Hospital, which was declared as Covid hospital in September, free from Covid treatment. Earlier, the entire hospital was reserved for Covid treatment, but recently only 100 beds were kept reserved for the purpose. Residents of Malviya Nagar and nearby areas have been demanding the state government to keep the entire hospital free from Covid treatment as patients have now been reduced and there is enough space for treatment of Covid patients at the dedicated RUHS Hospital. “We will soon take action on it and it will be declared free from Covid treatment,” a health department official said. As the virus graph had gone down, the city’s 1028 beds in ICUs reserved for Covid and 3,869 beds in general wards are lying vacant. According to the health department report, more than 100 patients are undergoing treatment for Covid in Jaipur hospitals. While the occupancy of Covid beds has reduced, 96 persons tested positive for the virus in the state on Monday, taking the overall tally to 3,17,587. With no death reported due to Covid, the state’s toll stood at 2,766.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/occupancy-of-beds-reserved-for-covid-goes-down-in-city/articleshow/80638605.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Reopening of Classes IX, XI: Issue of overcrowding bothers schools||Chennai: Around 19 lakh students are set to enter schools on February 8 when they reopen for students of Classes IX and XI, but the concern is overcrowding, shortage of classrooms and workload of teachers. According to the standard operating procedure, there can only be 25 students per classroom. Since January 19, when schools reopened for students of Classes X and XII, classes have been split to accommodate students in additional classrooms and more teachers allotted, but the fear now is that there may not be enough rooms and teachers for students of Classes IX and XI. “Starting Classes IX and XI will mean another 750 students on campus. If we have to split the classes, we may need additional teachers. We plan a shift system to avoid too many children on campus at a time,” said G J Manohar, principal of MCC Higher Secondary School, Chetpet. Some are also concerned about the workload of teachers. “Teachers may have to take classes all seven periods against four periods now. Conducting classes in all periods wearing masks will be a challenge,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. “We have to see the logistics including teachers and number of classrooms before the reopening,” said P G Subramanian, principal of Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidhyashram in Kilpauk. “Teachers also take online classes for students from Classes I to VIII. We have to consider all aspects before reopening,” he added. Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar plans to use multipurpose halls for students of Classes IX and XI. A headmaster from a Chennai School said it would be tough to maintain social distancing. “We need a system of alternate working days for Classes X, XII and IX, XI to reduce the workload,” he said. Schools which completed lessons for board exam students online said they were confident of conducting classes following the prescribed protocol. “We have completed syllabus for Class X and XII students and will start self-study and revision tests. These works can be managed even by the lower class teachers,” said M Sathish Kumar, principal of Vana Vani Matriculation Higher Secondary School in IIT Madras campus. A Peter Raja, president of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Headmasters' Association, said the government should consider reopening schools for students of Classes IX and XI once full strength can be accommodated. School education department officials said around 250 high and higher secondary schools would face shortage of classrooms under existing protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reopening-of-classes-ix-xi-issue-of-overcrowding-bothers-schools/articleshow/80637668.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||In 3 days, only 8.9k health workers get jab||Jaipur: For the third straight day, Covid vaccination remained affected due to Pulse Polio campaign as just 3,133 healthcare workers got vaccinated on Monday at 70 vaccination sites in nine districts. The districts where vaccination camps were organised included Ajmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Dholpur, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur. In the last three days (Saturday, Sunday & Monday), 8,957 healthcare workers received the Covid jabs. Health department report shows that 3,30,797 healthcare workers have already received the vaccine against a target of 4,76,428. With one more case of adverse events following immunization, the number of such cases rose to 144. The health department has been conducting two important immunisation campaign in the state after polio vaccination campaign was launched on January 31. Immunization teams visited door-to-door for vaccinating Under-5 children who were left out from being vaccinated against polio at booths on January 31. The house-to-house surveillance (mop-up rounds), which was started on Monday, will continue for at least two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-3-days-only-8-9k-health-workers-get-jab/articleshow/80638612.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Centre’s road plan aids state efforts||Kochi: Development of national highways in state, which was delayed for several decades, got a shot in the arm on Monday with the Union government earmarking Rs 65,000 crore for the same in the Budget. The central government funding complements the steps taken by the state government to acquire land for widening national highways. Clearing decades-long impediments, state government has already started land acquisition process for road widening. “We haven’t got the details yet, we don’t know which highways will be developed using the funds announced in the Budget. A clear picture will emerge after getting the Budget document. As per news reports, 600km of Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor, which passes through the state, has also been included. This is NH-66 which covers around 600km from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram. Old NH-17 (Edappally-Mangaluru) and a part of old NH-47 (from Edappally to Thiruvananthapuram) were combined to form NH-66,” said an official from public works department (PWD). National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has already started its work on widening NH-66 in Kasaragod. “Revenue department has completed land acquisition for road widening in certain stretches. In remaining areas, land acquisition is progressing at a fast pace,” said an official associated the land acquisition process. The PWD official added that as per initial estimates, Rs 20,000 crore will be required for acquiring land for widening NH-66 to 45m. “Central government had insisted that Kerala should bear 25% of the land acquisition cost. Kerala is the only state which has to bear a part of land acquisition cost for NH widening. State government agreed to bear the cost so as to avoid dispute and expedite the project. The government will be giving Rs 5,000 crore for land acquisition,” the official said. Land required for widening road or providing other allied facilities like flyovers and bypasses have been handed over at some places. “Land required for Kozhikode bypass was handed over to NHAI almost one-and-a-half year ago. Still, NHAI hasn’t started the work,” said the official with PWD. In Ernakulam, land acquisition for widening the road to 45m is progressing. Given unavailability of land in Kerala, Centre agreed to reduce the width of the national highway in Kerala to 45m. In all other states, the width of the national highways is 60m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/centres-road-plan-aids-state-efforts/articleshow/80638616.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chennai||CM launches scheme to give 2GB free data per day to college students||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday launched a scheme to give 2GB free data per day to college students to attend online classes. Under the scheme, more than nine lakh students in government arts and science colleges, polytechnic colleges, engineering colleges and students in private colleges receiving scholarships will get free data from January to April 2021. As a token, the chief minister gave data cards to nine students. The directorate of collegiate education (DCE) and directorate of technical education (DOTE) have collected names and phone numbers of students with their service providers. Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (ELCOT) will top up the 2GB data to these phone numbers, sources said. Though the state government allowed colleges to reopen for all UG and PG students from February 8, attending physical classes is likely to remain optional and colleges will offer classes both in offline and online mode for this semester. According to experts, 2GB data would be enough to view up to eight hours of video content. Higher education minister K P Anbalagan, revenue and information technology minister R B Udhayakumar, chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan, IT secretary (full additional charge) Hans Raj Verma, higher education secretary Apoorva and others participated in the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-launches-scheme-to-give-2gb-free-data-per-day-to-college-students/articleshow/80637673.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Delhi||East Delhi Municipal Corporation to regularise all safai staff till 2006||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation, at a special meeting on Monday, passed a proposal to regularise daily wage sanitation workers deployed from 2003-2006 and arrange for payment of their arrears as and when funds are made available. The civic body also passed a proposal to start regularising people hired after 2003 on compassionate grounds and at last, regularising the left out cases, who were hired in 1996-98, on priority. North Delhi Municipal Corporation had recently passed a similar proposal to end the sanitation workers’ strike. “We passed four important proposals. These were immediately sent to the commissioner and we expect the administrative wing to chalk out a plan for implementing these proposals in near future. Councillors from all political parties were present,” said EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain. In east Delhi, sanitation workers in Shahdara south zone are on strike. “Now that we have passed the resolutions, a joint meeting of commissioner and sanitation union members will be called on Tuesday and an attempt will be made to end the strike,” said Jain. Meanwhile, North Delhi Municipal Corporation claimed to have lifted 21,000 metric tonnes of garbage since Saturday evening when its sanitation workers ended their strike. Mayor Jai Prakash said that the civic agency was working on war footing to clear the garbage accumulated over the past three weeks. “We are talking to the remaining unions and hope that they would also end their strike this week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-to-regularise-all-safai-staff-till-2006/articleshow/80638594.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Lieutenant General J S Nain is Southern Command chief||PUNE: Lieutenant General J S Nain on Monday took charge as the new General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C) of the Army Southern Command. At a ceremony prior to taking the charge, he paid homage to the martyrs by laying a wreath at National War Memorial, followed by Guard of Honour at Headquarters Southern Command. “Lt General Nain has a comprehensive and well-rounded operational experience through varied command and staff appointments during his military career. He commanded his battalion in Jammu and Kashmir on the Line of Control and in a strike corps of Southern Command, a mountain brigade in North East, an infantry division responsible for dominating the Line of Control in North Kashmir and a strategically important corps on the Western front,” an official release stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lt-gen-nain-is-southern-command-chief/articleshow/80637670.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||30 antique idols stolen from Jain temple in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Burglars barged into Parshavnath Bohara ji temple at Ghat Ki Guni area near Transport Nagar and decamped with 30 antique idols made up of stones and eight metals. Burglars also stole nearly Rs 65,000 and some silver items from the Digambar Jain temple. The idols are nearly 500 years old as claimed by the priests in their police complaint. According to police, the incident took place in the wee hours of Monday. The burglars locked the room in which the priest was sleeping and stole the precious idols. “At least 30 idols which included some made up of ashtadhatu (eight metals) were stolen. Some of these idols are nearly 500 years old. We visited the spot and took the statements of priests and others,” said a senior police officer. A large number of members of the working committee of the temple also rushed to the spot along with police as the news of theft reached them. “We demand immediate arrest of the burglars and urge the state government to give proper security to Jain temples in the state,” said an office bearer of the committee. “It appears that some organised gang was behind the incident. So far, we have not found any foul play. We are also checking CCTV camera footage of nearby areas to check the escape route taken by the burglars,” said a senior police officer of Transport Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-antique-idols-stolen-from-jain-temple-in-city/articleshow/80638614.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Unknown caller dupes father of twins in hospital||PUNE: The city police on Sunday registered a case of cheating against a man for posing as a doctor and calling the father of newborn twins, admitted to Sassoon General Hospital, on January 29 to get the latter transfer Rs 26,700 for buying costly injections for his sons. The 37-year-old victim, a resident of Kharadi and employed with an engineering workshop, lodged a complaint with the Samarth police on Sunday. This is the second case within three days of a man duping relatives of hospitalized persons posing as a doctor. The Kharadi resident stated in his complaint that he had received a call from an unknown number. The caller claimed that he was a doctor treating his twin sons — premature babies suffering from lung ailment — and that he had to administer injections to the babies urgently. The complainant stated that the “doctor” told him over the phone that the injections were not available at the hospital’s pharmacy. The impostor, according to the complaint, claimed that he knew a pharmacist who was ready to supply them at a good discount. The caller asked the victim to transfer the money on his UPI application, the complaint stated. The victim, believing in the impostor, transferred the money, police said. When the victim visited the hospital later and enquired with the hospital staffers, he realised that the unknown caller had cheated him, the police said. On Saturday, a security guard lodged a similar complaint with the Bund Garden police stating that a caller had cheated him of Rs20,000 after posing as a “doctor”. In the same FIR, he stated that the caller also tried to cheat one of his colleagues accompanying him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unknown-caller-dupes-father-of-twins-in-hosp/articleshow/80637674.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||Power dept extends OTS scheme again by a month||PANAJI: The electricity department has granted yet another extension to its one time scheme (OTS) for power defaulters. Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday announced that the scheme would be kept open for another month, till February 28 without the option of six instalments. He said they will be allowed to settle their dues within two instalments. “They have to pay the first instalment while applying and keep the second one ready,” Cabral told reporters. Among the defaulters are also those who applied for the scheme and paid the first instalment but haven’t paid any subsequent instalments for whatever reasons he said. “We are giving them another opportunity to pay. We are waiving the delayed payment charges (DPC) but only if they pay 100% in a single instalment,” he said. The government has recovered Rs 170 crore out of Rs 413 crore where a total of 2 lakh consumers availed of the scheme and one lakh consumers are yet to avail of it. The department has disconnected the power supply to more than 15,000 consumers, he said. “We have to recover Rs 240 crore. We will recover it. We want to have a 100% clean slate,” Cabral added. The department is working on changing the billing to such defaulters where the due date will no more be mentioned. “From now onwards, the defaulter consumers will not have a due date. Their bill will be raised and they will have to pay immediately or else face disconnection,” the power minister said. In some instances, a father has passed away, the children have not settled the pending bills but continue to stay in the house, he said. Cabral said the department will also give Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) an opportunity to settle pending dues. “IDC hasn’t paid government dues but has auctioned it to someone else. We will give IDC an opportunity to pay the department otherwise we will disconnect power supply to the present people,” he said. In a few other cases banks have seized properties and auctioned them. To Sudin Dhavalikar’s jibe that the OTS is injustice to those who have been regularly paying bills, Cabral said it is people’s money that has to be recovered which the government needs to procure power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-extends-ots-scheme-again-by-a-month/articleshow/80639890.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Police clueless in boy murder case||PUNE: Police are groping in the dark about the motive behind the 11-year-old boy’s murder over 24 hours after his body was found on an open plot along Paud Road on Sunday. The victim, Vishwajeet Vanjari, was last seen with his friend (13) on Friday evening. The Kothrud police quizzed the latter on Sunday. Inspector Balasaheb Bade of the Kothrud police said, “We have collected CCTV footage.” “We are collecting more information about Vishwajeet from his friends,” said an officer from the Kothrud police.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-clueless-in-boy-murder-case/articleshow/80637676.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Fishing harbour project may lift coastal economy||Tamluk: The Centre’s announcement on Monday to turn the Petuaghat Fishing Harbourin East Midnapore into a hub of economic activity promises fresh economic rival in this coastal district. Earlier, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spoken of similar measures to be taken by the state government near the proposed Tajpur Deep Sea port around 40-km from the harbour. The Union minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, said she was proposing “substantial investments in the development of modern fishing harbours and fish landing centres” in five fishing harbours, including Petuaghat. Locals said there should be markets for fishermen to sell their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fishing-harbour-project-may-lift-coastal-economy/articleshow/80638642.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Greens hope allocation will clear air in urban areas||MUMBAI: A huge budget allocation of Rs 2,217 crore to tackle air pollution in 42 urban areas has shown how badly air quality has deteriorated in cities, pointed out environmentalists, who welcomed the attention given to the issue. Track the pollution level in your cityDebi Goenka of Conservation Action Trust said, “While I welcome the decision to sanction a large grant, it is to be seen as to how and where the money will be used in big cities like Mumbai metropolitan region, where air quality has consistently gone down.” D Stalin of Vanashakti NGO said, “Even if local authorities spend money to buy and install air pollution monitoring units, will that ensure the quality of air improves?” NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said, “Tackling air pollution is very much needed in urban centres, so whatever funds will be given to our civic body will be utilized properly to monitor and improve air quality.” Mangesh Ranawade of Kharghar-Taloja Colony Welfare Association, said, “It is sad that we have to fight for good air.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/greens-hope-allocation-will-clear-air-in-urban-areas/articleshow/80637836.cms||Vijay Singh
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature may rise in next three days||NEW DELHI: The minimum temperature on Monday increased to 5.3 degrees Celsius, still three notches below normal. However, India Meteorological Department has predicted that it may rise to 10 degrees Celsius in the next three days under the influence of a western disturbance. Track the pollution level in your cityThe maximum temperature recorded on Monday was 26.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 26 and 4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Delhi’s AQI was 354 on Monday in the ‘very poor’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/min-temp-may-rise-in-next-3-days/articleshow/80638609.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: PIL on action against cops, others junked||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed with Rs 10,000 cost a PIL seeking action against police and intelligence officials concerned for their “failure” to “anticipate and control” the farmers’ protest on Republic Day, leading to their forced entry into the Red Fort. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Jyoti Singh tossed out the PIL saying it was too early for it to interfere in the issue as police had registered FIRs in relation to the incident on January 26 and the probe was under way. An NGO, Delhi Citizen Forum for Civil Rights, had filed the petition in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pil-on-action-against-cops-others-junked/articleshow/80638646.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chennai||TN, Pondy courts to resume physical hearings on Feb 8||Chennai: After nearly 10 months, all subordinate courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will resume in-person hearings in full capacity on February 8. An announcement to this effect was made by the Madras high court on Monday. “The administrative committee of the high court, on assessing the prevailing situation of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, directs that no limitations or restrictions are centrally imposed for functioning of the subordinate courts in full capacity (pre-covid stage) with effect from February 8,” an official memorandum released by the registrar-general of the court said. It is open to the principal district judges to decide on the mode and manner of functioning, depending on the situation prevailing in their respective district, or even in a particular taluk, the memorandum added. The communication also made it clear that all principal district judges of Tamil Nadu and the chief fudge of Puducherry shall ensure better functioning of subordinate courts, without compromising on the Covid-19 protocol. As to opening the chambers of advocates located within court premises, Bar association rooms, canteens and other facilities, the memorandum said that the same will be considered by the administrative committee of the high court after three weeks from the courts commence physical hearing in full capacity. As per the Covid-19 SOP framed by the high court to be followed by the subordinate courts, before resuming physical functioning of courts in full capacity, entire court halls, chambers of judges, entire office space, corridors and advocates chambers are to be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized by taking all requisite measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-pondy-courts-to-resume-physical-hearings-on-feb-8/articleshow/80637682.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||‘Centre lost opportunity to ensure MSP during Budget’||Jaipur: Kisan Mahapanchayat convenor and farmer leader Rampal Jat said the Central government lost a “golden opportunity” to pave the way for repealing three farm laws and ensuring legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) during the presentation of union Budget on Monday. “Though the government spoke about assuring price at least 1.5 times of production cost and compared its performance with UPA with respect to procurement and amount paid to farmers under MSP, it didn’t disclose data pertaining to purchase of agricultural produce in different states. They concealed this important fact, which is absolutely wrong,” said Jat.Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha, Shahjahanpur, on Monday condemned the arrest of journalist Mandeep Poonia in New Delhi and registering of FIRs against journalists. A resolution demanding release of farmers and journalists, who were arrested, was unanimously passed.Meanwhile, another farmer leader Himmat Singh on Monday participated in a mahapanchayat at a village in Dausa and appealed to the farmers to support the farmers in their agitation at Shahjahanpur. “If the farm laws are not repealed, we will soon march towards the Parliament in New Delhi. There is anger among the farmers about the rumours spread over the incident that took place on the Republic Day. People have gathered here on their own and they will support the farmers’ agitation till the laws are withdrawn,” said Singh after the mahapanchayat in Dausa. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-lost-opportunity-to-ensure-msp-during-budget/articleshow/80638618.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Reopened colleges may run e-classes for 50% of students’||MUMBAI: Even if college campuses reopen in the state, online classes will have to continue for 50% of the students to ensure social distancing norms are strictly followed. Outstation candidates may be allowed to return to their hostels, but probably only those who have practicals. The final exams can be taken in both online and offline modes. These are some of the suggestions given by the vice-chancellors of state universities in a meeting with higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Monday. The minister is likely to present the report with the recommendations this week to the state’s disaster management committee, which will take the final call on reopening colleges. Times ViewWhile many may be in favour of reopening college campuses, the final decision should be taken in the larger interest of the students’ community. If the state allows colleges to reopen, then universities will need a detailed SOP covering all aspects of campus life and all the stakeholders will need to strictly adhere to the norms. Exams for lower classes can be conducted online, but if the Covid situation is under control, final-year university exams for the outgoing students can preferably be conducted offline.The meeting was held to discuss the options and challenges before state universities in reopening campuses after a 10-month-long lockdown. While most vic-chancellors were in favour of reopening campuses in phases, maintaining social distancing in classrooms and in hostels will remain a big challenge, said a university official.  “Our infrastructure is not equipped to handle Covid restrictions and only less than half the students can be accommodated. It was, therefore, suggested that 50% of students can continue to attend classes online even after colleges reopen,” said the official Unlike schools, which have already reopened in phases, colleges have students travelling from faroff places, and even from other states. “Therefore, making hostel facilities available is important. If social distancing has to be followed and separate rooms have to be allocated, then only 50%, and in some cases 25%, of the total student strength can be accommodated in the current infrastructure. So we suggested that only students who have practicals be allowed in hostels. In some varsities, that too can pose a problem,” said the official. On the conduct of final exams in summer, it was suggested that they could be taken in both online and offline modes like it was done in many varsities for the October and Decemb-er exams. Though Mumbai University had made offline exams available, less than a handful of students opted for it. The decision on conduct of exams will be left on individual universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reopened-colleges-may-run-e-classes-for-50-of-students/articleshow/80638659.cms||Yogita Rao
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Firms can’t drag feet on their share of PF||NEW DELHI: Perhaps taking a cue from the case of Kingfisher Airlines where provident fund dues were not deposited in time, the finance bill has introduced a harsh ‘clarification’. The explanatory memorandum points out that the employee’s contribution is his own money and the employer deposits this contribution on behalf of the employee in a fiduciary capacity. “By late deposit of the employee contribution, the employer gets unjustly enriched by keeping the money belonging to the employees,” it states. The bill clarifies that if there is a delay in depositing the provident fund amount by the due date, which is the 15th of the next month, even if such deposit is made before the date of filing the return of income, this sum will not be allowed as a deduction in the hands of the employer. Under the proposed provisions, the employer’s taxable income will stand enhanced to the extent of the late deposit. Further, this provision has retrospective effect and is applicable from FY21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-firms-cant-drag-feet-on-their-share-of-pf/articleshow/80640982.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘CPCB may collect landfill impact fine’||NEW DELHI: With a committee comprising Central Pollution Control Board, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute and IIT-Delhi members assessing Rs 450 crore as cost of damage to environment due to dump sites in Delhi, National Green Tribunal said CPCB is at liberty to recover the amount with further penalty for continuing damage. The panel was tasked by NGT to ascertain the environmental damage caused by the waste dumps and based their calculations on factors such as legacy waste and leachate generated over the years. They determined the damage cost at Bhalswa to be Rs 155.9 crore, Okhla Rs 151.1 crore and Ghazipur, Rs 142.5 crore. The tribunal said, “CPCB is at liberty to recover the compensation already assessed, with further compensation for continuing damage till compliance of law, following due process of law. The amount of recovered compensation be spent on restoration of environment in Delhi.” The bench observed that the work executed by the statutory authorities is inadequate, resulting in continued damage to the environment, apart from the damage to the tune of Rs 450 crore assessed for the past. The bench noted that statutory period under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 for completing all steps specified in Rule 22 will come to an end on April 7, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cpcb-may-collect-landfill-impact-fine/articleshow/80638617.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal to get new railway freight corridor||KOLKATA: Apart from a 538-km extension of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC) from Sonnagar to Dankuni, Bengal is also set to get a new 1,115-km link between Kharagpur and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh.  In addition to this East Coast Corridor (ECC), Kharagpur, Uluberia, Dankuni and Andal in the state will be part of the East West Sub Corridor (EWSC). Preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) for these corridors by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd (DFCCIL) has been cleared in the budget tabled in Parliament by Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, on Monday. “The ECC passes through the states of West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh and traverses the railway zones of South Eastern Railway, East Coast Railway and South Central Railway. There will be 31 stations and the capital cost of construction (as per 2014-15 rates) is Rs 40,344 crore. This is a very crucial freight route that connects several ports and industrial zones. This corridor will also connect to the East West Corridor at New Hijli Jn and the North South one at Vijaywada,” said a senior SER official. The Sonnagar-Dankuni section is an extended link of the EDFC that will be constructed on a public private partnership (PPP) basis. This double line electrified stretch will be constructed in two phases — one from Sonnagar to Gomoh (264-km) and the other between Gomoh and Dankuni (274-km). The estimated cost of the project is nearly Rs 14,500 crore. “The important fact is that these corridors will clear normal tracks of freight trains. This will allow both passenger trains and those carrying freight (along the DFCs) to travel at higher speeds. Phase-I from Sonnagar to Gomoh will have about 580 bridges and seven flyovers,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-get-new-rly-freight-corridor/articleshow/80638653.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Local shipping companies can buy more vessels, create jobs||AHMEDABAD: The share of Indian shipping companies in exim trade is projected to increase significantly with the government announcing subsidy support of Rs 1,624 crore spread over the next five years for the firms who participate in global tenders floated by ministries and Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs). Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the subsidy scheme to promote flagging of merchant ships in Indian which will help the shipping companies buy more vessels. At present, the local shipping companies face huge disadvantages over the foreign-flagged vessels whose share in India’s total exim trade is nearly 90%. Five per cent customs duty on imported ships, high cost of financing and taxation issues have been the biggest hindrances for the local firms to compete with foreign flagged vessels and they have virtually no level-playing field. According to the Economic Survey for 2019-2020, The total ships owned by Indian companies as of August 2019 was 1,414, up from 1,040 in 2010. “Today is the historic day for Indian shipping sector. Due to several reasons, Indian-flagged ships could not move the PSU cargo. This subsidy support will be a gamechanger in not only promoting ships flagged in India but also increase job opportunities, shipbuilding and FDI in the sector,” said Mansukh Mandaviya, minister of state (independent charge) for ports, shipping and waterways. Rahul Bhargava, chief operating officer, Essar Shipping Ltd said, "The subsidy scheme will encourage local shipping companies to purchase vessels and participate in the government's global tenders. I believe the subsidy will offset the present high financing cost and 5% customs duty on import of ships which are making the local firms muc less competitive against the foreign-flagged vessels,” “The share of Indian ships in government import is expected to increase from the present 30-35% to 65% in the next five years once the subsidy scheme is implemented,” an official in the shipping ministry told TOI. The increase in the number of ships will also generate employment opportunities for Indian seafarers who will also get better training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/subsidy-to-help-indian-shipping-cos-to-own-more-ships/articleshow/80636926.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Major gold retailers welcome customs duty rationalization||KOCHI: Major gold retailers in Kerala have welcomed the rationalization of customs duty on gold, as proposed in the Union Budget on Monday. The duty was brought down from the current 12.5% to 7.5%, but with the agricultural cess of 2.5% and a further 0.23% of educational cess, the effective duty will be 10.23%. “Reducing import duty on gold to 10.23% is a step in the right direction and in line with the long-standing demand of the gems and jewellery industry. The development is extremely positive and will go down well for the seasons ahead. Reduced import duty will benefit all stakeholders in the jewellery supply chain, including jewellery manufacturers, traders and consumers as well. Higher import duty was not only indirectly promoting illegal gold transactions but also eroding government’s revenue,” said Malabar Group chairman M P Ahammed. “The import duty reduction will make the trade compliant and eliminate trade malpractices. Moreover, the government should also focus on strengthening e-governance system to beef up tracking mechanism of illegal transactions of gold. The government should announce policy measures to ensure gold is traded at the retail level with proper documentation related to purity and origin. All in all, a transparent trade always boosts consumer confidence,” Ahammed added. “This will definitely boost gold trade as well as strengthen the gem and jewellery industry, including the craftsmen. The lesser import duty on gold will curb the grey market channels. Also, this reduction will save small and medium businesses. This has happened due to the tight follow up of All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) with the central government for the past several months,” said B Govindan, chairman, Bhima Group and chairman-south zone, GJC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/major-gold-retailers-welcome-customs-duty-rationalization/articleshow/80638650.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit procures more paddy than assigned target||Pilibhit: Pilibhit district succeeded in procuring more paddy during the year 2020-21 than the target assigned by the state government. However, it failed to surpass its own achievement recorded in the year 2019-20. The procurement of paddy began in Pilibhit on October 1 and concluded on January 31 following the prescribed schedule. It is surprising that although the number of farmers increased in official reports this year, the procured paddy was less. District food and marketing officer Avinash Jha said, “The district was given the target to procure as much as 3.25 lakh metric tons (MT) of paddy this season which was at par with the previous year’s target.” With a network of as many as 162 procurement centers under 11 government and cooperative agencies, a total of 3.40 lakh MT of paddy has been procured this season while it was 3.70 lakh MT in the previous year, he added. The value of procured paddy is Rs 635.83 crore of which the payment of Rs 43 crore is still pending as was on the closing of January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-procures-more-paddy-than-assigned-target/articleshow/80636207.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Industry leaders hail Budget as transformative||Thiruvananthapuram: Industry leaders have hailed the Union Budget as a transformative one. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) -Kerala chairman Thomas John Muthoot said the Budget pulled out all levels within its ambit to mark yet another successful attempt by the government to rejuvenate a pandemic ravaged economy. “The bold measures which encompassed almost all critical sectors of the economy are expected to galvanize the recovery process which has been set into motion,” he said. He said Kerala has found a significant place in the Budget as Rs 65,000 crore has been allocated for the development of national highways. “The announcement regarding the setting up of the Development Financial Institution (DFI) is likely to play a critical role in channelizing investments in infrastructure and other key sectors of the economy. This is in line with CII’s recommendations,” he added. NRI businessman M A Yusuffali said the finance minister has given huge thrust on healthcare along with infrastructure, education, research and development. “Introduction of Aatmanirbhar health programme with an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore will go a long way in speeding up the economic recovery,” he said. “I am very glad to note that there are some specific steps being taken to tap NRI investments. Announcement of ‘One Person Companies’ is going to be a game changer especially for the startup sectors and new-gen businesses. Increasing the tax threshold for NRIs from Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore and rules to eliminate double taxation are welcome initiatives,’’ he said. “Kerala specific announcements such as development of major fishing harbours, including Kochi, huge allocation to expand highway infrastructure and the Kochi metro will surely boost state’s economy and make it more business-friendly,” said Yusuffali. According to IBS Software chairman V K Mathews, one of the key issues in these times is how to boost demand and the Budget provides the answer with a significant government capex spend on infrastructure. “A more detailed thought seems to have been given on disinvestment this time. Not only is a SPV proposed, but states will also be incentivized if they take up disinvestment. However, the Budget does not spell out any tax reforms. More money in the hands of individuals would’ve pushed consumption. The Budget is silent about tapping wealthy NRIs for more economic activity. They should be incentivized to spend their wealth in India,” he added. Amrita Hospitals medical director Dr Prem Kumar Nair rated the Budget as very good and bold. It has provided substantial allocation for healthcare. Leaders of Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi said the Budget has focused only on manufacturing sector and neglected the retailers as a whole. It has declared Rs 1.97 Lakh crore production Linked Incentive for next five years. “Government is banking on organized sector, which provides only 10% employment opportunities. Unorganized sector, which provides employment to the rest, has been ignored,” said Samithi secretary S S Manoj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/industry-leaders-hail-budget-as-transformative/articleshow/80638664.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Scribe in net claims was doing his duty||NEW DELHI: Journalist Mandeep Punia, who was arrested by Delhi Police on charges of assault and obstruction against policemen, on Monday sought bail on the ground that he was carrying out his journalistic duties and not carrying a press ID was no ground for arrest. Chief metropolitan magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba reserved the order for Tuesday. Appearing for Punia, advocates Sarim Naved and Akram Khan argued that the offences alleged in the FIR weren’t made out against their client. The bail plea argued, “Accused was merely carrying out his journalistic duties and another journalist was detained but released around midnight... Accused is a freelance journalist and not carrying a press card can be no ground for a case of arrest.” Bail was also sought on humanitarian grounds highlighting that his 76-year-old mother needed his assistance. Police through the prosecutor stated that Punia had pushed a policeman and on inquiry, he had concealed his identity and tried to mislead the cops. They alleged that Punia instigated the protesters with sloganeering and shouting. Police, therefore, opposed the bail petition and stated that he might create any “active or passive” nuisance if released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scribe-in-net-claims-was-doing-his-duty/articleshow/80638682.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||PPP model to boost efficiency of 12 ports||AHMEDABAD: Saddled with operational issues, the decades-old central government-run ports are set to usher in more efficiency in cargo handling by roping in private companies. The union finance minister Nirmala Sitharam on Monday announced that the 12 major ports will move their operational services to a model where a private partner will manage it for them. The government has identified seven projects worth at least Rs 2,000 crore that will be offered by the major ports on public-private partnership mode in the financial year 2021-2022. The projects include two each at JNPT and Tuticorin and one each at Paradip and DPT, sources said. These include roping in private players for refurbishing existing berth, bringing in modern equipment etc. "Operational efficiency is the biggest issue with government-run ports. There are several nagging issues that are a bottleneck to improve turnaround time (TRT), one of the most important indicators of a port's efficiency," said sources in the shipping ministry. The Economic Survey 2019-20 tabled in the Parliament also revealed that the shipping turnaround time declined at all major ports, the lowest being at Cochin, New Mangalore, Chennai and VO Chidambaranar ports. Kolkata had the highest TRT among all ports. An official told TOI that there are 40 projects in the 12 major ports that have been identified that can be taken up on PPP model till 2024. The major ports will rope in private players to improve all those areas which are not lucrative, some of them being handling bulk and container cargo. In fact, a large number of services related to cargo handling at Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), formerly Kandla port and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), are being handled by private companies. Mumbai Port Trust is one of the exceptions where services like crane handling, cleaning and hiring are handled by the trust itself. DPT chairman SK Mehta said, “Encouraging PPP model will not only help improve port’s efficiency but increase earnings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ppp-model-to-boost-efficiency-of-12-ports/articleshow/80636955.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Surat||Kidnapped WB teen girl rescued from Surat||SURAT: A 19-year-old girl who had been kidnapped from her home in Jalpaiguri of West Bengal on January 8 by a woman known to her and sold off to a manpower supplying agency based in New Delhi, was finally rescued by the Anti Human Trafficking Unit of Surat police on Monday. The teenager was sold in the city by the agency for Rs 3,000 on January 25 to be employed as domestic help at the residence of a textile businessman. However, the girl, who was not told about any salary yet but made to work all day, had a lucky break when she could lay her hands on a mobile phone and made a video call to her parents in WB asking them to rescue her. “The girl sent a video to her parents. Her family showed the video to Mission Mukti Foundation, an NGO, and later also lodged a kidnapping complaint with WB police,” said A J Chaudhary, police inspector, AHTU, who added that based on specific information by an NGO and WB police, they could save the girl from Satyanarayan Rathi’s home in Meghrath apartment on Ghod Dod Road. In the video, the girl described the trail of events that finally made her land up in Surat and how she is kept as domestic help against her will. She also also expressed her wish to return home. According to police, the girl was brought to Rathi’s home on January 25 by a person named Padam. “Padam took Rs 3,000 for handing over the girl to the family, which had earlier contacted Chauhan Brothers, a manpower supplying agency in New Delhi, for a domestic help,” said an officer of AHTU. The kidnapper had asked the teenager to come along for a birthday celebration of a common friend and on the sly brought her to New Delhi before handing her over to Chauhan Brothers. The agency kept the girl in New Delhi for a few days before settling the deal with the Surat family. “The family that employed the girl here will also face legal actions,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/kidnapped-wb-teen-girl-rescued-from-surat/articleshow/80636238.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 2, 2021||Kozhikode||Mission Poshan 2.0 to give Wayanad a boost||Kozhikode: The announcement by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Budget to adopt an intensified strategy to improve nutritional outcomes across 112 districts would help the nutritional interventions in Wayanad, the lone aspirational district in Kerala. “To strengthen nutritional content, delivery, outreach, and outcome, we will merge supplementary nutrition programme and Poshan Abhiyaan and launch Mission Poshan 2.0,” said the finance minister. Of the Rs 24,435 crore allocated to women and child development ministry, an amount of Rs 20,105 crore has been assigned to newly-announced schemes like Saksham Anganwadi and Mission Poshan 2.0. Poshan Abhiyan is Government of India’s flagship programme to improve nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. According to the district nutrition profile prepared by POSHAN (Partnerships and Opportunities to Strengthen and Harmonize Actions for Nutrition of India), a knowledge initiative funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and led by International Food Policy Research Institute, 27.2% of children aged below five in Wayanad were underweight and 27.7% suffered from stunting and 23.9% from wasting. The state figures in all the three parameters were much lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mission-poshan-2-0-to-give-wayanad-a-boost/articleshow/80638684.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||Moradabad BJP MLA gets death threats from ‘Pakistan’ on WhatsApp||BAREILLY: BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad, Ritesh Kumar Gupta, allegedly received multiple death threats through audio and video calls on WhatsApp from a phone number with Pakistan code. A detailed probe has been launched by the police and cyber crime team, Moradabad SP (City) Amit Kumar Anand said. In his complaint, the MLA claimed that an unknown person made repeated calls on his WhatsApp number on Sunday and threatened to harm him and his family. Besides, the person also used foul language against PM Narendra Modi. A case has been registered. Senior police officials were informed about the death threats, the MLA said. Security arrangements have been beefed up outside the MLA’s house while a cyber crime team is trying to trace its source, police said. When contacted, Ritesh Kumar Gupta told TOI, “Repeated calls were made by some unidentified person on my WhatsApp on Sunday. Later, video calls were also made from the same number. The person threatened to kill me and my family. The man was using foul language against our PM. Threatening text messages were also sent to my phone.” According to Moradabad SP (City), details are being collected. It is yet to be ascertained whether this was a prank or there is a larger conspiracy, he added. Galshaheed SHO, Moradabad, Ajeet Roria said, “An FIR has been registered in the case under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of IPC.” Recently, another BJP MLA in UP, Sarita Bhadauria of Etawah constituency, had received similar "death threats on WhatsApp from a Pakistan number".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-bjp-mla-receives-death-threats-on-whatsapp-from-pakistan/articleshow/80636218.cms||Maria Khan
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: No face time with taxman, it’s virtual||NEW DELHI: In a bid to reduce the cost of compliance for taxpayers, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has proposed to make proceedings before the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) faceless. The faceless assessment scheme was notified on August 13 last year, to be followed by the notification of the faceless appeal scheme the next month. Earlier this month, the faceless penalty scheme was notified. The faceless proceedings before ITAT also seek to make disposal of appeals more transparent and ensure even work distribution in different benches for better utilisation of resources. ITAT is the final fact-finding authority and only orders that are based on questions of law can be appealed before the high courts. Experts are not convinced, though. “Faceless hearings run contrary to the established principle of natural justice – every part has a right to a hearing. What can be communicated in a hearing is very different from what goes in writing. Nuances may be missed. Also, a hearing is an interactive process. Questions can be raised and clarifications and views given,” says Anil Harish, partner at DM Harish and Co, a law firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-no-face-time-with-taxman-its-virtual/articleshow/80641024.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||‘Maharashtra nod to new rules can push slum rehab projects’||PUNE: BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said on Monday many slum rehabilitation projects in Pune could benefit if the state government gave its green signal to the new rules at the earliest. “The file regarding the new rules is with the chief minister’s office. The new rules have given relaxation on height restrictions, which will encourage developers to take up slum rehabilitation projects. Even local self-government bodies like the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) can redevelop slums and reap the benefits,” he said while addressing a news conference here. Patil said that a review meeting was held at the PMC office on Monday. A few pending issues, such as redevelopment of DP roads, construction and opening of municipal garden in Kothrud were taken up on priority basis. He said that the party’s stand on projects like the HCMTR will be announced soon. Such big projects have been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Asked about the proposed widening of internal bungalow society roads in PMC areas and opposition by residents, Patil said that there will be no compulsion on the part of property owners to part with the front portion of house / flat for road widening.  “It is voluntary. The plan was proposed as it will enable loading of TDR and FSI on properties along the road,” he said. Commenting on the Union Budget, Patil welcomed the provisions for the MSMEs. It will help in boosting the job market, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-nod-to-new-rules-can-push-slum-rehab-projects/articleshow/80637751.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ghaziabad||Delhi: Diversions catch commuters unawares, many return home||NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: Commuters had a harrowing time on Monday due to the Delhi-Ghaziabad border being gridlocked. The situation worsened after 8am and at their peak, the traffic jams stretched to 4km near the border. The Mohan Nagar junction, Kaushambi areas, Maharajpur and the internal roads in Vaishali were choked till 3pm. There were similar situations in many parts of Delhi, with police wary about recurrence of fiascos of the Republic Day type on the day the Union budget was presented in Parliament. A Ghaziabad police officer claimed the cops immediately took up the task of managing the traffic when commuters began posting information on social media about the traffic jams. “Delhi Police closed the border to prevent the protesting farmers marching to Parliament since the Union budget was being announced on Monday,” the officer said. Ramanand Kushwaha, SP (Traffic), Ghaziabad, told TOI that traffic was diverted to four alternative routes: Noida, GT Road, Bhopura and Surya Nagar. “We had no information about the Anand Vihar border being closed and so it took us over three hours to divert the vehicles to open routes,” said Kushwaha. “Delhi Police opened one lane (Ghaziabad to Delhi) at 2pm and the other (Delhi to Ghaziabad) around 3.30pm. We have enquired whether the Delhi cops plan to close the border on Tuesday too. We will know by late night.” Delhi traffic police made the first diversions at Akshardham Setu towards Akshardham, NH-9, from the Max Hospital cut on NH-24 towards Hassanpur depot, from Ghazipur roundabout towards Anand Vihar and from paper market towards Mayur Vihar Phase-3. Other diversions were from Kondli Bridge towards Ghazipur roundabout. Police placed spikes at Tikri border to deter tractors and other vehicles, wary of the call for a march to Parliament by the protesting farmers. Till evening, motorists, particularly on Vikas Marg, Geeta Colony and eastern Delhi faced a tough drive. Due to the barricades at numerous spots in the city, central and south Delhi too faced a hard time. “The cars weren’t moving on Nizamuddin Bridge,” said Swarnendu. “I could neither go forward nor back. I saw four ambulances stuck in the jam.” Many people preferred to return home, while those that persevered took hours to reach their workplaces. Anshul Verma, resident of Crossing Republik, left his house around 9am for his office in Connaught Place, but reached there at 12.30pm. “I had a very important meeting at 11am but had to cancel it after I got stuck on the road,” bristled Verma. “I also tried to go back to my house, but couldn’t find a way to take a U-turn due to the heavy traffic.” Ashutosh Mishra had an appointment with a doctor in AIIMS at 10am and left his home well in time at 8am. “Without notice, the Delhi cops closed the border and I missed my appointment with my doctor,” Mishra complained. From Delhi, Pankaj Sharma left for his shop in Indirapuram at 9am and reached around 1pm. “Usually, it takes 45 minutes to reach my shop,” said the tired Sharma. The central government has extended the deployment of Rapid Action Force in Ghaziabad till February 4 in view of the farmers’ protest. The protesters, meanwhile, continue to stay put at the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders amid heavy security deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/diversions-catch-commuters-unawares-many-return-home/articleshow/80641195.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 2, 2021||Thane||Ulhasnagar doctor dies, kin say no link to vaccination||MUMBAI: A 61-year-old radiologist from Ulhasnagar passed away on Sunday, 11 days after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. Following his death, messages were circulated on social media speculating whether his death was linked to vaccination. The doctor’s family called it a natural death caused by heart attack. Dr Tulsio Gawalani received Covishield on January 20, along with his nephew Pawan, also a radiologist. The family said he suffered a heart attack at 9.30 pm on Sunday and collapsed at his home. Pawan and Gawalani had taken the vaccine 11 days ago. “He had no side-effects or even the slightest discomfort after vaccination. We are certain his death was a natural one,” Pawan told TOI. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, dean of Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar, where Dr Gawalani had taken the jab, told TOI, “Normally reactions come within 24 hours of taking the shot. He died after 10 days. But we will report the case to officials of the health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ulhas-doctor-dies-kin-say-no-link-to-vax/articleshow/80638726.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Retirement fund of NRIs: New proposal to be beneficial||KOCHI: Addressing mismatch in taxation of income from notified overseas retirement fund, will be of much benefit to the expatriate Indians said, K V Shamsudheen, Chairman, Pravasi Bandhu Welfare Trust. “Representations have been received that there is mismatch in the year of taxability of withdrawal from retirement funds by residents who had opened such fund when they were non-resident in India and resident in foreign countries. At present the withdrawal from such funds may be taxed on receipt basis in such foreign countries, while on accrual basis in India,” he said. “In order to address this mismatch and remove this genuine hardship, it is proposed to insert a new section 89A to the Act to provide that the income of a specified person from specified account shall be taxed in the manner and in the year as prescribed by the Central Government. It is also proposed to define the expression specified person, as a person resident in India who opened a specified account in a notified country while being non-resident in India and resident in that country,” Shamsudheen said. “Specified account is proposed to be defined as an account maintained in a notified country which is maintained for retirement benefits and the income from such account is not taxable on accrual basis and is taxed by such country at the time of withdrawal or redemption. Notified country is proposed to be defined to mean a country notified by the central government for the purposes of this section in the Official Gazette. This amendment will take effect from 1st April, 2022 and will apply to the assessment year 2022-23 and subsequent assessment years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/retirement-fund-of-nris-new-proposal-to-be-beneficial/articleshow/80638712.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Five sandalwood trees stolen||PUNE: Five sandalwood trees were chopped and stolen from the premises of a locked company in Pimpri early on Friday. Chand Mulla, the company’s security supervisor, lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police on Sunday. Mulla said that the premises of the company, locked for the past few years, is spead over five acres. “Four guards man the premises 24/7. Two of them are posted near the front gate, while two patrol the premises at the back,” he said. Around 3am on Friday, the guards heard a sound of a falling tree. When they reached the spot, they noticed one of the sandalwood trees had been chopped. “The guards also noticed that the fence on the compound wall had been cut, too,” Mulla said. Later, the guards found that four more sandals trees had also been chopped. “There were eight sandalwood trees of which five had been stolen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-sandalwood-trees-stolen/articleshow/80637760.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||Pune: Duo damage bus & assault driver; held||PUNE: Two persons were arrested on Sunday for beating up a bus driver of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and breaking two window glasses of the vehicle at Old Sangvi on Saturday evening. The Sangvi police arrested Swapnil Tikhe (22) and Shubham Jadhav (21), both residents of Pashan, following an FIR lodged by the bus driver, Shrikant Bhokare. A Sangvi police officer said Tikhe and Jadhav intercepted the bus and started abusing Bhokare, claiming that the latter had tried to dash their scooter. “They assaulted Bhokare and pelted stones at the bus, smashing its two window glasses,” the officer said, citing the FIR. “We have arrested the duo for offences punishable under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC, and are investigating the matter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-damage-bus-assault-driver-held/articleshow/80637757.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Diversions catch commuters unawares, many return home||NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: Commuters had a harrowing time on Monday due to the Delhi-Ghaziabad border being gridlocked. The situation worsened after 8am and at their peak, the traffic jams stretched to 4km near the border. The Mohan Nagar junction, Kaushambi areas, Maharajpur and the internal roads in Vaishali were choked till 3pm. There were similar situations in many parts of Delhi, with police wary about recurrence of fiascos of the Republic Day type on the day the Union budget was presented in Parliament. A Ghaziabad police officer claimed the cops immediately took up the task of managing the traffic when commuters began posting information on social media about the traffic jams. “Delhi Police closed the border to prevent the protesting farmers marching to Parliament since the Union budget was being announced on Monday,” the officer said. Ramanand Kushwaha, SP (Traffic), Ghaziabad, told TOI that traffic was diverted to four alternative routes: Noida, GT Road, Bhopura and Surya Nagar. “We had no information about the Anand Vihar border being closed and so it took us over three hours to divert the vehicles to open routes,” said Kushwaha. “Delhi Police opened one lane (Ghaziabad to Delhi) at 2pm and the other (Delhi to Ghaziabad) around 3.30pm. We have enquired whether the Delhi cops plan to close the border on Tuesday too. We will know by late night.” Delhi traffic police made the first diversions at Akshardham Setu towards Akshardham, NH-9, from the Max Hospital cut on NH-24 towards Hassanpur depot, from Ghazipur roundabout towards Anand Vihar and from paper market towards Mayur Vihar Phase-3. Other diversions were from Kondli Bridge towards Ghazipur roundabout. Police placed spikes at Tikri border to deter tractors and other vehicles, wary of the call for a march to Parliament by the protesting farmers. Till evening, motorists, particularly on Vikas Marg, Geeta Colony and eastern Delhi faced a tough drive. Due to the barricades at numerous spots in the city, central and south Delhi too faced a hard time. “The cars weren’t moving on Nizamuddin Bridge,” said Swarnendu. “I could neither go forward nor back. I saw four ambulances stuck in the jam.” Many people preferred to return home, while those that persevered took hours to reach their workplaces. Anshul Verma, resident of Crossing Republik, left his house around 9am for his office in Connaught Place, but reached there at 12.30pm. “I had a very important meeting at 11am but had to cancel it after I got stuck on the road,” bristled Verma. “I also tried to go back to my house, but couldn’t find a way to take a U-turn due to the heavy traffic.” Ashutosh Mishra had an appointment with a doctor in AIIMS at 10am and left his home well in time at 8am. “Without notice, the Delhi cops closed the border and I missed my appointment with my doctor,” Mishra complained. From Delhi, Pankaj Sharma left for his shop in Indirapuram at 9am and reached around 1pm. “Usually, it takes 45 minutes to reach my shop,” said the tired Sharma. The central government has extended the deployment of Rapid Action Force in Ghaziabad till February 4 in view of the farmers’ protest. The protesters, meanwhile, continue to stay put at the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders amid heavy security deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diversions-catch-commuters-unawares-many-return-home/articleshow/80638729.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana textile ambition hopes for Budget boon||HYDERABAD: Telangana, which has been weaving plans to emerge as a major textiles manufacturing hub and has already begun work on a mega textiles park at Warangal, has its fingers crossed for a fillip from the Union Budget after FM Nirmala Sitharaman announced the Mega Investment Textiles Parks (MITRA) scheme. As part of the scheme, the FM announced seven textile parks will be established across the country over three years to attract investments and boost employment in the sector. “Telangana’s Kakatiya Mega Textiles Park (KMTP) at Warangal will be a front runner in garnering support from the Centre as the project ticks all the eligibility boxes,” said Telangana industries & IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan. Recently, industries minister KT Rama Rao had said that the KMTP at Warangal would be developed at a total estimated project cost of Rs 1,552 crore and would take off in 2020-21. The minister had also sought funds from the Centre for creating infrastructure at the park. Anil Talreja, Partner, Deloitte India, pointed out that the Budget’s thrust on textiles parks will enable local manufacturers and the peripheral sectors to make high quality and cost-efficient products which would be competitive in the global market. While hailing the Centre’s move to support creation of textiles park, Sushil Sancheti, secretary, Telangana Spinning & Textile Mills Association, pointed out that the increase in customs duty on cotton from nil to 10% will benefit farmers but will result in a rise in raw material prices for industry. The FM also announced rationalisation of duties on raw material inputs to manmade textiles by bringing nylon chain on par with polyester and other man-made fibers. “This shall prove beneficial to the weaving sector and high-end apparels such as athletic wear. Surat being the hub for maximum nylon consumption would witness an increase in the slowly declining nylon sector. This shall also help the luggage industry as nylon is a better material than polyester. Through this the government plans to bring all fibres at equal level on playing field." Kunal Sood, Partner, Grant Thornton Bharat, added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telanganas-kakatiya-mega-textiles-park-hopes-to-weave-benefit-from-fms-mitra-spin/articleshow/80638713.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid blessing? Finally, biotech gets booster shot||HYDERABAD: After years of being ignored by successive FMs, the Covid-19 pandemic finally forced the government to take note of the biotech sector that has been leading the fight against the dreaded Coronavirus. FM prescribed several direct and indirect booster doses this year, including Rs 35,000 crore allocation for Covid-19 vaccination, national rollout of pneumococcal vaccine and investments in public research and innovation infrastructure. Pointing out that this is the first time the FM has spoken about preventive and curative health and wellbeing, Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella said the announcements were significant and far-reaching. “FM’s commitment providing more funds to contain the pandemic spread and provide an effective for the vaccination scheme will lead to accomplishing a Covid-19 free Bharat,” Ella said. Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said the emphasis on healthcare spending and immunisation will help India recover rapidly from the pandemic and also encourage more innovation and expansion. Speaking of healthcare infrastructure and vaccines, Poonawalla said: “Investments in these areas have prevented hospitalizations and resulted in a healthier and more productive workforce, leading to an efficient economy.” Biocom CMD & Association of Biotech Led Enterprises (ABLE) chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said while there were several moves to strengthen the public research and innovation ecosystem, the big missing piece was the lack of encouragement to private sector R&D. Stating that India has been recognised as being at the epicentre of Covid-19 management, she said: “It’s disappointing the government feels we don’t need R&D incentives and should be left to fend for ourselves, but they ought to look at it more seriously.” “Covid-19 has opened their eyes. The government has moved positively and I am very glad they are trying to strengthen the biotech manufacturing base, but what about R&D, which is the legs on which the sector stands? It’s a move forward but the step is too small,” said Shantha Biotechnics founder KI Varaprasad Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-blessing-finally-biotech-gets-booster-shot/articleshow/80638722.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Duo arrested for coal transporter’s murder||Chandrapur: Rajura police have arrested the two assailants who shot coal transporter Raju Yadav from point blank range at a hair saloon on Sunday night. Investigations revealed that the accused duo killed Yadav over old rivalry in the coal transportation business. Accused Chandan Shetalprasad Singh (30) from Rajura and his friend Satyendrakumar Paramhans Singh (28) from Rampur village had barged into the hair saloon where Yadav was sitting and shot him. The duo came on a bike and parked it near a garage. They then walked to the saloon frequented by Yadav. Locals of the area and a couple of cops, who were in the vicinity, pursued the duo who left their bike behind and fled. The identity of the two accused was revealed to the cops by those who were present at the crime spot. Rajura police immediately sealed the area and launched a manhunt. Soon, the accused were traced. They were heading towards village Kapanaon. They were rounded up by the lurking cops. SDPO (Rajura) Shersingh Pawar confirmed the arrest and claimed that the weapon used to commit the murder has been seized. Sources said that accused Chandan was also a coal transporter. Chandan and Yadav were earlier together in the same business. However, a dispute arose due to the money earned from their illegal business. Chandan had threatened Yadav of dire consequences for cheating him of his share of the ‘profit’. Singh was waiting for an opportunity to settle scores. The rivalry led to the murder of Yadav at the hands of Chandan and his friend. After being produced before the court on Monday afternoon, the accused were sent to three days of police custody remand. The postmortem of the victim was done in Rajura in the morning and his last rites were performed on the banks of Wardha river in the afternoon. BJP’s former union minister of state Hansraj Ahir and former MLA Sanjay Dhote were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/duo-arrested-for-coal-transporters-murder/articleshow/80638733.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||HC notice to Papi Reddy over continuing as TSCHE chief||Hyderabad: Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana HC has issued a notice to professor T Papi Reddy, chairman of TSCHE, asking him to explain within two weeks his eligibility to hold the post of council chairman even after crossing the age limit as prescribed in the TSCHE Act. Judge gave this direction while hearing a writ petition filed by OU research scholar K Vijay Kumar, who questioned the government for continuing Papi Reddy as chairman of the council. Since Vijay filed it as a writ of quo warranto and as HC had issued a notice to the professor, Papi Reddy has to now explain to the court if he is still eligibile to continue in the post. Court also issued notices to the government, TSCHE and the Centre asking them to explain their stand on the issue. Appearing for petitioner, senior counsel S Satyam Reddy said the Act clearly says that those under 65 years alone are eligible to hold the post of the TSCHE chairman.  GOs cannot override statutory provisions of law, he added. Section 5(1) of the Act specifies that only those who have not attained age of 65 shall be appointed as council chairman. “Government has been extending Papi Reddy’s tenure even after he crossed 65 years,” Satyamsaid. Case will come up for hearing after two weeks. Government has been extending his tenure by issuing GOs. Since Papi Reddy has crossed age of superannuation in 2019 itself, these GOs cannot defend his eligibility||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-papi-reddy-over-continuing-as-tsche-chief/articleshow/80638724.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Marginal increase seen in palm oil prices||AHMEDABAD: While the retail prices of sunflower and soyabean oil will remain unaffected, consumer prices of palm oil may move up marginally, said edible oil industry players. The Union Budget on Monday announced the imposition of agriculture infrastructure and development cess, thus pushing up effective duty on crude palm oil (CPO). Although, the basic custom duty (BCD) on crude palm oil (CPO) was reduced to 15% from 27.5%, the finance minister also imposed 17.5% agriculture infrastructure cess on it. “After factoring in duty cut and proposed levy of cess, the effective duty on COP has gone up by 5.5% to 35.75%. The increase in effective duty on CPO will be partly passed onto consumers in India and onto international players. So, there will be a marginal increase in consumer prices of palm oil,” said Atul Chaturvedi, president, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA), a pan-India body of the vegetable oil industry. “There will be an increase of Rs 3-4 per kg in the price of palm oil. However, going forward, the international market will adjust to the surge and price rise will be balanced out,” added Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO, Adani Wilmar Ltd According to industry players, there will, however, be no change in consumer prices of sunflower and soyabean oil as the effective duty post reduction in BCD and imposition of cess works out to be 38.5%, which is the same as earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/marginal-increase-seen-in-palm-oil-prices/articleshow/80636986.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit procures more paddy than assigned target||Pilibhit: Pilibhit district succeeded in procuring more paddy during the year 2020-21 than the target assigned by the state government. However, it failed to surpass its own achievement recorded in the year 2019-20. The procurement of paddy began in Pilibhit on October 1 and concluded on January 31 following the prescribed schedule. It is surprising that although the number of farmers increased in official reports this year, the procured paddy was less. District food and marketing officer Avinash Jha said, “The district was given the target to procure as much as 3.25 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of paddy this season which was at par with the previous year’s target.” With a network of as many as 162 procurement centers under 11 government and cooperative agencies, a total of 3.40 lakh MT of paddy has been procured this season while it was 3.70 lakh MT in the previous year, he added. The value of procured paddy is Rs 635.83 crore of which the payment of Rs 43 crore is still pending as was on the closing of January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-procures-more-paddy-than-assigned-target/articleshow/80636243.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||T govt, TRS mum on budget||Hyderabad: Telangana government and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) did not comment on the Union budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. Usually, TRS leader in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha jointly hold a press conference soon after the budget presentation. Surprisingly, none of the TRS leaders in Delhi and Hyderabad held a press conference or sent their reactions to the media. TRS general secretary K Keshava Rao said ‘no comment’ when asked for his reaction on the budget, chief minister’s office, party leaders and ministers refused to react. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-trs-mum-on-budget/articleshow/80638739.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Nagpur||Woman gets bail in sex death case||Nagpur: District and additional sessions judge SS Deshpande on Monday granted bail to the woman whose boyfriend died while trying a new sex position with her at a lodge in Khaparkheda around a fortnight ago. The woman was later arrested by Khaparkheda police on the charges of murder. The court granted conditional bail to the woman asking her to execute PR and a surety bond of Rs25,000 each. She has been also asked by the court to cooperate with Khaparkheda police and not to tamper with the evidence. She has also been asked to refrain from leaving Nagpur without permission of the court till the filing of the chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-gets-bail-in-sex-death-case/articleshow/80638743.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for sharing fake news online||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s cyber cell has arrested a man for spreading fake news and running motivated social media campaigns about police personnel and others on Facebook and Twitter. The accused has been identified as Om Prakash Dhetarwal of Rajasthan’s Churu district. “Acting on fake news about resignation of police personnel, Dhetarwal has been arrested. A mischievous social media campaign had been going on for the past two days, propagating rumours regarding disaffection in the police ranks,” DCP Anyesh Roy said. Police said, old, unrelated videos were being posted with fake news of resignation of police personnel. The cyber cell registered a criminal case and tracked Dhetarwal down to Churu through his IP address. Dhetarwal had created a Facebook account under ‘Kisan Andolan Rajasthan’ and shared an old video from September 2020 of Home Guards of another state portraying as a reaction of Delhi Police personnel to the recent farmers’ agitation, the DCP added. Police said more arrests were likely. “Citizens are advised to avoid sharing or posting any such content without verifying its authenticity,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-sharing-fake-news-online/articleshow/80638740.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Surat||Textile businessman’s son clinches second spot in CA final exam||SURAT: He studied 13 hours every single day and on Monday, son of a textile businessman, Mudit Agrawal, a chartered accountancy (CA) student from city is grinning ear to ear securing the second position in the country in results of CA final exam held in November 2020. In the results announced on Monday, Mudit scored 589 out of 800 marks. Total six students, including Mudit, from the city secured ranks among the top 50 in the country. Five others are Varshil Desai, 17th, Vinay Agarwal, 24th Chandrashekhar Pansari, 31st, Vinay Tated, 43rd, and Abhishek Singhvi, 47th. Mudit was ranked 27th in the country in CA Integrated Professional Competence Course – Intermediate (IPCC) results declared in 2017. In CA final exam despite global pandemic and online studies he improved his ranking tremendously. “Routinely I studied six hours and for 13 hours during exam. Regular studies and extended exam dates helped me prepare well,” said Mudit who wants to start his own start-up and study MBA as well. “We launched a mobile application during the lockdown to help students study. Therefore, during lockdown they could focus more while studying at home,” said Ravi Chhavchharia, Mudit’s coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-bizmans-son-clinches-2nd-spot-in-ca-final-exam/articleshow/80636283.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Fintech hub, tax incentives to attract more players in GIFT IFSC||AHMEDABAD: The International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City in Gandhinagar is set to attract more players — both global and domestic — with the Union Budget on Monday providing government’s support for the development of world-class Fin-Tech (financial technology) hub at the IFSC. The FM also announced a slew of tax incentives for the IFSC. “The development of world-class fintech hub at GIFT City will go a long way in promoting and developing fintech start-ups. GIFT City would provide a platform to fintech firms to expand globally,” said Tapan Ray, MD & Group CEO, GIFT City. Ray further said that the hub will facilitate research, innovation and development of new age skills in fintech, which will help in creating new job opportunities and attract quality talent to GIFT City. Jaimin Shah, Board Member, Nasscom Foundation said that maximum investment has taken in fintech space in the digital economy. “Apart from attracting fintech players, the establishment of fintech hub will also create a demand as well as resource pool for artificial intelligence (AI), robotic process automation (RPA) and cloud services in the IFSC and Gift City,” Shah said. “To cater to fintech players, more and more IT services and ancillary companies as well as start-ups will get attracted to the IFSC and GIFT City. Gujarat is going to be a fintech hub for India very soon,” Shah added. According to industry players, the fintech industry in Gujarat will further get impetus as the state government is also planning to come out with a dedicated fintech policy for the state, which will provide additional incentives as well. The Union Budget also proposed tax incentives to the IFSC, which include tax holiday for capital gains for aircraft leasing companies, tax exemption for aircraft lease rentals paid to foreign lessors, sops for relocating foreign funds in the IFSC. It also allowed tax exemption to the investment division of foreign banks located in IFSC. “The additional tax holidays to aircraft leasing companies and those relocating foreign funds to IFSC-GIFT along with setting up of a new fintech hub will drive more players to GIFT IFSC, boost investor confidence and give an impetus to the GIFT City project,” said V Balasubramaniam, MD & CEO, India INX, which operates an international exchange in the GIFT IFSC. Agreeing about the tax holiday boost, Ray said that it would help in attracting global players in the Fund business, aircraft leasing & financing business and offshore investment banking sector to set up their base in GIFT IFSC. “The strong focus on digital covering setting up of a fintech hub at GFIT City, seen in sync with moves to enhance digital payments and use of artificial intelligence and machine learning etc in governance, will give a fillip to creation of Digital India,” said Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fintech-hub-tax-incentives-to-attract-more-players-in-gift-ifsc/articleshow/80636994.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||‘Will move privilege motion against Neri’||Panaji: Accusing the BJP government of lying to the state in the assembly, GFP said that it will file breach of privilege motion against water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that chief minister Pramod Sawant should step down from his post. Referring to TOI’s front page report, Sardesai said that the statement given by senior Supreme Court counsel Arvind Datar shows that the government is misleading the legislature and the state on the Mhadei water dispute. “We are moving a breach of privilege against the minister for giving false replies in the House, which have been tabled,” said Sardesai. Replying to a question raised by GFP on January 27, the government stated that Datar had gone ahead on his own accord and informed the Supreme Court that Goa had no objection to the notification of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal award. On Sunday, Datar said that the state government told him not to object. “The advocate who represented Goa, Mukul Rohatgi has said that based on the chief minister of Karnataka’s statement, an interlocutory application has been made. So the award being not objected to, has never been an issue by the state government. Why did the government not make a specific application to the Supreme Court about the notification of the award saying that the lawyer had gone against the state’s directions?” said Sardesai. GFP accused the chief minister of “match fixing” the dispute based on the instructions of the Centre. “The Centre had already given instructions that Goa must give up on the Mhadei. The BJP is acting like a logistics contractor for Karnataka on the orders of their bosses in Delhi. If the senior counsel is lying, why did the state not move the courts subsequently telling the courts that the senior counsel has done it on his own accord and we don’t want it that way?” the Fatorda MLA furter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-move-privilege-motion-against-neri/articleshow/80640050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Nothing to cheer for state: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress termed the Union Budget “disappointing”. Telangana remained neglected in fund allocations, it said. Telangana Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy said there was no mention of allocations for Telangana under AP Reorganisation Act. “Kaleshwaram has not been accorded national status, no allocations for any other project. No mention of funds for rail coach factory or steel plant. No funds allocated for expansion of Hyderabad Metro Rail or MMTS. There is nothing to cheer for people,” he said. He said BJP MPs from Telangana, including state party president Bandi Sanjay, should be ashamed for having failed to get allocations for Telangana. CM should explain what he achieved by supporting BJP government at Centre since 2014. Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir said allocations for minority affairs reduced from Rs 5,029 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 4,810 crore in 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nothing-to-cheer-for-state-cong/articleshow/80638745.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Beneficiaries protest occupation of homes||Hyderabad: Around 100 people thronged Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) head office at Lower Tank Bund on Monday afternoon and rued that houses allotted to them by the government were occupied by aides of local leaders. They rued that beneficiaries were not even being allowed to enter the houses at Karmaghat division (GHMC LB Nagar zone). In all, 512 houses were allotted under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (Jnnurm) scheme in Karmanghat. “We paidRs 82,000 to government under the scheme, we paid the amount in instalments between 2016 and 2019, but there are some other people who are already in possession of the houses and resort to violence when we try to enter our houses. They claim to be aides of local politicians,” Indira, a beneficiary protesting at GHMC head office, said. The group also met GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar on Monday. GHMC officials said they had handed over the keys to the correct beneficiaries. “We had handed over keys as per records, but the beneficiaries are saying that the houses have been occupied when they locked their homes. Instances of violence were also reported, we are waiting for orders,” GHMC officer on special duty (housing) Suresh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beneficiaries-protest-occupation-of-homes/articleshow/80638746.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt doctors observe fast against ‘mixopathy’ at Koti||Hyderabad: Government doctors from various hospitals and medical colleges protested at the office of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) at Koti, extending support to the organisation’s call for a relay hunger strike. Meanwhile, the IMA has started a nationwide relay hunger strike from February 1 to oppose the Centre’s move to allow ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries. This strike against ‘mixopathy’ will continue till February 14. The recent decision of the government has not gone down well with allopathic doctors. They said that the government is playing with the health of the public by putting it in the hands of untrained professionals. “We are putting lives in the hands of untrained personnel. It will further cause a trust deficit between doctors and patients,” said Dr Srinivas G, a participant. “We want everyone to be treated by qualified doctors, who are trained properly from basics to speciality subjects. Mixopathy will damage the future of the public,” said Dr Arjun Raj, IMA Hyd City Central Council Member. The IMA had appealed to all sister professional speciality organisations, the organisations of medical college teachers, government doctors, resident doctor associations apart from medical students and hospitals associations to support its cause to retain the separate identity and existence of modern medicine. Almost all associations participated in large numbers to show solidarity with the call on Monday. The IMA had appealed to all professional speciality organisations, government doctors, resident doctor associations and medical students to support its cause to retain separate identity of modern medicine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-doctors-observe-fast-against-mixopathy-at-koti/articleshow/80638742.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||161% turnout for jabs in Mumbai suburbs, city hits 93% target||MUMBAI: A record number of healthcare workers in the city turned up for Covid-19 vaccination on Monday even as the state-wide attendance improved marginally. Suburban Mumbai, in fact, topped the list of districts, having vaccinated 161% of the intended target for the day. It managed to topple districts like Dhule and Beed that have been clocking over 100% turnouts consistently. Across Mumbai’s dozen vaccination centres (city and suburbs combined), 93.4% (7,707) of the intended 8,250 health workers took the vaccine on Monday, the highest turnout seen since the drive started on January 16. Of the 7,707, a total of 5,746 took the vaccine at the centres in the suburbs and 1,961 in the city. Overall, in the state, 77% of the scheduled 52,969 took the vaccine, up from 71% on Friday. With 47,397, health workers vaccinated on the ninth day of the drive in the state and 10th in Mumbai, Maharashtra has completed vaccinating 3,09,846 of the nearly eight lakh registered beneficiaries. State officials said that preparations were being carried out to start the next phase of the vaccination for frontliners, but didn’t commit a date. Dr Archana Patil, head, Directorate of Health Services said, “Districts created beneficiary list on a trial basis on Monday. Soon as Government of India makes this live, we will start.” A doctor from BMC, however, said there are indications that the vaccination drive for frontline workers will not start on Tuesday because the Co-WIN app hasn’t yet been updated. “If on Tuesday the app is updated for the second phase, we can start the drive by Wednesday,” the doctor added. An estimated 20 lakh frontline workers from the state are in line to get vaccinated simultaneously with health workers. In Mumbai, civic officials were pleased with Monday’s turnout and viewed the rise in numbers as a sign of declining ‘vaccine hesitancy’. “Of the total vaccinated on Monday, 6,600 were walk-in clients. It may be seen a sign of increased willingness to take the vaccine as they came to the centres on their own,” she said. Merely 1,100 were from the scheduled list who were sent messages and even phoned from ward offices. Rajawadi in Ghatkopar and Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli saw the highest footfalls. A steady stream of luxury cars made their way to BMC’s jumbo facility at the BKC grounds. The centre vaccinated 952 healthcare workers, emerging as the third highest centre for the second consecutive day (on Saturday, it managed 805 vaccinations). Three generations of doctors from the Vaishnav family in Khar were among those who got vaccinated on Monday -- 92-year-old Dr Narendra, his 62-year-old son Dr Sudhir and 27-year-old grand-daughter Dr Aditi. “The process is very well organised at the BKC centre. While we were there for 40-45 minutes, only 10 minutes were spent on identification, booth allocation and waiting for our turn. Thirty minutes for observation after the vaccination,” said Dr Sudhir Vaishnav. He said none of them had suffered any reaction so far. “Others too should take the vaccine as it is as simple as getting an annual flu vaccine,” he added. Meanwhile, the number of health workers taking Covaxin crossed 3,125 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/161-turnout-for-jabs-in-mum-suburbs-city-hits-93-target/articleshow/80638758.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Tax holiday some relief for startups||Hyderabad: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a series of initiatives to provide succour to startups, bringing some cheer for the community in the state. Hyderabad-based incubator T-Hub CEO Ravi Narayan said the extension for startups on both, the eligibility for claiming tax-holiday and the capital gains exemption for investment by another year (up to March 2022) will prove beneficial, especially, for those whose businesses were affected due to the pandemic. The revised norm and opportunity to form a ‘one-person company’ with zero turnover norms and without any restrictions in 120 days will boost the EoDB (ease of doing business) quotient for startups, as will the hike in threshold of annual turnover for small companies from Rs 2 crore to Rs 20 crore. City-based EV-startup Etrio’s co-founder and CEO Deepak MV said the move to support startups will not only lead to generation of employment but also boost demand. Even Subha Lakshmi, founder of city-based startup Macromoney, said the Budget’s thrust on improving infrastructure in urban areas will augur well for startups. However, stating that the pandemic has altered the nature of women’s participation in the economic workforce of India, Deepthi Ravula, CEO, WE-Hub, said, “if there would have been provisions for incentivizing employers investing in skilling, hiring more women as part of their workforce, that would have been a huge opportunity for increasing female participation in the workforce.’’  Sitharaman said social security benefits will extend to gig and platform workers. “In five years, we witnessed a seismic change in the way products and services are being delivered to customers through new age platforms. With over 1.5 crore freelancers/gig workers in the country, this number is going to multiply and will redefine the landscape. So, this is a positive move,” said Sudhir Naidu, CEO and founder of Troop Messenger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tax-holiday-some-relief-for-startups/articleshow/80638752.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 1,200 arrested for drunken driving in January||HYDERABAD: Continuing its drive against drunk drivers, the Hyderabad traffic police caught 1201 people driving under the influence of alcohol in the month of January 2021. The traffic police filed 246 chargesheets against them, and they were produced in the third and fourth metropolitan magistrate courts in Nampally. The remaining 955 violators will also be produced in court after filing the chargesheet against them. The courts, awarded imprisonment to four and had also suspended driving licenses. “The respondents who were convicted in drunken drive and other traffic violations may face difficulties in getting government jobs, passport and visa clearances,” the traffic police said. The courts also imposed a fine of Rs 25,10,600 on traffic violators. All the violators sentenced to imprisonment were sent to Chanchalguda jail. On the other hand, the traffic police also stated that there was a 46 percent reduction in fatal road accidents in Hyderabad in January 2021 compared to last year. “Traffic police are conducting regular drives to curb drunk driving and other violations that endanger the lives of the commuters as well as the other road users. In all 13 fatalities have been reported in January 2021 when compared to 24 in January 2020,” said additional commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad, Anil Kumar. An overall analysis by Hyderabad traffic police during the month of January 2021 shows that a total of nine deaths occurred due to over speeding, while the remaining deaths were caused due to cell phone driving (1), drunk driving (1), negligent driving (1) and the sudden appearance of a dog on the road (1). Six riders, who succumbed to the injuries during these accidents did not wear helmets, while one driver was found not wearing his seat belt, the traffic police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1200-arrested-for-drunken-driving-in-jan/articleshow/80638756.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman gets life term for 4-year-old girl’s murder in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A local court has sentenced an accused to undergo life imprisonment for killing a four-year-old girl at Sanathnagar in 2015. Two other accused were sentenced to five years imprisonment in the same case. The VIII Additional District Judge court of LB Nagar on Monday delivered the verdict in a murder case registered at the Sanathnagar police station in 2015. Among the five accused in the murder case, U Laxmaiah and his wife Yadamma died during the course of trial and the court sentenced their daughter, Padma, 32, a private employee, to life imprisonment. Padma also has to pay Rs 1 lakh fine. Padma’s brother Narasimha and their neighbour Yadgiri were awarded five-year rigorous imprisonment and also directed to pay Rs 10,000 fine. According to police, the accused bore a grudge against their neighbour’s family suspecting that they were spreading rumours maligning the character of Padma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-gets-life-term-for-4-year-old-girls-murder/articleshow/80638751.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Union Budget: After huge wish list, Telangana fends for crumbs, says nothing on plate||HYDERABAD: The Union Budget-2021 had very little to offer for Telangana. Despite sending a long wish list like seeking financial assistance for backward districts, metro rail extension, relaxation in borrowing limit under FRBM Act, national status for Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, industrial corridor and national highways development, the state drew a blank. Expressing disappointment, a minister from Mahbubnagar said there were many unkept promises which were made as part of the AP Reorganisation Act. “We demanded a steel plant in Bayyaram, railway coach factory in Kazipet and finance assistance to backward districts. Not one of them has been fulfilled,” he told TOI. Officials said the state may get benefit out of some central schemes such as Kakatiya Mega Textile Park (KMTP). In the budget, Rs 3.05 lakh crore was set apart for power distribution companies’ recovery based on their financial performance. However, both Telangana southern and northern discoms have got B-grade in financial performance by rating companies. Principal secretary (industries) Jayesh Ranjan said the Centre had announced seven textile parks in the country. “We hope KMTP will be a frontrunner. The Centre also announced a higher education commission in nine cities. The FM has even mentioned the name of Hyderabad for such a cluster,” he told TOI. There was no mention of economic corridor in Telangana. The state had also expected assistance for extension of metro rail. “The Union finance minister spoke about 15th Finance Commission grants to 17 states. Whether Telangana has been included is not known,” a finance official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-huge-wish-list-state-fends-for-crumbs-says-nothing-on-plate/articleshow/80638750.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||App to monitor child shelters||Hyderabad: An app titled ‘monitoring app for seamless inspections (MASI) will aid inspections of child care institutions (CCIs) in Telangana by stakeholders of the juvenile justice system. Launched in the city on Monday by Pragna Parande, member, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, the app will ensure efficient inspections once every three months and reports will be updated in the database. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/app-to-monitor-child-shelters/articleshow/80638772.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police warn of fake link for Covid vaccine||MUMBAI: Mumbai Police have warned people not to fall prey to messages on getting Covid-19 vaccines. Police said scamsters were sending a fake link (www.enrolforvaccination.com) which was collecting important, confidential details and was being used for online fraud. Mumbai Police tweeted that only frontline healthcare workers are being vaccinated in the current phase. They said there was no government website registering citizens for vaccines. Mumbai Police spokesperson DCP S Chaitanya said that these were precautionary measures taken and to create awareness so that people will not fall victim to fraud links.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-warn-of-fake-link-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80638000.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Relieved, but T Inc says state has got raw deal yet again||Hyderabad: More relieved that the Budget did not spring any nasty surprises, T Inc hailed healthcare and infrastructure creation focused budget as ‘growth oriented’ and progressive. “We welcome the government decision not to increase taxes or impose any Covid-related cess, which the industry feared…but it is disappointing to note no additional exemptions have been given to taxpayers in times of crisis,” said FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani. He said Telangana got a raw deal as no major projects were allocated. He also said they were expecting an extension of PLI scheme to a couple of other sectors but rued that the Budget was silent on this. He said measures like infusion of Rs 20,000 crore into public sector banks and setting up a company to manage bad debts will boost credit disbursement and help MSME sector. CII Telangana chairman Krishna Bodanapu lauded the Budget’s strong emphasis on building infrastructure, developing a healthy India and ‘Minimum Government & Maximum Governance’ as it will strengthen the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. “The budget offers big thrust on strengthening the job market and reviving livelihoods through establishment of seven mega textile parks, revising SME definition, capacity building in the health sector through establishing and strengthening rural and urban health centres,” he said. K Hari Prasad, president, Apollo Group – Hospitals, said while healthcare initiatives were welcome, the Budget had ignored the private health sector. “Many private healthcare providers, particularly single doctor clinics, nursing homes and smaller hospitals are struggling for survival and deserved relief,” he said. Sameer Goel, vice-chairman, CII Telangana, said extension of scope of ‘Operation Green Scheme’ to 22 more perishable products will help increasing exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relieved-but-t-inc-says-state-has-got-raw-deal-yet-again/articleshow/80638760.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||BJP: Centre has reposed faith in Sawant govt||PANAJI: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Monday that the Centre, in allocating the state Rs 300 crore to celebrate the 60th year of Liberation, has reposed faith in the CM Pramod Sawant-led government. Tanavade also lauded Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for her budget. “It is a good budget,” he said. Tanavade said that the Centre allocated “lot of funds” for the health sector. He also said that mobile hospitals would benefit the public. The allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for the Covid vaccination drive also came for praise from the state unit. The state BJP president said that the decision to exempt senior citizens over 75 from filling income tax returns would be a great benefit to them. He also said that the government’s decision to cut taxes on essential items will benefit many, and the increase in tax on luxury items would not have any adverse impact on the common man. Tanavade also said that cess on petrol and diesel wouldn’t impact the common man, but would perhaps marginally increase the price of fuel. “Overall, the budget is people-friendly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-centre-has-reposed-faith-in-sawant-govt/articleshow/80640142.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Thane||One killed, 7 hurt as portion of godown in Bhiwandi collapses||BHIWANDI: A person died and seven were injured after the portion of a 15-year-old one-storey godown of an e-tailer collapsed here on Monday morning. The owner was illegally constructing an additional floor and the structure could not bear its weight, an official said. Bhiwandi has many godowns used by e-trailers. Bhiwandi tehsildar Aadik Patil said he would ask Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the planning authority, to conduct a structural audit of godowns. The floors of the building, which housed two godowns and were given out on rent to Shadofax Godown Pvt Ltd and Max Infax Pvt Ltd, crashed at 10.12am in Harihar compound at Mankoli. Narpoli police, Bhiwandi fire brigade, Thane Disaster Response Force and 15 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel rescued seven injured persons and retrieved a body from the debris. The deceased was Saurabh Tripathi (35), a security guard. Bhavesh Mali, Abhishek Mali, Devendra Patil, Rupesh Patil, Shailesh Tare, Ritik Patil and Kalpana Patil were taken to private hospitals. Of them, Rupesh, Shailesh and Ritik suffered serious injuries. Ritik, whose leg was stuck below a pillar, was rescued after seven hours. His mother Jaimala told TOI, “My two sons work in the godown. Ajay had not gone on duty.” Sachin Ratne, a guard posted on night duty who had left for home at 8am, said, “Saurabh was with the company for two years and is survived by wife and a young daughter, who resides in UP, while he was living in a rented home in Bhiwandi.” Officials said in both godowns at least 70 people work, of which half collapsed, trapping 31 persons. Regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam, whose team rescued maximum people, said “Of those rescued, one died, three suffered major injuries, while the remaining had minor injuries.” Staff at the godown said it belongs to Nilesh Patil. Officials said 15 days back he had started adding a floor to a portion of the godown. Assistant commissioner of police (Bhiwandi) Prashant Dhole said, “We are awaiting a report from the planning authority to find out the exact cause. Based on the findings legal action will be taken against those responsible.” Last September, Jilani building had collapsed, killing 38 persons. A civic probe committee blamed it on negligence on the part of the builder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/one-killed-7-hurt-as-portion-of-godown-in-bhiwandi-collapses/articleshow/80638834.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||Power discom choice to benefit 2.6 crore in state||Mumbai: Power experts and consumer rights activists welcomed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement to put in place a framework to allow electricity consumers to choose from more than one distribution company. State power minister Nitin Raut, however, said there were attempts to “privatise” the power sector. If implemented in Maharashtra, it will benefit more than 2.6 crore consumers who have to deal with the monopoly of MSEDCL.Said power expert Ashok Pendse, “If the Centre’s plan is approved by states and gets a nod by regulatory authority, consumers can choose the discom.” Raut said MVA government will not allow privatisation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/power-discom-choice-to-benefit-2-6-crore-in-state/articleshow/80637919.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Lucknow||MSMEs hail Rs 15,700 crore allocation push for revival||LUCKNOW: The MSME sector welcomed the Union Budget saying it will provide a much needed boost to the small and medium industries that were severely hit by the Covid-19 slowdown. Indian Industries Association national president Pankaj Kumar said the special provision of Rs 15,700 crore for MSMEs in the Budget would help significantly as they were grappling with shortage in demand. “Special attention has been paid to infrastructure and capital allocation. It has called for strengthening the manufacturing sector and production link incentives. There has been allocation of more capital in the health sector. A large number of MSMEs are involved in making medical and health equipment and the flow of capital will accelerate their revival and growth,” he said. The reduction in customs duty for iron and steel and increase of import duty on leather and accessories will ensure development of domestic industry, said Kumar, adding higher allocation for roads, defence and railways infrastructure will help MSMEs as they have a strong participation in these sectors. Nikhil Sawhney, chairperson, CII northern region, said there are many positives for the MSMEs in the budget. “The rationalization of customs duty structure will boost the sector. The proposal to establish seven textile parks will help in technological upgradation and export competitiveness,” he added. FICCI Uttar Pradesh chairperson Sharad Jaipuria said, “The specialty of this budget is that it has attempted to provide something for all sectors even after going through a global crisis. It has taken care of every class, like farmers, middle class, poor and women and will definitely help in pushing the economy. The increase in allocation to the Rural InfrastructureDevelopment Fund from Rs 30,000 crores to Rs 40,000 crores is a welcome step and will drive up demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msmes-hail-rs-15700-crallocation-push-for-revival/articleshow/80638828.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: 41% of central tax to states, separate fund for defence buys||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday stuck to the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation to share 41% of tax receipts with states, while accepting in principle several crucial recommendations, including the creation of a non-lapsable modernisation fund for defence and internal security. The 15th Finance Commission has recommended performance incentives and grants, including Rs 45,000 crore to states that undertake farm reforms, including amendments to land-related laws, steps to augment groundwater, promote agriculture exports and boost production of oilseeds, pulses, wood and wood-based products. The steps come months after the government amended three key farm legislations, which led to large-scale protests. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told TOI that the details of the defence and internal security modernisation fund will be worked out in the coming days, including the period for which the funds will not lapse and other administrative issues. For long, there’s been a demand for defence acquisitions to be delinked from the annual budget cycle. The commission has proposed Rs 2.5 lakh crore be allocated to the modernisation fund over the next five years and the funds, apart from the Consolidated Fund of India, should come via monetisation of defence land stake sale in defence PSUs. For internal security, Rs 50,000 crore is the proposed allocation from 2021-22 to 2025-26. While sticking to the sharing formula from its first report tabled last year, the Finance Commission has made minor tweaks to the funds allocated to each state. With gross tax revenues at an estimated Rs 135.2 lakh crore, the divisible central taxes after deducting cesses and surcharges is pegged at Rs 103 lakh crore, resulting in an estimated flow of Rs 42 lakh crore to the states between April 2021 and March 2026. In addition, close to Rs 3 lakh crore is to be provided as revenue deficit grants to states. Read AlsoFiscal discipline not junked, govt aims at 4.5% deficit by 2025-26The government will continue on its path of fiscal consolidation and intends to reach a fiscal deficit of below 4.5% of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025-2026, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech.Further, in line with its mandate, grants of Rs 4.4 lakh crore are to be provided to local bodies with Rs 2.4 lakh crore for rural local bodies. At the same time, the constitutionally mandated body has recommended an increase in the ceiling on professional tax from the current Rs 2,500 to Rs 12,000, which will require amendments to the Constitution. A major focus of the report is on healthcare infrastructure, with states recommended to step up spending to over 8% of their budgets in 2022, along with an all-India service like the IAS and IPS for medical and health professionals. An annual incentive of Rs 1,200 crore has also been proposed for states that promote enhanced educational outcomes with another Rs 500 crore for online learning and development of professional courses, like medical and engineering, in regional languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-41-of-central-tax-to-states-separate-fund-for-defence-buys/articleshow/80641028.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Fiscal discipline not junked, govt aims at 4.5% deficit by 2025-26||NEW DELHI: The government will continue on its path of fiscal consolidation and intends to reach a fiscal deficit of below 4.5% of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025-2026, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech. The government expects a fairly steady decline over the years. “We hope to achieve the consolidation, first, by increasing the buoyancy of tax revenue through improved compliance and, secondly, by increased receipts from monetisation of assets, including public sector enterprises and land,” Sitharaman said as she pegged the fiscal deficit for the current fiscal year at 9.5% of GDP in the revised estimate. The Centre has estimated the deficit to be at 6.8% of GDP next year and the gross borrowing from the market next year would be around Rs 12 lakh crore. The government has said that its fiscal policy continues to be guided by the principle of a gradual reduction of deficit and progressive movement towards fiscal consolidation. “The government is fully cognizant of the need to maintain a tight fiscal plan. However, any fiscal inflexibility to meet the FRBM (fiscal responsibility and budget management) target would not be advisable in the light of the envisioned socio-economic growth and prosperity of the nation amid the continuously changing domestic and global scenarios and challenges. In the current context, a need for higher public spending is felt crucial for providing required impetus to economic growth,” the finance ministry said in its medium term fiscal policy cum policy strategy statement. Read AlsoBudget 2021: 41% of central tax to states, separate fund for defence buysThe Centre on Monday stuck to the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation to share 41% of tax receipts with states, while accepting in principle several crucial recommendations, including the creation of a non-lapsable modernisation fund for defence and internal security.However, global ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service expressed doubts about the government’s ability to achieve the tax and monetisation targets and pointed to the need to spend on key sectors. “India’s new central government budget deficit target of 6.8% tries to strike a balance between supporting growth and a modest deficit reduction, but improvements in tax compliance and monetisation targets may be difficult to achieve. At the same time, the government has limited room to reduce spending without further weakening growth, and nominal GDP growth will remain critical for future deficit reduction,” Moody’s said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fiscal-discipline-not-junked-govt-aims-at-4-5-deficit-by-2025-26/articleshow/80641030.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Mumbai||EOW arrests Chhabria in Rs 25cr case of cheating||Mumbai: City EOW recently arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria in an alleged cheating case of Rs 25 crore. He was remanded to police custody. He was earlier arrested in a dual registration racket and for cheating comedian Kapil Sharma. Indermal Ramani, from Chennai, complained that Chhabria and his firm lured him into the spare parts business and duped him. Police booked Chhabria, wife Cherry, son Bonito, his wife Anushree and sister Kanchan and invoked IPC sections for criminal breach of trust and cheating. Police said Ramani initially invested Rs 16.5 crore and supplied parts but things did not work out. Soon, Chhabria complained of recession and sought more money. Chhabria said he would be in a big loss if he did not get aid. Ramani complained that he too was facing a cash crunch and offered 18% interest, and Chhabria promised to pay off everything, said an officer. Chhabria paid few crores but later Bonito stopped payments and cheques got returned. When Chhabria started avoiding Ramani, he suspected he had been duped. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eow-arrests-chhabria-in-rs-25cr-case-of-cheating/articleshow/80638002.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Thumbs up to infrastructure, healthcare push||BHOPAL: The business fraternity in Bhopal has termed Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget as “balanced” with thrust on important sectors like infrastructure and health. Chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Anurag Shrivastava said, “The Budget is very comprehensive with thrust on important sectors of the economy like infrastructure, health and wellbeing. Even areas like skilling and migrant workers have also been taken care of.” He said that the 34.5% rise in Capex spending and the proposal to set up a Development Finance Institution (DFI) will help boost the infrastructure sector. Amidst pandemic, a whopping 137% rise in healthcare spending is well-timed. The creation of Bad Banks to deal with NPAs is also a positive move. “The announcements related to divestment plan were much needed as it can help prop up economy,” he said. Chairman of the state unit of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Dinesh Patidar termed the Budget as “outstanding and growth-oriented. “All the right measures were proposed to speed up growth. The Budget speech had an undertone of the government’s focus on ease of doing business in India,” he said. He said, “FICCI for long has been advocating the need to set up a National Asset Management Company. It is heartening to see this idea moving forward with the government’s announcement to set up an Asset Reconstruction and Management Company. This will help banks to unlock stuck capital and use it for more productive purposes.” Gautam Kothari of Pithampur Audhogik Sangathan criticized the Budget and said, “The government did not address the issues faced by the MSMEs who are facing liquidity crunch.I failed to understand how Rs 15,700 crore would be able to bail out the 35lakh MSMEs. The Budget touched the problems and moved on without remedies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/biz-fraternity-terms-budget-balanced-growth-oriented-hails-disinvestment/articleshow/80640147.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private employee claims hitchhiker set him afire, succumbs to burns||HYDERABAD: In a bizarre incident, a 28-year-old finance company employee claimed he was set ablaze by a man who hitched a ride on his bike at Balapur in the early hours of Monday. With 60% burns, the victim succumbed while undergoing treatment at Osmania Hospital. The victim’s dying declaration (DD) was recorded by a magistrate and police are also looking into the suicide angle as CCTV footage reportedly contradicted the claims of the victim. Around 6am on Monday, police were alerted by locals of Sultanpur in Balapur about the victim, Hareesh, a resident of Jillelaguda, lying next to the road with burns. “We shifted the victim to a hospital. Hareesh said he watched a movie at Vijayalakshmi cinema hall in LB Nagar and came out around 1.30am on Monday. A stranger requested for lift till Chandrayangutta,” Balapur inspector B Bhaskar said. While returning home, another person sought a lift at Midhani. “This man told Hareesh that his friend met with an accident. He requested Hareesh to drop him at Sultanpur where another person joined them. Hareesh said the two men threw petrol on him and set him ablaze,” the inspector said.  “We verified CCTV footage at different places. However, after dropping the man at Chandrayangutta, we noticed that Hareesh rode the bike alone. The man, who travelled with him told that the latter purchased petrol before dropping him,” Rachakonda cops said. Police suspect Hareesh, who lives with his mother, a widow and two younger brothers, might have financial problems. Attempt to murder case was filed and might be altered to appropriate section of law based on further investigation, police said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-employee-claims-hitchhiker-set-him-afire-succumbs-to-burns/articleshow/80638851.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||Draft CZMP brings tourism under CRZ scrutiny||PANAJI: According to the state’s draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP), tourism-related activities will be regulated as per the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) Notification, 2011, and time to time amendments from the Union environment ministry. “The erection of lifeguard towers, transfer stations for solid waste collection, shacks and other temporary structures in private areas, public conveniences like toilets and changing rooms, sewage treatment plants, solar lighting, tourism infrastructure projects, night bazaars, flea markets and allied activities related to tourism shall be regulated as per CRZ Notification, 2011 and time to time amendments from the Union environment ministry,” the draft CZMP states. The National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) recently submitted the draft CZMP to the state government. As per the draft plan, monitoring and enforcement of provisions of the CRZ regulations will be carried out by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) and district level committees as notified by the state government from time to time. “The proposed development plans/completed plans/ongoing projects by various state government departments, as received by NCSCM from GCZMA are shown in the local level CZM maps. This shall be permitted only on acceptance and approval by the GCZMA and/or Union environment ministry as per CRZ Notification 2011,” the draft plan states. Development of beach, resorts and hotels in the designated area of CRZ- III will have to follow the CRZ notification guidelines. “No activities that have been declared as prohibited under the CRZ Notification, 2011, shall be carried out within the Coastal Regulation Zone. The permissible/regulated activity shall be allowed in accordance with the norms of CRZ Notification, 2011,” draft report states. Additionally, all activities allowed in CRZ area under the Goa Land Development and Building Construction Regulations, 2010, and Regional and Outline Development Plans will also be subject to the provisions of the CRZ Notification, 2011, in force and time to time amendments to the approved CZMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-czmp-brings-tourism-under-crz-scrutiny/articleshow/80640170.cms||Murari Shetye
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Top schools in city report low turnout||Hyderabad: On Day 1, many schools affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, IB, and other boards recorded low turnout. While most of the schools only reopened for class 10 and class 12, not even 40% of students attended physical classes on Monday. “Although 46% of students’ parents gave their consent, hardly 30% attended classes today,” said K Praveen Raju, vice-chairman, Suchitra Group and president, Independent Schools Managements Association (ISMA). He said that in almost all schools of ISMA attendance was about 20% to 40%.  K Srilatha Laajvanthi, principal, Global Indian International school, Uppal, said only 26% children turned up at the school on the first day. “We conducted classes only for class 10 students and 60% of students reported to school. Of them, about 50% availed school transportation. On Tuesday, we will be conducting classes for class 12 and are expecting 50% attendance,” said Minu Salooja, assistant director, Glendale Education Group. Many schools, meanwhile, did not start physical classes on Monday owing to Central Teacher Eligibility Test and will be reopening in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/top-schools-in-city-report-low-turnout/articleshow/80638864.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Suspend MLA from TRS: Cong||Hyderabad: AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan on Monday demanded suspension of Parkal MLA Challa Dharma Reddy from the TRS for his derogatory comments on the backward classes community employees. “TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao or working president K T Rama Rao should immediately suspend Dharma Reddy from the party. DGP should also register a criminal case on a suo motu basis against the MLA,” demanded Sravan. The Congress leader said: “Dharma Reddy had commented that the employees and officers from the weaker section communities are incapable of discharging their duties. It is only with the help of reservations that they got jobs.” However, Dharma Reddy held a media conference and apologised for his comments stating he is withdrawing his remarks, and that they were misunderstood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspend-mla-from-trs-cong/articleshow/80640157.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Auto sector hails scrapping policy; textiles to benefit from hike in funds||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh is likely to benefit from new announcements in the automobile and textiles sectors mentioned in the Union Budget, tabled by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Monday. The automobile industry has welcomed the new proposal in the 2021-22 Union Budget to scrap old vehicles. The vehicle scrappage policy is said to help boost demand for new vehicles after removing old and unfit vehicles currently plying on roads. Additionally, it is expected to help reduce air pollution caused by older vehicles. Members of the automobile industry believe that MP’s commercial vehicle units would benefit from the announcement. There are a large number of commercial units in Pithampur, Mandideep and Bhopal. Puneet Gupta, an office-bearer of the Automobile Component Manufacturer Association (ACMA), said, “Lakhs of vehicles are expected to be scrapped after the facility is started. This will generate demand for new BS6 vehicles.” “Besides,” he said, “the increase in import duty on automobile components and promotion of e-vehicles with Rs 2,217 crore fund will benefit the sector in MP”. “Environment-friendly buses are manufactured in Madhya Pradesh and the new policy will create new business opportunities,” he said. Madhya Pradesh has more than 55 textile mills generating exports worth over USD 325 million per annum. Major textile clusters of the state are located in Indore, Jabalpur, Burhanpur and Chhindwara. These clusters together house more than 43,000 power-looms and 47,000 handlooms. Several big companies are also operating in Madhya Pradesh. The Budget has provision of Rs 3,600 crore for the silk and handloom industry. There has been a 44% hike in National Handloom Development Programme from Rs 345 crore to Rs 495 crore. Welcoming the Mega investment textile parks, chairman of MP Textile Mills Association, Akhilesh Rathi, said, “MP should get at least one of the seven parks. This will give fillip to the existing textile sector operating in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/auto-sector-hails-scrapping-policy-textiles-to-benefit-from-hike-in-funds/articleshow/80640154.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Pune||PMC bypass eases traffic congestion at Kalepadal railway crossing in Hadapsar||PUNE: Traffic congestion has eased considerably at Kalepadal railway crossing in Hadapsar following the construction of a bypass, leading to diversion of traffic from Mohammadwadi, Handewadi, Sayyednagar, and other places. The frequent closure of the railway gate for goods/express trains led to frequent snarls on both sides of the road, especially with vehicles coming from Kalepadal, Sayyednagar, among other places. Local residents had launched agitations, demanding construction of a rail over bridge/underpass to reduce congestion. Assistant inspector Umaji Rathod from Handewadi traffic police told TOI on Thursday, “We have launched an one-way system for easing congestion after the Pune Municipal Corporation constructed the 0.5km bypass between Sayyednagar and Amar Sweet chowk at Kalepadal. Vehicles coming from Mohammadwadi, Handewadi and other surburbs will have to take a left turn from the railway gate from Sayyednagar side for reaching their respective destinations.” Rathod said, “We have also launched one-way system for vehicles coming from Hadpasar, Sasanenagar, Kalepadal and other places, plying straight from the railway gate to Handewadi, Sayyednagar etc. We have installed barricades on both sides of the railway gate and deployed sufficient number of policemen to ensure motorists follow the one-way system.” “Before the bypass was constructed, vehicles use to ply on both sides of the road. It used to take one-two hours to clear the heavy congestion during peak hours due to closure of the railway gate. Now, it takes three-four minutes to clear the bottleneck. We have installed dividers/ barricades and deployed policemen to deter motorists from flouting the one-way norm,” he added. Local resident Mukesh Wadkar said, “Rapid urbanisation has increased traffic congestion. As per the new development plan, congestion will further ease if pavements are constructed, narrow roads are widened, encroachments removed, and ameniety spaces reserved for public parking.” Businessman Jeevan Jadhav said, “A number of measures have been taken to ease congestion, but it is not enough. Before the new Kalepadal railway station is thrown open to the public, the PMC should think of finding a permanent solution to traffic issues like expediting the underpass construction work between Kalepadal and Sayyednagar underpass. Construction of a flyover between Sayyednagar and Handewadi and a flyover/new development plan road between Hadapsar and Phursungi.” PMC corporator Yogesh Sasane said, “Congestion has reduced at the railway crossing at Sayyednagar. Once the construction work of underpass is completed, the railway gates at Ramtekdi, Kalepadal and Kale-Borate will be permanently closed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-bypass-eases-traffic-congestion-at-kalepadal-railway-crossing-in-hadapsar/articleshow/80619765.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Sasikala to be discharged from B’luruhosp today||Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala will be discharged on Sunday from a hospital in Bengaluru, where she was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, an official bulletin said. "Sasikala has completed 10 days of treatment. She has been asymptomatic and maintaining saturation without oxygen support for three days. “As per protocol, she can be discharged from the hospital," the Bangalore Medical College & Research Institute said in an official bulletin. "The team of doctors attending to her have taken the decision that she is fit for discharge and will be discharged tomorrow (Sunday)... with advice of home quarantine," it said. Sasikala was set free on Wednesday by authorities after she completed four years imprisonment in a jail here in a case of disproportionate assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-to-be-discharged-from-bluruhosp-today/articleshow/80605807.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Tollywood at wits’ end on collecting viewers numbers||Hyderabad: Theatres can now run with 100% occupancy but the Telugu film industry is not sure how to collect telephone numbers of all those who come to theatres as stipulated by the Centre. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javdekar on Monday announced that 100%occupancy was being allowed from February 1 itself. The Telugu film industry which produces hundreds of films every year has welcomed the decision. But, as per the standard operating procedures issued, the theatre managements must collect the telephone numbers of the persons buying the tickets. Former president of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce M Vijendar Reddy said: “It may be possible to collect one telephone number of the person buying the ticket but if the person is buying a few tickets for family and friends, we have to see how practical it would be to ask for each person’s number.” Government has asked that tickets be sold online preferably. Counters will also have to be kept open throughout the day for advance booking so that there will be no crowding. It has been stipulated that all Covid-19 protocols must be followed by theatres, the same that they have been doing since theatres were allowed to screen movies with 50% occupancy. Theatres in Telangana opened on December 4, 2020. “We will sell 100% tickets since the government has allowed it. We hope to see more film buffs come to theatres in the next one week,” Vijendar said. Hyderabad: The number of active cases in the state came down to 723 on Monday from 5,000 a month ago as Telangana recorded 118 new cases and two deaths.  The total number of cases so far in the state stands at 2,94,587, while the death toll is 1,601. The recovery rate in the state has improved to 99 percent, being on a constant upswing. With 264 more patients being declared as recovered on Monday, the total number of patients who have recovered from the coronavirus infection has touched 2,90,894 now. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tollywood-at-wits-end-on-collecting-viewers-numbers/articleshow/80638895.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 2, 2021||Thane||Container that arrived from Delhi saved nearly 15 persons||Workers were loading goods onto a container when a portion of the godown collapsed. Half the container, which came from Delhi, was inside the godown when it collapsed. Five took shelter inside the container, while around 10 came out of the godown. It acted as a shield from debris as a pillar got stuck on the container so some staff came out. Irfan Khan, the driver from Delhi, told TOI, “After parking it, to load goods, I was in the driver’s seat. I was shocked to see something fall on the backside of the container and it shook.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/container-that-arrived-from-delhi-saved-nearly-15-persons/articleshow/80638937.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Covaxin reaches vaccine sites but inoculation blueprint not yet ready||Kolkata: The first lot of Covaxin doses has reached three vaccination centres in Kolkata on Monday. But health officials said it would take a few more days to roll out this indigenously developed vaccine as it requires a different set of SOP and needs coordination between extended stakeholders as the inoculation will be on a ‘clinical trial mode’ unlike Covishield vaccination. Bengal got 1,12,960 Covaxin doses on January 22 and the consignment was kept at the state’s Central Family Welfare Store in Bagbazar. On Monday, 1,000 doses were dispatched to Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, and RG Medical College while 2,000 were sent to IPGMER. The rest of the doses have been shifted to the District Vaccine Store in Ballygunge. Health department officials said the Covaxin rollout will start only from three centres in the city — School of Tropical Medicine (STM), RG Kar Medical College and IPGMER. Since STM does not have ILR (ice-lined refrigerator) facilities, its share of vaccines has been stored at Medical College Hospital. “Covaxin doses have been sent to three centres on Monday. But it will take a few days to introduce this vaccine due to the need for a separate SOP and elaborate planning,” said Ashim Das Malakar, state family welfare officer. In addition to the state health department machinery, the Covaxin rollout will need close coordination with officials of ICMR and Bharat Biotech, which has collaborated in developing the vaccine. “Several critical issues have been identified that warrant careful consideration for successful implementation of Covaxin on a clinical trial mode. These issues include willingness to take Covaxin by written consent, eligibility of the recipients as decided by the inclusion-exclusion criterion, intense monitoring of all adverse events, medical management of adverse events, causality analysis of all reported serious and severe adverse events, assessment of serious adverse events (following the defined regulatory criteria) in order to recommend entitlement to financial compensation and reporting of such events to the DCGI,” said clinical trial specialist Santanu Tripathi, former head of clinical pharmacology at the School of Tropical Medicine. Unlike Covishield, Covaxin will be administered only after obtaining a written consent. The guideline on Covaxin implementation issued by ICMR has an inclusion-and-exclusion criterion.“A potential recipient has to be explained about the vaccine before taking an informed consent and undergo a thorough screening. Who will take the responsibility of this explanation and screening process? Will it be the responsibility of one of the vaccination officers or someone else will be designated? There is need for more clarity before the vaccine is rolled out,” said a source at the state health department. In Covishield rollout, AEFI (adverse event following vaccination) was being monitored by a team from the state health department. For Covaxin, designated persons from the ICMR and Bharat Biotech will be taking up active safety surveillance. ICMR has designated Suman Kanungo, a scientist at NICED Kolkata, as its nodal officer while Bharat Biotech has nominated its representative Jayanta Maity for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covaxin-reaches-vaccine-sites-but-inoculation-blueprint-not-yet-ready/articleshow/80637923.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Exemptions may benefit home buyers, not developers||Jaipur: The Centre’s move to extend exemptions for the purchase of affordable houses and to provide tax exemption for affordable housing projects will benefit home buyers, but not the real estate industry, claimed developers in the state. Many believe that the announcement will give a push to the ‘housing for all’ goal and boost purchasers to buy properties up to Rs 45 lakh after the decision to extend the Rs 1.5 lakh benefit on interest paid on affordable housing loans by one year to March 31, 2022. However, developers believe revival of the real estate industry, which was reeling under the crisis even before the pandemic, required more reforms. Vinay Joshi, president of Rajasthan Affordable Housing Developers Association said, “The announcements will only benefit the end-users and not the developers. For the revival of industry, the developers were expecting relaxation in stamp duty after formulating a policy one nation, one duty. Also, the Centre should have provided rebate on investment in real estate for long term capital gain and provided relief for developers to clear existing inventory. If developers are neglected, buyers cannot be benefited for long.” After Covid, it was perceived that residents, who were preferring rented accommodation over buying, have changed their mindset and need of people to own their own house was accelerated. This had revived hopes of developers to sell off their inventory. However, the industry did not witness revival as expected.Rajasthan CREDAI chairman Gopal Das Gupta said, “We welcome the announcement for affordable housing. However, key issues to revive the real estate industry, which is second-highest generator of employment and contribute to more than 8 per cent to the economy, have not been addressed. The developers are disappointed as industry received no assistance.” Meanwhile, there are few developers who are optimistic to sell their inventory after the announcement. “Many factors including reduction in interest rates has narrowed the gap of rent and home loan EMIs. This announcement will also encourage actual buyers to make faster decisions on the purchase of residential units. Flats ranging between 25 lakh and 45 lakh will be on high demand after the relaxation ,” said developer Vikas Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/exemptions-may-benefit-home-buyers-not-developers/articleshow/80637924.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Car hits bike, Cov warrior dies after falling from Maa||Kolkata: A 26-year-old Covid warrior — a contractual staffer at Sagore Dutta Hospital and a resident of Baisakhi Abasan in Salt Lake — was killed in a fall Maa flyover on to the Park Circus Connector on Monday afternoon after his two-wheeler was dashed from behind by a car. The victim had stopped to answer a phone call. Arijit Maitra had remained conscious despite severe fractures on his right arm and shoulder. However, he was declared brought dead at CNMC Hospital. Doctors said he had severe internal injuries. His friend, Duhita Pal (24) from Salt Lake, escaped with minor injuries after she fell on the flyover. Cops said Maitra and Pal were childhood friends and according to neighbours of the duo, they were planning to get married. “Pal said they were headed towards central Kolkata and took Maa flyover from the Captain Bhery side. They had barely crossed the joining point of the Garia and Salt Lake ramps when Maitra received a call around 1.58pm. He parked his scooterette on the left and the two of them remained seated as he answered the call,” said an officer from the fatal squad which is probing the case. Cops said two cars right behind the two-wheeler — a white car and a red Alto — were speeding despite the sharp bend a few metres back. “Maitra suddenly braking possibly took the car drivers by surprise. While the white car swerved to the right and avoided a collision, a vehicle on the other side led to the red car hitting the bike at an angle. The impact sent Maitra tumbling over the side barrier,” said an officer. The cops said the accused driver — a resident of Howrah’s Sankrail — made no effort to flee. He was arrested and handed over to the Pragati Maidan police. “He claimed that though his car is four years old, he bought it barely eight months ago. He claimed that he learnt driving but was unable to drive to any new spot during the pandemic. So, on Monday, he convinced his mother and brother to accompany him to Science City. While returning, he had confused the roads and had mistakenly gone towards the Salt Lake side. They were sent back in the right direction a few minutes before the accident,” an officer said. The police will carry out a mechanical test of the car and all relevant CCTV footage has been collected from the spot. TOI visited Maitra’s residence, but neighbours said that the family had gone to the SSKM morgue for the post-mortem. “Maitra was passionate about his work,” said one of his neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-hits-bike-cov-warrior-dies-after-falling-from-maa/articleshow/80637933.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 2, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Disappointing and anti-people, it has failed common man, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Former chief minister and veteran Congress leader Kamal Nath on Monday said the Union budget has not provided any relief for the common man. He said that youth in large numbers have lost their jobs during the Corona epidemic, yet the budget has no plans for generation of employment. Nath also pointed out that the common man was expecting tax exemptions which the FM failed to offer, he tweeted. He argued that the country’s largest section of population are farmers who have been agitating for their rights for the last two months and there is nothing for them, only false promises. “Again reiteration of the years old promise of doubling their incomes,” the former Union minister said. “On the one hand, the new agrarian laws aim at ending the mandi system and on the other hand, the budget promises to strengthen the mandi structure – just misleading with false promises?” Nath asked. “Like Make in India, Digital India, now Atmanirbhar is the new slogan with which the budget wants to mislead the people with manipulation of data. Those who used to oppose FDI, are today implementing FDI in every sector. This budget is entirely anti-people and disappointing,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/disappointing-and-anti-people-it-has-failed-common-man-nath/articleshow/80640168.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bhopal||Budget unveils PM’s vision, will transform economy: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday described the Union Budget as reflective of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision and resolve to create a prosperous, strong and self-reliant India. Talking to the media after a tour of Bhopal city, Chouhan said this budget presented amidst the difficult Corona times will pave the way for creation of an “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. The Prime Minister knows the art of changing adversity into opportunity and this budget shows just that, he said. “It is a humane Budget, which will transform the Indian economy,” Chouhan said. He welcomed the moved to rise borrowing limit of states to 4% of GDP, a long-pending demand of the state, and said this move will help MP to raise an additional Rs 13,000 crore. He said that all sections of the society-- whether poor, farmers, women or youth— received prominence in the budget that offer something for everyone. Exemption to senior citizens from filing IT returns is also a good move, he said. Allocation for the health sector has been raised by 137% and Rs 35,000 crore for Covid vaccines which will help boost the sector. Likewise, the Rs 5.50 lakh crore provision for infrastructure projects would help spur economic activities and create new jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/budget-unveils-pms-vision-will-transform-economy-chouhan/articleshow/80640161.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Dehradun||Cashless transaction system introduced in Haridwar district jail||HARIDWAR: Haridwar district jail in February introduced a cashless transaction system for inmates, in an effort to make operations smoother. A digital card has been given to prisoners to buy food from the canteen. Also, inmates can now talk to families everyday over the phone and are allowed a video meeting every week. Before, they were allowed to talk to families twice a week over the phone. Jailor SM Singh told TOI, “We banned the money and introduced coupons but had problems like stolen coupons and disputes over coupons. Now, inmates can swipe their card to get food.” Haridwar district jail has capacity for 800 inmates but currently has 1,200, including convicts and under trials. There should be one jail superintendent and four jailors in a jail but Haridwar district jail is run by one jailor. The jail is notorious for illegal use of mobile phones. Several extortion rackets run from inside the jail on phones have been busted. “There is no jammer or CCTV surveillance and we have limited staff for manual vigilance. Although we have trained 80 inmates to assist the jail administration, we will install CCTV cameras and mobile jammers soon,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cashless-transaction-system-introduced-in-haridwar-district-jail/articleshow/80657379.cms||MS Nawaz
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||After 10-mnth break, classes half full||Hyderabad: After a gap of 10 months, schools and colleges in Telangana reopened for physical classes for students of class 9 and above, on Monday, while maintaining all Covid-19 protocols. While 54% of class 10 students attended classes on Day 1, attendance recorded among class 9 students stood at 41%. Turnout in junior colleges, affiliated to TSBIE, was lowest with only 33% of students attending intermediate first-year classes on Monday. In the city, teachers said attendance in several schools crossed 70% mark. “Out of 52 students, 40 attended school today. Students were eager to meet their teachers and their friends and weren’t taking too well with the digital classes,” said M Ravinder, teacher at a Government High School in Nallakunta. “We were able to accommodate about 8 to 10 students in a class,” he addded while urging the government to fill teacher vacancies so that they are not overworked due to addition of extra sections, to maintain social distancing. The high attendance in government schools was also attributed to mid-day meals, cramped homes of children and limited or no contact with friends, among others. “After almost a year, I am happy that I got to meet my friends today,” said Akhil S, a class 9 student. While the staff at these schools appreciated the local bodies’ effort, they said that availability of thermometers, PPE kits, hand wash, sanitizers, is still limited. Teachers also highlighted lack of service personnel—attenders, sanitation workers, among others. “At least one service personnel must be appointed for each school for next four months so that teachers and principals won’t end up taking care of sanitation work or forced to shell out money from their pockets to hire one,” said Chava Ravi, a government teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-10-mnth-break-classes-half-full/articleshow/80638907.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB elected body’s tenure to end on February 10||Secunderabad: With the one-year extended period of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) set to come to an end on February 10, 2021, the ministry of defence (MoD) has decided to defer the constitution of Cantonment boards. In an official communication, the MoD said, “The competent authority has approved the proposal to defer the constitution of 56 Cantonment boards for a period of one year from February 11 or till such times the boards are constituted, whichever is earlier.” It means that the term of the SCB elected body will end on February 10. “In absence of the elected members, a three-member body comprising SCB president, CEO and a nominated person (appointed by MoD) will run the administration till the new body is elected,” SCB said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-elected-bodys-tenure-to-end-on-february-10/articleshow/80640159.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||TMREIS schools, colleges reopen||Hyderabad: Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS) schools and colleges reopened on Monday. AK Khan, president TMREIS visited TMR Schools Golconda Boys-1 and Golconda Girls-2 and inspected the measures taken in view of the pandemic.  TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tmreis-schools-colleges-reopen/articleshow/80638935.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB remarks perplexing: FNECS||Secunderabad: Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS) on Monday lashed out at Secunderabad Cantonment Board’s (SCB) president Brigadier Abhijith Chandra for claiming that no civilian road was closed. Secretary of FNECS (Green Sainikpuri), CS Chandrasekhar said that the remarks made by the president regarding the road closure are perplexing. The FNECS had released the list of the 21 civilian roads closed by the local military authority (LMA). Chandrasekhar said that there is nothing called a civilian road. “Neither in the Cantonments Act 2006 nor in the Cantonment Land Administration Rules (CLAR) 1937 there is nothing called a civilian road. The terminology used in both these statutes is roads on which the public has the right of way. The roads in the Cantonment were closed by LMA and not by Cantonment Board,” said Chandrasekhar. “The LMA has closed the roads illegally,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-remarks-perplexing-fnecs/articleshow/80640162.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Reduce dependence on Gulf remittance: Joseph Stiglitz||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Nobel prize-winning economist Joseph E Stiglitz said that the factors that contributed to Kerala’s success are competent government institutions, competent administration, participatory democracy and decentralisation, a reliance on science and the continued importance given to planning. While delivering the keynote address on day one of Kerala Looks Ahead conference, he advised the state to reduce its dependence on remittances from Gulf countries as the world was moving away from oil and using renewable energy sources as part of the efforts to deal with global warming. Arguing that ‘markets are shortsighted’, he said ‘that’s why we need government leadership working with private sector and civil society’ to address future challenges. It is important for Kerala to formulate its own economic strategy. Two key principles are diversification and building on current strengths, he added. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the three-day conference. Planning board vice-chairman VK Ramachandran presided over. “Kerala needs to work ahead as by 2050, the world will be largely dependent on renewable energy. It is imperative for Kerala to think ahead and create more jobs within state. It cannot be dependent on remittances,” Stiglitz said. He said that the pandemic had brought to the fore the importance of international cooperation for dealing with such situations. In her address, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at WHO, noted that health outcomes in Kerala were comparable to the highest in the world and that ‘recent data from NFHS-5 showed progress in many indicators such as IMR and MMR’. Observing that Covid-19 has taught us the importance of investing in public health, Dr Swaminathan charted out a three-pronged strategy for the state to deal with its health issues. “In Kerala, there are pockets of under development, pockets of poverty and pockets where there are highly-vulnerable people whose health outcomes are far worse than the rest of the population. These must be addressed. Anything we do would need to be sustainable. And the third factor is resilience in the face of health shocks that come from time to time,” she added. Kerala had an experience with Nipah which was handled excellently and actually the outbreak was contained and controlled, with minimal impact and loss of lives. “Covid has overtaken the capacity of the best health systems in the world. Therefore, this is a good time to identify where policies could be improved and also the gaps in human resources and institutional capacity,” she said. Inaugurating the conference, Vijayan said it was important to look forward to best ideas and practices that will help transform Kerala into a progressive and modern economy.. He said: “We need to think collectively on ways to move forward. We look forward to ideas that will help transform Kerala into a true knowledge economy founded on new technologies and innovation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/reduce-dependence-on-gulf-remittance-joseph-stiglitz/articleshow/80641652.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Reduce dependence on Gulf remittance: Joseph Stiglitz||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Nobel prize-winning economist Joseph E Stiglitz said that the factors that contributed to Kerala’s success are competent government institutions, competent administration, participatory democracy and decentralisation, a reliance on science and the continued importance given to planning. While delivering the keynote address on day one of Kerala Looks Ahead conference, he advised the state to reduce its dependence on remittances from Gulf countries as the world was moving away from oil and using renewable energy sources as part of the efforts to deal with global warming. Arguing that ‘markets are shortsighted’, he said ‘that’s why we need government leadership working with private sector and civil society’ to address future challenges. It is important for Kerala to formulate its own economic strategy. Two key principles are diversification and building on current strengths, he added. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the three-day conference. Planning board vice-chairman VK Ramachandran presided over. “Kerala needs to work ahead as by 2050, the world will be largely dependent on renewable energy. It is imperative for Kerala to think ahead and create more jobs within state. It cannot be dependent on remittances,” Stiglitz said. He said that the pandemic had brought to the fore the importance of international cooperation for dealing with such situations. In her address, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at WHO, noted that health outcomes in Kerala were comparable to the highest in the world and that ‘recent data from NFHS-5 showed progress in many indicators such as IMR and MMR’. Observing that Covid-19 has taught us the importance of investing in public health, Dr Swaminathan charted out a three-pronged strategy for the state to deal with its health issues. “In Kerala, there are pockets of under development, pockets of poverty and pockets where there are highly-vulnerable people whose health outcomes are far worse than the rest of the population. These must be addressed. Anything we do would need to be sustainable. And the third factor is resilience in the face of health shocks that come from time to time,” she added. Kerala had an experience with Nipah which was handled excellently and actually the outbreak was contained and controlled, with minimal impact and loss of lives. “Covid has overtaken the capacity of the best health systems in the world. Therefore, this is a good time to identify where policies could be improved and also the gaps in human resources and institutional capacity,” she said. Inaugurating the conference, Vijayan said it was important to look forward to best ideas and practices that will help transform Kerala into a progressive and modern economy.. He said: “We need to think collectively on ways to move forward. We look forward to ideas that will help transform Kerala into a true knowledge economy founded on new technologies and innovation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/reduce-dependence-on-gulf-remittance-joseph-stiglitz/articleshow/80637929.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kochi||Tweak in excise duty won’t keep prices low in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The agricultural infrastructure cess of 100% imposed on alcoholic beverages in the Union Budget may not be passed on to the end user as the government has announced that there would be adjustments in excise duty, but the people of the state would anyway have to shell out more price on liquor from Tuesday. The state government had cleared the decision of the Kerala state beverages corporation (KSBC) that had proposed an increase of 7% in the purchase cost of IMFL considering the steep increase in the cost of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is the main raw material for the manufacture of IMFL. In effect, once the purchase cost increases, the corresponding sales tax and excise duty and profit margin would also increase, which will be passed on to the end user. The rates have increased by Rs 30 to Rs 100, depending on the brands. The new rates will come into effect from Tuesday since the liquor sales outlets are shut on Monday. At present, the sales tax on IMFL is 237% for brands costing up to Rs 400 and 247% for brands that cost above Rs 400. The government had increased the sales tax by 35% in May last year. The excise tax is fixed on a slab basis. The present rate at which Bevco is purchasing IMFL from the manufacturers is on the basis of the rate fixed when the rate of ENA was Rs 35 per litre. However, the manufacturers have been representing Bevco that the cost of ENA has crossed Rs 60 per litre. Also, Bevco has been insisting for glass bottles instead of plastic bottles, that also has become expensive. In October 2017, Bevco had given an increase of 7% in the purchasing cost. It is after three years that the corporation has proposed the next increase in the purchase cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tweak-in-excise-duty-wont-keep-prices-low-in-state/articleshow/80637944.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman killed for ‘performing black magic’||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old woman was strangled to death allegedly by her neighbours who suspected that her black magic was the reason for the death of a kin The deceased was identified as N Bujji of Gandhi Nagar thanda in Nalgonda district, Telangana. “On Sunday afternoon, while Bujji was going to Narayanpur with another villager, Narasimha Yadav, and catch a bus to Bandalemuru to attend a function, she was kidnapped by her neighbour M Narasimha Naik and some others,” Choutuppal inspector A Venkataiah said. Based on a complaint by Yadav, police launched a manhunt for Naik and apprehended him in the night. Based on his confession, Bujji’s body was retrieved from Rachakonda hillock. “The accused strangled Bujji with her sari. A month ago, Bujji’s and Naik’s family quarrelled over a petty issue. Subsequently, Narasimha’s brother, M Rajesh, got electrocuted in their poultry farm and the family suspected that Bujji performed black magic and caused his death,” the inspector said. A murder case was registered and a manhunt was launched to nab the other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-killed-for-performing-black-magic/articleshow/80640172.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||630 kg ganja worth Rs 1.2 crore seized||Hyderabad: In a huge haul, Sathupalli police of Khammam commissionerate seized 630 kg ganja worth Rs 1.2 crore and arrested three members of a gang on Sunday evening. Kingpin of the ganja peddling gang, however, is on the run. Acting on a tip-off about ganja peddling, cops conducted a vehicle check at Vijaya Dairy in Sathupalli town and intercepted a DCM van and a car. Srinivas Reddy of Visakhapatnam, Arjun of Jangaon and Sandeep of Warangal were arrested, while main accused V Premdas is absconding. The accused were sent to judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/630-kg-ganja-worth-rs-1-2-crore-seized/articleshow/80640176.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Hyderabad||Orders on delimitation of wards in ULBs issued||Hyderabad: In a step towards holding elections to the urban local bodies (ULBs), the Telangana government has issued orders for delimitation of wards in Khammam and Greater Warangal Municipal Corporations, Siddipet, Atchampet, Nakrekal, Jadcherla and Kothur municipalities. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi on Monday held a meeting with Khammam district collector, municipal commissioner and senior officials and directed them to take up delimitation of wards as per the guidelines laid down in GO No. 12 (issued on January 30, 2021) by the municipal administration department. The municipal authorities in coordination with the State Election Commission will publish the electoral rolls once the delimitation exercise is completed. The number of wards will be published in the government gazette later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/orders-on-delimitation-of-wards-in-ulbs-issued/articleshow/80640165.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||‘Cold wave’ likely today; mercury slides to lowest in Feb since ’08||Kolkata: The city is set to be gripped by a cold wave on Tuesday with the minimum temperature likely to drop below 10.5°C, the Met office has said. At 11.4°C on Monday, the city recorded its lowest February temperature since 2008. It was five notches below normal. With the northwesterly wind flowing in unobstructed from the snow-capped ranges of north-west India, conditions are ideal for a mercury drop, leading to a cold wave. The chilly winds have already led to cold-wave conditions on the northern fringes of the city, with Dum Dum recording a minimum temperature of 9.6°C on Monday. All the conditions needed for a cold wave are about to be met in Kolkata on Tuesday, according to Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. “The minimum temperature in Kolkata has slid 5°C below normal since Sunday and is set to remain at that level on Tuesday. Secondly, the mercury is set to drop below 10.5°C, which satisfies the other requirement for a cold wave to prevail,” said Das. The sudden onset of chill has been attributed to an intense northwesterly that has been flowing in at a speed of 30km/hr. “It’s flowing in very fast at the upper-air level, which has pulled the mercury down. The wind should continue to flow in on Tuesday but could lose pace after that. So, if the cold-wave conditions are not met on Tuesday, it’s unlikely to happen subsequently,” added Das. Monday turned out to be the coldest February day since February 2, 2008, when the mercury had dropped to 10.8°C. Since 2012 — when Kolkata had recorded 11.6°C on a February day — the mercury has never plunged below 12°C during the month. Cold-wave conditions are already prevailing at one or two places in Malda, Jalpaiguri, Bankura, North and South 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, Nadia and Birbhum. In a warning issued on Monday, the RMC said though the cold is going to be ‘tolerable’, there could be mild health concerns for the elderly and infants. “Stay indoors during the night and early morning and use woollen clothes to avoid exposure to cold,” said the RMC. The cold spell, however, is unlikely to last long in Kolkata and its neighbourhood. “After February 4, a system is likely to form over Madhya Pradesh that could block the northwesterly and infuse warm winds. It could lead to a rise in temperature across the region,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cold-wave-likely-today-mercury-slides-to-lowest-in-feb-since-08/articleshow/80637945.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 2, 2021||Jaipur||Tourism again dumped, but MSMEs buy into broader Atmanirbhar vision||Jaipur: Budget proposals have no specific projects for Rajasthan, nor even any general announcements that would have lifted the spirits of the tourism and hospitality, a sector worst-hit by Covid pandemic.While the industry rued the absence of any stimulus measures for the tourism sector, one of the lifelines of the state’s economy, they preferred to focus on proposals which have potential to revive the general industry, 90% of which comes under MSME category.The finance minister announced to set up seven mega textile parks in the country. Given the presence and potential of the sector in the state, many businessmen and industry leaders said Rajasthan stands a good chance of getting one.“We do have a chance to bag one textile park in the state,” said Vishal Baid, chairman, CII-Rajasthan. Baid said that the Budget is growth-oriented even though there is no specific projects announced for the state.Many in the industry said that the proposals would give a fillip to domestic manufacturing. They identified the proposals for curbing imports by increasing import duty on various items.Sanjay Saboo, vice-chairman of CII-Rajasthan, said the government has raised import duty on items like agricultural, products, plastics, leather, polished stones, capital goods and machinery specified auto parts like ignition wiring sets, safety glass, screws, nuts, parts of mobile phones, electronic and electrical products.“These items can easily be made in India and it will create new economic opportunities in the country. Many MSMEs in the state will benefit from this. Also, the country will reduce its dependency on imports saving lot of foreign currency,” added Saboo.In the announcements, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, “Our custom duty policy should have the twin objective of promoting domestic manufacturing and helping India get onto global value chain and export better. The thrust now has to be on easy access to raw materials and exports of value added products.”Anand Mishra, director of a leading realty firm, drew attention to the reforms proposed in the power sector. Rajasthan has one of the highest industrial power tariffs in the country and the industry has been complaining that with such high rates it cannot be competitive in the country.“Ending monopoly of the discoms is a great idea. If industry can have access to cheaper power in the state, we have lots of expertise to be very competitive in many sectors of the economy,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-again-dumped-but-msmes-buy-into-broader-atmanirbhar-vision/articleshow/80637936.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||Economists slam Budget, rue lack of infrastructure projects||Ranchi: The economists in Jharkhand felt that the entire focus of the budget, which was tabled by Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, shifted to the poll-bound states of West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry and they got lion’s share of the budget allocated for infrastructural development. “Devoid of any big infrastructure project, labourers from Jharkhand will once again be forced migrate to states where there is a probability of construction of roads and other infrastructure,” economist and former vice chancellor of Vinoba Bhave University, Dr Ramesh Sharan, said. He added, “Our state largely depends on forest produce and farming so we expected some announcement about giving support to minor forest products and employment schemes. As many as 18 crore people in the country lost jobs during the lockdown and unless some support is provided to them, the economy cannot recover.” He, however, said that Jharkhand is going to be indirectly benefited by the Eklavya Vidyalaya scheme meant for tribal districts and also get a few model schools out of the 15,000 schools announced by the Centre to be developed with support of private players. Echoing similar views, St Xaviers College professor Dr Harishwar Dayal said, “NREGA scheme was a saviour during the lockdown. Thousands of people got some relief because of that scheme but the finance minister did not even mention anything about rural employment support.” He added that there was an urgent need to revise the wage paid in Jharkhand as well as coverage of the scheme. He also expressed disappointment over the silence of finance minister about social security schemes. Dayal said that people were adversely impacted during the pandemic and were eagerly looking for some additional support to the social security schemes, like pensions for elderly, widows and the disabled, most of which comes under centrally sponsored schemes. He also said that apart from Covid, the Centre should also focus on other diseases and improvement of the health infrastructure throughout the country. He further said that have also pointed fingers to the dream of 11% GDP growth projection in the wake of the fact that the mainstay of resource mobilization is through proposed disinvestment. “Disinvesting PSUs is a contentious issue, we are not sure about the future of HEC and other PSUs operating in Jharkhand and such steps can further trigger job losses and uncertainty,” Dayal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/economists-slam-budget-rue-lack-of-infrastructure-projects/articleshow/80637915.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||Health experts upbeat, Jharkhand govt unimpressed||Ranchi: Private hospital operators and the Indian Medical Association welcomed the Union government’s proposal to allocate Rs 2,23,684 crore in the Budget for the health sector. However, the state government said that even though the amount was enormous, there was a lack of clarity on how the money would be spent. Talking to TOI, state health minister Banna Gupta said: “The increase in allocation is welcome but the Union government hasn’t clarified when and where these plans will be taken up. So I am not sure what will be the share for Jharkhand.” Private healthcare providers and the IMA said the increased allocation for the health sector was a result of the lessons learnt from Covid-19. Advisor to Medica Hospitals group Anand Srivastava said: “This is a futuristic budget. In addition to the Ayushman Bharat scheme, the new centrally-sponsored PM Atma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, with an allocation of Rs 64,180 crore, is a bold step in providing healthcare to the common masses. An allocation of over Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination, too, shows that the government is committed to eliminate the dangers arising from viruses. The government has also rightly planned to set up critical care centres and augment the capacity of primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare institutes. This Budget will surely bring in more opportunities for both the state-run and private healthcare providers.” The IMA Jharkhand chapter also welcomed the Union Budget. The secretary of IMA Jharkhand chapter, Dr Pradeep Singh, said: “This Budget will work as a medicine for the ailing health infrastructure.” Singh further said: “The announcement of regional centres of NCDC and high-end virology labs are all a result of the pandemic. The government has realised that without properly watering a plant you cannot get sufficient flowers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-experts-upbeat-jharkhand-govt-unimpressed/articleshow/80639354.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||Budget proposals reformist: Steel cos||Jamshedpur/Bokaro: Two major steel giants — Tata Steel and Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) located in Jamshedpur and Bokaro — termed the 2021 Union Budget as reformist and forward-looking which will bolster the steel sector. Managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO) of Tata Steel, T V Narendran, said, “The Budget is progressive and growth-oriented in which the government has focused its approach on infrastructure boost-led economic revival. We welcome all the proposed reforms. The implementation of these reforms will however be crucial for the benefits to percolate across the sector in the country." The MD further said the exemption of duty on steel scrap and reduction of customs duty on steel products will also benefit the MSME sector. However, reduction of customs duty on steel products will have no significant impact on the steel industry as most of the steel imported into the country today comes from countries with whom steel companies have a Free Trade Agreement (FTA), Narendran said. He added, “Overall, it is a reformist Budget as it recognises and emphasises the participation of private players in all key areas, including the financial sector. The government is also aggressive on its divestment plans with a focus on monetisation of government assets.” BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India (SAIL), too, said the Budget will have a positive impact on the demand for steel in the long run. SAIL chairman Soma Mondal, in a statement, said the budget for 2021-22 has emphasized on accelerating the growth momentum of the country by targeting infrastructural growth, including roads, rails, urban areas, power, ports and shipping among others. “The creation of the Development Financial Institution will help address the fund requirements of different agencies. The announcement of a production-linked incentive scheme, vehicle scrapping policy, coverage of one crore more families under the Ujjwala Yojana will boost domestic production. All these measures and thrust on infrastructure development will have a major positive impact on the demand for steel in the long run,” Mondal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/budget-proposals-reformist-steel-cos/articleshow/80637872.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||Academicians: Research-oriented, model schools to improve edu infra||Ranchi: Welcomed several provisions in the Budget, educationists and academicians in Jharkhand on Monday said the allocation of Rs 50,000 crore for research and setting up of the commission with several verticals for higher education were positive steps. Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, director Shailendra Singh said, “The allocation of research fund for a period of five years will encourage aspiring research scholars and new faculty members. The setting up of a commission to act as an umbrella body will create synergy in work and reduce inter-agency conflicts. Entrepreneurs and universities will have to deal with a single body instead of multiple organisations.” Ranchi University Pro Vice-Chancellor Dr Kamini Kumar said, “The commission will ensure transparency in work and coordination between different wings of education. It will be very useful for teachers and students.” The government has also announced starting of 750-odd Eklavya schools for tribal students across the country. Sources said 69 of these will be new, 23 already exist and 16 are under construction. A state government official stated the Centre has sought land for construction of 69 schools in different parts of Jharkhand and the site for most have been identified. The schools will be built in blocks that have at least 20,000 tribals and their population is more than 50% of the total. The government has also increased the budget allocation for Eklavya Vidyalayas from Rs 20 crore to Rs 38 crore in plain areas and from Rs 24 core to Rs 48 crore in hilly, northeast and LWE affected areas. The decision to open 15,000 model schools means that 20 schools could be opened in each district on an average across the country. Even though the exact number of schools for the tribal state of Jharkhand is yet to be ascertained, experts say that they would be in significant number. The state government is also working on scheme to set up 89 model schools under a different scheme. Education secretary Rahul Sharma said, “The decision to open model schools will certainly improve school infrastructure in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/academicians-research-oriented-model-schools-to-improve-edu-infra/articleshow/80637927.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||‘Paperwork relief for elderly is a welcome step’||Ranchi/Jamshedpur: Traders and industrialists in the state gave a mixed reaction to the Union budget for 2021-22 FY, which was tabled by the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Lok Sabha on Monday. T V Narendran, the CEO and managing director of Tata Steel in Jamshedpur, called the budget reformist, progressive and growth-oriented, but said the implementation of the reforms promised in the budget will be critical for the benefits to percolate across the economy. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) said there was reluctance on hand-holding the micro, small and medium enterprises. “There was no mention of the MSME sector in the finance minister’s budget speech, nor was there the much-needed direct incentive scheme. There was an announcement to simplify GST regulations, but its contours were not divulged,” FJCCI said in a statement. FJCCI also expressed its disappointment at the fact that no tax exemptions were given to the middle-income group. However, FJCCI president Pravin Jain Chabra said, “Increase in allocations in the health sector, no new tax regime for industries and tax waivers for senior citizens are welcome steps.” In Adityapur, entrepreneurs welcomed the budget announcement that will entail voluntary scrapping of old vehicles. “The proposal will boost the automobile industry and the downstream ancillaries will benefit tremendously,” Adityapur Small Industries Association president Inder Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paperwork-relief-for-elderly-is-a-welcome-step/articleshow/80637957.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Jamshedpur||42 Covid cases, 81 recoveries and 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The state reported 42 fresh cases, 81 recoveries and one Covid death on Monday while the number of active cases were 513. The lone casualty was reported from Ranchi, taking the death toll in the district to 236 while overall toll stands at 1,073. Only seven districts reported fresh cases with the highest being in Ranchi, 19, followed by East Singhbhum with 10 cases, Bokaro five, Dhanbad three, Garhwa and Gumla reported two each and Hazaribag reported one case. As per government data, 11, 87, 34 have been infected so far, of which 11,71, 48 have recovered. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive in state saw a tepid response on Monday as the turnout of beneficiaries stood at 45%. The overall turnout stands at 55%. As per health department data, of the 15,761 registered beneficiaries, 7,158 were vaccinated. As many as 7,138 were administered Covishield vaccine while 20 in Dhanbad district were given Covaxin. A total of two AEFIs(adverse events following immunisation) were reported on Monday, one from Koderma and another from Hazaribag. The total cumulative figure for AEFI in state till date is 226.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/42-covid-cases-81-recoveries-and-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80647010.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||42 Covid cases, 81 recoveries and 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The state reported 42 fresh cases, 81 recoveries and one Covid death on Monday while the number of active cases were 513. The lone casualty was reported from Ranchi, taking the death toll in the district to 236 while overall toll stands at 1,073. Only seven districts reported fresh cases with the highest being in Ranchi, 19, followed by East Singhbhum with 10 cases, Bokaro five, Dhanbad three, Garhwa and Gumla reported two each and Hazaribag reported one case. As per government data, 11, 87, 34 have been infected so far, of which 11,71, 48 have recovered. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive in state saw a tepid response on Monday as the turnout of beneficiaries stood at 45%. The overall turnout stands at 55%. As per health department data, of the 15,761 registered beneficiaries, 7,158 were vaccinated. As many as 7,138 were administered Covishield vaccine while 20 in Dhanbad district were given Covaxin. A total of two AEFIs(adverse events following immunisation) were reported on Monday, one from Koderma and another from Hazaribag. The total cumulative figure for AEFI in state till date is 226.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/42-covid-cases-81-recoveries-and-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80639343.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||It is ‘atma-becho’ Budget: Hemant||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren has termed the Union Budget tabled by Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday as ‘Atma-Becho Bharat’. Talking to media persons in Dumka, Soren said, “I am yet to go through the details but whatever I have gathered so far, it looks like tough times are ahead for common people in this country. They have already paved the way for an increase in petrol and diesel prices by about Rs 4. Overall, the Budget looks like an Atma-Becho Bharat attempt.” The JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance government in the state described the Budget as a ‘disappointment’ for there were no special financial assistance for states like Jharkhand that are grappling with issues like joblessness and financial crunch. The Mahagathbandhan added that the budget has ignored farmers, migrants, labourers and common masses in a bid to to fill the coffers of private players. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) said the Budget was politically motivated. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattcharjee said, “The Budget doesn’t talk about the common man but favours BJP’s capitalist friends. Ironically, the entire framework of the Budget has been devised keeping in mind the upcoming assembly elections in Bengal and Assam, among others.” He added, “After robbing the youths of jobs and looting land from farmers, the government has now introduced a 10% tax on raw cotton. The entire budget is anti-state, anti-labour and anti-women.” JMM Seraikela MLA and state transport minister Champai Soren, too, tweeted on similar lines. “The common man will further feel the pocket pinch as the government is set to increase fuel cost, while public assets like airports, ports and railways are set for sale,” he said. JMM ally Congress alleged that at a time when cash liquidity among people was required to be promoted to boost domestic demand, the Union government has laid the groundwork to further squeeze the flow of cash. “The government should have reduced the tax slabs to give some relief to the common man. Instead it favoured select corporate friends of the BJP,” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said the budget has disappointed Jharkhand, which has given 12 out of 14 Lok Sabha seats to BJP in 2019 general elections. He said, “Jharkhand expected an increase in mining royalty shares, special assistance and better rail connectivity, but the aspirations of the state were ignored. The Budget also doesn’t have anything encouraging for farmers and common people, contrary to the claims of the Union government.” The state labour and employment minister and RJD Chatra MLA, Satyanand Bhokta, tweeted, “Budget 2021 clearly shows that in the coming years, the central government will sell all government resources. A state like Jharkhand which is on the path of development did not get any benefit.” The state unit of the BJP hailed the Budget as the beginning of Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. Former chief minister Raghubar Das in a statement said, “The first-ever Budget after the outbreak of the pandemic in the country lays stress on making India self-reliant. The government is committed towards public health as it has allocated Rs 2.23 lakh crore for the sector. The Sonnagar-Gomoh eastern freight corridor project (263.7km) will also benefit Jharkhand.” Former BJP member and Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Rai has called the Budget as a balanced one. “The Union government has increased central assistance to states by about 11% which will benefit Jharkhand too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/it-is-atma-becho-budget-hemant/articleshow/80639383.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Tribal families fined, flogged in Garhwa conversion backlash||GARHWA: Three Korwa tribal families in a Jharkhand village were allegedly fined, caned and made to do sit-ups after a kangaroo court declared them social outcasts for converting to Christianity recently. The incident occurred at Khala village under Dhurki block of Garhwa district on January 22, sources said. Jaiwardhan Kumar, the subdivisional magistrate of Banshidhar Nagar, confirmed receiving information about the alleged backlash against conversions in the area. "Reports of some villagers being targeted in Khala village have come to my notice, but there is no official confirmation yet. Can't say anything more before an investigation into the matter is carried out," he said. The Korwas are officially categorised as a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group. Around two dozen families from both the Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste communities have converted to Christianity in the area over the past year, villagers claimed. The three Korwa families allegedly targeted for converting were fined Rs 25,051 each, besides being subjected to caning and forced to do 110 sit-ups. "A priest from Bihar has been staying in a rented accommodation at Dhurki for around a year. It seems he, along with two of his aides, are responsible for the conversions," Dhurki block pramukh Vinod Korwa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-families-fined-flogged-in-garhwa-conversion-backlash/articleshow/80639318.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Ranchi||‘Long before announcement, work for freight corridor on’||Ranchi: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced to start work on two new phases of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC), which will connect Sonnagar in Bihar to Dankuni in West Bengal while passing through Gomoh in Dhanbad district. However, according to the sources in Indian Railways, the announcements are not new since work on the Sonnagar-Gomoh stretch of EDFC, which is 264-km-long, is already underway since early 2019. The central PSU, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), has already acquired nearly 93% of the land for the project. “The projects are ongoing. In today’s budget speech, it was formally announced that work for the Sonnagar-Gomoh stretch and the Gomoh-Dankuni stretch will begin this year in public-private partnership mode,” a senior Indian Railways official preferring anonymity told TOI on Monday from New Delhi. “We have already started looking for prospective partners and several of the country’s top-ranking corporate houses have expressed their interests and submitted their proposals for the same,” the official said. The Sonnagar-Gomoh stretch, which will pass through four districts in the state, needs 446.11 hectare land, of which 306.11 hectare comes under the jurisdiction of the state department of forests, environment and climate change. Of the four districts, Hazaribag has the maximum land, which is approximately 203 hectares. The first phase would draw investments to the tune of Rs 8,000 crore, DFCCIL officials told TOI. The stretch will have 580 bridges, seven railway flyovers, three tunnels, five viaducts and 50 roads over bridges and under bridges and two junction stations (New Gomoh and New Koderma). The second stretch of the EDFC connecting Gomoh and Dankuni will be 175-km-long. In 2019, the DFCCIL officials in Ranchi had told TOI that the work for these two stretches will begin in 2021 and that EDFC will become operational by 2024. The Gomoh-Dankuni stretch will cost Rs 6,500 crore. It will have four junction stations - New Dankuni, New Khana, New Andal in West Bengal and Pradhankanta in Dhanbad district. There will be three crossing stations, namely New Jhargram, New Mugma and New Rajbandh stations (in West Bengal). The entire stretch will have 683 new bridges, 10 railway flyovers and 94 road over and under bridges. Meanwhile, people in Jharkhand were disappointed over railways’ budgetary announcements. Prem Kataruka, secretary of Jharkhand Passengers Association, said, “There was no word about doubling of many existing rail routes. Neither a word was uttered about the demands put forward by us for setting up a new railway zone in Jharkhand. We had even demanded regular trains between Ranchi and Goa, which was also ignored.” Ranchi resident Samir Kumar said, “It was a disappointing budget. There could have been a push towards connecting remote districts, such as Khunti, Simdega and Gumla, with railways. The government could have also initiated a circuit train connecting the state’s prominent tourism and religious sites, which, in turn, could have boosted the economy and the state’s development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/long-before-announcement-work-for-freight-corridor-on/articleshow/80637845.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||FM's double shot to push the economy: Spendovax + Privamax||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday left tax rates largely untouched and bet big on privatisation and asset creation as the engines to power the Indian economy out of the post-Covid slump. Discarding the coyness and euphemisms — disinvestment, strategic sale — that have typically characterised Budget speeches in the past, the FM made it clear that the public sector would be restricted to just four strategic areas, and even there to the minimum extent needed. The declaration that two public sector banks and a general insurance company would be privatised were a particularly striking departure from the past, governments having generally steered clear of the financial sector in attempts at selling PSUs. In all, the government hopes to raise Rs 1.75 lakh crore from selling PSUs or their shares in the coming year. This is lower than the Rs 2.1 lakh crore target that had been set for this year, but well over the Rs 32,000 crore the FM estimates will actually be achieved. In keeping with this was the announcement that the FDI limit in the insurance sector would be raised to 74% from the current 49% with some caveats to ensure that managerial control remains in the hands of resident Indians. The indication in the economic survey that the government may not be overly concerned with staying within pre-set fiscal deficit limits proved accurate with the Budget projecting a deficit of 6.8% of GDP for 2021-22, much lower than the 9.5% estimated for the current year but well over the 3.5% that had been projected before the pandemic upended all calculations. Highway push in poll-bound statesOverall expenditure is projected to be about 14.5% higher than the budget estimates for current year, but that would mean almost no change from the revised estimates, which were perforce higher thanks to Covid-induced spending. Capital expenditure — largely used to fund creation of assets — is slated to rise by 26% even over the RE 2020-21 levels. Among the assets to be created are roads and more railway freight corridors and it was hardly a surprise that the budget speech singled out highway projects in pollbound states such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam for special mention while relegating less politically significant ones to the annexures. There is also a new drinking water mission with an outlay of Rs 2.9 lakh crore over five years for urban local bodies to complement the one already ongoing for rural areas. Read AlsoFiscal discipline not junked, govt aims at 4.5% deficit by 2025-26The government will continue on its path of fiscal consolidation and intends to reach a fiscal deficit of below 4.5% of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025-2026, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech.A new centrally sponsored health scheme, PM Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, is also to be launched with an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore over six years. The speech said the allocation for “health and wellbeing” was being hiked by 137%, but the fine print revealed that this was thanks largely to a Rs 35,000 crore provisioning for Covid vaccination, finance commission mandated health grants, and a significantly higher outlay for drinking water and sanitation. The health ministry’s own allocations are only modestly up from the current year’s budget estimates and a tad down from revised estimates. A voluntary vehicle scrapping policy for personal vehicles over 20 years old and commercial ones that are 15 years old, the FM hoped, would help give the automobile sector a leg up. Another measure to boost domestic manufacturing was Rs 1.97 lakh crore over five years for production-linked incentive schemes. The piped gas network is to be spread to 100 more cities over the next three years. The banking sector’s bad loans problem is to be resolved by setting up a ‘bad bank’ (asset reconstruction company) and an asset management company that will take over their stressed assets, manage them and dispose of them to interested investors. Banks will also get an equity infusion of Rs 20,000 crore over the year to shore up their capital base.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/double-shot-spendovax-privamax/articleshow/80641065.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||‘How long can I go on putting money that fails to perform?’||NEW DELHI: The government has bet on infrastructure spending as it is confident that the multiplier effect will pull the economy to a higher growth trajectory, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday while asserting that the protest against farm laws was not a deterrent to the bold move to push ahead with privatisation of state-run firms, banks and an insurance company. “It was very clear during consultations that a good amount of public spending, particularly on infrastructure, is one recipe where the multiplier effect is big. And because of the multiplier, the result that you expect is sure-shot. Besides, when you do this instead of delivering money into people’s hands, the quality of expenditure can be monitored,” Sitharaman told TOI. She said privatisation of banks and other PSUs had become inevitable to protect taxpayers’ money. “From among the banks, we want many, many more State Bank-like banks... but some of them are in a very worrisome situation. After all, I am dealing with taxpayers’ money, how long can I go on putting money that fails to perform?” she said. Sitharaman denied the suggestion that the government was wary of going ahead with yet another reform measure at a time of protests against the farm laws. She also expressed surprise at speculation over a Covid cess and said no such proposal was ever discussed. “It was never considered. Not a single paisa in new tax,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-long-can-i-go-on-putting-money-that-fails-to-perform/articleshow/80641084.cms||Sidhartha
February 2, 2021||Business||Sensex dons best B-day suit, posts 2nd-highest rise ever of 2,315 points||NW DELHI: A growth-oriented Budget amid a pandemic-triggered crisis led to a renewed bull rally on Dalal Street on Monday with the sensex rising 2,315 points, its biggest Budget-day gain and the second best upsurge ever. The ascent also made investors richer by Rs 6.3 lakh crore, with BSE’s market capitalisation at Rs 192.2 lakh crore. With banks and financial stocks leading the surge, the sensex closed 5% up at 48,601 while the Nifty was up 647 points, or 4.7%, at 14,281. It was the Nifty’s third biggest single-session gain and the biggest on a Budget day. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageIn the days leading up to the Budget, given the precarious condition of government finances, market players were expecting the finance minister to hike some taxes and cess, or burden citizens and corporate entities in some way to garner higher revenues. The absence of any such proposal, combined with the government’s strong push for infrastructure spending that could possibly generate more employment, led to the rush for stocks. Brokers and analysts also said that several other market-friendly proposals by the FM have the potential to bring in positive changes in the market over the long run. These include consolidation of several securities laws into one unified securities market code, divestments of two banks and an insurance company, and setting up an assets management company to handle bad loans. India could see Rs 20,000-25,000 crore investments by MNCs in desi firms in 2-3 years as an outcome of the decision to hike FDI in insurance from 49% to 74%. Experts say the call came a little late, but some Japanese and German firms are keen to raise their stakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dons-best-b-day-suit-posts-2nd-highest-rise-ever-of-2315-points/articleshow/80641093.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||CM plans to use central funds for infra, human devpt||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the Rs 300 crore allotted to the state in the Budget to celebrate its 60th year of Liberation will be utilised over the year for infrastructure and human development, to restore places that hold a place of significance in Goa’s Liberation struggle, and to help the common man who suffered due to the pandemic, among other things. He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union home minister Amit Shah for the funds. Sawant said that while the national Budget laid stress on Aatmanirbhar Bharat, his budget would concentrate on Swayampurna Goa. He said that the Budget would benefit the people of the state, including the fishing community which stands to gain due to the emphasis on blue economy. “Fish export will get a boost due to the Budget,” Sawant said, adding that the Budget will also help the state government improve infrastructure for various sectors like agriculture, horticulture and fisheries, among others. “With the increase in percentage of borrowing, the state government can now borrow over Rs 4,000 crore. But we will not borrow,” the chief minister said. However, the state will borrow between Rs 750 crore and Rs 1,000 crore under the rural infrastructure development fund (RIDF) from NABARD at the rate of 2.5% for rural development, Sawant said. For citizens, he said that not only is there no additional tax burden, but those who have completed 75 years don’t have to file income tax returns. Listing out the good news for the migrant population of the state, Sawant said that the announcement of one nation one ration card will prove beneficial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-plans-to-use-central-funds-for-infra-human-devpt/articleshow/80639295.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||Curbs on steel prices bring hope to barge operators||Panaji: Hit by the all-time high in steel prices, Goa’s barge industry drew hope from the steps outlined in the Union Budget to rein in steel prices. From Rs 45,000 per tonne, the cost of steel surged to Rs 74,000 per tonne in the last week of January, which made it expensive for barge owners to repair or maintain their barges. The 2021-22 Union Budget proposes to reduce customs duty to 7.5% on imports of non-alloy, alloy and stainless steel while also outlining investments in the Alang ship-breaking yard in Gujarat. The latter, said stakeholders, will go a long way in helping barge owners. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also exempted duty on steel scrap till March 2022. “The increase in the steel prices from Rs 45,000 per tonne landing in Goa to Rs 74,000 per tonne just one week back has hit the barge industry and it is very difficult to repair the barges at this rate. So bringing down the steel rate is very important,” vice-chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry and managing director of New Era Shipping, Atul Jadhav said. “The investment in the Alang sector will take time for us to take benefit in Goa. If they are able to contain the steel prices or if they could reduce the duties on steel manufacturing, we could have got a better advantage,” said Jadhav. The Union Budget does not directly impact or benefit Goa’s barge industry, which is struggling due to the closure of the iron ore mining industry. The barge operators were looking forward to financial support through the creation of a low cost funding mechanism to convert and reclassify some barges from inland vessel classification to statement of compliance level, which permits them to operate up to five nautical miles from the shore. “For shipping they have provided just Rs 1,000-odd crores, but as the shipping sector we expected more money to come. Investment in shipping for the Indian shippers is a welcome move,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curbs-on-steel-prices-bring-hope-to-barge-operators/articleshow/80639322.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: Are you richer or poorer? Here’s the bottomline||NEW DELHI: No change in tax rates or slabs means that your income tax payout is, for most people, unaffected by this Budget. But if your salary’s high or you use voluntary provident fund (VPF) contributions, there’s a bit of bad news for you. Because if your PF contribution is above Rs 2.5 lakh annually, interest earned on the additional amount will be taxable. So, let’s say you have an annual salary income of Rs 50 lakh. Read AlsoAre you now a gig worker? Top 9 things you need to knowA harsh fallout of the pandemic were job losses. If you have joined the freelance economy – be it as a freelance graphic designer, interior designer, an architect, a consultant etc – the fees you get from your clients will be taxed under the head ‘Profits and Gains from Business or Profession’.Typically, about half or Rs 25 lakh would be your basic salary. Your contribution to PF at 12% of basic pay would be Rs 3 lakh. Earlier, the interest earned on all of it would be tax exempt. Complete coverage: Union Budget 2021Now, tax will be payable on the amount above Rs 2.5 lakh, that is on Rs 50,000 in this case. At the current PF interest of 8.5%, that means Rs 4,250 would become taxable. Read AlsoUnion Budget 2021: 10 things individual taxpayers should knowThe fineprint of the finance bill usually leaves taxpayers wondering what’s in store. Times of India – EY Guide decodes how salaried employees can save more of their salary from the taxmen.How much tax you end up paying on this depends on what the tax rates and slabs are in the year in which you withdraw the money. Read AlsoUnion Budget 2021 explained in 15 chartsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday presented the first-ever digital Union Budget. She announced higher capital expenditure for 2021 and said this year's budget focused on six pillars- health and wellbeing; physical and financial capital, and infrastructure; inclusive development;One more example: Your total salary is Rs 1 crore and your basic pay Rs 50 lakh. Your PF contribution (at 12%) would be Rs 6 lakh and tax would be payable on interest on Rs 3.5 lakh, that is on Rs 29,750. Anyone with a monthly PF contribution of up to Rs 20,833 (annually Rs 2.5 lakh) — and therefore a basic pay of up to Rs 1.73 lakh per month — is safe. The same provisions and calculations apply to any voluntary contribution you’re making to your PF. A similar change in taxation of unit-linked insurance plans under Sec 10 (10D) of the IT Act means that if you were using ULIP as a tax-saving instrument, you can’t do it any longer if your annual premium amount is over Rs 2.5 lakh (under this scheme, the entire premium, and not just the incremental amount is taxable the moment it crosses the threshold). Read AlsoUnion Budget: Provident - Finance minister eyes your PF with interestBudget 2021 has restricted avenues for tax-free returns for middle-class taxpayers. From April 1, returns on investment of more than Rs 2.5 lakh in two of the most popular instruments — provident fund and unit linked insurance plan (ULIP) — will be taxed. This, say industry sources, will bring ULIPsInstead your income from such a scheme would be treated as a capital gain and taxed accordingly. Let’s say you invest in a ULIP with a premium of Rs 10 lakh. Typical returns are around 8%, so you can expect about Rs 80,000 as return. Earlier this was tax free, now you will have to pay 10% or Rs 8,000 on it. Watch Budget 2021: Govt to tax interest income on PF contribution above Rs 2.5 Lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/are-you-richer-or-poorer-heres-the-bottomline/articleshow/80641099.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||Goa’s industry breathes a sigh of relief as taxation remains stable||PANAJI: Goa’s industry captains let out a huge sigh of relief after the Union Budget for 2021-22 kept direct and indirect taxes more or less stable. The industry, which was worried that the pandemic and the revenue shortfall would prompt the government to increase taxes and cess, said that the Budget proposals will actually generate employment and boost the MSME sector. The move to reduce the time limit for reopening of income tax assessment from the present six years also gave the industry a sign that the Centre is willing to trust the private sector and reduce tax terrosim. “It is quite a positive budget because we were under the fear that there could be increase in direct taxes, which has not happened,” said Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kochkar. “If you see the overall budget, there is a lot of emphasis on infrastructure development that the government is talking about.” Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry, Goa State Industries Association and other even Goa Institute of Management said that the Budget would improve investor confidence and lead to employment generation if implemented in total spirit. Many industry stakeholders felt that the government would increase taxes or the cess in order to bridge the fiscal deficit or cover the expenditure incurred for Covid relief. “The best portion is that there has been hardly any tax increase on the direct front. People were worried that the cess would be increased from 4% to 5% or even 6% but it is a great relief that there has been no increase,” said chartered accountant Sandip Bhandare. While some did not fail to notice the focus on election-bound states in the Budget, others said that the success of the Budget hinges on its implementation. “The finance minister presented a forward-looking budget that would boost economic growth and investors’ confidence. The capital market has reacted positively, but the realities will unfold only tomorrow and further during the week,” said Prof. Amiya Kumar Sahu, Associate Professor (Finance) at Goa Institute of Management. Local industry stakeholders said that Goa can take advantage of the centrally sponsored schemes, such as the Swachh Bharat Scheme to improve Goa’s tourism sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-union-budget-newton-industry-relief/articleshow/80639340.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Goa||That sinking feeling: No bumper Budget for fishermen||Panaji: Fisheries stakeholders, who were expecting subsidies for traditional fishermen who operate within 12 nautical miles, were disappointed that the Budget made no such provision for them. Their hopes were dashed further when they realised that Goa does not feature among the five states selected for the setting up of fisheries hubs. “The focus of the Budget is not on fisheries but on commercial-based fishing such as caged culture and all new forms of fish production. Traditional fishermen are disappointed,” vice-chairperson of the National Fishworkers’ Forum Olencio Simoes, said. “There is no clarity on what hub it (the Centre) is talking about, but it appears that it is more for capture fisheries,” he added. In her Budget speech, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed substantial investments in the development of modern fishing harbours and fish-landing centres. Five major fishing harbours at Kochi (Kerala), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), Paradip (Odisha) and Petuaghat (West Bengal) will be developed as hubs of economic activity, she said and added that inland fishing harbours and fish-landing centres along the banks of rivers and waterways would be developed. Vice-chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry, Goa, Atul Jadhav said the state would have benefited from a fishing hub. “We should have a fishing hub for Goa because we area a fishing state and one of the eight maritime states. If all the associations get together, we can pitch for a fishing hub,” he said. Jadhav’s views were echoed by vice-president of the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ralph de Souza. “The chamber would prefer to take up this issue (fishing hub for Goa) with the central government,” he said. A fish exporter, however, said it was expected that Goa wouldn’t be selected for the setting up of a fishing hub as its fish catch is a not even two per cent of that from larger coastal states. Simoes said the traditional fishing community was expecting fuel subsidies as it has been hit by the Covid-induced lockdown besides several storms and cyclones. “The cost of diesel has skyrocketed and it is becoming difficult for traditional fishermen to venture into the sea. Several subsidies, including for fuel and canoe engines have been reduced,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/that-sinking-feeling-no-bumper-budget-for-fishermen/articleshow/80639348.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Many happy returns... only if you file by December 31||NEW DELHI: From the compliance point of view, the Budget seems to offer many pluses for the taxpayer. But, if you scratch beneath the surface, it does seem to be a mixed bag. Let’s begin with the sting in the fine print of the finance bill. The time-limit for belated or revised returns (to correct any errors) is shorter, and these can now be filed three months before the end of the relevant assessment year, or before the completion of the tax assessment, whichever is earlier. Let us look at a case study. For a salaried taxpayer, the date of filing his I-T return for the financial year ending March 2021will be July 31, 2021. The belated or revised return — which could earlier be filed by March 31, 2022 — now have a deadline of December 31, 2021, or before completion of assessment. whichever is earlier. “The reduction of such time-limits will impact taxpayers whose returns are due by October 31 (businessmen who need to get their audits accounted) or November 30, for companies having significant international transactions. Typically, mistakes in the original returns are discovered only after a few months. Not complying with the requirement by these dates could attract severe consequences — penalty for nondisclosure of income, besides potential prosecution,” says Gautam Nayak, tax partner at CNK & Associates. Coming to tax-audit requirements. Currently, if the turnover of a businessman exceeds Rs 1 crore, the books of accounts are required to undergo a tax audit. The FM, in her speech, pointed out that she had increased the limit to Rs 5 crore for those who carry out 95% of their transactions digitally. To give a further push, this compliance turnover threshold is now increased to Rs 10 crore. Gautam Nayak, tax partner at CNK & Associates, says it is a positive move. “However, for informal businesses having a larger number of transactions in cash, the limit is still unchanged at Rs 1 crore; this should have been enhanced to at least Rs 2 crore,” states Nayak. A dispute-resolution committee is proposed to be set up to reduce litigation for small taxpayers. Anyone with a taxable income of up to Rs 50 lakh and disputed income of up to Rs 10 lakh can approach this committee, the proceedings of which shall be faceless. The exact contours will be notified later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-many-happy-returns-only-if-you-file-by-dec-31/articleshow/80641109.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: Same tax, less hassle for 75-plus||NEW DELHI: The Budget has attempted to reduce the compliance burden on senior citizens above 75 years of age having only pension and interest income by exempting them from filing tax returns. However, if seniors have any other income like rentals from house and investments in mutual funds, they will have to file the return. Therefore, its effectiveness would be limited to those pensioners who do not have any income other than pension. In addition to such pension income he or she may also have interest income from the same bank in which the pension is coming in. Also, certain conditions need to be satisfied for getting exemption from return filing. In order to implement the scheme, the central government plans to notify a few banks as specified bank for the purpose. In order to avail the benefit, the pensioner will have to open his or her account in the specified bank. Pensioner will also be required to furnish a declaration to the specified bank containing particulars as specified by the government. The bank will also verify the declaration. Once the declaration is furnished and verified, the specified bank would be required to compute the income of the senior citizen after giving effect to the deduction and rebate allowed under the I-T Act. The bank will deduct the necessary tax, and the senior citizen will be saved the hassle of filing returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/same-tax-less-hassle-for-75-plus/articleshow/80641126.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: If they don’t catch you in three years, they never will||NEW DELHI: The finance minister has emphasised that the duration within which a tax assessment can be reopened is being reduced. She said, “…Currently, an assessment can be reopened up to six years and, in serious tax-fraud cases, for up to 10 years. As a result, taxpayers remain under the cloud of uncertainty for a long time.” The time-limit is now proposed to be reduced to three years. Further, in case of serious tax-evasion cases, only where there is evidence of concealment of income of Rs 50 lakh or more in a year, can the assessment be reopened up to 10 years. Even this reopening can be done only after the approval of the principal chief commissioner, the highest level in the income-tax department, the FM said. In case of undisclosed foreign assets, the I-T officials can reopen cases dating back to 16 years — there is no change in this provision. “The amendments announced today will reduce uncertainty. It will be difficult for I-T officers to reopen the assessment on differences in the legal interpretation of the tax provisions beyond three years. Further, the need for a prior approval before issuing a reopening notice will provide much-needed checks and balances,” says Punit Shah, partner, Dhruva Advisors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/if-they-dont-catch-you-in-three-years-they-never-will/articleshow/80641152.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Cheap thrill: Small homes won’t pinch||NEW DELHI: Continuing its focus on affordable housing, the Budget has extended the provision of deduction up to Rs 1.5 lakh in respect of interest on loan taken for the purchase of an affordable residential house property from taxable income under section 80EEA by one year up to March 31, 2022. An affordable house refers to a property valued up to Rs 45 lakh. Only those assesses who do not own any other residential house property on the date of sanction of loan can avail the benefit. This benefit is over and above the Rs 2 lakh deduction against interest paid on a home loan taken to buy a house under Section 24 of I-T Act. So, a buyer can get tax rebate on Rs 3.5 lakh interest paid on home loan. In fact, it would almost cover the entire interest to be paid in a year if one were to take a home loan of Rs 40 lakh to buy a house of Rs 45 lakh. The benefit will bring down the effective interest rate to around 5.5% from the existing 7% if the taxpayer comes in the bracket of 20%, and the net EMI after adjusting for tax benefit would be around Rs 26,000 only. The real estate sector was upbeat about the move saying it would keep demand buoyant for affordable housing. For developers, the customs duty on steel which has been reduced to 7.5% is also a welcome move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cheap-thrill-small-homes-wont-pinch/articleshow/80641163.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Haven-seeking bizmen brought to earth||NEW DELHI: Businessmen, using tax havens like Dubai to avoid paying taxes in India, find themselves in hot water. The reason — India’s tax laws now define the term ‘liable to tax’. The fallout? Nothing changes for a salaried worker, say, in UAE. He does not have to pay tax in India on his overseas salary income. But the provisions block the misuse of Dubai, and some other countries, for taxavoidance purpose (it could also hit genuine cases). “This amendment could impact Indian citizens who reside in countries where there are no tax laws applicable to individuals, and whose taxable income in India exceeds Rs 15 lakh. Such people would be treated as ‘Resident and Not Ordinarily Resident’ in India,” says Gautam Nayak, tax partner, CNK Associates. “Their income from foreign businesses controlled from India, or professions set up in India, would be liable to be taxed in India,” Nayak adds. “While the direct Indian sourced incomes were already taxable in the hands of such individuals, they now have tax exposure to incomes earned by them outside India, but from businesses controlled or professions set up in India,” says Rashmin Sanghvi, a chartered accountant. He illustrates: “The typical example would be Indian jewellery or diamond firms that have group companies in tax havens like UAE owned by NRIs, but are actually controlled from India. Incomes earned by the NRIs from such foreign companies can be taxable in India now.” As the term ‘liable to tax’ was not defined, taxpayers used to rely on several decisions, including those given by the Authority for Advance Rulings – several of which related to UAE residents. “Certain rulings held that even ‘potential’ future liability to tax was enough to cover persons under the clause ‘liable to tax’. This has been negated by putting a precise definition under the Act,” adds Sanghvi. The India-UAE tax treaty is worded differently and does not contain the term ‘liable to tax’. However, Sanghvi points out that some of those who seek to use Dubai as a jurisdiction to avoid taxes, may not be able to get a tax residency certificate. They do not reside in that country for 183 days or more to qualify for a tax residency. He adds, “And even if they do, they would typically not be able to pass the tie-breaker test in favour of UAE. In such cases, the definition proposed to be provided in India’s tax laws, will be the stumbling block in aggressive tax planning tactics. In other words, such persons who cannot access the India-UAE treaty will be in trouble.” At the same time, tax exemption for foreign pension funds has been simplified by providing relief even though they may be exempt under their domestic (overseas country) tax laws. The intent to define the term ‘liable to tax’ to ensure tax certainty was tucked away in an annexure to the FM’s speech. The Finance Bill 2021 states: “The term liable to tax, in relation to a person, means that there is a liability of tax on that person under the law of any country and will include a case where subsequent to imposition of such tax liability, an exemption has been provided.” The proposed amendment applies to financial years 2020-21 and the subsequent years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/haven-seeking-bizmen-brought-to-earth/articleshow/80641173.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Delhi Police erect walls at border, plant spikes to stall protest||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is securing the borders, and how! Roads are being dug up with cranes, iron grills and spikes are being cemented to the ground, layers of barricades are being laid out — with concrete poured between two barriers for stability — and concertina wire and boulders placed to create more obstacles. Stung by the violence on January 26, which caught them off-guard, and determined to prevent a repetition, the cops are going to extraordinary lengths to keep the protesting farmers at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur grounded. A call has been given for a three-hour chakka jam on February 6 by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to protest against these measures, arrests, suspension of internet, sealing of roads, stoppage of water supply and, of course, the contentious farm laws. The cops are imposing a kind of chakka jam of their own by installing tyre slashers. They face the music at SinghuOn Monday, a photograph of some policemen wearing an armour-like gear went viral on social media. These steel batons have a forearm guard and were put on trial after over 500 personnel complained of receiving injuries on their hand while handling the protesters on Republic Day. It was clarified that their use was yet to be approved and only a few were being tested at Shahdara. “We will not use them till our senior officers give us the nod,” said a cop. Meanwhile, police commissioner S N Shrivastava visited the Ghazipur border and took stock of the security arrangements there. He also addressed his men from atop a barricade. There was some consternation among the locals and farmers at Tikri when digging up of roads started on Sunday night. Some took to twitter. By morning iron grilles and spikes had been embedded in the dug-up area and cemented with boulders placed ahead of this area to separate the protest site from the cops. On Monday morning, a concrete mixer truck was busy pouring fresh batches of cement mixture in the wide gap between barricades at Singhu border with labourers fortifying this later by welding iron rods with hooks to the barriers. New batches of concrete barriers kept arriving and a crane was used to arrange them in a maze. This continued till the evening under the strict supervision of Delhi Police and an RAF contingent as the administration tried to isolate the main protest township on Delhi-Chandigarh highway. Over the last couple of days, a five-layer barricading with trucks, cranes, containers and concrete bars had been set up on the Delhi side and a no-vehicle zone, several kilometres long, put in place. Equipped with Vajra vehicles, cranes and-riot control vans, this zone can now be accessed only by the cops with the media being allowed to enter on foot. Multiple vehicle-mounted loudspeaker systems were found to be blaring high-pitched patriotic songs right next to the stage set up by Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee in what seemed to be a move to create psychological pressure. The playlist had a variety of songs, from ‘Chale Chalo’ from ‘Lagaan’ to other popular ones from the film, ‘Border’. A police officer said that this was intended to keep the morale of the security personnel high. Barriers have been placed on the approach roads too and people have to take a detour of a few kilometres through paddy fields behind the industrial units on either side of the road to reach the protest site. Gurtej Singh, a young farmer from Moga, said that the government was treating its own people like outsiders. “Punish those who carried out wrong acts at Lal Quila but what is the point of raising walls at the borders of the national capital?” he asked. Meanwhile, Shrivastava announced a compensation of Rs 25,000 for the cops who were injured grievously in the January 26 riots and Rs 10,000 for those with other serious injuries. The district DCPs have been asked to propose enhanced financial assistance in special cases. Watch Farmers’ unions announce nationwide roadblock protest on Feb 06||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-protest-delhi-police-erect-walls-at-border-plant-spikes-to-stall-protest/articleshow/80641170.cms||Sakshi Chand
February 2, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Colleges open, thrilled I PU students throng campuses||BENGALURU: Scores of grade 9 and I PU students poured into school and college campuses across the state on Monday as regular classes commenced for the first time since the pandemic hit on Monday. The state recorded attendance of 65% for I PU students on Day 1. As per numbers released by the department of PU education, attendance in Bengaluru North education district stood at 66%, Bengaluru South at 67% and Bengaluru Rural at 74%. Elsewhere in the state, Dakshina Kannada district had the highest attendance with 86%, followed by Uttara Kannada (80%) and Udupi (79%). The lowest was recorded in Koppal (43%). Although attendance for class 9 students was not known, authorities expect it to increase since many had already been attending on-campus Vidyagama lessons. The education department had decided to allow schools and colleges to commence full-time classes for grades 9 and 11 last week. Pursuant to the decision, the department had directed institutions to follow all safety measures like social distancing norms, use of masks and sanitisers etc. At Sir M Visvesvaraya BBMP Public School and Composite PU College, Chamarajpet, I PU students, who are returning to campuses for the first time since March last year, were welcomed back with aarti thalis and flowers. Raju B, principal of the school, said they began the day with a pooja and had arranged for an interaction between II PUC and I PUC students. “We clocked an impressive 80% attendance,” Raju said. “Most of students were excited to be getting on with their college life. During the interaction, the seniors exhorted their juniors to attend classes regularly without fear.” He said grade 9 students were already attending the Vidyagama programme on campus and they expected their number to rise in coming days. The school is utilising its auditorium and spare classrooms to ensure social distancing norms are followed. Ravindran T, a lecturer at St Joseph’s Pre-University College, said I PU students were excited to be back on campus. “During online classes, students would keep asking me when they could attend classes on the campus. Considering that, we have received a heartening response,” Ravindran said, adding that they are planning batch-wise classes for I PUC and II PUC students. At Sri Chaitanya PU College, 25-30% students attended, which the college hopes will go up to 40% in the coming days. They are, however, conducting classes in both online and offline modes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-colleges-open-thrilled-i-pu-students-throng-campuses/articleshow/80641186.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Street rocks as FM turns up the volume, tunes into market playlist||NEW DELHI: Dalal Street investors gave a big thumbs-up to the FM’s Budget proposal that boosted government investments at a time when private sector players are unable to act similarly, mainly due to Covid-induced uncertainties. According to Jaideep Hansraj, MD & CEO, Kotak Securities, the government has sacrificed fiscal deficit for growth. “No tinkering on taxes, including personal tax and a giant leap of divesting two state-run banks and opening up of the market by making way for the LIC IPO and foreign ownership in insurers have been a welcome move and the primary reason for the rise in stock market.” “The Budget rightly decided to focus on economic growth by raising expenditure and allowing for a wider fiscal deficit in these pandemic times. Importantly, a far higher spend on capital expenditure is a move in the right direction. Domestic manufacturing is going to be a big growth engine with previous corporate tax reductions, correction of inverted duty structures and a lot more subsidy to come on the PLI front,” said Amar Ambani, senior president & institutional research head, Yes Securities. “What appealed most to the stock market was the absence of moves like wealth tax or increase in LTCG on equity investments. Unless there is a devil in the fine print, the Budget has been kept simple and (the FM) has played the right cards.” On the sectoral front, market players felt that the banks, infrastructure, materials and metals sector could benefit by the thrust given to privatisation and spending in the Budget, said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. Among the sensex stocks, ICICI Bank, HDFC and HDFC Bank contributed the most. With the Budget behind it, the market’s direction is now expected to be dictated by how foreign funds react to the proposals, the spread of the coronavirus and the roll-out of the vaccine in India and around the world, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/street-rocks-as-fm-turns-up-the-volume-tunes-into-market-playlist/articleshow/80641177.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Is a bad bank good news? Govt thinks so, private ARCs differ||NEW DELHI: An accelerated clean-up of bank balance sheets and a free hand to lenders to give out fresh loans are on the cards with the government proposing to set up an asset reconstruction company (ARC) —or a bad bank—and appointing asset management companies to oversee them. It has also decided to permit Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs) to buy bad loans. “An ARC and an AMC would be set up to consolidate and take over existing stressed debt and then manage and dispose of the assets to AIFs and other potential investors for eventual value realisation,” said the finance minister. At present, AIFs are not allowed to invest in bad loans. The RBI, following its stress tests of banks, had said that gross NPAs of banks could rise to 14.8% of their loans by September 2021. Bogged down by the recovery process, banks are unwilling to take a tough decision on valuation. Most bad loans take up significant management time. While there are ARCs in the private sector, PSU bankers are very cautious while selling bad loans to them over fears that they may be questioned if the value of the assets rises after the sale. In a PSU, they do not have such fears.  However, ARCs have their concerns. “While we welcome the idea of managing and aggregating non-performing loans of the banking system, we feel the concept of creating another ARC should be avoided. The ARC business in India is fully developed and well governed with distributed shareholding. It might be time- and costsaving to use the existing physical and intellectual infrastructure in aggregating and resolving non-performing loans,” said Aswini Sahoo, CIO of Arcil (Asset Reconstruction Company India). He added that it might be a good idea to capitalise existing ARCs with long-term capital and guarantees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/is-a-bad-bank-good-news-govt-thinks-so-private-arcs-differ/articleshow/80641201.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Pulling insurance out of the cap: An MNC show||NEW DELHI: India could see Rs 20,000-25,000 crore of investments by equity funds and multinationals in domestic companies in two-three years as an outcome of the decision to hike foreign direct insurance (FDI) in insurance to 74% from 49%. According to Ashvin Parekh, managing partner at Ashvin Parekh Advisory, it is a commendable step, though a little late in the day as many foreign partners have withdrawn from India. However, there are some Japanese and German companies waiting to up their stakes. “These companies are keen on majority stake and control as their local laws are very strict about disclosures of actions by their overseas arms and they are very focused on reputation,” he said. Besides, some foreign firms are keen to hike stake given the appreciation in their investment. “No other market has delivered value the way Indian market has for multinational insurers,” said Parekh. Standard Life’s 8.9% stake in HDFC Life is worth over Rs 12,500 crore, several times the original investment. For private equity and foreign institutional investors (FIIs) keen on insurance, easing of norms paves the way for a firm foothold. Ditto for MNCs, whose Indian partners were struggling for capital but still could not hike stake because of the ceiling. The government had hiked FDI in insurance to 49% from 26% in 2014, but some multinationals chose not to increase stake then as the relaxation came with stringent norms requiring all insurers to be “Indian-owned and Indian-managed”. The proposed amendment does away with those norms; but it requires companies to plough back earnings into India rather than repatriate them as dividend. Some of these rules too may be under review though.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pulling-insurance-out-of-the-cap-an-mnc-show/articleshow/80641212.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Bye, bye multiple laws, hello 1 market code||NEW DELHI: The finance minister on Monday proposed consolidating important securities laws into a code, a move that has the potential to combine several legislations into a unified one. It could eliminate duplication, enhance clarity relating to these laws and bring down the cost of compliance, securities laws experts said. On Monday, the FM proposed to consolidate the provisions of Sebi Act, 1992, Depositories Act, 1996, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Government Securities Act, 2007 into a rationalised single securities markets code. According to Sandeep Parekh, managing partner, Finsec Law Advisors, the idea of a unified securities market law has been mooted many times in the past but is being implemented now. “It will present a cohesive rubric of law as opposed to the piecemeal approach we have had till now.” The move relating to securities laws, when considered in a larger perspective, seems aimed at the government’s ‘Ease of Doing Business’ objective. “The consolidation of securities laws, existing decriminalisation of offences under the Companies Act and the proposed decriminalisation under the LLP Act marks an important move towards making Indian corporate legal framework simpler, business-friendly and ultimately (hopefully) reducing compliance costs,” said Arka Mookerjee, Partner, J Sagar Associates. The proposed securities market code is in line with previous discussions on the NFRA (National Financial Reporting Authority), an independent regulator to oversee the auditing profession and accounting standards in India. “If drafted and executed in a proper manner, it will be helpful to market participants and remove any possible conflicts,” Mookerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-bye-bye-multiple-laws-hello-1-market-code/articleshow/80641213.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Deposit cover for not just failed, even flailing banks||NEW DELHI: Relief for depositors in troubled banks may come faster following an amendment proposed to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act. The FM has said the amendment will ensure that if a bank is temporarily unable to meet obligations, depositors can still access funds to the extent of deposit insurance available. Last year, the government amended the DICGC Act to increase insurance from Rs 1 lakh of deposits per customer to Rs 5 lakh. Now the proposed amendment will allow even customers of a bank placed under moratorium to get their money. Under existing norms, DICGC does not directly pay depositors when a bank goes for liquidation. Funds are paid through the liquidator within two months of receiving claims list. In a separate move, the government has also introduced legal amendments that will enable conversion of cooperative banks into private banks. This includes making the conversion tax-neutral for the bank. These amendments will facilitate takeover of PMC Bank by private investors. Depositors of the bank have been waiting for a revival since 2019. Fintech players Bharat Pe and Centrum had shown interest in acquiring it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-deposit-cover-for-not-just-failed-even-flailing-banks/articleshow/80641230.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Trinamool’s Diamond Harbour MLA quits party||Diamond Harbour (South 24 Parganas): Trinamool Congress’s two-term Diamond Harbour MLA Dipak Haldar quit the party on Monday, marking the first major desertion in leader Abhishek Banerjee’s Lok Sabha constituency. Haldar sent his resignation via Speed Post to TMC state president Subrata Bakshi, with a copy to South 24 Parganas district president Subhasish Chakraborty. Haldar didn’t immediately announce his future course, though he has been to BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee’s Golpark residence last month. “I am yet to make up my mind,” he said. But unlike Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, Haldar won’t give up his MLA post. “Why should I resign from the West Bengal Assembly when people have elected me? I will talk to voters of my constituency and take a decision,” he said. Haldar fell from grace way back in 2015 when police arrested him in connection with a clash at Fakir Chand College in Diamond Harbour after he confronted the officer in charge. Haldar had to take a back seat in Trinamool politics since then. “How long can I continue with the insult? I was invited to Mamata Banerjee’s meetings in Diamond Harbour. But I didn’t get the invite when other leaders and ministers held meetings in my constituency,” Haldar said. Meanwhile, the Centre on Monday provided Z-category security to Rajib Banerjee, who defected to BJP from Trinamool Congress. Commenting on the Domjur violence on Sunday night, Banerjee said there might be political opposition, but there was no political enmity. He said he would contest from Domjur again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamools-diamond-harbour-mla-quits-party/articleshow/80640196.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Plane with Bengal top cop, sr colleagues makes emergency landing after fire alarm||Kolkata: A SpiceJet flight to Bagdogra with 63 passengers, including the brass of the state police force, turned around and made an emergency landing at Kolkata airport within a few minutes of takeoff on Monday evening after a fire alarm in the cabin. Among senior police personnel on board were DGP Virendra, ADG IB Niraj Kumar Singh and state security adviser Surajit Kar Purakayastha. The aircraft had earlier returned to the parking bay after being cleared to taxi due to a technical snag. The air traffic control radio received a “Mayday! Cabin on fire!” distress call from the captain at 4.25pm. The plane had taken off barely two minutes earlier. The call set in motion a flurry of activity to roll out full emergency measures on the ground, including strategic positioning of airport crash tenders to combat the fire and ambulances to ferry the injured. Flight SG-275 touched down after 12 agonizingly tense minutes for airline staff, airport officials, air traffic controllers and emergency personnel. As soon as the wheels hit the tarmac, the fire trucks waiting by the side entered the runway and gave hot pursuit, scanning the aircraft for any hint of a flame or smoke. Much to everyone’s relief, nothing was spotted. After the plane rolled into emergency parking bay C5, the passengers and six crew members were quickly evacuated. “An alarm in the cockpit indicating a fire in the cabin led to the distress call from the flight captain. No fire was visible in the cabin. The aircraft has been grounded to undertake through check by engineers. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation will also conduct an inquiry into the incident,” Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee told TOI after tensions had eased. A SpiceJet spokesperson said a passenger on board had complained to the cabin crew of an acrid foul smell like something burning. When this was relayed to the captain, he decided to return to Kolkata. “After a detailed inspection by engineers nothing unusual was found in the aircraft and there was no smoke or fire,” he said. The flight to Bagdogra was originally scheduled to take off around 3.30pm. But the aircraft returned to the parking bay at 3.40pm after being cleared to taxi to the runway after the pilot reported a technical issue. Apparently, the snag was checked by engineers and the flight again rolled out for takeoff around 45 minutes later. After it received the go-ahead from the ATC for departure, the flight took off at 4.23pm. The ‘Mayday’ call came just 2 minutes later at 4.25pm. The controller immediately notified the superior, who in turn alerted the fire services and other departments for full-emergency procedures according to the SOP. An aircraft that declares a Mayday is given full priority and the path is cleared of other aircraft so that it can return to the airport at the earliest. But the plane took time to turn and head back and finally touched down only at 4.37pm. “The plane took off towards the Madhyamgram end of the runway. It had to then turn around and approach the runway from the Rajarhat-Narayanpur end to land,” an official explained. The airline arranged for an alternative aircraft for the flight to Bagdogra that took off with all 63 passengers, including the three VIPs, at 6.02pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plane-with-bengal-top-cop-sr-colleagues-makes-emergency-landing-after-fire-alarm/articleshow/80639949.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Budget is against farmers, people and nation: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||SILIGURI: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has dubbed the Union Budget “anti-farmer, anti-people, anti-nation” with no benefits for the unorganized sector. “Ami bolbo bhekdhari sarkarer fekdhari budget, hukka hua budget (A budget of trickery by a charlatan government),” Banerjee said in Siliguri on Monday. State finance minister Amit Mitra said it was not only paperless but also directionless and confusing. The CM feared that the proposal to impose agricultural cess on petrol and diesel and a whole range of commodities would further push up prices. “Petrol, diesel prices increased seven times and it will rise for the eighth time due to the cess. And all the cess money will go to the Centre while states will get nothing. It is like jiziya tax,” Banerjee said. She criticised Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s proposed disinvestment of public sector units. “They (Centre) are privatising railway, airport, port, insurance, coal and the banking sector. Another 23 PSUs are on sale. The entire nation is on sale. I would urge you to sell out this party (BJP),” Banerjee said while inaugurating the Uttarbanga Utsav here. The CM hit out at the BJP-led Centre for planning to disinvest up to 74% in Life Insurance Corporation. “They are opening up insurance sector to foreign companies. They will disinvest up to 74% of LIC. Will you get your money parked in LIC? They (BJP) had promised to transfer Rs 15 lakh to personal bank accounts out of ‘notebandi’ proceeds. Instead, they are aiming to take money out of your account through ‘bankbandi’,” she said. According to Banerjee, the Budget had no relief for the poor. “This government doesn’t mind giving waivers to the rich who piled NPAs (non-performing assets) in banks. But they couldn’t waive railway fares for migrant workers coming back home during pandemic; we had to bear the cost,” she said. The CM gave little importance to the Centre’s proposed spending of Rs 1,000 crore on tea gardens, calling it a “hoax”. “I would remind you that these people (BJP leaders) promised to open seven sick tea gardens in north Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha poll campaign. Did they open them?” Banerjee went the whole hog against the Centre for making considerable allocations in road infrastructure, including rural roads. “The state is setting up a special corridor connecting south and north Bengal. I am taking care of rural roads,” she said. “Go to the farmers, make sure that they get essential commodities — pulses, potato and rice — at low prices,” she continued. “Repeal the anti-farmer laws and do something for farmers, instead of giving a boost to one or two industrialists acting as BJP fund-givers.” Mitra said: “World over, including the Furlough scheme in the UK, the aim is to increase demand stimulation... More spending by people will lead to more demand stimulation. This is missing in this budget,” he said. “Bengal has spent over Rs 4,000 crore on Covid alone,” Mitra continued. “What have we got? Only Rs 279 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/budget-is-against-farmers-people-and-nation-mamata/articleshow/80640182.cms||Roshan Gupta
February 2, 2021||Noida||Monday mess: Delhi commute turns a nightmare||NOIDA: Commuters had a harrowing time travelling between Noida and Delhi via DND, Chilla, Kalindi Kunj and almost all other entry points to the capital as Delhi Police stopped each and every vehicle to check for IDs on Monday morning. Be it work or casual visits, almost everyone was delayed by anything between two and six hours. As vehicles moved at snail’s pace, some gave up and cancelled their plans, while others headed for work in the metro after parking their cars at the stations. The tailback of vehicles started growing longer at Chilla and on the DND around 8.15am when the Delhi Police began their checking drive. Businessman Prince Rai, who had left his Sector 45 house for Delhi’s Chhatarpur around 9am, was stuck on the DND even at 11am. “On Twitter, I asked Delhi Police the reason for this long snarl. They replied that a checking drive was going on. But when I travelled further, I saw a few buses and private vehicles, but there was no checking whatsoever. This is no reason for blocking traffic. People have their morning meetings to attend. The police are saying they are taking precautions, but when the farmers’ protest is restricted to a particular area, what is the point of slowing down the entire traffic?” he asked. Brajesh Sharma, who travels regularly to Delhi via DND, said the first signs of snarl appeared a kilometre ahead of the DND toll. “It was bumper-to-bumper traffic right from the beginning of DND till Ashram. The congestion at DND usually starts around 9am. But it was around 45 minutes earlier on Monday,” he added. Those stuck on the Noida-Delhi Link Road and DND took alternative routes via New Ashok Nagar and Kondli, but there was little respite there too. With the main highways jam-packed, some of the traffic had already started getting diverted through these routes. For many, the journey from Noida to Gurugram took around six hours — it usually takes a little more than an hour. Vipin, a Jaypee Wish Town resident, parked his car at Shastri Park metro station and took the metro to work. “I had first taken the Chilla Road, but it was chock-a-block. I then moved towards the New Ashok Nagar border, but that too was blocked. I somehow reached Akshardham and looking at the traffic situation, I decided to take the metro instead. I parked my car at Shastri Park metro station and moved ahead,” he said, adding that one of his colleagues had to drop his plan to visit the office altogether. Commuters travelling from Noida to Ghaziabad were also delayed as they spent more than half their time negotiating traffic through the internal roads of Indirapuram because of diversions in place. Avnish Kumar, who was headed to Vaishali from Sector 77 in Noida, took an hour to reach his destination, which was just 14km away. “Since entries into Delhi were restricted and the Ghazipur border is already closed, I had to negotiate my way through the inner roads of Indirapuram. But there were snarls there too,” he added. DCP (traffic) Ganesh Saha said, “Traffic police officers in Noida had spoken to their Delhi counterparts to stop the checking and allow smooth traffic movement. But the situation at the Chilla border could become normal only around 11.30am. At DND, traffic flow became normal an hour later. We are not aware of what the Delhi Police plan to do on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/monday-mess-delhi-commute-turns-a-nightmare/articleshow/80638411.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP seeks nod for month-long rath yatras||KOLKATA: The Bengal BJP has written to the chief secretary seeking permission to take out rath yatras from five zones in the state, beginning February 6. State unit vice-president Pratap Banerjee wrote to chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Monday saying the proposed yatras would continue for 20-25 days and cover all 294 assembly constituencies of Bengal. BJP president J P Nadda is likely to flag off the first rath yatra from Nabadwip town on February 6, followed by two more from Cooch Behar town and Kakdwip in South 24 Parganas on February 8. Another two rath yatras will roll out from Jhargram and Tarapith in Birbhum on February 9. According to BJP leaders, Union home minister Amit Shah might join the Cooch Behar yatra on February 8. The BJP campaign in West Bengal is a throwback to the month-long Ram Rath Yatra from September-October 1990 led by veteran leader L K Advani. Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury has already demanded that the CM should “stop” the rath yatra. In his letter to the chief secretary, Pratap Banerjee said the yatras are part of a “peaceful mass contact programme”. The rallies will have a vehicle modified into a rath, which will have facilities for leaders taking part in the yatra. The rath will have a fleet of cars following it and supporters on foot. Banerjee has also specified the destinations of the yatras and their designated routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-bjp-seeks-nod-for-month-long-rath-yatras/articleshow/80640187.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Election Commission transfers 3 key Bengal polling officials||KOLKATA: The Election Commission has transferred Bengal’s additional chief electoral officer Saibal Barman, joint chief electoral officer Anamika Majumdar and deputy chief electoral officer Amitjyoti Bhattacharji. There are indications that more transfers may be on the cards. Sources in the office of the state chief electoral officer (CEO) said the three were “very experienced” in handling elections. Barman was in charge of model code of conduct and law and order. He had held office for nearly 11 years. Majumdar looked after EVMs and poll worker training while Bhattacharji handled the media cell. “All the three officers were very experienced and transferring them just before the election will have an impact on its effective handling. It will be difficult for any new person to effectively execute the responsibilities,” a senior official at the CEO’s office said. The Bengal BJP had been demanding no involvement of state government employees in the polling process, raising concerns of partisan attitude. A BJP delegation had even met the CEO and demanded that the entire process be conducted by only central government employees. The state government is evidently not happy with the development. Sources said all three officers would be “rehabilitated” after the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-transfers-3-key-bengal-polling-officials/articleshow/80640188.cms||Saibal Gupta
February 2, 2021||Kolkata||Budget promise for poll-bound Bengal; trickery, says Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA/SILIGURI: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget speech in Delhi held out several promises for Bengal, which would be seeing a crucial assembly election in the next couple of months. Many of the projects promised in Monday’s Budget, including a Rs 25,000-crore spend on the Kolkata-Siliguri National Highway, a largesse of Rs 1,000 crore for north Bengal’s tea-garden workers, a fishing harbour in East Midnapore and a road link between Kharagpur in West Midnapore and Burdwan, pass through regions that have emerged as critical in this year’s poll battle. Seniors in the Bengal government responded to Sitharaman’s Budget proposals, with CM Mamata Banerjee calling it “bhekdhari sarkar-er fekdhari Budget (a charlatan government’s Budget of trickery)” and a “hukka-hua Budget (devoid of any substance)” that was “anti-farmer, anti-people, anti-nation”. State finance minister Amit Mitra said this was not only a paperless Budget but a directionless and confusing Budget. CM Banerjee feared that the Centre’s budgetary proposal to impose agricultural cess on petrol and diesel and a whole range of commodities would increase prices further. She also objected to the imposition of cess by the Centre because states would not get anything. “Petrol and diesel prices increased seven times. They will rise for the eighth time now because of this cess. And all this money will go to the Centre, with states getting nothing. It is like the jizya tax,” she said. NH 34, on which Rs 25,000 crore has been proposed, runs through North 24 Parganas, Nadia and Murshidabad and four districts in north Bengal, from Malda to Darjeeling. The road to Siliguri also connects the north-east with other parts of the country. NHAI sources said the 235km Kharagpur-Burdwan-Mourigram National Highway would be one of the projects to be taken up, along with NH 34. The budget boost for the final phase of four-laning NH 34, which also connects north Bengal with the southern parts of the state, is expected to begin shortly, said a senior official of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Sitharaman also promised a largesse of Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of tea garden workers, especially women and children, which is likely to benefit a large section in Darjeeling, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri. For East Midnapore, apart from a fishing harbour in Petuaghat, the proposed slash on customs duty on naphtha to 2.5% from the existing 4% is likely to boost Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd and other petrochemical industries in Haldia. Sitharaman has proposed substantial investment in the development of modern fishing harbours and fish landing centres. Petuaghat, along with Kochi, Chennai, Visakhapatnam and Paradip, would be developed as hubs of economic activity, she said, adding, “We will also develop inland fishing harbours and fish-landing centres along the banks of rivers and waterways.” The leather industry, which has a major footprint in South 24 Parganas, also had its share of good news. The Union government is set to impose 10% customs duty on imports of finished leather and tanned leather products, a move that could give some protection to the industry. For Hooghly, she proposed a freight corridor between Gomoh and Dankuni. “The Sonnagar-Gomoh Section (263.7km) of Eastern DFC will be taken up in PPP mode in 2021-22. The Gomoh-Dankuni section of 274.3km will also be taken up in short succession,” Sitharaman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/budget-promise-for-poll-bound-bengal-trickery-says-mamata/articleshow/80639913.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Public to private: Selling 2 banks, 1 insurer||NEW DELHI: Nearly two decades after an NDA government’s unsuccessful bid to reduce government holding in public sector banks, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has bit the bullet and announced a fresh plan to privatise two public sector banks. Simultaneously, a move to divest stake in one non-life insurance company enables government to target higher revenue without forsaking strategic objectives. Privatisation will reduce fiscal pressure as the Centre has been infusing capital year after year even though market valuation of government-owned banks has shrunk. Many expect a merger with a large private lender to be one of the options. An RBI-appointed panel, with government representatives, had said that well-run non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), including those owned by corporates, could be allowed to turn into banks. Those with NBFCs that have banking ambitions, like L&T Finance, may be made an offer. “Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments and I propose to introduce the amendments in this session itself,” the finance minister said in her speech. Since the banks are governed under the bank nationalisation law, an amendment could pave the way for future divestments as well. Sanjay Doshi, partner and head of financial services advisory at KPMG, said the move will bring greater focus on low performing PSU banks, grant lenders autonomy and result in capital optimisation for the government. “This will also lead to consolidation in the banking and NBFC sector. Now look forward to RBI’s guidelines on ownership of banks,” he said. Insiders say the government is unlikely to touch the mega PSU banks created out of mergers. The privatisation candidates are likely to be the standalone banks left after the consolidation exercise. Bank of Maharashtra, Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank have for long been speculated to be on the list. In the insurance sector, New India Assurance is seen as a candidate as it is already listed and was historically owned by the Tatas. The other three public sector insurers were to be merged, but owing to issues linked to their financial position, the government has put the move on the backburner. Shares of New India jumped 9% to close at Rs 138 on Monday. Bank unions called it a “bailout operation” for corporate defaulters. “The government, on the one hand, proposes to privatise IDBI and, at the same time, proposes formation of Development Bank for which it has provided Rs 20,000 crore,” said Devidas Tuljapurkar, general secretary of the Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation. However, bankers cheered the announcement. “Stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including 2 PSBs and one insurance company, in the next fiscal year, is a welcome move,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD &CEO, Indian Bank. This is not the first time government has attempted privatisation of PSBs. In 2000, then finance minister Yashwant Sinha announced a plan to bring down government holding to 33%, but it got stalled. Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan had also suggested that government could experiment with privatising a small PSU bank. Sarkari support stays for LIC coversThe finance bill has proposed to increase the authorised share capital of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) to Rs 25,000 crore, comprising 2,500 shares of Rs 10 each. The government has proposed 19 amendments to the LIC Act as a prequel to its initial public offer (IPO). However, it has not touched section 37, which extends a government guarantee to the sum assured under all policies. The bill proposes to have a separate quota for policyholders who can apply for shares at a discount, which can go up to 10%. Under the proposed amendment, the government stake can go down to 51% with a maximum of three shareholder representatives on the board if the government share falls below 75%, two representatives if it is between 75% and 90%, and one representative if its 90% or more. In addition to being allowed to issue new shares to the government and other investors, the corporation will be allowed to declare a dividend to shareholders or plough back surplus into reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/public-to-private-selling-2-banks-1-insurer/articleshow/80641231.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Borrowing plan breaks bond market||NEW DELHI: The government’s plans to increase borrowing in the current financial year by Rs 80,000 crore and also keep it elevated in the next year led to sharp slides in prices and rise in yields in the government securities (G-sec) market on Monday. At close of trading, 10-year G-sec yields, the benchmark for the market, jumped 15 basis points to end at 6.06%, official data showed. Yields on other bonds also rose. According to Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist & head (research), Bandhan Bank, it is no surprise that the knee-jerk reaction of the fixed income market was negative given the significantly higher than-expected fiscal deficit and borrowing. “The market would expect hints of continued support from the RBI at this juncture, without which the pressure on yields might persist.” In the evening, the RBI announced the revised borrowing calendar of nearly Rs 2.2 lakh crore with weekly borrowings running till the last week of the financial year. Usually government ends its annual borrowing programme by mid-February. The borrowing programme, however, should be considered along with its long-term fiscal deficit programme, a bond industry official said. “Government prudently used the pandemic situation to support growth through fiscal expansion. Realistic fiscal consolidation path (4.5% fiscal deficit target up to FY26), with the emphasis on capital spending, will ensure sustainable economic recovery,” said Ram Kamal Samanta, VP (investment), Star Union Dai Ichi Life Insurance. Market players also said that earlier the government was worried about expanding borrowings to support growth, fearing that could have led to a ratings downgrade. However, given the Covid environment, chances of a ratings downgrade is very negligible now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-borrowing-plan-breaks-bond-market/articleshow/80641254.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Rs 1,500 crore kitty to subsidise e-payments||NEW DELHI: A Rs 1,500-crore allocation by the government to promote digital payments will compensate banks and service providers for fees they forego on payments made through debit cards and the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). This will encourage more shopkeepers to accept digital payments and consequently open up more avenues for bank account holders to use cards and mobile phones (UPI) for payments. Dilip Asbe, MD & CEO, National Payments Corporation of India, said the move would be a growth booster for digital payments and the fintech sector. According to a recent Accenture research report, 6,660 crore transactions worth $270.7 billion are expected to shift from cash to cards and digital payments by 2023. “This shift is expected to intensify competition in the Indian payments space and, ultimately, enhance consumer experience and convenience. However, the exact nature of the scheme of the outlay and its implementation will be instrumental in its success,” said Sonali Kulkarni, lead financial services, Accenture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-1500cr-kitty-to-subsidise-e-payments/articleshow/80641278.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Infra to gain health with patient wealth||NEW DELHI: The creation of a government-promoted development finance institution (DFI) for funding projects, particularly in the infrastructure sector, will channelise funds into the core sector and free banks from risking asset-liability mismatches that arise out of lending for the long term. The finance minister has set aside Rs 20,000 crore to capitalise a new development finance institution which, she said, would target loans of Rs 5 lakh crore in three years. On the funding side, the Budget had provisions to enable infrastructure financiers to get investments from sovereign wealth funds and pension funds. It also incorporated provisions to enable infrastructure debt funds to issue zero-coupon bonds. “Public sector banks had been taking on the burden of infrastructure financing, but they have a limitation in raising 15-20-year funds, which is required for these projects. A specialised development finance institution will go a long way in providing funds for the sector,” said Union Bank MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai. He added that in the past, when IDBI and ICICI were first set up, there weren’t many infrastructure assets in the country — which is not the case now. “Historically, funding for projects used to come from specialised institutions. After those were converted into banks, it was the banking sector which stepped in. At present, all banks prefer to focus on retail segments,” said JM Financial Group managing director Vishal Kampani. While there are no lenders, there is no dearth of funds for infrastructure, he says. “We have managed to raise funds for institutions like PFC. A government-promoted institution usually has the highest rating and if these institutions develop the expertise to lend to sunrise sectors, they will be able to raise funds at a competitive rate,” said Kampani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-infra-to-gain-health-with-patient-wealth/articleshow/80641282.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||FM’s one-person co vaccine leaves startups in two minds||NEW DELHI: The proposal to incentivise setting up a One Person Company (OPC) might not lead to any significant boost for startups, though it may help microentrepreneurs formalise their business at a very early stage. The Budget also extended the tax holiday for eligible startups by another year, till March 31, 2022, along with a similar extension for startups for capital gains exemptions. While allowing OPCs to “grow without any restrictions on paid-up capital and turnover, allowing their conversion into any other type of company at any time”, FM reduced the residency limit for an Indian citizen to set up an OPC to 120 days, from 182 days, and allowed NRIs to set up OPCs in India. “The ability of OPCs to raise external capital, be it angel funding or any other, is severely limited. OPCs can’t even issue staff shares. This announcement is good for people who are running mom-and-pop shops, since they can now have a corporate structure and avail of lower tax rate,” said Siddarth Pai, founding partner at venture capital firm 3one4 Capital. Nithin Kamath, co-founder and CEO of Zerodha, echoed Pai, saying, “I don’t think it will make any material impact on the startup ecosystem like Bengaluru’s. Maybe it will help micro or smallsized entrepreneurs, like someone setting up a bakery.” But Ankur Bansal, co-founder of BlackSoil, a venture debt platform, said the biggest advantage of an OPC is that its identity is distinct from that of its owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fms-one-person-co-vaccine-leaves-startups-in-two-minds/articleshow/80641310.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Indian carriers look to chart tax-lite flight path||NEW DELHI: Covid-struck Indian carriers can see some light on the horizon. The FM said that aircraft leasing companies setting up base in Ahmedabad’s GIFT City will get a tax holiday on capital gains and tax exemption for aircraft lease rentals paid to foreign lessors. At present, all Indian airlines have leased aircraft from foreign countries like Ireland and Singapore with payments in forex. The proposed tax holiday can help reduce forex outflow. Indian airlines have over 800 planes currently on order that are to be delivered in the next four to five years. Remi Maillard, president and MD of Airbus India and South Asia, said this will “provide some relief to Indian carriers, which are bleeding cash because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It will help grow the fleet size in India as a vast majority of these aircraft will likely be leased”. The FM also said more airports “will be monetised for operations and management concession”, including those in smaller cities — meaning they will be run PPP way. A senior AAI official said the next lot of airports to be given for PPP operations are Varanasi, Bhubaneswar, Raipur, Indore, Amritsar and Trichy. “They will be given to PPP players by clubbing with smaller airports. Which means a corporate entity taking over one of these six airports will need to take small airport/s too. The (names and numbers of) smaller airports have not been finalised yet,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-carriers-look-to-chart-tax-lite-flight-path/articleshow/80641308.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Spend it like Nirmala Sitharaman||NEW DELHI: The politically bold Budget defied the punditry that aggressive protests against the agricultural laws have pushed the Modi government on the back foot, and that it would be wary of attempting another set of reforms. The audacious intent to privatise loss-making public sector units, which continue to haemorrhage scarce public resources, seems to have surpassed even the imaginations of those who counselled Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to waste the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read AlsoFM's double shot to push the economy: Spendovax + PrivamaxWith the coronavirus knocking the bottom out of the economy, FM Nirmala Sitharaman has chosen to aggressively ramp up expenditure while making the boldest push yet to sell govt assets — from PSUs, including banks and an insurance company, to land and rail corridors.That Modi could get his finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to take a stab at the political challenge at a time when he has been accused of crony capitalism and polls are looming in states with strong trade union presence make the effort even more spectacular. The attempt to privatise all PSUs except those in four strategic areas where they would be allowed in “bare minimum” form will, of course, meet with resistance. Opposition parties have attacked it, and trade unions, already seething with resentment over the labour reforms, are certain to take to the streets. The risk of a backlash, if from vested interests only, could not have been lost on the government. The farm protests were loud enough a warning to have gone unheard. If it did not deter the government, it is because it has been encouraged by the belief that Modi’s reputation for integrity buffers it against the charges that sank UPA. If the high decibel campaign over Rafale failed to find traction, people are unlikely to be swayed by a fresh set of accusations, goes the reasoning. Appreciation for the government's response to the pandemic has only hardened the confidence. The Budget is not devoid of electoral pragmatism either. The anxiety not to cause annoyance to people still reeling from the depredations of the pandemic comes out through the restraint not to put fresh burden on them at a time when many seemed resigned to having to split the tab of the enhanced health bill. Allocation of highway projects in Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala in the build-up to polls don’t seem to be a coincidence inspired by growth considerations alone. The focus on tea garden workers in Bengal and Assam overlaps with BJP’s electoral priorities in the two states and can be seen as the foundation for the “double engine” model BJP has sold in other theatres to emphasise benefits of favouring the same party in state polls which also holds the reins at the Centre. Read AlsoUnion Budget 2021 explained in 15 chartsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday presented the first-ever digital Union Budget. She announced higher capital expenditure for 2021 and said this year's budget focused on six pillars- health and wellbeing; physical and financial capital, and infrastructure; inclusive development;The government also used the opportunity to reinforce its assurance to farmers that implementation of the farm laws will not spell the demise of MSP and APMCs — the twin anxieties which have fuelled resentment in farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western UP. The protesters promptly snubbed the declaration of friendly intent, but the message, along with details of steady increase in spend on procurement, may find more resonance among those who are not so beholden to the status quo, besides possibly softening up those on the borders of Delhi who may be getting tired of the standoff. Extension of social security benefits to gig and platform workers will please the vast constituency. Infrastructure expansion should lead to job creation on a large scale, besides creating the optics befitting Modi's promise of ‘New India’. The middle class has no reason to grieve, while the strengthening of public health facilities and the emphasis on providing tap water supply can consolidate the constituency which stood by Modi in 2019. Under the new fiscal framework, the Centre will have more leeway than states to spend and that means bolder and longer footprint of the Modi government on the country’s development. There is one influential constituency, however, which must be troubled. Sitharaman’s announcement about the review of 400-odd customs exemptions will lead to a change in the terms of industry’s engagement with a powerful government — a thought that can push them into the throes of anxiety. Watch Budget 2021: BJP leaders hail proposals, Opposition slams privatisation measures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-2021-spend-it-like-sitharaman/articleshow/80641333.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Business||Budget 2021: Breathe-free mission gets more oxygen||NEW DELHI: The Centre has allocated an additional Rs 2,217 crore for Swachh air mission though it trimmed the budget of the environment ministry from Rs 3,100 crore to Rs 2,870 crore. The extra allowance will go to 42 cities of a million-plus population. This is in addition to what the Centre has earmarked for the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) under the environment ministry. The green highlights of the Budget speech include multiple schemes under different ministries — such as hydrogen energy mission, urban mobility, voluntary vehicle scrapping policy, expansion of beneficiaries under ‘Ujjwala’ scheme and giving a boost to renewable energy, which would collectively go a long way in reducing India’s carbon footprint and making air and the environment cleaner. Though the environment ministry’s budget has been slashed, funds for various schemes will come from other ministries, such as transport, new and renewable energy, and housing and urban affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/breathe-free-mission-gets-more-oxygen/articleshow/80641337.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Chennai||Rs 1 lakh crore to help major road projects take off in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Centre has allocated Rs 1.03 lakh crore for road projects in TN, nearly triple the Rs 29,000 crore sanctioned in Budget 2020-21. Among projects to be implemented on priority in 2021 is the much opposed Chennai-Salem corridor. National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has planned projects covering a total 3,500km of TN roads. Funds have been sanctioned for major projects along economic corridors and the east coast, including Chennai-Bengaluru expressway (278km), Maduravoyal-Port elevated corridor (19km), Chennai-Salem corridor (277km) and East Coast Road (ECR) expansion. Other projects include the Madurai-Kollam (150km) and Chittoor-Thatchur (115km) road work. The Centre also sanctioned ₹65,000 crore for highway work in Kerala. This includes the 600km Kanyakumari-Mumbai corridor, of which 75km would fall within TN. “Land acquisition for Chennai-Bengaluru expressway is nearing completion and tenders were floated for all four packages, so construction is expected to begin soon. We will start working on the Maduravoyal project after some design tweaks. Salem corridor is in the initial stage,” said a senior official at NHAI Chennai office. Calling the bumper allocation a gimmick ahead of state elections, former Union highways minister T R Baalu of the DMK said, “All these announcements will remain only on paper as several land disputes are still pending at various courts. The Centre has once again come out with impractical projects for the sake of elections.” Stakeholders, however, welcomed the allocation. “We hope NHAI utilises these funds effectively to finish pending work too as none of the major highway projects, including expansion of Chennai-Tada, Salem-Ulundurpet and Chennai-Trichy, has been completed,” said S Yuvaraj of Tamil Nadu Truck Owners Association. NHAI collects nearly ₹820 crore user fee every year in TN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-1-lakh-crore-to-help-major-road-projects-take-off-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80641386.cms||---
February 2, 2021||Bhopal||151 new Covid infections in Madhya Pradesh; two deaths||BHOPAL: 151 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Monday. With this, the Covid-19 positive cases in the state have gone up to 2,55,263.Two deaths were also reported in MP, as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these, Covid death toll in the state reached 3,812. The districts where these deaths were reported include one casualty each from Bhopal and Sagar. On Monday, new cases were reported only from 28 of the 52 districts of the state. Of these 28 districts, fresh cases were reported in double figures from three districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Bhopal where 56 tested positive, followed by Indore where 24 tested positive and Jabalpur, where 10 tested positive. On the brighter side, 260 people recovered from the disease, taking the recovery tally to 248897. A total of 15017 samples were tested on Monday, out of these 151 tested positive, thus positivity rate for Monday stood at 1.0 per cent. As on February 1, there were 2554 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/151-new-covid-infections-in-madhya-pradesh-two-deaths/articleshow/80641381.cms||---
