February 3, 2021||Goa||FC Goa end transfer business with key Amarjit signing||Panaji: After acquiring the services of Dheeraj Singh, Adil Khan and Glan Martins during the January transfer window, FC Goa were still not done. Goa have now completed the signing of midfielder Amarjit Singh from Jamshedpur FC in a move that can compensate for the departure of Lenny Rodrigues to ATK Mohun Bagan. The League champions lost their reliable midfielder to ATK Mohun Bagan with Glan Martins moving in the opposite direction. However, Goa wanted more and have now got what they wished for with the capture of Amarjit on a long-term contract. “Amarjit is a gifted midfielder who is capable of looking after the ball and has great technical skill. We are confident he will settle well into our system and will have a big role to play for FC Goa,” said director of football Ravi Puskur. Getting Amarjit, who captained India at the Fifa U-17 World Cup in 2017, was not easy. Goa faced a nervous wait as Jamshedpur allowed the midfielder to leave only after they had obtained the signature of Boris Singh, who terminated his contract with ATK Mohun Bagan. “When FC Goa came knocking, I knew this was an opportunity I had to take. I am here to win and Goa has a winners’ DNA. I am excited about the vision of the club. “It’s clear to see that the side we are building is one to win trophies. Then there is the AFC Champions League, something that really excites me. I am now looking forward to meeting my new team-mates and hit the ground running,” Amarjit said after his signing. The India midfielder proved surplus to requirements at Jamshedpur with coach Owen Coyle opting for the enterprise of Mobashir Rahman. Jamshedpur are gunning for a place in the playoffs for the first time and made a push towards the top four with a crucial win against Odisha FC on Monday. The solitary goal victory took Jamshedpur to the sixth spot with 18 points after 15 matches. Interestingly, Jamshedpur were helped to a large extent by Seiminlen Doungel, who moved there from Goa during the transfer window and put in a Man-of-the-Match performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-end-transfer-business-with-key-amarjit-signing/articleshow/80656426.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 3, 2021||Goa||I-League: Churchill Brothers face Aizawl FC in top-of-table clash||Churchill Brothers FC are sweating over the fitness of key players as they prepare to face Aizawl FC in the I-League’s top of the table clash at Kalyani Stadium on Wednesday. Churchill are unbeaten and lead the standings with 11 points after five matches. Although there is a four-point gap, Aizawl are breathing down their neck in second spot with a game in hand. “It is a difficult game. It will be a tough match against one team that runs too much and fights to win. They are good at set pieces and concentration. But we have our players, system, and style of play,” Churchill head coach Ferrando Varela told TOI in an online interaction on Tuesday. The Spaniard will have to take a final call on the fitness of star striker Clayvin Zuniga, who limbed off with a knee injury after scoring against TRAU in their 1-1 draw. First-choice goalkeeper Shibinraj Kunniyil and midfielder Richard Costa are also doubtful. All three players will be assessed after the final training session later on Tuesday. Churchill have scored nine goals, joint highest alongside Gokulam Kerala FC. Five of them have come from the boots of Zuniga alone, but his striking partner Luka Majcen is not far behind with three goals. “We are on top but even rest of the teams are close. They want to beat us. We must concentrate as we didn’t get the trophy now. We must continue with the same mentality and intensity. I think we are playing good football and getting chances to score. We have to continue this way,” said Varela. Aizawl come into the match with a 2-1 win against Neroca FC. They will be boosted with new head coach Yan Law completing his quarantine and is now available on the touchline. “Churchill are a fantastic team and one of the strong contenders for the title this year. I think if we can beat them, it will close down the gap which is very important for us going forward,” said Law. The 2016-17 winners have plenty of local talent but will depend on Liberian captain Alfred Jaryan to control the pace in midfield and Nigerian forward Princewill Emeka to score. “There are a couple of changes that we are going to make in the squad. Some tactical adjustments need to be made facing an opposition like Churchill, but I’m very confident with the team. I think we can come out with a good performance and make the fans happy,” said Law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-league-churchill-brothers-face-aizawl-fc-in-top-of-table-clash/articleshow/80656480.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 3, 2021||Business||Finance Bill proposes 27 amendments in LIC Act||NEW DELHI: Financial Services secretary Debasish Panda on Tuesday said 27 amendments have been proposed to Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 to help facilitate listing of the insurance behemoth on stock exchanges. These changes have been pushed through the Finance Bill tabled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday along with the Union Budget 2021-22. Besides, Panda said, amendment in Industrial Development Bank (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2003 has been proposed for retention of the licence even when it becomes a private entity. "It is meaningless to buy a bank without licence... so that amendment is also part of the Finance Bill," he said. Regarding proposed amendments to the LIC Act, he said, the legislation came into effect in 1956 and it did not have the provisions of listing on stock exchanges. "So primarily here, the announcement is to list the LIC... there was hardly any clause how the shares would be distributed because they were completely government-owned," he said. The amendments will lead to setting up of a board with independent directors in line with listing obligations which ought to be fulfilled, he said. "So about 26-27 consequent changes have to be made and even the authorised capital requirement for distribution of shares needed to be expanded... So all these changes have to be brought in. So, accordingly the changes are all again part of the Finance Bill so that should be through," he said. On Monday, the finance minister announced that the initial public offer (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) will take place in the next financial year. Currently, the government owns 100 per cent stake in LIC. Once listed, LIC is likely to become the country's biggest company by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill, 2021 is also slated to be introduced in the ongoing budget session of the Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finance-bill-proposes-27-amendments-in-lic-act/articleshow/80656559.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||Goa get ready for one-dayers post Ranji cancellation||Panaji: Ever since Covid-19 paralysed the world, nobody knew how soon cricket would resume. The BCCI successfully conducted the IPL with a bio-secure bubble in UAE and followed it up by hosting the Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament at home. That encouraged many into believing that the more-important Ranji Trophy would be staged, until news of the tournament being cancelled for the first time in 87 years made headlines on Saturday. "We knew it would take a gigantic effort from BCCI to conduct the Ranji Trophy with IPL looming. In fact, I am feeling lucky to have played Mushtaq Ali tournament as BCCI did a fantastic job in preparing us for the tournament. “From day one, there were adequate safety measures in place. Now, if we look at Ranji Trophy, it is such a long tournament, with 32 teams, coaches, support staff and officials. Practically, it would be impossible to conduct," said Goa captain Amit Verma. Former India pacer and Goa's professional player Ashoke Dinda, who got injured during the T20 tournament, looked at the positives. "We are happy at least we got to play some form of cricket. The pandemic has hit everyone hard. I count my blessings. With Vijay Hazare tournament happening soon, it is not a complete bad news for us," he said. Goa players returned home after finishing fourth in the T20 tournament and were handed a short break before they resume training. "We will follow the same routine. We have been training our players with U-19 team. Women’s team is also training, so we will be ready. We will ask them to train at Porvorim or Panjim Gymkhana very soon,” said GCA secretary Vipul Phadke. Asked about compensation to players and related issues due to cancellation of Ranji Trophy, Phadke said a decision was yet to be taken. “BCCI will definitely look into the matter. The players and others rely on Ranji Trophy match fees. There is talk that people will be taken care of. How much will it be? We will come to know once a decision is taken,” said Phadke. The team is likely to assemble later this week once BCCI announces the dates and venue for Vijay Hazare one-day tournament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-get-ready-for-one-dayers-post-ranji-cancellation/articleshow/80656516.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 3, 2021||India||‘Aatmanirbharta’ chosen Oxford Hindi Word of Year 2020||LONDON: ‘Aatmanirbharta’, implying self-reliance, has been chosen by Oxford Languages, which publishes the Oxford English dictionary, as its Hindi Word of Year 2020 as it “validated the day-to-day achievements of the countless Indians who dealt with and survived the perils of a pandemic”. Explaining the choice, Kritika Agrawal, who sits on the advisory panel that selects the Hindi Word of the Year, said: “In an address to the nation in early May 2020, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced India’s Covid-19 recovery package, he emphasised the need of becoming self-reliant as a country, as an economy, as a society, and as individuals, in a bid to navigate the perils of a pandemic. The Prime Minister elaborated on this, noting that Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not about being self-contained or being closed to the world, it is about being self-sustaining and self-generating. We saw a significant increase in the usage of Aatmanirbharta (self-reliance) following the Prime Minister’s address, highlighting its increased prominence as a phrase and concept in the public lexicon.” The Hindi Word of the Year is a word or expression that is chosen to reflect the ethos, mood, or preoccupations of the passing year that have potential to become a lasting term of cultural significance. Agrawal said 2020 had required individual self-reliance more than ever before as millions in India adapted to new ways of living during the pandemic. “From home schooling to remote working, from creating our own means of entertainment to finding ways of keeping ourselves physically fit within confined spaces, from cooking for ourselves to caring for ourselves, and being forced to remain away from family and loved ones for extended periods of time, what has got many of us through is self-reliance,” she said. “As we enter 2021, one of the standout successes of the entire Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign is the large-scale manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine in India,” she added. In 2019, the Hindi Word of the Year was Samvidhaan or the Constitution owing to the nationwide debates and discussions which followed the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35(A).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aatmanirbharta-chosen-oxford-hindi-word-of-year-2020/articleshow/80656419.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 3, 2021||Business||PFRDA gets nod for undertaking e-KYC for National Pension Scheme subscribers||NEW DELHI: Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) on Tuesday said it has received approval from the Department of Revenue for undertaking e-KYC services for NPS and APY subscribers. The online e-KYC (Know Your Customer) will further simplify the process of account opening as it offers the subscribers a NPS digital journey, PFRDA said in a release. The regulator has received the department's nod for e-KYC, it added. National Pension System (NPS) and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) are the two flagship schemes of the PFRDA. NPS caters to the organised sector employees. APY is mainly targeted to meet the pension needs of those working in the unorganised sector. "With 'Entry to Exit' (E2E) digital tool kits provided to subscribers, PFRDA has transformed the journey of NPS subscribers and the travel of NPS subscribers from entering the scheme till exit from the scheme, including annuity issuance, is seamless and can be performed in a paperless digital mode," it said. PFRDA said it has enabled various digital enablers such as OTP-based authentication, paperless on-boarding, e-sign-based authentication, video customer identification to facilitate remote on-boarding, online exit tools, online enrolment for government sector subscribers, among others. The regulator had allowed NSDL e-Governance Infrastructure Limited, one of its central record keeping agency, to act as the Global Aadhaar User Agency (AUA) for the purpose of NPS and APY.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pfrda-gets-nod-for-undertaking-e-kyc-for-national-pension-scheme-subscribers/articleshow/80656697.cms||---
February 3, 2021||World||Pakistan SC confirms decision to release Daniel Pearl murder accused||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the release of British-born Pakistani Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the prime accused in the 2002 beheading of American journalist Daniel Pearl, from a death cell in Karachi prison and directed authorities to move him to a government rest house within the next two to three days. This comes despite US Secretary of State Tony Blinken speaking over phone with Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, days after the Supreme Court ordered the release of Sheikh, and discussing the accountability of convicted terrorists responsible for Pearl’s murder, according to the US State Department. Tuesday’s decision comes after a three-judge panel reviewed and confirmed its order last week to acquit Sheikh, who had been on death row for 18 years since originally being convicted by an anti-terrorism court for his role in the kidnapping and murder of the US journalist. “He should be moved to a comfortable residential environment something like a rest house where he can live a normal life,” Justice Umar Ata Bandyal, heading the three-judge bench. Sheikh’s father, Ahmad Saeed Sheikh, who attended Tuesday’s hearing, said: “It is not complete freedom. It is a step towards freedom.” The top court also directed authorities to ensure complete security of the rest house, and allowed Sheikh’s family access to him from 8am to 5pm. According to the court’s directives, the accused will not be given access to mobile and internet services while his family will be given accommodation and transport on the government’s expense. Locations of such safe houses are usually kept secret; Pakistan’s powerful security establishment has several such facilities across the country. In April 2020, the Sindh HC had overturned the death sentence of Sheikh into seven years’ imprisonment and acquitted three others: Fahad Naseem, Syed Suleman Saqib and Sheikh Muhammad Adil. The accused, however, were not released as the Sindh government kept them behind bars under the Maintenance of Public Order (MPO), a law that empowers the government to detain any suspect for 90 days. On July 1, a fresh notification was issued by the provincial government to extend their detention by three months and later their confinement was extended for yet another 90 days. Last December, the high court had accepted a petition by the men against their continued detention and ordered their immediate release, declaring all detention orders of the Sindh government “null and void”. The HC release order, however, was challenged by the Sindh government in the apex court. Daniel Pearl, who was the South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal, was kidnapped in Karachi in January 2002 while working on a militancy story. Pearl’s wife, Marianne Pearl, a US national who was living in Karachi, wrote a letter to police on February 2, 2002, stating that her husband had disappeared on January 23, 2002. Later, a graphic video showing Pearl’s decapitation was delivered to the US consulate in Karachi nearly a month after his abduction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-sc-confirms-decision-to-release-daniel-pearl-murder-accused/articleshow/80656711.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 3, 2021||Business||HDFC posts Rs 5,177 crore net profit in Q3||MUMBAI: Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd on Tuesday reported a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,177 crore in the third quarter this fiscal compared to Rs 3,835 crore in the year-ago period. On a standalone basis, net profit for the December quarter stood at Rs 2,926 crore as against Rs 8,372 crore a year ago. For the nine-month period ended December 31, 2020, profit after tax was Rs 8,847 crore compared to Rs 15,537.12 crore in the year-ago period. The lender said the profit numbers for the quarter as well as nine months ended December 31, 2020, are not comparable with that of the previous year. The merger of GRUH Finance with Bandhan Bank was effective October 17, 2019, it added. "As per IndAS, the Corporation had on derecognition of the investment in GRUH, recorded a fair value gain of Rs 9,020 crore through the statement of profit and loss during the quarter ended December 31, 2019," HDFC Ltd said in a release. The company's vice chairman and CEO Keki Mistry said the profit numbers for Q3 FY21 are not comparable with the last year because of the profit on the sale of a part stake in HDFC Life and dividend, which stood at Rs 159 crore in the reporting quarter compared to Rs 4 crore last year. In Q3 FY21, the net gain on fair value changes and income on loans assigned stood at Rs 641 crore as against Rs 209 crore a year ago. The lender's provisioning (including for the impact of COVID-19) stood at Rs 594 crore in the reporting quarter as against Rs 2,995 crore in the previous year. Net interest income (NII) rose 26 per cent to Rs 4,068 crore compared to Rs 3,240 crore. The spread on loans over the cost of borrowings for the nine months ended December 31, 2020, was 2.28 per cent. The spread on the individual loan book was 1.94 per cent and on the non-individual book was 3.14 per cent. As per the regulatory norms, the gross non-performing loans stood at Rs 8,012 crore, which is equivalent to 1.67 per cent of the loan portfolio, it said. The non-performing loans of the individual portfolio stood at 0.79 per cent, while the non-individual portfolio stood at 4 per cent. If the Supreme Court order of maintaining the classification of accounts as status quo till further orders were not to be considered, the non-performing loans would have been higher at 1.91 per cent; with individual NPLs at 0.98 per cent and non-individuals at 4.35 per cent, it said. As of December 31, 2020, the total provisions stood at Rs 12,342 crore. Speaking about the one-time restructuring, Mistry said the total amount of loans restructured is marginally over Rs 5,000 crore, which 0.9 per cent of the company's asset under management. Of the loans being restructured, 26 per cent are individual loans and 74 per cent non-individual loans. The largest account under the resolution framework accounted for 0.5 per cent of AUM. Its capital adequacy ratio stood at 20.9 per cent, of which tier I capital was 19.9 per cent and tier-II capital was 1 per cent. The lender said the demand for home loans continued to remain strong owing to low-interest rates, softer property prices, concessional stamp duty rates in certain states and continued fiscal incentives on home loans. During the quarter, individual loan disbursements grew at 26 per cent over the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The loans on an AUM basis stood at Rs 5,52,167 crore as against Rs 5,05,401 crore in the previous year. As on December 31, 2020, the individual loan book on an AUM basis grew 10 per cent and the non-individual loan book grew by 7 per cent. Its scrip closed at Rs 2,657.65 apiece, up 2.91 per cent on BSE Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-posts-rs-5177-crore-net-profit-in-q3/articleshow/80656759.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Business||BPCL, Air India stake sale by September; LIC IPO post October: Dipam secy||NEW DELHI: The initial public offering (IPO) of India's largest insurance company LIC is likely after October this year, a top official said on Tuesday laying out the government's divestment calendar that includes completing the sale of flag carrier Air India and oil firm BPCL within the first half of the next fiscal. Targeting to raise Rs 1.75 lakh crore from the asset sale to finance projects aimed at reviving the pandemic battered economy, the government is also looking to sell Shipping Corp of India (SCI), IDBI Bank Ltd and two other public sector lenders in the fiscal year beginning April 1. In an interview with PTI, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said the government has introduced the legislative amendments required for disinvestment of a stake in Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and IDBI Bank through the Finance Bill, 2021 presented along with the Budget on Monday. The Modi government is targeting record capital expenditure next fiscal to pull the economy out of the trough. Additional resources required for that are to be raised through divestment and monetisation. It has already received the preliminary expression of interest for the sale of stake in Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Air India while the same for SCI is due on February 13. "LIC Amendment Act and Amendment to IDBI Bank (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act has been made part of the Finance Bill. There will be no separate bill. LIC IPO would come post-October," Pandey said. DIPAM, which manages government's equity in state-owned companies, has already selected actuarial firm Milliman Advisors for ascertaining the embedded value of LIC, ahead of the initial public offer. While Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed as pre-IPO transaction advisors. With regard to IDBI Bank's strategic sale, Pandey said IDBI was a development finance institution initially. "When IDBI Bank was formed in 2002 there was IDBI Repeal Act under which banking operations were provided and licence was also given. So the licence has to continue in case it is disinvested. So for that to happen, in consultation with the RBI, we have worked out an amendment to the Act which is part of the Finance Act," Pandey added. The Budget for 2021-22 has set a disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore, higher than Rs 32,000 crore estimated to be garnered in the current fiscal. Of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore, Rs 1 lakh crore is to come from selling government stake in public sector banks and financial institutions and Rs 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts. In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said strategic disinvestment of BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, among others, and IPO of LIC would be completed in 2021-22. The process of privatisation of Air India, BPCL, Pawan Hans, BEML, Shipping Corp (SCI), Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, and Ferro Scrap Nigam Ltd (FSNL) is ongoing. Asked about the status on BPCL and Air India disinvestment, Pandey said, "We are on course. The process is rolled on." The three stages of the strategic disinvestment process are Expression of Interest (EoI), due diligence and Share Purchase Agreement (SPA), Request for Proposal (RFP) and then closing of the transaction. "We are in the due diligence stage now. Within the first half (by September 2021) of next fiscal we expect the closure of BPCL, Air India and Shipping Corp transactions," the secretary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bpcl-air-india-stake-sale-by-september-lic-ipo-post-october-dipam-secy/articleshow/80656882.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Indo-US ties go beyond trade, says top official||BENGALURU: Don Heflin, US Chargé d’Affaires, on Tuesday said the Indo-US defence partnership goes beyond trade and that the country was committed to furthering ties to achieve common goals of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP). Answering a specific question on India’s Atmanirbhar campaign which strives to indigenise and reduce dependence on foreign products and technology as a strategy, Heflin, said: “We recognise India’s ambitions of having a vibrant and indigenous defence industrial sector. Indo-US relationship goes beyond defence manufacturing and trade, we’ve signed several foundational defence agreements and have regular engagements and exercises.” On India’s procurement of S-400 missile systems from Russia and the US threat of invoking its Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) on the Indian Air Force (IAF), he said: “We’re aware of reports regarding India’s plans of purchasing missiles. Some people ask if there’s a blanket waiver for countries, which is not the case. It is on a case-by-case basis. We’ve not made any waiver determination in respect to Indian transactions with Russia.” At the US Embassy’s conference on Aero India, he reiterated that the country’s participation at the show was an example of the deepening defence and strategic partnership with India and that it reflects the increasing close bilateral defence ties. Heflin, who will lead a high-level delegation of the US government officials and defence industry representatives at the event, said: “Our participation will show our steadfast support to US firms. It also demonstrates the depth and breadth of the US-India partnership.” The B-1B Lancer heavy bomber of the US 28th Bomb Wing based out of Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota, will perform a ‘fly-by’ for the first time. Terming India a reliable defence partner, Heflin said the US was offering advanced military technologies besides working on greater cooperation through official visits, exchanges, joint exercises etc. Integration of advanced US defence systems, enhanced interoperability between US and Indian militaries are among the highlights of the defence ties, he said, adding that several US firms are also working closely with India and that a growing number of JVs continue to strengthen the network of defence partners in India. Kelli L Seybolt, air force deputy under-secretary, international affairs, said: “Our presence underscores the strategic importance and the value we place on the growing relationship which is based on common interest and FOIP vision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/indo-us-ties-go-beyond-trade-says-top-official/articleshow/80656912.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||CBI chargesheet names Congress former minister Vinay Kulkarni , 2 others||DHARWAD: CBI, which is probing the murder case of Dharwad ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, on Tuesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the special court against Congress former minister Vinay Kulkarni and two others. Goudar, a BJP member, was murdered at his gym in Saptapur here on June 15, 2016. CBI has named Kulkarni as accused no 1, his close relative Chandrashekhar Indi of Vijaypura is accused no 2 and Shivanand Biradar as accused no.3. Kulkarni was arrested on November 5 last year, and his bail applications have been rejected twice. CBI filed its first chargesheet on May 20, 2020 and had arrested eight other accused. On September 9, 2016, police had chargesheeted six persons, residents of Dharwad. “Kulkarni allegedly conspired with his associates and one agreed to execute the murder. A land deal was entered into by the accused and a purported land dispute was portrayed as a motive for the murder,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbi-chargesheet-names-congs-kulkarni-2-others/articleshow/80656914.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||PIL challenges privatisation of Mangaluru airport||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court ordered notice to ministry of civil aviation, Airports Authority of India and Adani Enterprises Limited in response to a PIL filed by Airports Authority Employees Union. Petitioners have challenged the privatisation and leasing of Mangalore International Airport to Adani Enterprises for 50 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pil-challenges-privatisation-of-mangaluru-airport/articleshow/80656917.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ATM attacker gets 10-year imprisonment||BENGALURU: “My father is bedridden and I have to take care of him. I have a wife and two children. I am the sole earning member in the family. I request you to reduce the punishment,” pleaded Kondappagiri Madhukar Reddy before the judge pronounced the sentence on Tuesday. Reddy’s appeal in the 64th City Civil and Sessions Court was shocking as he had shown no mercy while assaulting bank employee Jyothi Uday inside the Corporation Bank ATM near Hudson Circle here on November 19, 2013. The CCTV footage of the attack, in which Reddy is seen repeatedly striking the helpless woman with a machete, was shocking in its brutality. On Monday, public prosecutor MV Thyagaraj had demanded maximum punishment and took strong objection to Reddy’s appeal. Judge Rajeshwara ordered Reddy to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years and pay a penalty of Rs 12,000. Jyothi Uday told TOI: “I’m happy with the judgment. It was a long-awaited decision. My family and I suffered a lot because of him. I had confidence in the judiciary and police. Finally I got justice.” The attack was a challenging case for police as Reddy managed to escape and was untraced till February 2017. Though more than 15 police teams searched for him, he was finally nabbed in Madanapalli, Andhra Pradesh. A police officer said: “The image of the woman begging him to spare her life is difficult to erase from one’s memory.” Jyothi, while on her way to work, entered the ATM kiosk at 7.10am to withdraw money for her daughter’s birthday celebrations. Reddy followed her, downed the shutter and ordered her to give cash. When she tried to walk away, he struck her on the head and hit her before escaping. She was in a pool of blood, crawled to the shutter and screamed for help. Passers-by responded and alerted the police. C Thimmaiah, then assistant commissioner of police (Ulsoorgate sub-division), investigated the case and filed a chargesheet. The trial started on June 29, 2017 and charges were framed against Reddy on January 14, 2019. Around 45 witnesses were mentioned in the chargesheet and 21 were examined and evidence recording was completed in August 2020. Thimmaiah said the victim’s role in the conviction was important. In her deposition, she narrated what transpired without any room for confusion and identified the accused when he was arrested. Reddy is a resident of Divupalli, Chittoor district, and had a history of murders and robberies in Andhra Pradesh. Reddy confessed to have attacked Jyothi for money. Public prosecutor Thyagaraj said Reddy used a dummy gun to threaten the victim and threw it in Kerala to destroy evidence. He said: “Apart from ten years’ rigorous imprisonment, Reddy must undergo simple imprisonment for one year if he fails to pay the fine of Rs 12,000. He received two years’ simple imprisonment for destroying evidence. The judge directed the district legal services authority to pay compensation to the victim."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/atm-attacker-gets-10-yr-imprisonment/articleshow/80656918.cms||Santosh Kumar
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Chief secretary told to clear air on setting up of fund||BENGALURU: The high court on Tuesday directed the chief secretary to submit an affidavit with regard to establishing State Disaster Response Fund in compliance with Section 48 of Disaster Management Act, 2005. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction after the government submitted a memo of the finance department stating the fund will be established after it’s approved by the legislature. “The government has virtually refused to establish the fund. We direct the chief secretary to take such a stand on oath by Saturday. He will have to clearly state whether he has approved the stand taken by the finance department. If yes, he will have to explain why legislature’s nod is required for establishing a fund under section 48 of the Act,” the bench said. During the last hearing, the statement submitted by the chief secretary had indicated that a provision will be made for establishing the said fund in the ensuing state budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chief-secy-told-to-clear-air-on-setting-up-of-fund/articleshow/80656919.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Aero India-2021: BMTC to operate additional buses||BENGALURU: In view of Aero India-2021, BMTC will operate additional buses between Kempegowda and Yelahanka bus stations as per passenger demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmtc-to-operate-additional-buses/articleshow/80656921.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Udupi: Train runs over black panther in Baindoor taluk||UDUPI: A speeding train mowed down a black panther near Badakere rail overbridge at Bada village in Baindoor taluk, Udupi. Forest officials said the incident involving a four-year-old male black panther took place sometime early on Sunday. It is said the animal had strayed out in the open, in search of food. Ashish Reddy, deputy conservator of forest (Kundapur), said he is awaiting a report from the Baindoor range forest officer on the incident. “Prima facie, the death was caused by a speeding train, and the panther succumbed to massive internal injuries. We conducted a postmortem and disposed of the carcass by burning it,” he said. Further action will be initiated based on the field report, the DCF added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/train-runs-over-black-panther/articleshow/80656922.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Priest poses as MLA’s gunman; held||BENGALURU: Upparpet police have arrested a 30-year-old priest, who posed as a legislator’s gunman and allegedly cheated a government job aspirant. Narayan Ramachandra Hegde is a resident of Malalgaon near Sirsi in Uttara Kannada district. The victim from Davanagere had recently befriended Hegde on Facebook. Promising to get him a gardener’s job in the horticulture department, Hegde demanded Rs 30,000 from the complainant. The victim paid him a portion of the money. When he realised that Hedge had switched off his phone and gone missing, he approached police. Driver bludgeoned to deathA gang of bike-borne miscreants bludgeoned a 35-year-old canter driver to death at Vittasandra Circle near Electronics City on Monday. The deceased is Syed Afzal from Shikari Palya. Police suspect financial dispute resulted in the murder. At 6.30 pm, Afzal was standing at the circle when the gang smashed his head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/priest-poses-as-mlas-gunman-held/articleshow/80656923.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||First Division Assistant examination of Karnataka Public Service Commission on February 28||BENGALURU: The First Division Assistant examination of Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC), which was postponed after the question paper was leaked, will now be held on February 28.  The exam was supposed to be conducted on January 24 . It saw a record 3.7 lakh applications, of which 2.8 lakh candidates downloaded admission tickets. Sources in KPSC said the downloaded hall ticket will be valid for the exam. Asked if aspirants who had downloaded it later will be allowed to appear, sources said a decision would be made in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fda-exam-on-feb-28/articleshow/80656924.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: New garbage management system set up in 56 wards||BENGALURU: Implementation of the new garbage collection system has begun in 56 wards across Bengaluru. This follows BBMP’s move to scrap an earlier tender over failure of the former contractor to abide by solid waste management guidelines and reissue it. Last September, the Palike had floated a tender to implement a new waste management system to achieve 100% segregation and removal of black spots in 39 wards in three months. By the end of two months, it was clear that the contractor had failed to follow the rules. “The contractor did not issue vehicles in time and many wards were teeming with black spots. Waste collection also failed,” said a senior BBMP official, SWM cell. A test run began in Govindrajanagar ward (104) to separate wet and dry waste. According to the SWM guidelines issued to the contractor, auto-tippers were to be equipped with RFID, GPS and public address system, had to carry the ward and zone names and have designated drivers and helps. But none of these rules was adhered to. “When he was allocated the tender, he promised to do all of the above but failed to practise it later,” an official said. Files accessed by TOI show the re-tender was called for on November 23, 2020, with January 8, 2021 being the last date for submission of bids. The work order was issued for 92 wards, and work has begun in 56. Regarding the other 36 wards, SWM special commissioner D Randeep said: “Demo of auto-tippers/compactors is complete in 13 wards but work has not yet begun. In the remaining 23 wards, even the demo hasn’t started.” “If work doesn’t commence in these 36 wards by February first week, we will cancel this tender. We will re-issue it until all 198 wards get a proper waste collection system,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-garbage-management-system-set-up-in-56-wards/articleshow/80656935.cms||Nithya Mandyam
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man in custody for harassing Facebook friend||BENGALURU: A 26-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly trying to force a woman, whom he had befriended on social media three years ago, into a physical relationship with him. Shravan Kumar of Papareddypalya had sent a friend request to the complainant, a healthcare worker, and she had accepted it. He told her that he had health issues such as bleeding from mouth and gained her sympathy with his lies. She shared her mobile number as per his request and they started chatting. Later, he slowly resorted to sexting and asked her to have a physical relationship with him. He threatened to kill her if she revealed his demand to anyone. Following this, she stopped chatting with him and blocked his number, police said. An enraged Shravan reached the clinic where she worked and tried to snatch her mobile phone to unblock his number. He allegedly tore her dress before he fled the spot. Annapoorneshwarinagar police have registered a case of sexual harassment, stalking and criminal intimidation under IPC sections 354, 354d and 506. He is in judicial custody now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-in-custody-for-harassing-fb-friend/articleshow/80656941.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Stranger seeks lift, dupes truck driver of 6 lakh with his aide’s help||BENGALURU: Chikkajala police are searching for two miscreants who cheated a 30-year-old truck driver of Rs 6 lakh by diverting his attention. All these days, miscreants employing attention-diversion tactics would target victims at desolate places or near banks. This may be the first time that a truck driver has been targeted in such a case, said police. The victim, Veeresh P, is from Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh. He told police he had brought red chillies from AP and sold them at the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Yeshwantpur, for Rs 6 lakh on Saturday. While travelling back to AP the same night, he encountered a stranger, who sought a lift to Chikkaballapura and boarded his vehicle. On reaching Hebbal, another stranger blocked Veeresh’s truck saying he had damaged the former’s vehicle earlier. “I wondered where the accident would have happened. However, the stranger directed me to drive near the service road. Since it was getting late, I decided to pay him though I had made no mistake. While we were arguing, the man who had sought lift vanished. After reaching Chikkajala, the second man accusing me of damaging his vehicle took Rs 300 from me and left. Only then did I realised that the Rs 6 lakh placed in the dashboard was missing,” Veeresh said in his complaint.  “The man who sought lift had seen Veeresh collect the cash. He boarded the vehicle and communicated to his associate, who blocked the truck near Hebbal. While Veeresh was busy arguing, the first man vanished with the cash,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stranger-seeks-lift-dupes-truck-driver-of-6l-with-his-aides-help/articleshow/80656940.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Artisan flees with 12kg gold||BENGALURU: A city-based goldsmith has filed a complaint with Wilson Garden police against an artisan who allegedly fled with 12.7kg gold block on January 31. Siddeswar Sinde from Magadi Road, who runs a shop in Nagarthpet, stated that his employee Swapneel Gadge, 22, from Solapur in Maharashtra had fled with the gold and remained incommunicado. “We collect old gold from people, turn it into blocks of different sizes and later take it for ornament work. On January 30, Swapneel and three other staffers took the block to their room in RT Street, Chickpet. On January 31, the other employees came to my shop by 8am. They said Swapneel was getting ready. I sent my brother to bring the block as we had urgent work. By the time, Swapneel had fled,” Sinde stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/artisan-flees-with-12kg-gold/articleshow/80656942.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Christ varsity to offer decision science course||BENGALURU: Christ (deemed-to-be-university) is set to offer an apprenticeship-based and industry-integrated BBA degree in decision science, said to be the first of its kind. The School of Business and Management at Christ and Mu Sigma, a city-based global decision sciences company, signed an MOU to jointly offer the programme. Fr Abraham V, vice-chancellor, Christ varsity, said the programme is designed based on the UGC guidelines for higher education institutions to offer apprenticeship/internship-embedded degree programme to promote employability. Fr Abraham added: “As part of the course, students will spend three days a week to learn the theoretical aspects and other three days at Mu Sigma to get hands-on training.” Students from science or commerce major in Class 12 with mathematics/statistics/computer science as one of the subjects from any recognised board are eligible to apply for this programme. Deepa Mahesh, director of Mu Sigma, said the interdisciplinary programme will enable ‘learning-by-doing’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/christ-varsity-to-offer-decision-science-course/articleshow/80657122.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two held for burgling bank employee’s house; 17 lakh gold seized||BENGALURU: Two people were arrested for breaking into a bank employee’s residence at Ideal Homes in Rajarajeshwari Nagar. Stolen gold ornaments worth Rs 17 lakh were seized from them. The accused are Narasimha Reddy, 32, of Beeravara village near Nelamangala, and Rakesh Rao S, 25 of Deepanjalinagar. Police said Jnanamurthy, a bank employee, had visited Mantralaya with his wife and elder son. His younger son was at his relative’s place on the night of January 24 when the accused duo entered Jnanamurthy’s house and stole the valuables. The incident came to light around 9.45pm on January 25, when the family returned home and realised miscreants had entered through the back door and stolen gold ornaments weighing 228 grams. Jnanamurthy filed a police complaint. Cops tracked the suspects with help of footage from a CCTV camera installed in a nearby building. The accused confessed to their crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-held-for-burgling-bank-employees-house-17l-gold-seized/articleshow/80657132.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 6 bus bays to come up near KR Puram||BENGALURU: In a bid to decongest the Old Madras Road-Outer Ring Road section, BMRCL and BBMP are planning six bus bays near KR Puram. The bus bays will come up in Benniganahalli-Tin Factory-KR Puram section as part of Metro work. This is also expected to prevent buses from stopping in the middle of the road. BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth said: “Six bus bays/bus stands are planned at OMR-ORR section at Benniganahalli-Tin Factory-KR Puram. BBMP carried out demolition at one location on January 15. It is part of road-capacity augmentation and also an effort to decongest OMR-ORR section. This is a joint initiative of BMRCL and BBMP.”  BMRCL and BBMP are also planning a bus station at Benniganahalli. According to BMRCL’s plan, the area adjacent to Benniganahalli will be redesigned with spaces to be allocated for buses to different directions and also with outdoor passenger area and greenery. “We acquired land parcels from two temples and paid compensation to them. This has also helped widen the section. But road-widening work at Benniganahalli has been affected due to delay in getting permission to remove 91 trees from the lake area,” said a senior BMRCL official. Many motorists say crossing Tin Factory is a nightmare during peak hours. “Many private buses pick up and drop passengers in the middle of the road. The demand for bus bays has been pending for years. I hope they execute it without further delay,” said S Anil Kumar, a regular commuter on the stretch. Location and routesOf the six bus bays, four are coming up near Jyothipura Metro station at Benniganahalli — Bus bay B (buses coming from KR Puram Metro station and going towards Hebbal), bus bay C (buses coming from KR Puram Metro station and Hoskote and going towards SV Road), bus bay D (buses coming from SV Road and heading towards Hoskote and KR Puram railway station) and bus bay E (buses coming from Hebbal and going towards KR Puram railway station). BMRCL officials said bus bay A will come up near KR Puram Metro station for buses coming from Marathahalli and Whitefield and going towards Tin Factory. One bay will come up near KR Puram railway station — bus bay F (buses coming from Tin Factory and going towards Marathahalli and Whitefield).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-bus-bays-to-come-up-near-kr-puram/articleshow/80657135.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Theatres in Karnataka hit as 50% seating rule stays till Feb 28||BENGALURU: In a blow to the cinema industry and theatres, the Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to practise abundant caution with regard to Covid-19 by persisting with only 50% seating capacity in cinema halls across the state till Feb 28. The Centre gave the green signal for full-capacity seating in cinema halls from February 1. The state government order allows hotels and restaurants to operate at full seating and allows swimming pools to operate as per central government guidelines. Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce president DR Jairaj, also an exhibitor, called the government’s decision ‘shocking’ and said the industry would meet the CM on Wednesday and seek review of the decision. The state said curbing cinema hall seating is based on the possibility of a second wave and follows a review of the current pandemic situation. In its order, the government amended certain other regulations for congregation based on the Union ministry of home affairs guidelines that as many as 376 people can assemble in a space of 1,000 square metres or 158 in 500sqm for any event —be it a wedding, birthday celebrations, death ceremony, cremation or burial. The government allowed firms to operate with full capacity wherever work from home (WFH) options are not feasible. However, adequate Covid-19 precautions have to be taken including social distancing and face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/theatres-in-ktaka-hit-as-50-seating-rule-stays-till-feb-28/articleshow/80657147.cms||---
February 3, 2021||World||Thousands in UK sign petition calling for farmer protester safety and press freedom in India||LONDON: Thousands of people in Britain have signed a petition calling for farmer protester safety and press freedom in India while the Labour party, for the first time since the protests against agricultural reforms began, issued a statement criticising the Indian authorities. Shadow minister for Asia and the Pacific Stephen Kinnock said: “We are increasingly concerned by the violent nature of clashes between the farmers and police, and the risks to essential democratic rights and freedoms. We call on both sides to show restraint, but we are clear that the onus is on the Indian authorities to protect the farmers’ right to peaceful protest, to respect their right to freedom of assembly and expression, and to respond to any incidents of civil disobedience in a proportionate and appropriate manner. The foreign secretary should raise these concerns with his counterpart in the Indian government as a matter of urgency.” A petition — started by Gurcharan Singh — on the UK government and parliament website, calls on the UK to “urge the Indian government to ensure the safety of farmer protesters and of press freedom”. By Tuesday it had reached close to 100,00 signatures and when it does it will trigger a debate in the House of Commons, which a government minister will have to attend to respond to issues raised. The petition urges the UK government to make a public statement on the farmer protests and press freedoms in India “to encourage transparency and accountability in the world’s largest democracy” where “freedom of the press are fundamental rights”. Gurdwaras and Sikh organisations across the UK have started a mass letter-writing campaign to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab calling on him to raise their concerns about the “deteriorating human rights situation” with the Indian government and at the UN. The Sikh Council UK has written to Raab asking him to urge the Indian authorities to resume peaceful dialogue with the farmers. “As a government committed to the rule of law and human rights, there is a positive obligation on the British government to continuously raise and monitor matters that concern the violation of fundamental human rights,” it said. “The Indian security services are indiscriminately detaining and charging protesting farmers and journalists with false charges of terrorism, sedition, and anti-national conduct. Internet and phone services have been restricted to prevent independent reporting of the situation on the ground in Delhi. The Indian government is in breach of various UN resolutions and international laws regarding the right to protest, access to information, and free press,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/thousands-in-uk-sign-petition-calling-for-farmer-protester-safety-and-press-freedom-in-india/articleshow/80657291.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 3, 2021||India||‘Punjab got lion’s share of stubble help’||NEW DELHI: Punjab received 46% of Rs 1,727 crore central funds for curbing stubble burning in the last three years but saw a 15% increase in farm fires over the 2017 figures while Haryana and Uttar Pradesh significantly reduced crop residue burning during the same period, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, gave details in an affidavit about the steps taken by the newly-set up Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas. It said feedback had been sought from the Punjab chief secretary on making available crop residue management (CRM) machines at farmers' doorsteps as well as popularising the use of Pusa bio-decomposer technology along with CRM machines for in situ management of stubble. The ministry said after a surge in incidents of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the Centre decided to fund a programme for promotion of agricultural mechanisation and in situ management of crop residue for three years from 2018-19. The Centre allocated Rs 1,727 crore, of which Punjab got Rs 793 crore, Haryana Rs 500 crore, UP Rs 374 crore, Delhi Rs 4.5 crore, Indian Council of Agricultural Research and other central agencies Rs 55 crore. Though Punjab received the largest amount, the number of farm fires went up by 15% in 2020-21 as compared to 67,079 stubble burning incidents in 2017-18. The ministry said both Haryana and UP saw significant reduction in stubble burning incidents over the years. The commission on air quality has also advocated coordination between Indian Space Research Organisation, Punjab State Remote Sensing Application Centre, its counterpart in Haryana and National Crop Forecasting Centre for identification of farm fires on real-time basis for quick administrative response/action. On managing Delhi's air quality and reducing pollution caused by heavy vehicles, the commission has directed South Delhi Municipal Corporation not to permit any commercial vehicle without RFID tag to enter Delhi through 13 toll plazas where the RFID system and infrastructure has been in place since January 1. The ministry said the commission, along with other stakeholders like Central Pollution Control Board and Delhi Pollution Control Committee, carried out a comprehensive review of potential use of indigenously developed ‘Photonics’ based air quality mapping and monitoring system called Air-Quality Unique Monitoring system for a pilot trial in Delhi. "CPCB and DPCC have been requested to fund this pilot project," it said. The commission has asked all thermal power plants in areas under its jurisdiction to adhere to timelines for installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation system, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-got-lions-share-of-stubble-help/articleshow/80657337.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 3, 2021||Business||Tax rate stability key, Budget not time for tinkering, says finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey||NEW DELHI: Increased sharing of info between different arms of the govt and banks has made hiding income or evading tax an increasingly difficult task, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey tells TOI’s Sidhartha, Rajeev Deshpande and Surojit Gupta.There have been a few good months on the GST front. How do you ensure the momentum continues? For the last four months, GST collections have shown an upward movement and there was a record collection in the last two months. There are two reasons, one being the economy making a sharp recovery and it gets reflected in higher collections. A lot of work has happened in the last one and a half years in simplifying the regime and making certain structural changes. We have introduced many measures, one is quantifying the input tax credit. This depends on the returns being filed by the supplier. Read AlsoTOI interview: We never considered imposing a cess, says Nirmala SitharamanHours after presenting her third Budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told TOI that the government prioritised investment to boost demand and create jobs as a durable strategy.Last year, monthly returns were around 73-74 lakh. By January 31 it crossed 90 lakh returns. The ecosystem is promoting the filing of returns by all stakeholders. Plus, we have introduced an electronic invoice that makes it simple. Now we have complete visibility of data that has been drawn from various sources, even the banks, the customs. Even if various intermediaries are used, we will still figure out (if) the originator of the invoice is bogus or a dummy company... The remarkable thing is on a tax base of 1.2 crore, only 7-8,000 have been identified. Whether direct or indirect tax, the collection used to hover around Rs 95,000 crore. The collection of Rs 1,20,000 lakh crore has happened without tinkering with rates. The mentality that higher tax collections need higher rates, or that if you want a higher collection, you need to get after a large number of taxpayers... both myths have been discarded. The argument would be made that demands for relief by a sector may to be met through a change in tax rates.The Budget time must not be perceived, unfortunately as was the case, to tinker with rates -- up or down. Every year something or the other used to get done. What is important is the stability of the rates. Once you have brought down tax rates, like one and half years back we brought down the corporate tax rate. Even if you see the personal income tax rates, they are at an appropriate level. Now further tinkering with rates creates instability in the minds of people, investors. The stability of the rate is very important. Revenue augmentation has to come from improving the system and compliance and evolving a system so that collection improves. Union Budget 2021-22: Complete coverageWhy is this model not being replicated in direct tax. There are people who are under-reporting or not reporting at all.In indirect tax, you can see the impact month to month. There is a time lag (with direct tax) because business happens, profits are calculated and income calculated. In the case of income tax, there is a two-way flow of data. The 26A form is being populated (in GST). Many of these details are being pre-filled in income tax and that itself will make people aware about how they should calculate their profits and pay income tax. We are seeing encouraging results in direct tax also. Even in these pandemic times, when direct tax will be hit more severely as profits can get wiped out. In this situation, y-o-y at January the gross collection is down by 6.7%. Our refunds have become very fast. In terms of refunds we are 8% higher than the previous year. Our net collection is down by only around 9.5%...This is because the data is shown to the taxpayer. This should lead to voluntary compliance. Excise on petrol and diesel has been increased and now you have the cess. What is the rationale for higher taxes when there is a slowdown?Now we have readjusted various other taxes and earmarked a part for the agricultural infrastructure development cess and while doing so we have ensured… if you see very very minutely, the total tax incidence is, along with cess and excise duty, lesser than what was before. AIDC is not an additional burden. It has been redistributed. Now so far as the overall rates are concerned, now see this is an exercise where the central government relies upon the resources through these duties and state governments also do so because they impose their value-added taxes there. How do you see the overall target?We have shown the revenue growth, tax revenue growth of 16.7% Now considering the GDP nominal growth rate of somewhere between 14%-15% assumes a tax buoyancy of 1.15, so we should be able to achieve this. Next year we will have so much expenditure on infrastructure and that will help. Ultimately if people get the money increased sharing of information between different arms of the government and the banks has made hiding income or evading tax an increasingly difficult task. GST collections have consequently risen, indicating an economic recovery, as well as better compliance than earlier, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, tells TOI’s Sidhartha, Rajeev Deshpande, and Surojit Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budgets-arent-for-tinkering-with-taxes-stability-boosts-investor-confidence/articleshow/80657873.cms||Sidhartha
February 3, 2021||India||Andaman and Nicobar Islands India’s first to be ‘Covid-free’||NEW DELHI: The Andaman and Nicobar Islands has become the first state or Union territory in India to be officially rid of the Covid-19 infection, at least for now, with active cases falling to zero in the islands. The health ministry’s website reported on Tuesday that the last four infected persons in Andaman and Nicobar Islands had been declared cured. The UT had reported a total of 4,932 cases and 62 deaths from the virus.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Meanwhile, the share of Kerala in India’s daily cases crossed 50% for the first time on Tuesday. There were 11,024 fresh cases in the country out of which Kerala alone reported 5,716, 51.8% of the total. The state also has the highest count of active cases at 69,157, out of around 1,61,000 in the country, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. The daily case count had fallen to a nine-month low of 8,584 on Monday. Cases fall sharply every Monday because of lower testing and staff shortages over the weekend. While fresh cases were back to more than 11,000 on Tuesday, a comparison with the same day last week shows that fresh infections continue to fall in the country. Last Tuesday (January 26), India had reported 12,738 new cases.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The daily death toll from the virus too rose from the previous day’s number to 112 on Tuesday. The toll had dropped to below 100 on Monday, again for the first time in nine months. Delhi, meanwhile, reported just two deaths on Tuesday, the lowest daily toll in at least nine months. Maharashtra continued to report the highest number of deaths, adding 30 to the toll on Tuesday. The state recorded 1,927 new cases, the lowest in eight days. For the second day in a row, Mumbai reported less than 400 cases. Active cases in the state dropped to 41,586, of which 5,530 cases were in Mumbai.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); In Kerala, the test positivity rate remains high at 10.8%, which means that one out of every 10 tests conducted in the state had reported positive for the virus. The state also reported 16 more deaths from the virus on Tuesday. However, the last week of January witnessed an 8.3% decline in the Covid caseload in Kerala as compared with the previous weeks, the state health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/andaman-and-nicobar-islands-indias-first-to-be-covid-free/articleshow/80657352.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||BARC ex-CEO Partho Dasgupta mastermind of TRP scam: Mumbai court||MUMBAI: A sessions court in its order rejecting former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta’s bail plea has said that while it was true that 14 accused have been released on bail, the case papers reflect Dasgupta was the mastermind in the TRP manipulation scam, that he was “acting in his capacity of CEO to manipulate television ratings through mechanical device,” and that he was “in contact with a television channel owner. The sessions court’s reasoned order of January 20, made available now, also said, “It appears from the papers put forth before me that it is not a simple case of TRP manipulation but more than that.” Special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray had submitted before the sessions court that there was a “voluminous round of chats between applicant (Dasgupta) and channel owner and anchor.” “Some round of serious chat” was found in Dasgupta’s mobile and to “verify” it, the home ministry’s clearance is required, he said. The prosecutor said Dasgupta had in collusion with a “particular TV channel owner and anchor manipulated TRP for getting money” and added, “In the present crime national interest is involved”. He said Dasgupta flouted guidelines and “was playing with an amount of Rs 32,000 crore.” The order did not name the channel owner and anchor. Chats between Dasgupta and Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami are part of the police chargesheet in the case. The Bombay high court, which is now hearing Dasgupta’s plea for bail, has posted the matter for hearing on February 9. Sessions judge M A Bhosale in his order said that before forming any opinion regarding WhatsApp chats, a thorough investigation is necessary and Dasgupta’s face-to-face investigation too so that he can explain “certain code words seen in the chat exchanges he had with the channel owner.” Dasgupta would be the proper person to “explain” what it means, said the court order. The sessions court also accepted the prosecutor’s argument that Dasgupta might tamper with evidence or influence witnesses if granted bail. On Tuesday, Hiray sought time from Justice P D Naik of HC, saying he had just been assigned the case. He said Dasgupta had earlier gone to the Supreme Court too. “This is nothing but forum shopping,” he said. Appearing for the incarcerated ex-BARC CEO, senior counsel Aabad Ponda with advocate Shardul Singh cited his health and said the hearing may not be delayed. Ponda said, “He is not dying but his health is precarious.” He said Dasgupta, 55, needed medical attention. This is Dasgupta’s third plea for bail after the two lower court rejections since his arrest last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barc-ex-ceo-partho-dasgupta-mastermind-of-trp-scam-mumbai-court/articleshow/80659168.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 3, 2021||India||SC agrees to examine plea on uniform marriage age||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine whether it should adjudicate the issue of declaring a uniform minimum marriage age for men and women, expanding the growing arc of its interest in the politically sensitive issue of personal laws. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice on a transfer petition filed by lawyer and BJP neta Ashwini Upadhyay who submitted that cases pertaining to uniform marriage age were pending in Delhi and Rajasthan HCs and it would be better if the issue was adjudicated by the SC. The SC is already seized of Upadhyay’s petitions seeking uniform laws for divorce, alimony and maintenance as well as laws for uniform adoption and guardianship. The uniformity in marriage age will be the third component of the Uniform Civil Code. The petitioner prayed that the minimum marriage age for men and women be fixed at 21. The court, which had looked reluctant to take up the petition, seems to have overcome its hesitation about taking up a subject which many considered a taboo because of the resistance of minority communities to any interference with their personal laws. “Today, the minimum age for women is 18 years as against 21 years for men and this amounts to a blatant discrimination against women,” the petition argues. “There is no scientific backing for different ages for marriage except for the distinction based on patriarchal stereotypes perpetrating inequality against women that goes completely against the global trends,” the petitioner contended. The Delhi high court had in August 2019 issued notice to the Centre and the Law Commission on Upadhyay’s plea seeking uniform marriage age for men and women. On February 5 last year, the Rajasthan high court sought response from the Centre and others on a similar PIL led by one Abdul Mannan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-agrees-to-examine-plea-on-uniform-marriage-age/articleshow/80659433.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Business||Jeff Bezos to step down as CEO of Amazon in third quarter||WASHINGTON: Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday said founder Jeff Bezos would step down as CEO and become executive chairman, as the company reported its third consecutive record profit and quarterly sales above $100 billion for the first time. The transition, slated for the third quarter, will make current cloud computing chief Andy Jassy Amazon's next chief executive officer. Net sales rose to $125.56 billion as consumers turned to the world's largest online retailer for holiday shopping, beating analyst estimates of $119.7 billion, according to IBES data from Refinitiv. Read AlsoWhat next for Amazon founder Jeff Bezos?Amazon.com Inc founder Jeff Bezos is stepping down as chief executive of the tech company he founded but said the move "isn't about retiring". In a note to employees, Bezos said he will stay engaged in Amazon as executive chair, while focusing on other projects.Bezos, who started the company 27 years ago as an internet bookseller, said in a note to employees posted on Amazon's website, "As Exec Chair I will stay engaged in important Amazon initiatives but also have the time and energy I need to focus on the Day 1 Fund, the Bezos Earth Fund, Blue Origin, The Washington Post, and my other passions." He added, "I’ve never had more energy, and this isn’t about retiring." Amazon shares were up less than 1% in after-hours trading. Jassy joined Amazon in 1997 and has a MBA from Harvard Business School, according to the company's website. He founded Amazon Web Services (AWS) and grew it to a cloud platform used by millions, the company said. Tom Johnson, chief transformation officer at Mindshare Worldwide, said Jassy's promotion underscored the importance of web services to Amazon's future. "Jassy’s background in steering AWS shows just how top of mind those services are to Amazon's business strategy. It’ll be interesting to see how that affects their strategy and balancing that priority with a growing ad business and the commerce behemoth," he said Jassy's AWS, traditionally a bright spot, fell slightly short of expectations. While the cloud computing division announced deals in the quarter with ViacomCBS, the BMW Group and others, it posted revenue of $12.7 billion, short of the $12.8 billion analysts had estimated. Amazon said it was not announcing a replacement for Jassy at this time. Read AlsoWho is Amazon's new CEO Andy Jassy?Jassy, who joined Amazon after graduating from Harvard Business School, worked as a technical assistant for Bezos in the early 2000s and was instrumental in leading the company's push outside of book sales.Since the start of the US coronavirus outbreak, consumers have turned increasingly to Amazon for delivery of home staples and medical supplies. Brick-and-mortar shops closed their doors; Amazon, the world's largest online retailer, instead recruited over 400,000 more workers and posted consecutive record profits. Amazon chief financial officer Brian Olsavsky told reporters on a conference call that costs associated with the pandemic in the first quarter are expected to total $2 billion, down from $4 billion in the fourth quarter. With its warehouses open, Amazon had another record holiday, beating estimates for online store sales, subscription sales, third-party service sales such as warehousing and other sales to merchants on its platform. A boost in revenue came from moving Amazon's marketing event Prime Day - usually in July - to October, lengthening the holiday shopping season. Watch Jeff Bezos to step down as CEO of Amazon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/jeff-bezos-to-step-down-from-ceo-of-amazon-in-third-quarter/articleshow/80659729.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||No of malnourished kids up but food funds down||NEW DELHI: In spite of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) done in 2019-20 showing an increase in proportion of children under five years suffering from chronic malnutrition in many states, the government has cut its Budget for its main nutrition programme, the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) scheme, by over Rs 5,000 crore. The huge slash has come as a shock to public health experts working on health, nutrition and right to food. After the increase in the proportion of underweight and stunted children revealed by the national survey, most had expected a substantial increase in allocation for nutrition. However, though the FM talked about merging the supplementary nutrition programme and Poshan Abhiyan and about an intensified strategy to improve nutritional outcomes across 112 aspirational districts, the annexure to the speech indicated a Rs 1,000-crore cut for nutrition. A closer look at the Budget documents shows that the budget for the umbrella Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), the largest early childhood programme for children under 6 years, has been slashed by over Rs 5,000 crore from Rs 26,057 crore to just Rs 21,005 crore. The programme provides food, pre-school education, immunisation, and health check-up through anganwadis at the village level. “One expected that given that one phase of Poshan Abhiyan is over and it hasn’t achieved its target, as shown by the NFHS-5, there would be an increase in funds. It is disappointing that in the present situation of hunger and malnutrition facing the people in this country, the Union Budget has actually reduced the allocations for crucial food and nutrition schemes such as the ICDS, midday meals and maternity entitlements,” said Dipa Sinha of the Right to Food Campaign. Some components of the erstwhile umbrella ICDS scheme have been split up and clubbed differently with other schemes making comparison difficult. However, it’s clear most components have faced budget cuts (see graph). The flagship nutrition scheme has been rechristened as Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan 2.0. Allocation for the midday meal programme has increased marginally from Rs 11,000 crore in the Budget estimates for the current year to Rs 11,500 crore, but has fallen by Rs 1,400 crore when compared to the revised estimates for 2020-21 of Rs 12,900 crore. “It is inexplicable. There is absolutely no cognisance of what NFHS-5 is telling us and what the experience of the pandemic has been. We expected a raise for ICDS as a fundamental intervention to bring down malnutrition,” said Dr Vandana Prasad of the Public Health Resource Network. “Just by a signature on a letter you add on responsibilities of anganwadi workers, but will not give her a decent remuneration. Anganwadi services have just restarted and this is such a slap in the face of the anganwadi workers who’ve been working so hard even during Covid for such a measly sum,” said Dr Prasad adding that instead of the pandemic creating a new normal in terms of social security, things were going back/getting worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-of-malnourished-kids-up-but-food-funds-down/articleshow/80659773.cms||Rema Nagarajan
February 3, 2021||India||Estimate behind 35k cr Covid vaccine pie: 700/recipient, 50cr citizens||NEW DELHI: The Rs 35,000-crore allocation set aside for anti-Covid vaccination in the Budget is intended to cover 50 crore people with the cost of the shots and the accompanying logistic and administrative expenses working out to Rs 700 per beneficiary who is inoculated. “We have tried to make a reasonable estimate of what it will cost. Our estimates are based on a calculation of Rs 700 per person – each requiring two doses. It (vaccine cost) is Rs 200-250 (for each shot), plus incidentals such as syringe, cold storage, transportation, honorarium for the staff. The pattern of funding will be decided by the health ministry and Niti Aayog in consultation with the states. Whether the number of people to be vaccinated is 50 crore or more, or less, will depend on multiple factors. There are so many variables,” expenditure secretary T V Somanathan told TOI. In her budget finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the allocation and said that more funds will be made available, if required. The government has targeted 30 crore priority health and frontline workers and the target envisaged would mean around 20 crore of the above 50 population get the shot along with those who are younger but have serious comorbidities. The pace of vaccination will depend, among other factors, on whether the shots will be available for purchase by private citizens in a few months. These numbers are not part of the government’s estimates. As the shots in use, Covishield and Covaxin, are double-dose vaccines, 100 crore jabs will be given if the target is met. The Centre also defended the health and wellness budget from criticism that the 137% rise includes heads like drinking water and sanitation. “These were there in the previous Budget as well,” said Somanathan. The government also felt that disease control through sanitation and drinking water is very much a health concern as it would directly impact illnesses like malaria and typhoid, dysentery, cholera and hepatitis. The increase for drinking water and sanitation is steep, reflecting the renewed focus on preventive health while nutrition was equally a part of the health and wellness initiatives announced by the finance minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/estimate-behind-35k-cr-covid-vaccine-pie-700/recipient-50cr-citizens/articleshow/80659803.cms||Surojit Gupta
February 3, 2021||Patna||‘Govt should have increased states’ share in central taxes’||PATNA: A day after presentation of the Union Budget by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, economists and public finance experts on Tuesday said acceptance of the Fifteenth Finance Commission recommendation to keep the share of states in the divisible pool of taxes unchanged at 41% may act as a deterrent for states like Bihar in increasing capital expenditure or achieving the new development goals envisaged in the Budget. They said states like Bihar need more fiscal space through additional revenue or borrowings from the Centre. Sitharaman, while tabling the Fifteenth Finance Commission’s recommendation along with the Union Budget in the Parliament on Monday, had termed the government’s acceptance of 41% share for states from central pool as recommended by the commission as “a sign of its commitment to fiscal federalism”. Sudhanshu Kumar, an economist at Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance (CEPPF)-Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) said the Fourteenth Finance Commission had kept the states’ share at 42% of the divisible revenue, which was reduced to 41% as per the interim report of Fifteenth Finance Commission for 2020-21. “The finance minister said in her speech that the central government will nudge the states to increase their capital expenditure. However, states have reduced their capital expenditure in the recent years due to pressure on their fiscal balance. Thus, increasing capital expenditure will have more implications on poorer states like Bihar,” he said. Sudhanshu said the states are more pressurised in recent years owing to tendency of increased borrowings from the Centre, leading to surge in expenditure in payment of interests. “Bihar gets 75% of its total receipts from the Centre and any expectation of increased capital expenditure or other new development initiatives can be achieved only if there is an arrangement of additional revenue either through central transfers or increased borrowing,” he said, adding the Centre should provide more options to the states for increasing their revenues through central transfers or other economical means. Patna-based economist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, said though the states’ share in the divisible pool of taxes has remained unchanged, the transfer of central taxes in real terms will be less than the previous year. “This is basically due to several factors, including reduced plan size of the Budget, revenue from additional cess going only to the Centre and reduction in GST collection,” he said. Chairman of Bihar State Finance Commission Navin Kumar, however, said the unchanged share of states in central taxes is unlikely to have much impact on the states. “The Fourteenth Finance Commission had increased the share of states in central taxes from 31% to 42%, which was later reduced to 41%. Though states like Bihar, which have limited sources of generating their own revenue, could have been better off with any increase in share in central taxes, but there won’t be much adverse impact on the state fiscal health in the present scenario,” he said. Kumar was also hopeful of a surge in overall central taxes with gradual recovery in the economy as the GST collection increased registered an increase last month. Economist and former principal of Patna College, N K Choudhary, said, “One should also acknowledge the pressure on the Centre’s fiscal health owing to the pandemic and economic slowdown. Thus, even if the states’ share has remained unchanged, it can still be manageable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-should-have-increased-states-share-in-central-taxes/articleshow/80656011.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 3, 2021||Patna||Budget allocation, schemes to aid Bihar education infra: Academics||PATNA: The Rs 93,224 crore allocation for the education sector in the Union Budget is likely to prove beneficial for Bihar, according to academics and state education planners. State education minister Ashok Kumar Chaudhary observed that the decision to ensure qualitative improvement in more than 15,000 schools under the National Education Policy would benefit state schools. He also appreciated the decision to set up 750 Eklavya model residential schools in tribal areas. “The decision to set up 100 Sainik schools in partnership with NGOs is also a welcome step,” he said. Chaudhary further pointed out that the modern outlook and approach in the budget for the education sector would reinvigorate human capital in the state. “The budget proposal towards skilling and apprenticeship for students and dedicating a sum of Rs 3,000 crore will give multiple opportunities to the aspiring NextGen leaders of tomorrow, including those from Bihar,” Chaudhary said. Aryabhatta Knowledge University’s former vice-chancellor Shambhu Nath Guha found the focus of the budget on effective implementation of new education policy to be reassuring. “The proposal for the higher education commission as an umbrella organisation having four dedicated bodies for standard-setting, accreditation, regulation, and funding will bring focus on performance and bring clarity to institutions seeking help from the government,” Guha said. “The creation of city-based structures to create synergies among higher education institutions located in a city is an innovative step,” he added and hoped that Patna will be one of the cities selected for the benefit as it has a large number of old and new educational institutions. Guha further pointed out that the announcement of National Research Foundation (NRF), to receive an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore in five years to boost quality and quantity of research in India, is a big push towards innovation in the education sector. “The institutions of higher education in Bihar would get higher research funding now,” he said. “If the state puts its case strongly and gets some of the Sainik schools, it would go a long way in changing the academic scenario of the state,” said Patna University physics department’s senior teacher Shankar Kumar. “With the shift towards the implementation of New Education Policy, 2020, the state would be very much benefitted by National Professional Standards for Teachers (NPST)as the state is going to have three lakh more teachers in addition to the existing nearly five lakh teachers,” Kumar added. Bihar Public Service Commission’s former member and Patna University English department’s former head Shiv Jatan Thakur, however, expressed his doubt as to whether Bihar would be able to derive much benefit from the various schemes announced in the budget. He pointed out that the government will start a programme in which urban local industries and companies would provide an internship, but in Bihar, students will hardly get any industries to derive the benefit of this scheme. He further observed that quality education is proposed to be imparted through online mode for weaker sections with the aid from external commercial borrowing and FDI shortly. “Bihar is unlikely to receive any aid from ECB and FDI in the near future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-allocation-schemes-to-aid-bihar-education-infra-academics/articleshow/80655834.cms||B K Mishra
February 3, 2021||Patna||19 of 38 districts in Bihar have less than 10 active Covid cases||PATNA: Bihar has come a long way in its fight against the Covid-19 virus with the recovery rate standing at 99%, and half the state reporting less than 10 active cases. As per the Covid bulletin issued by the state health department on Tuesday evening, 19 out of 38 districts in the state have less than 10 active cases and two other districts have 10 cases. Khagaria currently has no active cases of Covid-19 infection. The districts having less than 10 active cases are Araria (7), Arwal (6), Banka(4), Bhojpur (3), Buxar (2), Jamui (2), Jehanabad (4), Kaimur (9), Katihar (3), Kishanganj (2), Madhepura (7), Munger (3), Nawada (9), West Champaran (6), Saharsa (1), Sheikhpura (1), Sheohar (9) and Samastipur (7). Patna, however, still has the highest number of active cases as the corresponding tally for the state capital stands at 631. Meanwhile, the daily addition of fresh cases is also hovering around the 100-mark for the past few days, it stood at 118 on Tuesday. The daily death count has also been less than five per day as four fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the corresponding tally up to 1,507. One death was reported by AIIMS- Patna. Three deaths were reported on Monday as per the health department’s bulletin. Meanwhile, altogether 173 patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of cured persons in the state to 2,58,309. With new cases and discharged patients, Bihar’s recovery rate improved to 99% on Tuesday evening, which is 1.95 % higher than the national average of 97.05%. Muzaffarpur-based public health expert Dr Arun Shah attributed the plunge in Covid cases to a low transmission rate of the virus and natural immunity among people. “The rate of transmission of the virus has reduced to a large extent along with the development of natural immunity among people. The Covid fatality rate stands around 1.3%, which is equal to the causality in case of any other viral disease in the country, including influenza. The people with comorbid and other high- risk underlying health conditions are susceptible to fatal results in other viral diseases as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-of-38-districts-in-bihar-have-less-than-10-active-covid-cases/articleshow/80655439.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 3, 2021||Business||Tamilnad Mercantile Bank reports 96% rise in net profits at Rs 180 crore||Chennai: Private lender Tamilnad Mercantile Bank on Tuesday said that its net profits increased by 96% YoY at Rs 180 crore for the December-ended quarter, 2020 and Rs 121 crore sequentially. This is at the back of high net interest income, lower provisioning and reduction in bad loans (non-performing assets). The bank said it has an additional standard assets provision of about Rs 154 crore for 90 DPD (days past due) accounts in respect of Covid stressed accounts in line with the Supreme Court directives for standstill clause. Its net interest income stood at Rs 429 crore in the third quarter, up 8.46% while total deposits increased by 7.72% at Rs 37,888 crore. CASA deposits saw a 16.48% growth. MSME advances have seen a 15% growth at Rs 11,894 crore. Retail advances portfolio up 20.28% YoY at Rs 6,133 crore, agricultural advances increased to Rs 7,812 crore, up 19.11%. Capital Adequacy Ratio (Basel III) of the bank has increased to 17.24% in the December quarter, as compared to 15.87% a year ago. Provision Coverage Ratio of the bank has improved to 89.31%, from 78.57% a year ago. “Gross NPA has reduced to 3.24% between April-December, 2020, from 5.16% between April-December, 2019 (for the nine-months ended),” a bank official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tamilnad-mercantile-bank-reports-96-rise-in-net-profits-at-rs-180-crore/articleshow/80656855.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||18 hours after emergency landing, plane flies to Goa||Kolkata: The Boeing B 737-800 aircraft that made a full emergency landing in Kolkata at 4.37pm on Monday, was cleared to take off on Tuesday morning. The nine-year-old aircraft took off for Goa at 10.10am and reached Dabolim airport without any incident at 1.30pm. The aircraft had returned to Kolkata airport shortly after it took off for Bagdogra airport on Monday evening. A fire alarm on board had led to the captain making a “Mayday” call, prompting the roll-out of full emergency procedure, including positioning of fire trucks along the tarmac. However, no fire or smoke was detected after landing. The matter is being investigated by the civil aviation regulator. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation will also look at the technical snag reported around an hour earlier when the aircraft was given permission to taxi for take-off. An airline spokesperson said it was a passenger who had complained of a foul smell that had prompted the pilot to turn back. “The engineers checked the plane but no problem was detected,” the official said. Condensation in the aircraft’s air-conditioning system leads to formation of vapour or fog in the cabin that may appear like smoke. The 63 passengers, including the top brass of state police, were later flown to Bagdogra in a spare aircraft operated by the same crew. Sources said the aircraft was cleared for operation on Tuesday after engineers could not detect any electrical problem in it on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/18-hours-after-emergency-landing-plane-flies-to-goa/articleshow/80656761.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Missing boy found in Odisha||Kolkata: A 16-year-old boy from Park Street who had gone missing on Sunday was traced to Rourkela in Odisha with the help of a TTE on Gitanjali Express. A complaint by a resident of Abdul Ali Row stated her son was kidnapped. “We came to know the TTE at Rourkela found the boy without a ticket and the GRP kept him in their custody. His family was contacted and arrangements were made to bring him back,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missing-boy-found-in-odisha/articleshow/80656783.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Business||PSU bankers expect govt to guarantee ARC’s units||Mumbai: Public sector banks feel that the asset reconstruction company (ARC) proposed in the Union Budget will need some kind of a government guarantee or assurance so that banks can transfer loans without having to take a hit on their earnings. The Union Budget has proposed the setting up of a central ARC that will buy loans from banks by issuing them security receipts. The assets will be managed by professional managers and sold to alternate investment funds or resolved through any of the available mechanisms. The challenge in transferring the loans is that each lender values them differently and so does not provide for them similarly. There are lenders with the first charge on the security as well as unsecured lenders. Also, among lenders, foreign banks are quick to write off loans, but smaller public sector lenders do not have the capital to do that. Banks have proposed to the government the creation of a public sector National Asset Reconstruction Company, which can take over bad loans from all the consortium banks. This will be in respect of 70-80 large loans of over Rs 500 crore, totalling to around Rs 2.7 lakh crore. The ARC would not pay banks cash but issue them security receipts. Bankers say that if the government were to provide a credit enhancement for the security receipts in the form of a guarantee, they will not have any provisioning and banks can transfer the bad loans without a hit on their profits. According to UV Asset Reconstruction Company director Harihara Mishra, global experience suggests that a clear road map on various issues is required for success in resolution. These include governance standards, approach to acquisition, valuation methodology, the incentive system for transfer of loans, time-bound resolution, and investor-friendly ecosystem in trading of bad loans. Mishra was earlier involved in preparing a report on ARC reforms a decade ago after studying the markets in Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/psu-bankers-expect-govt-to-guarantee-arcs-units/articleshow/80657495.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 3, 2021||Trichy||Sasikala posters: AIADMK expels 3 more partymen||MADURAI/TRICHY: On a day the ruling AIADMK expelled three more party functionaries for putting up posters welcoming former general secretary V K Sasikala from prison, fresh posters surfaced in many parts of Madurai and Sivaganga hailing her. One set of posters describing her as the “permanent general secretary of AIADMK” appeared in many parts of Madurai city with due credit to K Bhoominathan, Amma Peravai secretary of 8th block. Madurai district MGR mandram deputy secretary T Thirumaran, Veerapandi panchayat president V Sugapriya Vijaykumar and another AIADMK functionary, A Muthukumaran, were among others who also put up posters. They hailed her as the epitome of sacrifice. "Since there are no signs that Sasikala will be taken back into the AIADMK, there is no other go but to openly declare our support for her. She is the only person who can strengthen the party and prevent its downfall in the coming elections,’’ said A Kanna, Madurai West Ilaingnar Ilampengal Pasarai secretary. He said his appointment to the youth wing was made by J Jayalalithaa and Sasikala. He claimed that if AIADMK took a head count of its supporters, they will find it to be less than half crore and not 1.5 crore as claimed. Meanwhile, a statement issued by the chief minister and deputy chief minister in their capacity as party organisers, expelled the Andipatti west union MGR youth wing president Pannai M Chinnaraja for putting up posters hailing Sasikala. In Trichy and Mayiladuthurai, the party expelled two more functionaries for activities against the principles of the party. They were former district panchayat vice-president of Thiruverumbur union, Arasangudi A N Saminathan, and minorities’ welfare wing secretary of Sembanarkovil north union in Mayiladuthurai district, A Qutubuddin. In a joint statement, the CM and deputy CM asked party cadres not to have any truck with the expelled people as they had brought disrepute to the party. Meanwhile, son of deputy chief minister Panneerselvam, Jeya Pradeep, who created a flutter last week when he tweeted for Sasikala’s health, clarified his action again to reporters in Tiruchendur on Tuesday. He said he had only wished Sasikala well on humanitarian grounds and that he was in Tiruchendur temple to pray for AIADMK rule to be established for the third time under the guidance of the chief minister and deputy chief minister. (With inputs from Gokul Rajendran in Trichy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-continues-expulsion-spree-as-more-posters-hail-sasi/articleshow/80660415.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, ATS takes custody of Chinku Pathan||MUMBAI: State anti-terrorism squad (ATS) recently arrested Parvez Khan (40) alias Chinku Pathan, yesteryear’s don Karim Lala’s grandson, in a drug case. He was first arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on January 19. ATS took his custody from Thane jail. ATS in October had registered a case of criminal conspiracy under IPC and booked him under NDPS Act after it seized 60gm of mephedron worth Rs 1.5 lakh. ATS had arrested Nallasopara resident Sohail Sayyed (34) and Mumbai resident Zeeshan Memon “Pathan’s role was established during our probe,” said an officer. ATS submitted an application to court for Pathan’s custody. “Pathan supplied drugs to sub-agents. We are probing his role,” added an officer. Police suspect he was running a drug syndicate. NCB had arrested his associate, Arif Bhujwala, and busted the latter’s drug lab at Dongri. NCB had seized drugs and cash from there. It suspected the two ran the drug syndicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-ats-takes-custody-of-chinku-pathan/articleshow/80656521.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 8.3% dip in number of new Covid cases in last week of January||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The last week of January witnessed a decline in the caseload of Covid-19 in the state when compared to the previous weeks in the month, says the report of state health department. There is an 8.3% decrease in the number of new cases in the current week as compared to the previous week. If 36,700 cases were reported during January 11 to 17, it went upto 42,340 cases between January 18 and 24. However, it has come down to 38,900 cases during January 25 to 31, the report says. New cases increased by 8.7% in Alappuzha, 4.8% in Kasaragod, 2.3% in Kozhikode, 1.1% in Kollam, whereas it decreased by 35.8% in Wayanad and 19.8% in Kottayam in the current week as compared to the previous week. If all 14 districts witnessed an increase in caseload during January 18 to 24 when compared to the previous week, only four districts witnessed an increase in caseload last week. In Thiruvananthapuram, the case load came down to 2,663 during the last week of January from 2,981 of the previous week. Similarly, it came down to 3,017 in Pathanamthitta from 3,374, in Idukki 1,555 from 1,777, in Ernakulam 5,483 from 6,129, in Kottayam 3,609 from 4504, in Malappuram 2,867 from 3,401, in Wayanad 1,259 from 1,964 and in Kannur 1,952 from 2,233. However, in a few districts there has been no drastic change in reporting of new cases when compared to the previous weeks. Thrissur reported 3,039 cases last week and it was 3,015 the previous week. In Palakkad, 1,568 cases were reported last week when compared to 1,569 the previous week. Test positivity rate (TPR) of the state was 10.6% last week and 10.9% the previous week. TPR increased in the last week in Alappuzha, Idukki, Thrissur and Kasaragod as compared to the previous week. During Jan 18 to 24, TPR rose in all 14 districts as compared to the previous week. However, during the last week of January, TPR decreased by 26% in Wayanad and 12% in Malappuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/8-3-dip-in-number-of-new-cases-in-last-week-of-jan-/articleshow/80655210.cms||Rajiv G
February 3, 2021||Business||Budget bull run helps sensex breach 50k for the 2nd time||MUMBAI: The Budget-driven bull run on Dalal Street continued on Tuesday with the sensex going past the 50k mark again in early trades. It finally closed just a tad lower at 49,798 — showing a gain of 1,197 points, or 2.5%. The day’s rally was, like on Monday, led by foreign funds, which net-bought stocks worth Rs 6,181 crore, BSE data showed. It was also backed by strong gains in Asian markets on renewed hopes of a stimulus in the US. A day earlier on Monday, the sensex had shot up by 2,315 points after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman walked a tightrope and delivered a Budget that has the potential to spur growth in the economy, which is currently in a recession. Boosted by expectations of a strong investment-led recovery, the sensex has notched up 3,512 points in the last two days — the index’s biggest two-day gain ever. Tuesday’s rally in the market also added about Rs 4.2 lakh crore to investors’ wealth, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 196.4 lakh crore. And in the last two days, investors have become richer by nearly Rs 11 lakh crore. The Budget, which most commentators said was pro-growth in a tough fiscal situation, also prompted brokers to take a positive view of the economy. Kotak Securities on Tuesday increased its year-end sensex and Nifty targets by over 10% each to 51,000 points and 15,000 points, respectively. Additionally, the upgrades have come because of strong quarterly results by leading companies. According to Kotak Securities EVP and head (fundamental research - private client group) Rusmik Oza, since early December, the earnings forecast has gone up by about 6%. After the Budget, looking at third quarter (of fiscal 2021) numbers that are coming in and the very low base of first half of fiscal 2020, the firm’s analysts feel there could be more earnings upgrades in the next few months. “Our revised 2021-end Nifty earnings per share estimate works to Rs 770. Assigning a slightly higher multiple of 19.5x (average of 19-20x) gives us a target of 15,000 for the Nifty for end of 2021,” Oza said in a note. Sensex’s 2.5% gain was led by HDFC Bank, HDFC and RIL, while HUL, Bajaj Finserve and Titan closed marginally lower. Of the 30 sensex stocks, only three closed lower. Brokers are also expecting a renewed rally in several sectors of the economy, mainly boosted by the Budget. According to Geojit Financial Services head (research) Vinod Nair, the start of a new rally is noticed in sectors like banking, infra and auto, supported by a renewed traction provided by the growth-oriented Budget. “After consecutive selling by FPIs last week, the market witnessed a reversal in trend, becoming net buyers after the Budget. Positive global sentiments ahead of a new US Covid support bill also lifted the market,” Nair said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/budget-bull-run-helps-sensex-breach-50k-for-the-2nd-time/articleshow/80657333.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Filtered water hope for Bypass complexes||KOLKATA: More than 30,000 residents staying in large areas along EM Bypass will get potable water as the Kolkata Municipal Corporation has taken up construction of a booster pumping station at Ajoynagar to supply filtered water from Jai Hind water treatment plant at Dhapa. Land availability in the Ajoynagar area has facilitated the proposal for building this pumping station that will have a much higher capacity than the smaller ones inaugurated in the past three years. A KMC water supply department official said that the new booster pumping station will benefit residential standalone buildings, high-rises and slums. The chairman of the KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) Firhad Hakim will lay the foundation stone of the proposed water booster pumping station on Friday. According to a KMC water supply department official, the construction work will start from next month and the deadline has been fixed in early 2023. The proposed booster pumping station will benefit residents in large areas along EM Bypass, including Ajoynagar, Mukundapur, Panchasayar, Garia Station Road and Kalikapur. “Of late, we have been constructing smaller booster pumping stations — which we call capsule pumping stations — for want of space. This proposed pumping station will be different. It will have the capacity to store 1.8 million gallons of filtered water and supply it to several neighbourhoods located along EM Bypass,” a KMC water supply department official said. This station will benefit people once the augmentation of the Dhapa water treatment plant is complete, possibly at the same time. Sources in the KMC confirmed that the proposed booster pumping station was aimed at eliminating use of groundwater by thousands living in ward 109. This apart, the civic body was getting numerous complaints from across the ward about acute water crisis every summer. “We were compelled to think of constructing a booster pumping station after a phenomenal growth in housing complexes and apartment buildings in large areas located along EM Bypass,” said a civic official. “We will first provide water to residential buildings and the slum areas. Later, we will invite applications from residents of high-rises once the augmentation of the Dhapa treatment plant is complete,” A KMC water supply department official said. The augmentation of the Dhapa water treatment plant has much to do with the proper functioning of the proposed booster pumping station as the latter will be solely dependent on the plant for storage of water. “We have reached the final stage of inviting a tender for augmentation of the Dhapa water treatment plant. Once the capacity of this treatment plant is augmented by 20 million gallons, the proposed booster pumping stations along EM Bypass will start functioning effectively,” said a KMC water supply official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/filtered-water-hope-for-bypass-complexes/articleshow/80656722.cms||Saikat Ray
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Crop on encroached land, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation team returns||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation team which went to take possession of the land in Vatva area returned without carrying out their duties as the land they went to take possession had a standing crop on it. A farmer had cultivated the land. In order to save his standing crop the team did not take poscession of the land. Vatva police inspector, H V Sisara, said that AMC had demanded police protection from them about 15 days ago. “Our teams went to the area with AMC teams the farmer requested them to wait till he harvests the crop.  Officials have given him one-month time to the farmer after which they will take possession of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crop-on-encroached-land-amc-team-returns/articleshow/80657394.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Hike to boost health sector in Bihar||PATNA: The healthcare infrastructure in Bihar is likely to get a boost with the 135% hike in allocation for the health sector in the Union budget presented on Monday. Describing it as the “all-time best budget” for the health sector, the national president-elect of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh said besides healthcare infrastructure, it would also boost the pharmaceutical industry in the country. “The healthcare budget will prove to be a boon for Bihar where people from rural areas have to rush to the state capital or the nearest medical college for specialist treatment,” Singh added. “We expect the state government to utilise part of the allocated share in developing pharmaceutical industries,” he said. Dr Sahjanand, who is also a member of the National Medical Commission, also hoped that the new budget would open more avenues of employment for doctors nursing staff, pathologists and pharmacists. The former principal and superintendent of the PMCH and president of the state branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Amar Kant Jha described the budget as the most needed government initiative to bring the healthcare facilities at people’s doors. “The provision for setting up specialised diagnostic centres in all the districts for providing free services is something that would help people a lot,” he said. “Pathological and diagnostic tests cost a lot in private clinics. In the government sector, only the medical colleges and some similar institutions offer free service but their number was few in the large state like Bihar having 38 districts,” he added. Amar said the state expects at least two or three of the 75 highly specialised wellness centres proposed under the Union budget and these centres would largely help in providing treatment of trauma and emergency cases. “Despite many good features, what the medical fraternity found missing in the budget was the provisions to promote medical research. There is a need to establish at least one medical research centre and giving incentives to those pursuing research in developing new technologies for treatment,” he said. Senior gynaecologist Dr Manju Geeta Mishra said free vaccine to all is the biggest gift from the government to people across the country. She said the healthcare facilities in Bihar still lacked the needed infrastructure, at least in small districts and rural areas. “We encounter dozens of gynaecological cases, including the delivery of a child, worsened by unskilled health workers and quacks to critical stages and it is mostly due to lack of proper healthcare infrastructure at the block level,” she said, adding the new budget had taken care of such problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-hike-to-boost-bihar-health-sector-generate-more-jobs-experts/articleshow/80655892.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Business||JSW Energy exits Ind-Barath deal||MUMBAI: JSW Energy on Tuesday terminated its Rs 1,000-crore offer for the bankrupt Ind-Barath Energy, citing ‘material adverse change’ (MAC) event. This is the second M&A that JSW Energy has terminated since the Covid outbreak. In July 2020, JSW Energy had terminated its Rs 5,321-crore deal to acquire GMR’s Odisha thermal power plant. In October 2019, JSW Energy submitted a resolution plan for Ind-Barath, which owns a 700MW under-construction thermal power unit in Odisha. In 11 days, JSW Energy was informed that its plan was accepted by Ind-Barath’s creditors and the resolution professional subsequently filed an application with the company law tribunal seeking its nod. On Tuesday, JSW Energy in a regulatory filing, said in the intervening period of more than 15 months since the submission of its offer, an MAC event has occurred, which allows the company to terminate its offer. Accordingly, JSW Energy served an MAC notice to Ind-Barath’s resolution professional and creditors committee, thereby terminatinating the offer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jsw-energy-exits-ind-barath-deal/articleshow/80657641.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Farmers, experts hail agri allocation in Budget||PATNA: The farming and allied sector in Bihar has welcomed the budgetary allocations in the general budget presented by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. The Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess, expansion of Operation Green Scheme and allowance of state-run Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) to access Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) among other provisions are the key attractions. “The agricultural infrastructure based policies will be beneficial for farmers in the long run. The state government was already focusing on strengthening the agricultural infrastructure, and now the support by national policies will facilitate easy funding from the national pool,” said Anil Kumar Jha, deputy director of the agriculture department. Sudhanshu Kumar, a Samastipur-based farmer said the decision to allow state-run APMCs to access AIF is the most beneficial takeaway, which will strengthen farmers in the state. “At present, the farmers receive Rs50,000 to 1 lakh at 7% interest with a 3% rebate, if they timely repay the loan on their Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) but increased fund amount at the same interest rate will surely encourage farmers to buy and use new technology for more production. Moreover, the surplus funds for wheat and paddy procurement will ensure timely payment to the farmers,” Kumar added. On the new farm laws introduced by the Centre, he said, “If anyone is protesting politically, then no matter what anyone does, it won’t make any difference, but if a genuine farmer is protesting for MSP and non-abolition of APMC mandis then the budget has assured that the government is not thinking of doing away with MSP, but is allocating funds so that more and more crops can be bought at the MSP. If one observes the budget, there is a mention of creating 1,000 new mandis.” Abdus Sattar, an agro meteorologist at the Rajendra Agriculture University, Pusa, said, “The most important aspect in the budget for the agriculture sector is that the government has fixed a target of Rs15.6 lakh crore for lending to farmers and if implemented properly, it will accelerate agriculture growth and production.” Devendra Yadav, a Madhubani-based farmer hailed the government’s vision of doubling farmers’ income. “The farming community is extremely happy with this year’s budget allocation. We pledge our support to the government’s Aatmnirbhar Bharat vision,” he said. Amid the jubilation, there is a section of farmers that believes the government is not supporting them fully. “There was no announcement on even flagship schemes like PM-KISAN. We were expecting that the amount of Rs6,000 would be increased this year,” said Yashwant Kumar Singh, a farmer from Rohtas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-experts-hail-agri-allocation-in-budget/articleshow/80655953.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products buys cereal co Kottaram Agro Foods||Mumbai: Tata Consumer Products is set to acquire Kottaram Agro Foods, maker of Soulfull cereals and millet-based snacks, for Rs 156 crore, entering into new categories in the packaged foods space. Kottaram, founded in 2011 by four people, reported a turnover of Rs 39 crore in FY20. The company launched the Soulfull brand in 2013. In addition to the cash payout of Rs 156 crore, Kottaram’s promoters will be entitled to a contingent consideration, which is payable upon the company achieving certain operational and financial milestones over five years, Tata Consumer said. The transaction is expected to be concluded before March 31. Soulfull has a strong presence in select urban markets, reaching about 15,000 outlets. The proposed acquisition is part of Tata Consumer’s strategy to ramp up its play in the health and wellness space, which is estimated at Rs 20,000 crore. Separately, Tata Consumer exited the coffee business in Australia in line with its “portfolio rebalancing strategy”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-consumer-products-buys-cereal-co-kottaram-agro-foods/articleshow/80657249.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||CRS check of Metro extension on Fri-Sat||Kolkata: The Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) will be inspecting the 4km Dakshineswar extension of the north-south Metro corridor on Friday and Saturday. Last Friday, TOI had reported about the imminent inspection, following which, subject to the CRS’ nod, the line may be thrown open to commercial operations the week after. There are unconfirmed reports that Prime Minister Narendra Modi may be inaugurating the new stretch, which would connect Kalighat — part of the existing corridor — and Dakshineswar. The CRS on Tuesday wrote to Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi that Sailesh Kumar Pathak, chief commissioner railway safety, will be on the two-day visit starting Friday. Joshi is due to visit the stretch on Wednesday, especially to check out the Electronic Interlocking (EI) commissioning that was done last Saturday and Sunday. Metro trains did not run between Noapara and Dum Dum on Sunday to facilitate the EI commissioning — linking the new section and its signalling system to the existing one. The new section will extend the corridor northward through two new stations — Baranagar and Dakshineswar. The mostly elevated section has missed several deadlines. The last one was in July 2020, when a crucial equipment — the Train Protection and Warning System (TPWS), a software which prevents collision — ran into the Covid-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crs-check-of-metro-extension-on-fri-sat/articleshow/80656771.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 3, 2021||Patna||CUSB boasts of opening fully automated library||PATNA: The Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Tuesday earned the distinction of having the first fully automated library in the state. This library would save the precious time of the users by providing an easy access to all its voluminous collections of books and journals. Inaugurating the automated library at a function on Tuesday, CUSB vice-chancellor H C S Rathore said the technological enhancement of CUSB library would prove much useful for the academics. Within the next two years, the library would get its new multistorey building, he said. Earlier, the VC kicked off the Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) automation system and MyLoft application used for remote access of e-resources. The VC was accompanied by registrar R K Singh. Giving details of the library, CUSB librarian Pramod Kumar Singh said getting inspired by the fourth law of library science — ‘save the time of users’ — the fully automated RFID system reduces the time required to perform operations as issue and return of books with the help of self check-in and checkout systems. It has other features such as account station, anti-theft detection, book dropbox, ability to locate specific items and automated email to the user on every issue or return operation. This system also improves library’s work flow and staff productivity by reducing non-value added work processes. But, all these facilities would be available through a biometric record of the registered users only, Singh added. CUSB public relations officer Mudassir Alam said through the application of MyLoft software, all e-resources, including e-journals, e-books and e-database subscribed by the university, have been integrated with a centralized access point and with a single username and password. Now the users will be able to access these e-resources remotely on their PC, laptop, mobile phone as well as on the tablet, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cusb-boasts-of-opening-fully-automated-library/articleshow/80655331.cms||B K Mishra
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Sasikala posters: AIADMK expels 3 more partymen||MADURAI/TRICHY: On a day the ruling AIADMK expelled three more party functionaries for putting up posters welcoming former general secretary V K Sasikala from prison, fresh posters surfaced in many parts of Madurai and Sivaganga hailing her. One set of posters describing her as the “permanent general secretary of AIADMK” appeared in many parts of Madurai city with due credit to K Bhoominathan, Amma Peravai secretary of 8th block. Madurai district MGR mandram deputy secretary T Thirumaran, Veerapandi panchayat president V Sugapriya Vijaykumar and another AIADMK functionary, A Muthukumaran, were among others who also put up posters. They hailed her as the epitome of sacrifice. "Since there are no signs that Sasikala will be taken back into the AIADMK, there is no other go but to openly declare our support for her. She is the only person who can strengthen the party and prevent its downfall in the coming elections,’’ said A Kanna, Madurai West Ilaingnar Ilampengal Pasarai secretary. He said his appointment to the youth wing was made by J Jayalalithaa and Sasikala. He claimed that if AIADMK took a head count of its supporters, they will find it to be less than half crore and not 1.5 crore as claimed. Meanwhile, a statement issued by the chief minister and deputy chief minister in their capacity as party organisers, expelled the Andipatti west union MGR youth wing president Pannai M Chinnaraja for putting up posters hailing Sasikala. In Trichy and Mayiladuthurai, the party expelled two more functionaries for activities against the principles of the party. They were former district panchayat vice-president of Thiruverumbur union, Arasangudi A N Saminathan, and minorities’ welfare wing secretary of Sembanarkovil north union in Mayiladuthurai district, A Qutubuddin. In a joint statement, the CM and deputy CM asked party cadres not to have any truck with the expelled people as they had brought disrepute to the party. Meanwhile, son of deputy chief minister Panneerselvam, Jeya Pradeep, who created a flutter last week when he tweeted for Sasikala’s health, clarified his action again to reporters in Tiruchendur on Tuesday. He said he had only wished Sasikala well on humanitarian grounds and that he was in Tiruchendur temple to pray for AIADMK rule to be established for the third time under the guidance of the chief minister and deputy chief minister. (With inputs from Gokul Rajendran in Trichy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-continues-expulsion-spree-as-more-posters-hail-sasi/articleshow/80659004.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Covid jab rate improves in Bihar, tally crosses 2-lakh mark||PATNA: The Covid vaccination rate in the state has marginally increased from 40.5% on Monday to 44.7% on Tuesday. Altogether 37,139 beneficiaries were given the shots during the day against the targeted number of 82,995 healthcare workers. With 37,139 beneficiaries vaccinated on Tuesday, the total number of people in the state inoculated to date went up to 2,21,523. The Covid vaccination drive has been held at altogether 4,043 centres across the state, including 677 sites on Tuesday. The vaccination drive against the Covid-19 pandemic started in Bihar along with the country on January 16 using two vaccines Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech. Out of the 37,139 shots administered to the registered beneficiaries on Tuesday, 35,725 beneficiaries were administered the Covishield vaccine, while 1,414 beneficiaries got Covaxin. Also, of all those vaccinated so far, 82 beneficiaries have complained of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) such as pain, mild swelling, mild fever or nausea. Altogether 60 railway doctors and paramedical staff of the railway central super speciality hospital at Karbigahiya here were also vaccinated on Tuesday. “Railway doctor Bimmi Kumari was the first to get the jab, while paramedical staff and frontline workers were among others, who got vaccinated shots on the first day,” said central super speciality hospital (CSSH) medical director Dr R K Verma. He added that the hospital has shortlisted 299 people to be vaccinated here. “CSSH has received adequate numbers of Covishield form the state health department. All sanitary staff at the hospital are also being vaccinated here,” Verma said. Similarly, 100 people, including railway doctors, paramedical staff and frontline workers were vaccinated at the Danapur divisional railway hospital on Monday. “The vaccination process was carried out from 9 am to 6 pm at the hospital under the supervision of a team of senior railway doctors,” said Danapur railway hospital chief medical superintendent Dr Ranjeet Kumar. He added that out of 100 people vaccinated at the railway hospital in Khagaul, 58 were male and 42 female. “While 12 railway doctors were vaccinated, 34 were nursing staff, 22 paramedical staff, 29 other staff belonged to support staff category in the hospital and three were ministerial staff of the hospital,” Dr Ranjeet said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-jab-rate-improves-in-bihar-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark/articleshow/80655453.cms||Kumod Verma
February 3, 2021||Patna||Cabinet expansion may be delayed in Bihar||PATNA: The much-awaited cabinet expansion and nomination of 12 MLCs from the governor’s quota may be delayed as senior BJP leaders at their meeting with party national president J P Nadda in Delhi on Monday failed to reach a consensus over the names. Sources said BJP’s national general secretary (organization) B L Santosh, party’s incharge of Bihar affairs Bhupender Yadav, state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, state general secretary (organization) Nagendra Ji, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh attended the meeting with Nadda, but failed to reach a consensus on certain names for MLCs and ministerial berths. Nadda, sources said, asked them to submit the names of their choice and also held one-on-one meeting with them. One of the leaders who attended Nadda’s meeting told a party senior that the decision on cabinet expansion issue was deferred at least for the next few days. Nadda is likely to discuss the names with PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Tarkishore said the BJP’s national leadership was looking into the matter with CM Nitish Kumar. “Cabinet expansion has to be done by the CM after consensus among all NDA allies. BJP’s national leadership is looking into it with the CM,” he told reporters at his residence on Tuesday. Sources said JD(U) leadership has reservations on the two BJP names as they had deserted the party earlier with former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Currently, the Nitish cabinet has 13 ministers. As per the constitutional provisions, 22 more ministers can be inducted in the state cabinet. The CM had earlier said he was yet to receive any proposal from BJP on cabinet expansion. Nitish took oath as the CM again on November 16 last year. Even after more than two and a half months since then, BJP and JD(U) are yet to decide on cabinet expansion. Taking a dig at the NDA leadership over the delay, leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday said, “Several months have now elapsed, but cabinet expansion is yet to take place. The decision has to be taken by those who came to power through the backdoor.” Tejashwi also said several government works were being hampered due to inordinate delay in the cabinet expansion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-expansion-may-be-delayed-in-bihar/articleshow/80656037.cms||Madan Kumar
February 3, 2021||Business||Use career pause to acquire new skills, replan growth path||By M MuneerA recent survey among private sector employees showed over 85% were more stressed at work than before the lockdown. The reasons ranged from anxiety about job status, performance evaluation, financial uncertainty and blurring work/life balance. Salary cuts, layoffs, and postponed promotions stymied career progress for many. Additionally, India’s unemployment rate peaked to 24% before settling around 10% in the organised sector. It isn’t just our careers that have been devastated, many of us are still learning to cope with the new normal. Remember, career growth doesn’t have to be multiple promotions within the same company or a higher-level position in another. It can also be acquisition of new skills, connections, ventures, experiences and so on. Don’t fret about explaining the in-between period of a lost job or a lower pay as of now. Here are some pointers to inject the mojo back into your career when things improve in 2021: * Redefine your career objectives: This should be done in the wake of the disruption caused by the pandemic. Contemplate what you really want to accomplish in the post-Covid work world: Should you be on your own? Another industry? What chinks in your current work alarm you? Once you decide on the objective, do a gap analysis between what you currently have and what experience and skills you will need to attain your goals. For instance, if you are currently in marketing and want to lead a ‘MarTech’ revolution in your company, you must acquire skills on AI, data analytics and seamless CX. Consult your manager as well as those in successful careers in your network to guide you. However, do your homework before seeking their views. Follow professional etiquette and process while seeking counsel from them, such as advance notes, agenda and the purpose. * Bridge the experience/skill gap: If your employer doesn’t have a mentoring programme, seek out a mentor among your bosses to identify your skill gap in order to realise your career objective. Once you know the gap, you can enroll into the many open courses — from an Ivy League institution to an independent trainer — to acquire specific skills. As one of the recent movies depicted, the protagonist acquired skills across a wide spectrum: yoga, mind-reading, blockchain, psychology, public speaking, data analytics, deep learning, storytelling and so on. Some folks I know have received certification from Harvard, Yale and others for topics that have been close to their hearts, which they never had a chance to pursue earlier. Take control of your learning, and use the time and almost-free availability to good use. Read the right books. * Plan to expand your network at this time: After all, people find socialising more relaxing than everything else, according to Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman. However, people don’t do as much networking professionally because they don’t like it, according to his research. Having professional connections help identifying the right opportunities and first contacts. For instance, if you aspire to be a board director, the gold standard is to get introduced to a chair by a mutual contact. Online job portals provide a great platform for finding the right kind of connections. Build up your profile and make sure that it matches with your career objective. Try to build strong connections within the current company too, as 75% of people say they don’t have a reliable friend at work, and promotions are not always done on KPIs (key performance indicators). There are some tech apps that companies use now to enable connections between employees. Another route to expand your network is to attend as many relevant online events as possible, especially if these enable networking. Try to get some panel slots if you believe you can add value. * Differentiate yourself meaningfully: Just as my friends Al & Laura Ries (authors) advocate, it is vital to get the right positioning for you, the personal brand. In the current downturn, see if you can recommend some new ideas for driving growth. For example, if you are in the hospitality industry, what if you plan for gourmet food delivered to your loyal customers? Or create customer experiences with branded recipes from your star chefs? Or convert your hotel spaces to work stations? High-capex ideas will not find currency when things are down, but smart ideas will always be welcome. Identifying any growth-related issues and finding innovative solutions will make you stand out quickly, especially when this results in industry-wide recognition. Remember how health startups stood out among all health clubs and retained their loyal members even as gyms bankrupted in the pandemic? They came up with the idea of online yoga courses that members could do at their houses in lockdown and kept the same timings as before to enable members to keep up their rhythm. If finding new ideas is not your forte, plan to take some extra assignments when most colleagues struggle with work/life balance. Perhaps you can take up a cause-marketing programme or a DEI (diversity/equity/inclusion) effort to retain employees? The year 2020 need not have been wasted. And, there is still time — with over 70% expecting WFH to continue till mid-2021, go inject the mojo back into your career. (The writer is co-founder of the non-profit Medici Institute)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/use-career-pause-to-acquire-new-skills-replan-growth-path/articleshow/80657398.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Projects worth Rs 180 cr almost complete in Kedarnath; 3 caves ready for pilgrims||Dehradun: The first phase of development projects worth Rs 180 crore are almost complete in Kedarnath. In the second phase, plans are afoot to start projects worth Rs 128 crore at the Kedarnath shrine. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Tuesday, reviewed the ongoing projects at Kedarnath and Badrinath and directed authorities to complete the works within the stipulated time span. “The work being done is commendable as people are working in extreme weather conditions. We are confident that works would be completed within a stipulated time frame.” Meanwhile, three more Rudra caves have been prepared at the Kedarnath and would be open for devotees from the next yatra season. It is worth mentioning that the caves — built for meditation — have been receiving an overwhelming response from pilgrims since Prime Minister Narendra Modi meditated in one such cave. Besides, a 60-metre-bridge on Saraswati river has been started and the work of ghat on the river has been completed. The state officials informed the CM that the works worth Rs 128 crore would be started in the second phase. State authorities have also prepared a plan to invest another Rs 245 crore in development projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/projects-worth-rs-180-cr-almost-complete-in-kedarnath-3-caves-ready-for-pilgrims/articleshow/80655187.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Business||SC asks Franklin to start refunds||Mumbai: Through an interim order, the Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund (MF) to distribute Rs 9,122 crore to investors in the six debt schemes that are in the process of being closed. Interestingly, while the trustees of the fund are responsible for the distribution of the money to investors, the apex court said that SBI MF, the biggest fund house in India, will act as the main observer for this distribution of funds to investors. Since FTMF decided to close the six schemes on April 23, this is the first fund distribution for about 3 lakh investors who are stuck in these funds for over nine months. The funds should be distributed within the next 20 days, SC said. A spokesperson for FTMF said that the money will be distributed to the respective unitholders in proportion to their holdings in the schemes under winding up, subject to fund running expenses. “We believe the distribution of monies will provide unitholders with much needed liquidity and look forward to working with the regulator and SBI MF to distribute the cash within the period stipulated by the court.” On April 23, FTMF had announced the closure of six of its debt schemes with nearly Rs 25,900 crore in total assets under management and over three lakh investors. The fund house had blamed tough liquidity conditions in the bond market due to the Covid-related issues. After that, several FTMF investors and investor bodies had moved various courts. Finally, the Supreme Court combined all the cases and asked Karnataka high court to hear the matter. After Karnataka HC delivered its judgment, FTMF had moved SC in which Sebi was one of the respondents. After detailed hearing, on Tuesday SC passed its interim order to distribute part of the money that was with these six debt schemes as of January 15 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sc-asks-franklin-to-start-refunds/articleshow/80657302.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Low supply keeps average onion price on the higher side||NASHIK: There has been a rise in the average wholesale price of onions at Lasalgoan APMC — the country’s largest wholesale onion market — in the last one week. According to traders, the supply of onions has declined in the last few days leading to a surge in average wholesale onion price. The average wholesale onion prices have increased by 32% from Rs 2,651 per quintal on January 27 to Rs 3,500 per quintal on Tuesday. In the last two days, the average wholesale onion price has increased by 20%. The price shot up from Rs 2,900 per quintal on Monday to Rs 3,500 per quintal on Tuesday. “Currently, the onions arriving in the market are of the late kharif produce. The supply of onions has reduced at large compared to the supply around a week ago. The arrival of late kharif onions is gradually exhausting. This is the reason why the average wholesale onion price has remained on the higher end in the last few days,” said Manoj Jain, an onion trader. “This rising trend will continue for the next 15 days until the supply of onions improves in the market. The arrival of new summer onions is expected to begin in two to three weeks,” added Jain. According to officials of Lasalgaon APMC, the supply of onions, which was in the range of 22,000 to 25,000 quintals a day around a week ago has now declined to around 15,000 quintals a day. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon were recorded at Rs 1,200 and Rs 3,751 per quintal respectively on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/low-supply-keeps-avg-onion-price-on-the-higher-side/articleshow/80655198.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Man threatens wife from police lock-up||PATNA: CID (weaker section) SP Bina Kumari was taken aback on Monday when a victim of domestic violence for dowry sitting before her received several threat calls from her husband lodged in police custody to withdraw the case against him. The SP immediately instructed her to record his calls. The victim (31) is the daughter of a retired state government executive engineer. Her brother is a bank officer. The accused, Vishal Kumar, belongs to Mubarakpur under Shahpur police station area in western Patna. He used to work in merchant navy. Both had an intercaste marriage in February, 2017 and have a 3-year-old son. The woman lodged an FIR against Vishal with Patliputra police station in Patna leading to his arrest late Sunday night after he created a ruckus allegedly in an inebriated state in front of her parent’s house. He was arrested for consuming liquor and sent to jail on Monday evening after making the phone calls to his wife. The victim approached the SP (CID) alleging that police didn’t accept her detailed three-page FIR and pressurised her to write a one-page FIR. She also alleged that police didn’t even invoke relevant sections of SC/ST Act in the FIR despite being requested to do so. “I fled from his residence a fortnight back to evade domestic torture and continuous dowry demands. I was not allowed to take my son that time,” she told the SP. She said her in-laws and Shahpur police pressurised her to write that she had left her husband’s residence ‘willingly’ before getting the child’s custody on Monday. “I signed the petition as I was desperate to get my son,” she added. The SP rang up Patna ASP (law and order) Swarn Prabhat in order to ensure effective assistance to the victim. The victim was asked to meet Prabhat and submit a petition urging to invoke relevant sections of laws, including SC/ST Act, against the accused. When contacted, ADG (weaker section) Anil Kumar Yadav told TOI over phone on Tuesday that they will take necessary action against him. He said the accused might have gained access to a cellphone by evading police attention to make calls to the victim. The victim’s father told TOI that Vishal had threatened his daughter and his family of dire consequences multiple times. “I had fulfilled his financial demands many times but he continued to torture my daughter. He had created a ruckus near our residence at midnight in the past, too, but I ignored to save my daughter’s married life,” he said. He said Vishal left the merchant navy job after marriage and was unemployed. He said his daughter had to flee when Vishal abused her and started burning her clothes when she sought permission to visit her parents with her son for a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-threatens-wife-from-police-lock-up/articleshow/80655362.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Weekend rain in Kolkata on Met radar||KOLKATA: A spell of rain expected between Saturday afternoon and Sunday morning could put a break in the current cold spell. But the Met office said that the mercury will dip once the clouds are cleared from the Kolkata sky. “We are expecting wind discontinuance, where two opposite wind systems — the dry and cold northwesterly and the humid and hot southwesterly — blow in simultaneously. This can cause cloud formation and many parts of eastern India, including Kolkata, could get rain between Saturday and Sunday. This will push up the mercury on Sunday morning,” said G K Das, director (weather), RMC. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature at 11.5°C was four notches below normal, but 0.1°C higher than Monday. The maximum temperature at 25°C was two notches below normal. “It will be 12°C-13°C till Friday before it rises to 15°C,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/weekend-rain-on-met-radar/articleshow/80656779.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 3, 2021||Patna||Budget to push tourism sector in Bihar: Jivesh Kumar Mishra||PATNA: The Union Budget presented on Monday will boost tourism sector in Bihar, feels state tourism minister Jivesh Kumar Mishra. “Projects under Swadesh Darshan Yojana will boost religious tourism in state and attract tourists from across the world leading to employment generation in this sector,” he said on Tuesday. “We are working on Ramayana circuit covering Sitamarhi, Sufi circuit through Manersharif and Biharsharif and Buddhist circuit to promote religious tourism in the state. We will also promote it through advertisements,” he said. The minister said his department will implement a ‘dhaba policy’ by opening eateries and motels with entertainment zone for children and parking space for vehicles among other amenities near the highways. He acknowledged that Bihar could be one of the finest ecotourism destinations in the country. “Valmiki Tiger Reserve in West Champaran has numerous wild animals, including tigers, rhinoceros, elephants and crocodiles,” he said and added: “The state is famous for it’s heritage, aesthetics, culture and art, which will be promoted by executing various provisions in the Union Budget. We also have much scope for promoting geotourism by showcasing the natural beauty of many places. These steps may take Bihar to the top 5 tourist destinations.” Domestic travellers also hope the Union Budget will help state tourism. City-based software engineer Aditi Shrivastava (26) said: “The Centre should increase the budgetary allocation for tourism sector. There are numerous historical and scenic sites in Bihar, which can be developed for attracting tourists.” Tripti Sinha (48) of Danapur said despite being a resident of Bihar, she has not visited many places in the state as compared to other states. “More branding and marketing would help its tourism potential,” said Tripti. Prem Shankar (55) of Vaishali said tourism sector needs proper funding and branding in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-to-push-tourism-sector-in-bihar-minister/articleshow/80655985.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Patna shivers on coldest February day in eight years||PATNA: The minimum temperature in Patna, as far as February is concerned, plunged to an eight-year low at 6.6 degrees C on Tuesday. The last lowest minimum temperature in the month was recorded on February 10, 2012, when the mercury had touched 6 degrees C. The Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued forecast for cloudy skies with rain or thundershowers on Friday and Saturday. The likely overcast and rainy conditions have been attributed to a western disturbance, which was positioned over Afghanistan and neighbourhood on Tuesday. Sudhanshu Kumar, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said cold day was declared at Muzaffarpur, Chhapra and Darbhanga on Tuesday. Cold wave like condition was witnessed in Bhagalpur and Gaya too. Residents can, however, expect some respite as Sudhanshu said cold conditions are now unlikely in the state. At 4.5 degrees C, Gaya remained the coldest place in the state on Tuesday. at 23.5 degrees C, the highest maximum temperature was recorded at Dehri. “Weather remained mostly dry and there was no significant change in night temperature. Day temperature, on the other hand, surged by one degree C in Patna and Gaya and by four degrees C in Bhagalpur and Purnia,” Sudhanshu said, adding moderate to dense fog was witnessed at most places in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-shivers-on-coldest-february-day-in-eight-years/articleshow/80655480.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Angry farmer dumps 10 quintals of cauliflower on road after traders offer Re 1 per kg for it||PILIBHIT: Dejected over trivial price offered for his cauliflower produce by the licensed traders on the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) campus in Pilibhit, a marginal farmer threw his entire produce weighing 10 quintals on the road to let the needy persons collect it for cooking without any charge. Mohammad Saleem of Jahanabad town was offered Re 1 per kg for his crop by the traders, which was at par with the transportation cost he bore for bringing his produce to the APMC campus. “I have half an acre of land where I had cultivated cauliflower and spent around Rs 8,000 on seeds, cultivation, irrigation, fertilisers, etc. In addition, I had to bear harvesting and transportation costs worth Rs 4,000,” Saleem told TOI. “The retail price of cauliflower at present is Rs 12 to 14 per kg and I was expecting at least Rs 8 per kg for my produce. When I was offered a mere Re 1 per kg, I had no option but to throw away all my produce to save the transportation cost to bring it back home,” he added. When asked how he would make further investment for the next produce, Saleem said that he is now bound to seek private loans on a higher rate of interest as commercial banks had been quite reluctant in extending credit facility to poor farmers. “The loss has put my family, comprising a 60-year-old mother, younger brother, wife and two school-going children, on the edge of starvation. My brother and I will now have to take up some labour work to provide for the family,” Saleem added. APMC secretary Vigil Balyan said, “We were helpless in applying any regulations regarding the procurement price of vegetable crops as these were not covered under the minimum support price policy of the state government.” “The prices of vegetables are normally governed by the volume of supply although the traders had a tendency of earning the major part of the profit,” Balyan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/angry-farmer-dumps-10-quintals-of-cauliflower-on-road-after-traders-pay-re-1-per-kg-for-produce/articleshow/80654316.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Nainital’s drains, which recharge it with rainwater, blocked by trash||Nainital: A majority of the drains meant to flow rain water into the Naini Lake, is choked with debris and garbage dumped by residents, not only blocking flow of water into the lake, but also polluting it. Naini Lake, apart being the central tourist attraction of Nainital, is also the only source of drinking water for the entire town, dispensing 8 million litres per day (MLD) water. Vishal Kumar, a local resident, said, “All drains from several areas of the town culminate at the Naini Lake. A simple walk across town shows most of these drains are already choked with plastic and people are still dumping trash into them.” “These canals recharge the lake by channelling rainwater into it and by draining excess rainwater, keep the town from flooding. Yet, locals use these as dumpsters and there haven’t been any concerted efforts to clean the drains,” said Akash Singhania, another resident. Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal, who conducted an inspection of the drains on Tuesday morning, said that the administration has directed the irrigation department to repair all the damaged drains and to clean them from time to time. “These drains are essential for the recharge of the lake therefore we have directed the irrigation as well as other departments concerned to make sure that damaged drains are repaired. We have suggested that stones be used as beds of the drains and trace racks are built to stop pollutants from flowing into the lake,” Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainitals-drains-which-recharge-it-with-rainwater-blocked-by-trash/articleshow/80655209.cms||Prashant Jha
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Doctors, healthcare workers on Covid duty to be felicitated with cash, appreciation certificates||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday announced an “appreciation amount” of Rs 11,000 to doctors and healthcare workers deployed on Covid-19 duty for their exemplary services. Besides, they would also be given a certificate of appreciation for their efforts during the pandemic. “It was because of these dedicated Covid warriors, a high number of people were treated and discharged from the wards. This is just a small token of appreciation of their efforts,” Rawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doctors-healthcare-workers-on-covid-duty-to-be-felicitated-with-cash-appreciation-certificates/articleshow/80655241.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||Covid test mandatory for prisoners’ relatives jail visit||Vadodara: Vadodara Central Jail authorities have made Covid-19 test mandatory for relatives of inmates who visit the jail. Physical meeting for prisoners has been allowed from Monday, after a gap of 10 months due to the pandemic. The jail officials issued guidelines for the visit of relatives wherein they have asked the visitors to carry the negative report of rapid antigen test (RAT) done a day before the visit or maximum three days before the visit. Prisoners have been asked to inform the family members during their next phone call. During the visit, both prisoners and visitors have been asked to stand at a distance and not touch the iron grill separating them nor any other surface. “The visitors would be in the waiting area and may unconsciously touch the chairs or other surfaces so we have asked them to carry test reports as a precautionary measure,” said jail superintendent, Baldevsinh Vaghela. The number of visitors coming for the meet has been reduced to two and the meeting time has also been reduced to 15 minutes. Earlier, every prisoner was allowed a weekly meet, but now only a fortnightly meet will be allowed. On Monday, a few family members who reached the jail without any prior knowledge of the guidelines had a difficult time as SSG Hospital refused to conduct their test without any prescription.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-test-mandatory-for-prisoners-relatives-jail-visit/articleshow/80655272.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Leopard took riverbed route, says forest department||AHMEDABAD: The discovery of a leopard’s carcass near Sanathal Crossroads in Sarkhej on Monday has spurred a forest department probe, which has concluded that the animal came close to the city using the riverbed route. The leopard had been knocked down by a vehicle. The animal may have come from the direction Dholka or Nadiad, officials say. The forest department has traced its pug marks right up to the Sabarmati. Ahmedabad deputy conservator of forests (social forestry) Sakkira Begum said: “The animal had come close to the city following a path through shrubs and had moved outside villages along the way.” Begum added: “The leopard’s pug marks were also spotted around the villages of Vanzar and Badrabad.” The DCF said the investigation reveals that at about 8pm, farmers working in fields between Vanzar and Badrabad saw the leopard. The sighting occurred about 4km from the accident site. She said it is now clear that the animal used the riverbed to travel. But it is not possible to determine whether it had crossed the river or had come along the banks from the Dholka side. She said that the department will check the other side of the river to ascertain if it had come from the Nadiad side. The DCF said the postmortem examination had revealed that the leopard had eaten a dog. A senior officer in Gandhinagar said that the forest department is exploring the possibility of the leopard coming to the city from Surendranagar, via Viramgam, Bavla, and Dholka. A leopard was spotted at an ayurveda college in Kolavada, Gandhinagar, in April 2020. Another leopard entered the sachivalaya in Gandhinagar at night in November 2018. The animal was later traced to the ravines near the sachivalaya. In both these cases, the animals had used the riverbed to travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/leopard-took-riverbed-route/articleshow/80657401.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Musician Balabhaskar killed in accident, concludes CBI||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CBI, investigating the death of musician Balabhaskar, completed its investigation and concluded that the vehicle accident that claimed his life was ‘not caused intentionally’. CBI also submitted a chargesheet before the court on Tuesday stating that the accident occurred due to the rash and negligent driving by his friend Arjun Narayanan. Balabhaskar’s daughter Tejaswini Bala (2) was also killed in the accident. The agency invoked relevant sections for causing death by negligence, endangering life by negligent act and rash and negligent driving against Arjun. CBI also informed the court that a case will be registered against Soby George (alias Kalabhavan Soby) for providing false information and misleading the investigators. George had claimed that he had seen unidentified persons running away from Balabhaskar’s vehicle when he passed the spot shortly after the accident. CBI’s finding is the same as that of the state police crime branch that concluded that there was no conspiracy behind the car accident that occurred on national highway near Pallippuram in the capital. It was in July 2020, CBI registered an FIR in the case based on a notification issued by the government to unravel the mystery behind the accident. The accident occurred early on Sept 25, 2018 when Balabhaskar and his family were returning home after a temple visit in Thrissur. The car rammed a tree beside NH-66 near Pallippuram. While Tejaswini died on the way to the hospital, Balabhaskar succumbed to his injuries on Oct 2, 2018 while under treatment. The case became murkier when Arjun and Lekshmi gave different versions of the accident. While Arjun maintained that Balabhaskar was behind the wheel, Lekshmi claimed that Arjun was driving. The crime branch took over the case in Jan 2019 based on the petition filed by Balabhaskar’s parents KC Unni and B Santhakumari. The case became more convoluted when a few persons, who maintained close relationships with Balabhaskar, were arrested by revenue intelligence officials in connection with gold smuggling via Thiruvananthapuram international airport. It was alleged that the smuggling racket could have a role in the musician’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/balabhaskar-killed-in-accident-concludes-cbi/articleshow/80656336.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||Talpona locals complain of illegal hill-cutting||Poinguinim: The locals of Ganebaga, near Talpona, have complained to the Poinguinim panchayat that illegal felling of trees and hill-cutting is presently on in the area, causing massive damage to the local environment. Following the complaint, Poinguinim panchayat secretary has sent a letter to one Hirachand K Bafna to stop the work with immediate effect. Ganebaga residents Premanand Metri and Lakshanti Naik alleged that construction of a road is being done illegally by cutting trees and the hill. Locals also filed a complaint of hill cutting with the deputy town planner at Chaudi on Monday. The town planner’s office confirmed of having received the complaint and said that any necessary action will be taken after an inspection is carried out. Canacona Range Forest Officer Anant Velip has also carried out an inspection at the site, following a similar complaint from locals, and said that alleged illegalities were found. Velip said offences will be registered against the concerned party. Maya Metri, a local, said that a complaint was filed before the Canacona deputy collector over the alleged illegalities in September 2019. “Following this, an inspection was carried out and the concerned person was asked to stop the work. But despite the order, the illegal felling of trees and illegal hill cutting continued, which will lead to soil erosion in the surrounding areas, resulting in flooding. It will also affect the local farmers,” she said. Locals allege that plots are being developed at the site and have asked the deputy collector to help restore the developed land to its original state to prevent any soil erosion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/talpona-locals-complain-of-illegal-hill-cutting/articleshow/80657453.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Cardinal urges Mumbai priests to conduct more masses for Lent||Mumbai: The archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, on Monday instructed parish priests to hold more masses during Lent, which begins on February 17. The 40-day penance ends on April 3, and Easter Sunday will be celebrated on April 4. The sprinkling of ash, confession and other rituals will have to be done with precaution. Priests have been advised to avoid physical contact, wear masks and oversee social distancing at ceremonies. Cardinal Gracias urged them to conduct more masses on Ash Wednesday as people wish to begin the season of Lent with church service. “For convenience, after mass the faithful may come in line towards the altar, where the priest sprinkles a pinch of ash upon their heads, and they then exit the church for holy communion. For smaller churches this practice may continue,” he said. “Priests who are alone in a parish can have a special service outside mass with the liturgy of the Word and sprinkling of ashes,” he added. As many Catholics come for confession during Lent, the Cardinal requested priests to have confessions for few hours, at predesignated timings, few times a week. He instructed them to avoid physical contact with candles touching throats of the faithful at the blessing of throats at St Blaise’s Feast on February 3. Given evolving Covid-19 directives from the authorities, especially which disrupted Christmas ceremonies, Cardinal Gracias requested churches to revert to the rule of accommodating 30% of capacity at religious services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cardinal-urges-mumbai-priests-to-conduct-more-masses-for-lent/articleshow/80656524.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Scholarship scam in Thane, scores of fake names sent||THANE: Thane Zilla Parishad claims to have stumbled upon a massive fraud in scholarships for students from the minority communities. Officials said hundreds of fictitious students were registered for the scholarships on the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) database. The irregularity, which could possibly have larger ramifications and run into crores of rupees, was discovered after a random scrutiny of pending approvals by Chaya Paradke, extension officer at Thane Zilla Parishad last week. As per a Central government scheme, minority community students from Classes 1-10 in all schools are entitled for annual scholarships ranging between Rs1,000-Rs10,000. Every school is allotted a unique login ID and password. Schools have to use this to upload student details on the UDISE portal every year. The district education department then reviews the list and approves it, following which it is sent to the Union ministry which releases money to bank accounts of individual students. “I came across around 588 requests from a Marathi-medium school in Thane city which, incidentally, had shut down five years back. I spoke to the school management, and they were stunned too. After inquiring with a few other schools, we discovered it was not an isolated case and that many fake student identities had been similarly uploaded,” Parandke told TOI. Department officials said around 1,600 fictitious identities from around 15 schools have been uploaded. The department said they will now check with other parts of the district and also alert the state and the Centre. Thane BJP MLA Sanjay Kelkar, who approached the police commissioner on Monday, sought a detailed probe. “Each registered student from the minority segment is given this scholarship to provide them mainstream education. However, there seems to be an attempt to usurp this amount using fictitious identities,” said Kelkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scholarship-scam-in-thane-scores-of-fake-names-sent/articleshow/80657626.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 3, 2021||Thane||Scholarship scam in Thane, scores of fake names sent||THANE: Thane Zilla Parishad claims to have stumbled upon a massive fraud in scholarships for students from the minority communities. Officials said hundreds of fictitious students were registered for the scholarships on the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) database. The irregularity, which could possibly have larger ramifications and run into crores of rupees, was discovered after a random scrutiny of pending approvals by Chaya Paradke, extension officer at Thane Zilla Parishad last week. As per a Central government scheme, minority community students from Classes 1-10 in all schools are entitled for annual scholarships ranging between Rs1,000-Rs10,000. Every school is allotted a unique login ID and password. Schools have to use this to upload student details on the UDISE portal every year. The district education department then reviews the list and approves it, following which it is sent to the Union ministry which releases money to bank accounts of individual students. “I came across around 588 requests from a Marathi-medium school in Thane city which, incidentally, had shut down five years back. I spoke to the school management, and they were stunned too. After inquiring with a few other schools, we discovered it was not an isolated case and that many fake student identities had been similarly uploaded,” Parandke told TOI. Department officials said around 1,600 fictitious identities from around 15 schools have been uploaded. The department said they will now check with other parts of the district and also alert the state and the Centre. Thane BJP MLA Sanjay Kelkar, who approached the police commissioner on Monday, sought a detailed probe. “Each registered student from the minority segment is given this scholarship to provide them mainstream education. However, there seems to be an attempt to usurp this amount using fictitious identities,” said Kelkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/scholarship-scam-in-thane-scores-of-fake-names-sent/articleshow/80657626.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man discontinues credit card, bank red-flags him as defaulter to CIBIL||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission ordered Standard Chartered Bank to pay Rs 50,000 compensation to a Thaltej resident, Deven Dagli, for reporting his ‘default status’ to CIBIL after he discontinued his credit card. Besides ordering compensation for deficiency in service and mental torture, the commission also ordered on January 29 for removal of Dagli’s ‘default status’ on the bank’s reporting and ordered the bank to pay Rs 10,000 extra to him towards legal expenditure. Dagli was availing of the bank’s credit card facility before 2001. He was unhappy with the service and complained that the bank was wrongly imposing charges with interest though all dues were cleared. He discontinued the service. He was assured by the bank that the credit card service was cancelled and he would not get statement any further. However, the bank continued to send him statements with additional interest. The bank even sent recovery agents to his residence on several occasions. In Apil 2001, he wrote to the bank and demanded an explanation about pending dues, if any. He did not receive anything in reply. But recovery agents continued to visit him later that year. A decade later Dagli opted for a loan and faced a problem. To his surprise, the bank reported him to Credit Information Bureau of India Ltd (CIBIL) as a defaulter and his default status was an impediment in availing of credit. Dagli sued the bank in 2014 for Rs 40 lakh compensation for harassment. His advocate Sandip Shah placed documents to establish the alleged harassment by the bank by wrongly reporting him to CIBIL without following the procedure prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The bank appeared before the commission through a lawyer, but did not reply to the complaint. After hearing the case, the commission observed that customer confidentiality is required to be maintained but the bank revealed information without the consent of the complainant. The commission said, “The said illegal action can be said to be a deficiency in service rendered by the opponent. Therefore, the complainant is entitled to compensation.” It rejected Dagli’s demand of Rs 40 lakh for lack of evidence of any loss to this effect. But it ordered the bank to pay Rs 60,000 in two months. If not paid within the stipulated period, the bank will have to pay Rs 5,000 extra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bank-to-pay-rs-50k-for-erroneous-report-to-cibil/articleshow/80656344.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Govt to soon issue advisory on format of Kumbh; likely to curtain numbers||Dehradun: The council of ministers on Tuesday authorised Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to interact with the akhada members and saints to take a call on the format of Kumbh Mela and its duration. The ministers reviewed a wide range of issues, including the bathing capacity, accommodation capacity, security arrangements, routes, and RT-PCR test, among others. Sharing the information, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The bathing ghats are stretched across at a distance of 20-km. If a person takes 10 minutes to bath, we are in a position presently to host 10 lakh people per day.” He further pointed out that a study conducted by the authorities shows that the dharamshalas, homestays, hotels and rest houses can accommodate around 6 lakh people. Meanwhile, akhadas have accommodation for four-to-five lakh devotees. “We can permit 10 lakh people for bathing each day during the Kumbh period,” the minister said. On the issue of Covid-19 test for devotees, Kaushik said that it would be mandatory for all. “At the same time, we need to check the number of RT-PCR tests which can be done in a single day at Haridwar. Devotees from across the country come for Kumbh and we need to factor in several points like the long distances and stay duration before coming up with an advisory,” he added. In the next few days, the CM would interact with akhada members and saints to take their opinion on the issue. Kaushik further added, “The time duration for Kumbh was also discussed. We also gave thought to a proposal that whether Kumbh should be limited only to the key bathing days. In the next few days, we will come up with our SOP. The notification for Kumbh will come later this month.” He did not fail to mention that Kumbh-related works which are permanent in nature are almost complete and the pending one would be over soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-to-soon-issue-advisory-on-format-of-kumbh-likely-to-curtain-numbers/articleshow/80655262.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Cabinet gives nod to 10-day budget session at Gairsain from March 1||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet which met on Tuesday has given its consent for a ten-day assembly session, starting from March 1, at Gairsain. The session would start with the Governor’s address and the budget would be presented on March 4. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “Like last year, this year’s budget session too would be held in Gairsain. In 2020, the budget was presented on March 4, and it would be presented on the same date this year too.” The discussion on the budget would be held on March 5 and 8 and thereafter, the department-wise budget would be tabled on March 9 and the approval from the House would be sought on March 10. Among other decisions, the cabinet made minor amendments in the service manuals of sub-inspectors and inspectors. “The changes were mainly related to their promotion,” the minister said. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the permission was sought for creation of 129 new posts. “After discussing the issue with the finance department, a clearance was given for 97 posts,” Kaushik added. In another minor amendment, the cabinet has asked authorities, the Member of Parliaments and Member of Legislative Assembly to nominate members in the district-level committee for Swachh Bharat Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-gives-nod-to-10-day-budget-session-at-gairsain-from-march-1/articleshow/80655264.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Stalking case: Delhi cops file FIR after six days||NEW DELHI: Six days after a woman journalist residing in south Delhi lodged a complaint of stalking and receiving rape and death threats, an FIR was lodged at Vasant Kunj North police station on Tuesday evening. The victim was receiving threats online. In the last week of January, someone tried to break into her apartment. The alleged accused also called her and described the colour of the clothes she was wearing and threatened to kill her and her husband. TimesViewTaking six days to lodge a case of sexual harassment is extremely condemnable. This betrays appalling gender insensitivity. At a time when journalists are also being summarily sent to jail, it makes one wonder if there were other reasons behind the delay.She lodged the complaint with police two days after the break-in attempt on January 25 while her husband was at work. The accused tried to open the iron grille of the house, but left when she raised an alarm. “Around 9pm, someone tried to open the grille. I heard the movement of the key for 2-3 minutes. I thought my husband had come home and was trying to open the door. I called him 3-4 times, but got no answer. I then got up from the bed and started walking towards the entrance saying, ‘kaun hai?’ As I approached the main door, the person left. By the time I opened both the doors, no one could be found. This entire incident took about seven minutes,” the victim said in her complaint. Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) on Tuesday said they were concerned about the incident. “She has been stalked, openly threatened with rape and murder and viciously trolled, while an attempt to break into her apartment was made on January 25. It is shocking to learn that no FIR was filed following her January 27 complaint to police, which includes telephone numbers from which she received the threats. The callers tried to instil fear in her by giving her exact location and even described the clothes she was wearing,” IWPC added in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-file-stalking-fir-after-six-days/articleshow/80657410.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: 5,716 test positive, 755 cases in Ernakulam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 was reported among 5,716 more people in the state, taking the total number cases reported till date to 9,38,353. Among the new cases, 5,161 were cases of local transmission and the contact source of infection was not traceable for 403. There are 56 health care professionals among those infected and 96 people have arrived from outside the state. At the same time, 5,747 patients have recovered from the disease. Meanwhile, 16 deaths occurred in the last few days were confirmed as due to Covid-19, taking the related death toll in the state to 3,777. A total of 77 people returned from the UK have turned Covid-19 positive and 10 among them have been diagnosed with the new strain. In the last 24 hours, 52,940 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 10.80%. A total of 97,12,432 samples have been sent for testing till now. So far, 8,65,168 people have recovered from Coronavirus infection in the state as 69,157 patients are still undergoing treatment. Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases 755, followed by Kottayam (621), Kollam (587), Thrissur (565), Pathanamthitta (524), Kozhikode (501), Malappuram (454), Thiruvananthapuram (383), Kannur (340), Alappuzha (313), Palakkad (251), Wayanad (218), Idukki (121) and Kasaragod (83).  There are a total of 2,18,347 people presently under observation in various districts of the state, of which 10,939 are in isolation at hospitals. As many as 1,149 people were admitted to the hospitals on Tuesday. As many as 65 new places were declared as new hotspots while 85 places were excluded. There are currently 356 hotspots in the state. 30,905 health workers vaccinated 30,905 health care workers were given the Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday. With this, the total healthcare workers who got vaccines in the state are 2,28,930. There were 452 vaccine centres across the state, of which 91 were in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/5716-test-positive-755-cases-in-ekm/articleshow/80655266.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||6 booked for giving forged DoB docs||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police have registered a case against six ‘shortlisted’ youths on the charge of submitting documents with fake date of birth at the time of participating in an army recruitment drive. Investigating officer Shaker Shaikh said, “While screening the documents of the shortlisted candidates, army authorities found that some of the applicants, who had appeared in previous recruitment drives, had submitted documents in the recent drive which did not match with the papers submitted earlier.” On checking the records, the dates of birth of these candidates were found to be different in the documents they had submitted with the application. This was brought to the notice of higher ups, following which directives were issued to register an offence. Shaikh said, “Prima facie, it appears the youths may have crossed the stipulated age for getting recruited as army jawan during the latest drive. They might have forged the date of birth at the time of submitting their documents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-booked-for-giving-forged-dob-docs/articleshow/80655254.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Shilanyas’ notable visits Gujarat||Ahmedabad: BJP leader Kameshwar Chaupal, credited with laying the first brick during the ‘shilanyas’ ceremony of the Ram temple back in November 1989, visited Gujarat to raise funds for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Chaupal, 66, said on Tuesday that he is impressed with the response the VHP has been getting from the people for the drive to collect funds for the construction of the temple. State VHP leaders said on Tuesday that Rs 13 crore has been collected in the first two days of the second phase of the drive, with volunteers making door-to-door visits to peoples’ homes. About Rs 100 crore was collected from the state in the first phase of the drive. Chaupal, who is from Bihar, said he will visit Delhi, MP, Bihar, UP and other states as part of the VHP’s drive to collect funds. He visited several people in Ahmedabad on Tuesday to collect donations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shilanyas-notable-visits-gujarat/articleshow/80657433.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Neighbour tries to pour acid into mouth of woman, 32, stabs her many times in UP’s Budaun||BAREILLY: A 40-year-old man barged into the house of a married woman, 32, and allegedly stabbed her several times before trying to pour acid into her mouth after a minor squabble in UP’s Budaun district. The accused, who has since been arrested, had allegedly tried to rape a woman in the same village two years ago, police said. The woman was taken to a hospital in Budaun in a critical condition. She was later referred to another hospital in Bareilly for better treatment. Police, meanwhile, have registered an FIR and arrested the accused. The alleged attack took place in Sakri Kasimpur village. The woman was at home with her three minor children when the accused attacked her. Budaun’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “We are ensuring that the woman gets the best possible treatment. The accused is the neighbour of the woman whose husband works and lives in Delhi. We found that there was a scuffle between the victim and the accused. We have also recovered the acid bottle. The accused was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) and arrested.” “During the initial investigation, it was found that the accused, Satyendra Jatav, had attempted to rape another woman nearly two years ago. He was caught and thrashed by villagers then,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/neighbour-tries-to-pour-acid-into-mouth-of-woman-32-stabs-her-many-times-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/80654333.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||CM opens 10-bed ICU at Gandhi Centenary Eye Hospital, 132 new ambulances for emergency services||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday inaugurated a 10-bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the Gandhi Centenary Eye Hospital in Dehradun. This takes the total number of ICU beds in the state to 863, along with 695 ventilators. Notably, 10 months ago, when the Covid emergency began, the state had a mere 216 ICU beds and 116 ventilators. He also flagged off 132 new ambulances equipped with basic and advanced life support systems, to strengthen the state’s facility of ferrying patients from hill districts and emergency cases. The ambulances have been procured with World Bank Disaster Recovery funds. Addressing the gathering, Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “We’d added 271 ambulances in 2020. Today we added more. Healthcare facilities for our people are our government’s top priority. We’re sure it will prove beneficial for all.” The CM also felicitated the state’s Covid warriors at the programme, by awarding frontline doctors and paramedics who had worked in Covid wards with Rs 11,000 each. “So far, 2.32 lakh beneficiaries have availed healthcare under the Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand scheme, of which over 42,000 were eye patients. We’re delighted more Uttarakhandis are availing health benefits crafted exclusively for them by our government,” added Rawat. The programme was attended by Dehradun Municipal Corporation mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama, health secretary Amit Negi, disaster management secretary S A Murugesan and DG (health services) Dr Amita Upreti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-opens-10-bed-icu-at-gandhi-centenary-eye-hospital-132-new-ambulances-for-emergency-services/articleshow/80655274.cms||Shivani Azad
February 3, 2021||Surat||28 women cops complain of ‘minor’ side-effects||SURAT: Twelve trainee female police constables in Surat and 16 female cops from the Vadodara city police headquarters complained of side-effects late on Sunday night after they had been administered the first dose of vaccine in the early hours of the day in the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination programme. While the Surat cops, living in accommodation provided by the police department at police headquarters, complained of fever and other health issues at night and were admitted in New Civil Hospital (NCH), the Vadodara cops along with two safari workers of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) too had to be taken to hospitals on Monday with similar complaints of headache, giddiness, dizziness, mild fever. Of the 12 Surat cops, two had serious complications including fever and shivering, said doctors at the NCH. The others had shown mild health issue like headache and tenderness in the arm. “All the cops are out of danger and have minor symptoms that can happen to anyone after vaccination. Majority of them will be discharged as soon as their condition turns normal,” said a health official in Surat Municipal Corporation. Director of National Health Mission, MA Pandya said that all the police personnel had suffered from headache, giddiness, dizziness, mild fever etc. “All these symptoms constitute minor side-effects of vaccination,” said Pandya. “It is good these trainees sought medical help. Some were kept under observation too, but no serious event is reported,” said Pandya, adding that health workers would themselves address these minor issues, though the general population may get apprehensive about it. The Vadodara cops had taken the jabs at Pratapnagar headquarter and Makarpura on Sunday. “In all 16 Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) women personnel were brought to the hospital. Thirteen with only minor complaints were allowed to go soon, while three others were kept in the hospital for observation and and discharged later in the day,” said SSG Hospital superintendent Dr Ranjan Aiyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/28-women-cops-complain-of-minor-side-effects/articleshow/80636418.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University online exam from February 13||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat University has decided to start its online examinations from February 30 and nearly 50,000 students are likely to take the test, which will be in MCQ format. The students will have to shut all social media apps during the test. They will not be allowed to change the screens during the test. The students cannot accept calls during their exams. If they accept calls, or operate social media sites, it will be considered indiscipline and such students will incur disqualification, the university authorities said. The university has decided to conduct a mock test on February 11 and all the students will have to compulsorily appear in the mock test. If they fail to take the mock test, they will be disqualified for the final exams. The schedule of the examinations has not been finalized yet. The university has decided to keep two days ahead of the mock test for the trial. The students can take the trial more than once. The trial test will be with 10 questions. The students have been suggested to ensure certain quality of gadgets with specifications, and bandwidth for proper connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-online-exam-from-feb-13/articleshow/80657497.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||As Covid cases spike, central team to visit Kerala again||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Centre has decided to send another high-level delegation as Kerala is finding it hard to bring down the caseload of Covid-19. As per the report of the Union health ministry, 70% of the caseload reported in the country are from two states — Kerala and Maharashtra. The team is expected to reach the state by this weekend. This will be the second time within the space of one month that the Centre is sending an expert team to the state. On January 8, a two-member team had visited the state. The central team is being sent to the state as there is no respite in the number of new cases. The Centre is learnt to have decided to collaborate with the state health authorities in instituting public health measures for Covid management. “At a time when almost all states and Union Territories are showing a declining trend in the number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19, Kerala and Maharashtra continue to report a large number of cases. At present, these two states alone are contributing to almost 70% active Covid-19 cases in the country,” said a statement from the Centre. The central team to Kerala will comprise a senior official from ministry of health and family welfare along with experts from regional office of health and family welfare, Thiruvananthapuram, and Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi. The team will work closely with the state health department, take a stock of the ground situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the large number of cases being reported by the state. The central team led by Minhaj Alam, joint secretary and Covid-19 nodal officer for Kerala, and Dr S K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, had come to the state on a three-day visit on January 8. They had expressed satisfaction over state health department’s measures in fighting the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/as-cases-spike-central-team-to-visit-kerala-again/articleshow/80655305.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||GST collection in state at record high||Ahmedabad: Signalling a clear revival in demand and consumption, collection of goods and services tax (GST) in Gujarat stood at a record-high level of Rs 7,769 crore in January 2021, which includes SGST, CGST, IGST and cess collection from the state. Total GST collection went up by 8.6% against Rs 7,330 crore in January 2020, according to data provided by Union ministry of finance. J P Gupta, state commercial tax commissioner, said, “The economy is reviving and with increased optimism post vaccine rollout, the consumption has increased, as a consequence of which the overall tax collection has increased.” Even month-on-month, GST collection in Gujarat went up 6.6% against Rs 7,469 crore in December 2020. The number of e-way bill transactions has also gone up and state commercial tax department officials also attribute the growth to increased commercial activity. “The number of commercial, especially business-to-business, transactions went up significantly. The E-way bills generated went up from 76 lakh in January 2020 to 82 lakh – a 7% increase in January 2021,” said Gupta. Industry players also attribute the growth to increased economic activity. Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham, Gujarat state council, said, “Increase in GST collection clearly indicates that the business, commercial activity and economy are on a recovery mode. This is because of the pent-up demand opening up in sectors such as textiles, chemicals, engineering goods, ceramics, among other. There is increased optimism in the market. That apart, purchase orders and retail orders also went up significantly.” Experts also attribute the increase in GST mop-up to the rise in price of raw materials. “Prices of raw materials went up across product categories be it chemicals, textiles or even steel and steel products. This rise in price was passed on through the entire value chain, till the end-product be it finished goods, machinery, garments, dyes and intermediates. Therefore, the inflation also contributed significantly to the increase in tax collection,” said Thaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-collection-in-state-at-record-high/articleshow/80656351.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||SECR, CRly infra gets Rs1,800 crore boost||Nagpur: As expected, no new railway projects were announced in the general budget presented by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. However, ongoing railway infrastructure projects under the Central Railway and South East Central Railway (SECR) in the region have got a major boost with allocation of over Rs1,795 crore in the 2021-2022 budget. An analysis of the ‘pink book’, which gives financial overview of various works and projects, reveals focus remains on completion of capacity enhancement projects like tripling and quadrupling of lines in all directions from Nagpur. Good fund allocation has been made for capacity expansion on trunk lines of Nagpur-Sewagram (Rs193 crores for third & fourth lines), Wardha-Ballarshah (Rs146 crore for third & fourth line), Nagpur-Itarsi (Rs261 crores for the third line) and Nagpur-Rajnandgaon (Rs450 crores for the third line). Carrying capacity of all these routes has reached a saturation point. “This will help complete these congested routes faster. Work on Nagpur-Rajnandgaon seems to be progressing well and an additional Rs450 crores will keep the momentum going,” says railway project analyst Alok Patel. Interestingly, the Bhusawal-Wardha third line project has also been finally sanctioned but only a token allocation has been made this year. For, Wardha-Nanded railway line a significant sum of Rs340 crores has been allocated. However, much of this fund will come from external borrowings. Gauge conversion works on Nagpur-Chhindwara-Mandla Fort and Gondia-Balaghat lines have been provided Rs296 crores for further completion. This time, Nagpur-Nagbhid gauge conversion allocation, which is being implemented on a 50:50 basis by the railways and the state, is missing from the pink book. “This may be because Maharashtra Railway Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC) is implementing the work,” said Patel. Automatic signalling and the indigenously developed train collision avoidance system (TCAS) have been sanctioned for the entire Mumbai-Nagpur route. This will significantly increase capacity and bring a huge upgrade to safety on the route. However, only a token amount has been allocated for this year. This year, automatic signalling and TCAS has also been sanctioned for the Itarsi-Nagpur and Wardha-Ballarshah route. Again, only a token allocation has been made so far. “Among other minor allocations made for various upgrades around Vidarbha include Rs20 crore for Badnera workshop. Most of this is in line with our expectations from this budget and its push for the badly needed expansion of capacity on highly saturated lines. The budget has acknowledged that this is the best way to drive future revenues and growth in both freight and passenger traffic segments for Indian Railways,” said Patel. Project Allotted Total Cost Wardha-Nanded 340 3400 Godhani-Kalamna 8 103 Nagpur-Sewagram (3rd line) 45 298 Teegaon-Chichonda 25 175 Wardha-Ballarshah 146 640 Itarsi-Nagpur (3rd line) 261 2375 Nagpur-Sewagram (4th line) 148 637 Wardha-Chitoda 3 31 Ajni Satellite Terminal 4.25 83 Godhani-Nag-Khapri Auto Signalling 10 31 Badnera workshop 20 299 Wadsa-Gadchiroli 11 283 Chhindwara-Nagpur 46 1400 Chhindwara-Mandla 150 947 J’pur-Gondia 100 1530 Rajnandgaon-Nag 450 1280 Motibagh Workshop 5 75 (Amount in crore rupees)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-crly-infra-gets-rs1800-crore-boost/articleshow/80659103.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||After leopards and elephants, Uttarakhand to now radio-collar bears||Dehradun: With bear attacks continuing unabated in the hill districts of Uttarakhand (areas like Badrinath, Rudraprayag, Kedarnath and Tehri have historically been the worst affected), the forest department has decided to radio-collar bears in order to track their movement and behavioural changes. Leopards and elephants have previously been radio collared in the state. Uttarakhand chief wildlife warden JS Suhag explained that a team of the Uttarakhand forest department is conducting searches for wild bears in caves. In 2020, three people lost their lives to bear attacks, while 82 sustained grievous injuries. In 2019, four people were killed, followed by two in 2018 and three the previous year. So far in Uttarakhand, 59 people have been killed in bear attacks, which are the most gruesome of wild animal attacks and require expensive treatment. On Tuesday, a group of villagers, including Dasholi block development committee member Rahul Rawat and former pradhan of Sartoli village Vineeta Devi, handed over a memorandum to Badrinath divisional forest officer Ashutosh Singh, requesting to control the rampage of two black bears in the area. “On January 16, 23, 29 and 31, we saw bears maul our cattle to death in different villages of Pharswan Phaat area,” said Rahul Rawat. In the last month, bears had killed half a dozen cattle and razed cow shelters to the ground in the area. “This week, we should be able to radio-collar two bears in Joshimath, Chamoli. These two have been venturing into human habitations and raiding garbage mounds to look for food and have been attacking people nearby,” said Suhag. Unlike leopards, bears typically only hibernate and do not attack in winters. However, global warming and habitat encroachment have changed that. Bear attacks in Gopeshwar and Joshimath have now become common in winters too. Meanwhile, the forest department is sensitizing villagers on saving themselves from bear attacks using educational videos. “Unless they are given some kind of training to tackle bear attacks, villagers will be defenceless against these animals. Bears cause tremendous physical damage to the victim, which is why the treatment expense is also very high,” said Rajeev Bhartari, Head of Forest Force (HoFF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-leopards-and-elephants-uttarakhand-to-now-radio-collar-bears/articleshow/80655304.cms||Shivani Azad
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC orders razing of illegal building||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court directed the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to demolish a seven-storey commercial-cum-residential building in the Raikhad area, which was constructed without obtaining prior permission from the authorities. A petition was filed in the high court by one Manish Solanki, seeking directions to the civic authorities to pull down the building, which according to him was erected without prior permission or the plans being sanctioned by the authorities. He named two persons in his petition, made them party respondents and claimed that they were responsible for the construction. However, both of them denied the claims and told the court that they had nothing to do with the building. After hearing the case and finding that there was no permission granted for construction of the multi-storey building, Justice Bhargav Karia said, “The respondent corporation is duty bound to act in accordance with law and therefore the grievances raised by the petitioners are required to be taken care of by the corporation.” The HC finally directed AMC to take necessary action in accordance with the law for removal of the illegal construction within one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-razing-of-illegal-building/articleshow/80656396.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer businessmen to ink pact with airline||JAISALMER: Probably for the first time in India, businessmen are teaming together with a private airline to restart flight services to boost local tourism by guaranteeing to collectively bear the losses. A pact is slated to be signed on Wednesday. Jaisalmer Vikas Samiti on behalf of Jaisalmer tourism businessmen and Spicejet will sign the MoU in New Delhi. A bank guarantee of Rs 84 lakh will be handed over to Spicejet as a loss sharing amount collected by local businessmen. On behalf of the samiti, hotelier Manvendra Singh will sign the MoU for restarting flight services from Jaisalmer to Delhi and Ahmedabad thrice in a week from Feb 12. Confirming this, district collector Ashish Modi said tourism businessmen in the city collected money on sharing basis and an MoU is being signed in this regard by the samiti and Spicejet on Wednesday. With the intervention of the district collector, an effort was made to restart the air services from Jaisalmer to Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad that were closed from January 28. Businessmen related to Jaisalmer tourist industry offered to share the losses suffered by the airlines. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-bizmen-to-ink-pact-with-airline/articleshow/80657531.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rs 470 crore infra push for Mandal Bechraji Special Investment Region||GANDHINAGAR: After considerable delays due to stiff opposition by local farmers, the Mandal Bechraji Special Investment Region (MBSIR) project has now received an impetus. The state government has completed road and other infrastructure projects worth Rs 200 crore and has now initiated the process of completing other infrastructure work at the SIR at an estimated cost of Rs 470 crore. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary at the chief minister’s office and in-charge ACS (industry & mines), said that infrastructure work worth over Rs 200 crore, including 37km of new roads, is close to completion. “We have floated a tender at an estimated cost of Rs 470 crore for construction of remaining roads of 67-km length along with other necessary services and infrastructure in approximately 500-sq km area in the SIR for TP-01. The same will continue for construction of infrastructure in TP-02 and TP-03 as well. The total estimated cost for infrastructure in cluster A of the SIR will be Rs 1,900 crore,” he said. The official said the area is developing as an automobile hub where companies like Maruti Suzuki India Ltd and Honda (two-wheelers) have been established along with their ancillary units. “Also, a Japanese Industrial Park and Bhagapura industrial area, both by GIDC, are already in operation. Development of Vanod GIDC is under progress, too. Maruti Suzuki has plans for a second plant in Cluster B. We expect major industrial activities and fresh investment as we offer 'plug-and-play’ infrastructure,” Das said. “As a part of industrial hub and DMIDC (Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor) node, last-mile railway connectivity has already been planned under a special purpose vehicle. The 26.6-km railway line will be laid at a cost of Rs 260 crore for Cluster A last-mile connectivity,” Das said, adding that a logistics park has also been planned in each cluster. He stated that companies have recently constructed a hospital and school in Cluster A under their CSR activity, which will be beneficial for those residing at MBSIR. The state government has also chalked out plans to widen roads connecting Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar to the SIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-470cr-infra-push-for-mandal-bechraji-sir/articleshow/80657545.cms||Kapil Dave
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||Made to lose control, say ‘hypnotize gang’ victims||NAGPUR: Shashi Jain, 53, who lost her husband Ramesh due to Covid last year, faced another setback on way to a shrine in January when tricksters decamped with her valuables worth nearly Rs1.5 lakh by using hypnotic skills. Though the woman had earlier thwarted a robbery attempt on her daughter, this time around she claimed to have come under some unexplained spell following which she was left with no control over her own decisions or actions. Repeated incidents of elderly women being robbed by the ‘hypnotize gang’ has left the city police and crime branch with a tricky challenge. “One of the tricksters came close to me and looked straight into my eyes. They were asking me for directions to go to Wardha. I wanted to tell them that they should ask any man about the location and not a woman, but I could not do so,” said Shashi who was robbed between Badkas Chowk and Gandhiputla Chowk. “They asked me to sit on a cement bench and also removed the gold chain with their hands. Passers-by did not interfere, assuming that it was a family affair. I could not raise an alarm though I desperately wanted to and neither could I wave out for help. I’m not dumb but at that time I just did whatever they asked me to,” said Shashi. Following her complaint, Kotwali police station registered an offence. In another case, Survna Potpoche was robbed of her valuables. She even withdrew Rs20,000 from the ATM and gave it to the tricksters after coming under their hypnotic spell. “They looked straight into my eyes and hypnotized me. Victims are left with no control over their thoughts and actions,” said 53-year-old Suvarna, recalling last month’s incident when three women were robbed on the same day by the same ‘hypnotic gang’ at different places. Suvarna, who is employed in the telecom sector, had gone to Budhwari market where she was approached by two tricksters, aged between 25-30 years, at a desolate place on the pretext of asking her for directions to take a bus to Wardha. Following her complaint, an offence was registered by the Sakkardara police. Senior inspector Satyavan Mane of Sakkardara police station is seeking CCTV footage from different locations to nab the culprits. “They operate like the Anna gang. We need to collect more evidence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/made-to-lose-control-say-hypnotize-gang-victims/articleshow/80659128.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Hand over copy of CCTV visuals to accused: Kerala court to police||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Judicial first class magistrate-III has directed police to hand over the copy of surveillance camera visuals of the accident that claimed the life of journalist K M Basheer to the two accused in the case, IAS officer Sriram Venkitaraman and his friend Wafa Firoze. The magistrate gave the direction after receiving a report from forensic expert said there was no harm in handing over the copy of the visuals. Venkitaraman and Firoze had approached the court seeking copy of the two DVDs containing surveillance camera visuals submitted before the Crime Branch investigation team as evidence in the case. The prosecution had opposed their plea citing that the hash value (a factor that determines the integrity of a digital data) will be affected. The court too had raised concern that if the hash value were to be affected, the accused could make a claim before the trial court that the copies of the evidence provided to them were tampered with. The magistrate had then directed Crime Branch SP A Shanavas, who is leading the investigation team, to get a report from forensic director in this regard. The forensic director furnished the report citing that the hash value will not be affected. Meanwhile, magistrate A Aneesa has also held that the cloned copies will be taken only after the visuals are screened before the court in the presence of forensic experts. She has directed cyber police DSP to appear before the court on February 15 for the screening. It was on August 3, 2019, K M Basheer was knocked down by a car that was allegedly driven by Venkitaraman. The Crime Branch had stated in the chargesheet that there was a deliberate attempt from the part of Venkitaraman to destroy the evidence in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hand-over-copy-of-cctv-visuals-to-accused-court-to-police/articleshow/80656408.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Not all positive Britain returnees will have UK variant, says NIV||PUNE: Scientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) have said four isolated viral samples from five Covid-positive returnees from the UK had all the hallmarks of the mutated UK variant, also known as Variant of Concern or VOC 202012/01. Dr Pragya D Yadav, head of NIV’s Maximum Containment Facility, said laboratory studies were able to pick up all the 17 signature mutations of the variant. “We, though, cannot rule out the possibility of more mutations in this same variant due to its continuous passage in human hosts,” Dr Yadav said. NIV scientists also said one of the five analysed genome sequences did not reveal the UK variant but another SARS-CoV-2 strain predominant in various parts of the world. “This means that all positive UK returnees may not have the UK mutant in their samples. In the same country, people can be infected with different variants of the virus and they can transport them to other countries via travel,” said Dr Yadav. The scientist further said several SARS-CoV-2 clades or branches are circulating in several parts of the world and they could be undergoing further mutations, including those in India. The scientist, though, added that not every mutation is worrisome. Dr Yadav said after molecular characterization of a mutant, studies can be performed, including monoclonal antibody evaluation, to determine the threat from these changes. “Such efforts can help us know if lab-designed monoclonal antibodies can neutralize these new variants. A strengthened surveillance system is needed to catch more cases and curb local transmission of the UK mutant,” she said. So far, India has detected 165 cases with the UK variant. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division, said, “Structural changes that viruses undergo are referred to as mutations. Small changes in them are referred to as antigenic drifts and the big ones as antigenic shifts. These changes need to be tracked to determine transmissibility and virulence levels. Due to these changes, there are likely to be many more variants of the virus in countries with Covid-19, including India. The advantage of being able to culture variants that are more transmissible is that scientists can perform experiments with these variants at their disposal, such as checking the efficacy of a vaccine or medication against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/not-all-positive-britain-returnees-will-have-uk-variant-says-niv/articleshow/80655325.cms||Neha Madaan
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||Open jails to now unlock new doors in prisoners’ lives||Vadodara: This may be a reality check in the “Do Aankhe Barah Haath” style on prisoners’ own willingness to reform themselves. For, no barbed wires or high walls will greet you as walk into the 90-acre campus in Danteshwar area, nor see any heavy police bandobust around it. In fact, the ambience may seem more of an ashram than that of a jail with inmates either busy farming or milking cows in a cowshed on the campus. And that’s not all, there’s also a meditating hall for spiritual uplift! While it’s not a new spiritual getaway for the jailbirds in the city, the Danteshwar campus, one of the four such jails in the state, is a new opportunity for criminals to reform themselves and leave behind their dark past. Although farming practices, along side a petrol pump was already operational at the jail for the past couple of years, the jail and the cattle shed were formally inaugurated by the additional director general of police (Jails) Dr K L N Rao on Tuesday. The petrol pump is the first such in state to contribute to the welfare of prisoners. The cattle shed which houses 70 bovines at present can accommodate 120 in total. “The open jail is a new concept where those prisoners, whose behaviour has been consistently good and are trustworthy, will be kept,” said Rao. He added that through open jails inmates will be able to start a new life for themselves through organic farming, animal husbandry among others and support their families as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/open-jails-to-now-unlock-new-doors-in-prisoners-lives/articleshow/80655335.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||Despite protests, NMC firm on handing over gardens to pvt players||Nagpur: Despite opposition from activists, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is set to go ahead with its plan allowing private operators for operation and maintenance of 69 gardens. As a result, citizens visiting gardens daily will now have to shell out entry fees. In a bid to save Rs10 crore per annum expenditure on maintenance of city’s lung spaces, the standing committee on Tuesday gave its nod to allow commercial activities at all gardens and charge entry fee, parking charges at 15 big and 54 medium-sized gardens. Nagpur Citizens Forum and other NGOs have launched a signature drive to oppose the civic body’s move. Abhijit Jha of the Forum told TOI that the organization will sternly oppose the NMC’s move. “The organization has already launched a signature drive outside Suyog Nagar garden and soon an agitation will be launched across the city,” he said. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said with the current financial situation, the civic body is facing hardship to maintain the gardens. An entry fee of Rs5 (excluding children below 3 years) and parking charges of Rs10 for two-wheeler and Rs20 for four-wheeler will be applicable for category-I gardens. The standing committee also gave its nod to other proposals including continuation of current property tax system for the next financial year (2021-22), appointment of 12 IT engineers on contract basis. Zalke said the committee has asked the public health engineering department to further negotiate the work of strengthening the south sewerage zone worth Rs19.78 crore. Zalke clarified that entry for morning walkers up to 9am in any of the city gardens will remain free. Entry in evening or any other time during the day will be chargeable, he said. According to him, the civic body has divided gardens into two categories. Gardens spread over two or more acres will fall in category-I, and those between 0.5-2 acres in category-II, he said and added 15 big and 54 medium-sized gardens have been shortlisted for expression of interest. Now, the proposal will be submitted before the general body meeting for its nod. Private operators, including residential associations, social organizations, industrial institutions or individuals from respective areas, will be given preference for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the gardens, he said. To a query, Zalke said a seven member monitoring committee will be formed at every place which will comprise members like sitting corporator, senior citizens etc, who will review the work of the private operators every six month. On the basis of their remarks, NMC will decide on their tenure, though category-I gardens will be given for 10 years while tenure will be 5 years for category-II. Zalke, however, clarified that the NMC will not allow any commercial programmes including weddings but social programmes will be allowed. With poor financial status, the NMC could not even depute security guards in gardens as a result, most of them have become an ideal place for anti-social elements, he said. This new move will not only curb these criminal activities but also bring back the glory of the city gardens, he said. 6-member panel to monitor work orders: Standing committee Vijay Zalke on Tuesday formed a six-member committee comprising additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane, one chief engineer and two superintending engineers to monitor issue of work orders for various development works in the city. With less than two months left, many works were not started yet, the committee will look into such works, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-protests-nmc-firm-on-handing-over-gardens-to-pvt-players/articleshow/80656403.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gates closed for ‘communal reasons’, Gujarat high court issues notice||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notices to various authorities in Vadodara for not opening the gate on a public road in the controversial Samarpan Society on the ground that members of the minority community use that road and it could lead to confrontations with other residents of the area. The issue involves Samarpan Society, which falls under the Disturbed Areas Act and was already in a controversy following a property sale by members of other communities to Muslims amid vehement protests by Hindu residents of the neighbourhood. The society gate was closed last year, against which some members of the society, both Muslims and Hindus, approached the high court seeking directions to the authorities to open the gate. The HC directed the authorities to take a decision on whether to open the road. In this exercise, the police commissionerate on January 5 opined that the gate should not be opened because movement of members of the minority community could lead to confrontations with residents and this could disturb the law and order situation further. Eight petitioners approached the HC again and submitted that closing the gate is an encroachment on the Town Planning (TP) road for purely communal reasons and there is no justification for it. The petitioner reads, “It is deeply unfortunate that the closure of a public road on communal grounds is being continued for more than five months without any action by the authorities. This is an assault on the secular values of the Constitution and, therefore, appropriate directions are required to be issued in order to correct the same.” The petition termed the letter written by the police authorities advising not to open the gate ‘grossly unconstitutional and illegal’. The HC has sought reply from the authorities by the first week of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gates-closed-for-communal-reasons-high-court-issues-notice/articleshow/80656375.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stars safe as major fire on sets of film adaptation of Ramayana||MUMBAI: A major fire broke out on Tuesday evening at a film studio in Goregaon’s Bangur Nagar, on the first day of shooting for ‘Adipurush’. Directed by Om Raut, the mahurat took place on Tuesday morning and filming had just begun when the fire erupted. Fire brigade officials said it broke out at 4.15pm. The film stars Prabhas and Saif Ali Khan but they were not present, police said. Fire officials said the studio was gutted, along with shooting equipment and electric wiring. Fireman Akshay Tarte (23), who suffered minor injuries, was treated and discharged. The adaptation of Ramayana went on the floors with a special set. Backed by T-Series, it is to be released in theaters in August 2022. Sources said Raut and some crew were filming. Residents saw heavy smoke and flames till late on Tuesday. Officials said eight fire engines, excavators and water tankers were sent to the spot. Director Om Raut said, “We had an unfortunate incident... Thankfully, no one has been hurt and everyone is safe and sound. We thank Mumbai Fire Brigade and Mumbai Police for support.” Residents said they had complained that the studio was a fire hazard. Advocate Shreyansh Mithare, secretary of neighbouring Janki-Ram Housing Society, said that they complained to BMC. “BMC told us it had given permission to the studio but it is a fire trap, endangering our lives,” Mithare said. Santosh Dhonde, assistant municipal commissioner (P-South ward) said the studio was given permission around 1.5 years back based on BMC’s policy to allow film shootings and events on open plots. “They had taken permission as per rules and BMC is collecting fees from them too. They had completed fire compliance on January 20,” Dhonde said. Fire brigade officials said a short-circuit in the electric wiring or air-conditioner may have caused the fire, which was extinguished around 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stars-safe-as-major-fire-on-sets-of-film-adaptation-of-ramayana/articleshow/80656526.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Policy out for stranded marine animals||AHMEDABAD: The stranding of 81 short-finned pilot whales along the Manapad coast in Tamil Nadu from January 11 to January 16 had shocked nature lovers. A team of marine experts reached the spot and rescued many; some whales died. The experts were baffled when a few hours later, more whales were found stranded a few kilometres away. “We were not sure whether they were the ones we had rescued. There was no tagging or markers, also their health condition was not assessed,” said Sajan John, head policy and Marine Projects, Wildlife Trust of India. John, who was part of the rescue operation then, says that the learnings from the incident were useful in shaping the new Marine Mega Fauna Stranding Management Guidelines, released recently by the Government of India. In a country where 10,000 turtles get stranded every year, the new guidelines pave the path for preparedness to deal with such situations. John has contributed to the framing of the policy. The policy is applicable for species that are more than 1 meter in length. In a country that has a coastline of 7,500km, this is for the first time that a policy has been rolled out for stranded marine animals, said B C Chaudhary, former scientist with Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and an expert in marine species. The socio-economic value of marine mega fauna in the region can grow via tourism. So there is a need for long-term conservation and management of such species and their habitats. Marine mega fauna strands on shore either alive or dead, alone or in a mass, due to various reasons — such as bycatch, boat strikes, noise pollution, diseases, and disorientation of the leader. “It is estimated that between 9,000 and 10,000 cetaceans are caught annually across India in mechanized vessels. The management of this along with beaching/washing ashore of cetaceans are being considered in these guidelines,” according to the policy document. According to the policy, a National Stranding Centre will be established which will coordinate the annual monitoring programme for marine animal stranded in all the coastal states. At the state level, State Stranding Centres will be set up whose primary role will be to maintain the database on marine animals’ stranding and their bycatch, and to coordinate with all local stranding networks. The guidelines give a standard operating procedure for handling marine mega fauna with special reference to cetaceans. “To identify whether the released animal is stranded elsewhere, all such animals may be tagged with a non-expensive marker tag (ear tag)/flipper tags (in case of sea turtles),” according to the policy. “A basic data sheet of the tagged animals needs to be maintained regarding the tagging. Animals that need to be euthanized will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on veterinary advice as well as based on safety, logistic, and other constraints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/policy-out-for-stranded-marine-animals/articleshow/80657579.cms||Maulik Pathak
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||Edu minister Samant’s Janata Durbar in city on Feb 5||Nagpur: Education Minister Uday Samant would be holding a ‘Janata Durbar’ in the city on February 5 where he would interact with higher education stakeholders like students, teachers, non-teaching staff, parents, principals and college owners. The mega event would be held at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall from 11am onwards and the minister would be present with his entire team comprising principal secretary, deputy secretaries, higher and technical education directors and joint directors, along with other officials from his ministry. “We have allocated time slots for all to avoid crowding of venue in view of Covid-19 restrictions. We had already invited applications from the stakeholders on their grievances, which we would try to resolve at our level and results would be declared on Friday during the event,” Nagpur University vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari said. NU has extended the deadline for submission of online grievances till Wednesday and all stakeholders can register their problems with the university, ministry or government by filling up a Google form. “The minister would meet with NU Management Council members and top officials before the event. His team then would meet with directors, college owners and principals at 12.30pm. They will be followed by teachers and non-teaching employees. The third time slot is reserved for students and parents. In the evening, various students organizations would interact with the visitors. All the stakeholders are allotted one hour for the discussions,” registrar Anil Hirekhan said. The VC added they would also apprise the minister with various issues faced by NU and also seek funds for celebrating the centenary year in 2023. “The priority would be to recruit teaching and non-teaching staff as many of our officials have retired. The non-teaching staff’s recruitment stopped in 2007. We will also demand additional postgraduate seats in view of the large number of students not getting admission due to bumper results,” he said. The VC was accompanied by pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe, joint directors for technical and higher education Manoj Daigavhane and Mahesh Salunkhe, and NU finance and accounts officer (FAO) Raju Hiwase. Spl convocation for CJI on April 3 NU would be conducting a special convocation to confer doctor of law (LLD) degree on Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde on April 3, as first reported by TOI on January 20. NU is trying to invite President Ramnath Kovind as a chief guest for the function. The VC informed that chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had granted his consent for the event and CJI too had agreed to it. “We would soon communicate with the President’s office in this regard. As proposed earlier, this wouldn’t be a regular convocation but a special one, as NU would be felicitating one of India’s highest dignitaries,” Chaudhari said. NU to conduct regular exams on Sat, Sun In some good news for the regular students eagerly waiting for their examinations, NU has decided to conduct their papers on Saturday and Sunday. Moreover, their colleges are likely to open from February 15. The papers would be conducted in both offline and online mode as per the students’ convenience, thus bringing much relief to them. Normally, their exams should have been over by October-November but due to pandemic those were deferred. “After our interaction with the minister on Monday, he entrusted the task to universities. We have decided to conduct papers on weekends to save the time and also avoid putting burden on the examinees. They will get a five-day break after every paper. The exams would continue for one and half months,” the VC and pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe said. A majority of students was demanding to conduct online papers only as colleges were yet to reopen and many were still staying outside at their native places. Samant informed the VCs that the government may allow reopening of colleges from February 15 but in phases. “Initially, we will start with 50% attendance with a view to maintain Covid-19 pandemic norms like social distancing. The students would have a choice to attend lectures. There would be no compulsion on them due to the pandemic,” Chaudhari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-minister-samants-janata-durbar-in-city-on-feb-5/articleshow/80659156.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 3, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Food coupons for school kids||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government has issued an order to provide food coupons to students who are eligible for the noon meal scheme, instead of the food kits that were being supplied in schools during Covid-19 pandemic. The government has decided to supply coupons through the schools as SupplyCo, that has been supplying the kits has expressed inability to supply the kits since it has been preparing and supplying government-offered Covid-19 food kits to the public. About 27 lakh students of lower- and upper-primary categories, who are beneficiaries of the mid-day meal scheme, will now enjoy the benefits of coupons. Their parents can collect coupons from the schools. While the coupons can be used to purchase foodgrains from SupplyCo outlets, the equivalent rice for three months will be provided from the schools. While coupons worth Rs 300, including the cost of foodgrains and the cooking cost, will be offered to the lower-primary beneficiaries, for upper primary, the food coupons will be of Rs 400. The coupons cover the food cost from September till November, 2020. Another set of coupons for the four months from December 2020 to March 2021 will be provided in the next phase. The education department had provided food kits for five months from April till August last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/food-coupons-for-school-kids/articleshow/80666192.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Food coupons for school kids||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government has issued an order to provide food coupons to students who are eligible for the noon meal scheme, instead of the food kits that were being supplied in schools during Covid-19 pandemic. The government has decided to supply coupons through the schools as SupplyCo, that has been supplying the kits has expressed inability to supply the kits since it has been preparing and supplying government-offered Covid-19 food kits to the public. About 27 lakh students of lower- and upper-primary categories, who are beneficiaries of the mid-day meal scheme, will now enjoy the benefits of coupons. Their parents can collect coupons from the schools. While the coupons can be used to purchase foodgrains from SupplyCo outlets, the equivalent rice for three months will be provided from the schools. While coupons worth Rs 300, including the cost of foodgrains and the cooking cost, will be offered to the lower-primary beneficiaries, for upper primary, the food coupons will be of Rs 400. The coupons cover the food cost from September till November, 2020. Another set of coupons for the four months from December 2020 to March 2021 will be provided in the next phase. The education department had provided food kits for five months from April till August last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/food-coupons-for-school-kids/articleshow/80655327.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ajmer||BJP fields Braj Lata Hada for mayor of Ajmer Municipal Corporation||AJMER: The BJP on Tuesday fielded Braj Lata Hada as its mayoral candidate despite a friction within the party. She is the wife of BJP city president Priye Sheel Hada. This time the seat of mayor of Ajmer Municipal Corporation is reserved for woman candidate from the SC community. In the recently held Ajmer Municipal Corporation elections, the BJP got 48 seats, Congress (18) and independents (13). The half-way mark is 41 votes. The Congress lost the elections but on the last day of filing nomination for the post of mayor, the party fielded Draupdi Devi as their candidate. Two corporators Chanchal and Pinki of the Congress also filed their nominations while Kajal Yadav, an independent corporator, also filed nominations for the post of mayor. Hada also filed her nomination on Tuesday. She was accompanied by BJP MLAs Vasudev Devnani and Anita Bhadel. She denied any groupism within the party. Sources said the Congress lost the polls badly because of internal fractions within the party. In Kekri, Kamlesh Sahu of the Congress filed nomination for the post of chairman of Kekri Nagar Palika while Mishrilal filed from the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bjp-fields-braj-lata-hada-for-amc-mayor/articleshow/80657547.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Khoda pahad, nikla 10m years old chuhiya||Ahmedabad: A team of researchers that carefully dug through 1,500kg of fossiliferous rock at Tapar and Pashuda villages near Anjar in Kutch district, were rewarded with proverbial chuhiyas (rats). These were no simple rodents though, as the samples opened a new chapter of the late Miocene age with the remains dating back to 10 million years ago. The paper ‘First Miocene rodents from Kutch, western India’ by Ansuya Bhandari from Lucknow-based Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP), published recently in the journal ‘Historical Biology’, throws light on nine species of murines/murids or old-world rats found in the Indian peninsula for the first time. The study was done with Dr Lawrence Flynn of Harvard University. The study highlights that the region had murines, primitive bamboo rats, chipmunks and other rodents from the late Miocene period. Earlier, similar species were reported from the Shivalik range in Pakistan. The team also claimed to find a new species, indicating regional differentiation. Analysis of fossilized teeth revealed a variety of rodents. Dr Bhandari said the discovery is important from multiple aspects. “It gives us a peek into the biodiversity at this spot 10 million years ago, also giving us the oldest age to find the rodents. These are the first recorded Miocene rodents outside the Siwalik, extending the southern range of its discovery,” she said. Earlier, remains of apes, horses, rhinos, elephants among other animals have been found from the region. “I have worked in the region earlier – starting in 2010 – and we were successful in finding evidence of Miocene age fossils that led us to discoveries such as Sivapithecus (ape), hipparion (primitive horse), pigs, rhinos, elephants, giraffids, bats, turtles and anthracotheres (extinct hippo-like mammals) among others. Thus, we were encouraged to search further,” said Dr Bhandari, who is associated with the Vertebrate Palaeontology Lab of BSIP. The researchers pointed out that the small teeth of fossilized rodents tell a big story. According to their hypothesis, the region was not arid as today and had a subtropical ecosystem and moist environment, if not dense forest. “Of course, we cannot compare today’s rats or mice directly with these species, but for understanding’s sake, we can say that they were almost of the same size today. They were grazers and may have seeds and leaves in their diet,” she said. Progonomys morganae, an index fossil, has been recorded for the first time in India, the researchers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/khoda-pahad-nikla-10m-years-old-chuhiya/articleshow/80656416.cms||Parth Shastri
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Indo-US combined ‘Yudh Abhyas’ to kick off from February 7 in Bikaner||JAISALMER: India and the US will conduct a combined war exercise titled Operation Yudh Abhyas at the Mahajan field firing range in Bikaner from February 7 to 22. In the brigade-level two-week exercise, more than 250 soldiers from both countries will take part in semi-urban and semi-desert terrain. One troop from the US has reached Suratgarh air base with all its war equipment, while the remaining troops will reach in the next 1 to 3 days. This is the 24th edition of the exercise. The last exercise took place in the US in 2019. The exercise could not be conducted in 2020 due to the pandemic. The main objective of this exercise is to increase skill in anti-terrorism operation and both countries to train in war processes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indo-us-combined-yudh-abhyas-to-kick-off-from-feb-7-in-bikaner/articleshow/80657569.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||‘Jaisalmer, Barmer men in Pakistani jails’||JAISALMER: The Thar Jagrook Manch has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his help in getting residents of Barmer and Jaisalmer released from Pakistani jails. Manch convener Dr Bhuvnesh Jain in the letter said that efforts should be made to get back one Gemra Ram, who three months ago, crossed over the fence and entered Pakistan. He was caught and put in a jail in Sindh. Many Indian citizens from Barmer and Jaisalmer who accidentally cross the international border while grazing their cattle are languishing in Pakistani jails for more than 30 years. Efforts have been made for their release but so far there has been no luck. Jain, in his letter added that with the organisation’s help six people have returned, however, four persons from Barmer and Jaisalmer are lodged in jails across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-barmer-men-in-pak-jails/articleshow/80657624.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||4 accused get bail in Santa Cruz shootout case||PANAJI: A sessions court has granted conditional bail to four accused arrested in the shootout case at Santa Cruz, last year. Their counsels submitted to the court that the accused have been in judicial custody for more than six months. The court granted bail stating that the investigation is complete and the prime conspirator has also been released. The four accused were Miguel alias Major Araujo,19, David Araujo, 23, Francis alias Franky Nadar, 23 – all residents of Santa Cruz, and Samuel D’Souza, a 20-yr-old resident of St Inez. “No purpose will be served in keeping the accused behind bars. There are 88 witnesses to be examined. If accused are found guilty, they have to undergo sentences,” the court stated. “In this crime, 11 accused are released and the main accused Zenito Cardozo is also released on parity ground. The accused are entitled for bail. The chargesheet is filed and investigation is over,” the court held. The prosecution stated that three of these accused were seen on CCTV camera footage. Initially, 24 persons were arrested, but the chargesheet was filed against only 15 persons. The prosecution stated that the complainant Imran Bepari was operating a gang called Boom Boom and yet another gang named Black Panther was operated by Ronny D’Souza.The accused were arrested on June 20 last year after a gang trespassed into the house of Bepari and fired gunshots at him resulting in the death of Sonu Yadav. TOI had reported that the shootout was a fallout of rivalry between the two gangs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-accused-get-bail-in-santa-cruz-shootout-case/articleshow/80656425.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jodhpur||Cess on palm oil to help mustard farmers in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With taxes on import of palm oil set to go up as per the Budget proposals, mustard oil is poised to get a competitive edge. The price of mustard, which has already shot up by about 40-50% in the past 5-6 months, is expected to go up further fetching better price for farmers. A leading agri commodities organisation in the state on Tuesday said because of the cess imposed on imports, the tax incidence on imports has gone up from 30.25% to 35.75% and this is likely to have an upward impact on prices of mustard oil as well. “This will help farmers get better price for their produce even though prices of mustard oil will go up pinching the pockets of consumers. Secondly, the state’s farmers will benefit as palm oil becomes costlier and demand shifts to mustard oil,” said Babulal Gupta, president of Rajasthan Khadya Padarth Vyapar Sangh. While India is the world’s biggest importer of vegetable oils, Rajasthan produces more than half of the mustard in the country. Gupta said the state will have better mustard crop this year and the produce has already started coming to mandis. “Hope, the produce fetches better price for farmers,” added Gupta. The finance minister has reduced basic custom duty on palm oil from 27.5% to 15%, she has imposed Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess of 17.5% on the commodity taking the effective tax to 37.5% from 30.25%, as per Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cess-on-palm-oil-to-help-mustard-farmers-in-state/articleshow/80661575.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Udaipur||Cess on palm oil to help mustard farmers in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With taxes on import of palm oil set to go up as per the Budget proposals, mustard oil is poised to get a competitive edge. The price of mustard, which has already shot up by about 40-50% in the past 5-6 months, is expected to go up further fetching better price for farmers. A leading agri commodities organisation in the state on Tuesday said because of the cess imposed on imports, the tax incidence on imports has gone up from 30.25% to 35.75% and this is likely to have an upward impact on prices of mustard oil as well. “This will help farmers get better price for their produce even though prices of mustard oil will go up pinching the pockets of consumers. Secondly, the state’s farmers will benefit as palm oil becomes costlier and demand shifts to mustard oil,” said Babulal Gupta, president of Rajasthan Khadya Padarth Vyapar Sangh. While India is the world’s biggest importer of vegetable oils, Rajasthan produces more than half of the mustard in the country. Gupta said the state will have better mustard crop this year and the produce has already started coming to mandis. “Hope, the produce fetches better price for farmers,” added Gupta. The finance minister has reduced basic custom duty on palm oil from 27.5% to 15%, she has imposed Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess of 17.5% on the commodity taking the effective tax to 37.5% from 30.25%, as per Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cess-on-palm-oil-to-help-mustard-farmers-in-state/articleshow/80661574.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Goa||Dy collector orders FIR for violations at Bodgeshwar zatra||SALIGAO: Bardez deputy collector has ordered the mamlatdar to initiate action after stalls erected as part of the fair for the famous Bodgeshwar zatra in Mapusa were seen exceeding the permitted numbers. The deputy collector has ordered that an FIR be filed against the violations with the Mapusa police station. The number of stalls permitted were limited to 75 as part of the pandemic-related restrictions. In the run-up to the zatra, an inspection was carried out by chief officer of Mapusa municipal council Kabir Shirgaonkar, in the presence of Shree Dev Bodgeshwar temple committee president Anand Bhaidkar and other officials. It was decided that only 75 stalls would be permitted and that stall owners would maintain a gap of around 10 m between stalls. However, it has come to light that there were more than the permitted number of stalls, and some were not maintaining the required distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dy-collector-orders-fir-for-violations-at-bodgeshwar-zatra/articleshow/80656412.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Cess on palm oil to help mustard farmers in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With taxes on import of palm oil set to go up as per the Budget proposals, mustard oil is poised to get a competitive edge. The price of mustard, which has already shot up by about 40-50% in the past 5-6 months, is expected to go up further fetching better price for farmers. A leading agri commodities organisation in the state on Tuesday said because of the cess imposed on imports, the tax incidence on imports has gone up from 30.25% to 35.75% and this is likely to have an upward impact on prices of mustard oil as well. “This will help farmers get better price for their produce even though prices of mustard oil will go up pinching the pockets of consumers. Secondly, the state’s farmers will benefit as palm oil becomes costlier and demand shifts to mustard oil,” said Babulal Gupta, president of Rajasthan Khadya Padarth Vyapar Sangh. While India is the world’s biggest importer of vegetable oils, Rajasthan produces more than half of the mustard in the country. Gupta said the state will have better mustard crop this year and the produce has already started coming to mandis. “Hope, the produce fetches better price for farmers,” added Gupta. The finance minister has reduced basic custom duty on palm oil from 27.5% to 15%, she has imposed Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess of 17.5% on the commodity taking the effective tax to 37.5% from 30.25%, as per Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cess-on-palm-oil-to-help-mustard-farmers-in-state/articleshow/80657599.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||AEFI cases more in Covid recovered patients than non-infected: Experts||Nagpur: Cases of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) are reportedly higher in health care workers who have recovered from Covid-19 compared to those never infected with the disease. Also, AEFI cases are much more than the official number of 84 in the city, if experts are to be believed. Some 6,820 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc working in the hospitals run by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), central, state government and private institutions have taken the jab in 11 days of vaccination programme between January 16 and February 1 in the city. As per NMC’s data, 84 cases of minor AEFI were registered in the city in these 11 days, just 1.23% of the total. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Atleast five-six of 10 vaccination beneficiaries, who had tested positive for novel coronavirus and recovered in the past, have developed minor AEFI. High fever is common in these beneficiaries followed by body ache etc. It is not limited to the city but proved world wide that recovered patients may develop minor AEFI.” Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) Dr Anup Marar also said recovered patients who had mild or severe symptoms during infection are getting fever and other AEFI, which are commonly seen in any vaccination programme. “AEFI is very less in health care workers who had not tested positive in the past.” Dr Shinde said, “Recovered patients are possessing antibodies. Therefore, vaccine boosts the immune system in them from fifth day, causing fever and other AEFI. In case of non-infected beneficiaries, immune system begins to be boosted from 9-12 days.” Dr Marar and Dr Shinde added, “Considering this experience, the health care workers who were not infected in the past are likely to witness minor AEFI when they will take second dose. There is nothing to worry. We are talking about this just to make them aware. Fever and other AEFI are easily treated by a paracetamol tablet, going away within a day,” they said. Dr Shinde also said, “The government should study this aspect and avoid giving booster dose to recovered Covid-19 patients. Recovered patients are likely to develop sufficient antibodies in first dose itself. It can save doses and help needy persons. Therefore, antibody test of recovered patients should be conducted before vaccination.” NMC medical officer of health Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “The 84 AEFI cases registered in the city were minor. AEFI nodal officers have been appointed at all centres who contact beneficiaries and inquire about their health. Vaccination is going on at all hospitals which can deal properly in case of AEFI cases. GMCH and IGGMCH have been appointed to tackle AEFI cases if required.” All AEFI cases registered in the city had been administered Covishield. A senior professor from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said zero AEFI cases were registered at two centres situated in the hospital. GMCH is the only centre in six districts of Nagpur division for Covaxin. After resumption of vaccination on Monday, there was no vaccination on Tuesday for conducting regular immunization of children in 11 districts of Vidarbha. In Nagpur Rural, Lata Mangeshkar and Shalinitai Meghe Hospitals continued vaccination where 171 health care workers took the jab. An official from Zilla Parishad said the government has allowed vaccination as per convenience of the centre and beneficiaries. “Vaccination was continued at these two hospitals with a motive to complete first dose of all registered staff before government deadline of February 14,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aefi-cases-more-in-covid-recovered-patients-than-non-infected-experts/articleshow/80656417.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||‘Union Budget focused on poll-bound states’||Congress national treasurer Pawan Bansal on Tuesday attacked the Centre saying the Budget presented by Union finance minister on Monday focused only on the states going to polls and has left people disappointed. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the former railways minister alleged that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had failed to deliver and people have started realising it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/union-budget-focused-on-poll-bound-states/articleshow/80657581.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||Chandor villagers halt Railways’ work yet again||Margao: Residents of Chandor and Guirdolim confronted Railway officials once again on Tuesday over the issue of filling of the river and alleged encroachment by the Railways into private properties. Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias asked the Railway officials to stop all ongoing works in the village until the property of the Railways is properly demarcated by the state revenue department. Officials of the water resources department (WRD) also conducted an inspection of the filling of the water body in the vicinity of the site of the ongoing double-tracking work. Dias said he has directed WRD officials to send a show-cause notice to the Railways and to take appropriate action in case of any violations. Villagers said that they will soon be approaching the collector with their complaints. “The Railways has been doing all sorts of illegal works—hill-cutting, filling of low-lying lands and water bodies—with impunity and without taking any statutory permissions. They have destroyed bunds and sluice gates,” former Guirdolim sarpanch Agostine Antao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chandor-villagers-halt-railways-work-yet-again/articleshow/80656420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Ajmer||Cess on palm oil to help mustard farmers in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With taxes on import of palm oil set to go up as per the Budget proposals, mustard oil is poised to get a competitive edge. The price of mustard, which has already shot up by about 40-50% in the past 5-6 months, is expected to go up further fetching better price for farmers. A leading agri commodities organisation in the state on Tuesday said because of the cess imposed on imports, the tax incidence on imports has gone up from 30.25% to 35.75% and this is likely to have an upward impact on prices of mustard oil as well. “This will help farmers get better price for their produce even though prices of mustard oil will go up pinching the pockets of consumers. Secondly, the state’s farmers will benefit as palm oil becomes costlier and demand shifts to mustard oil,” said Babulal Gupta, president of Rajasthan Khadya Padarth Vyapar Sangh. While India is the world’s biggest importer of vegetable oils, Rajasthan produces more than half of the mustard in the country. Gupta said the state will have better mustard crop this year and the produce has already started coming to mandis. “Hope, the produce fetches better price for farmers,” added Gupta. The finance minister has reduced basic custom duty on palm oil from 27.5% to 15%, she has imposed Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess of 17.5% on the commodity taking the effective tax to 37.5% from 30.25%, as per Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cess-on-palm-oil-to-help-mustard-farmers-in-state/articleshow/80661576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||Sanitizer case: Three contractual employees terminated||YAVATMAL: The three contractual employees responsible for negligence while implementing the national polio drops programme on Jan 31 in village Kapsi (Kopri) under Bhambora PHC sub centre in Ghatanji tehsil of Yavatmal district were terminated on Tuesday. According to chief executive officer Dr Shreekrishna Panchal of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad, community health officer Dr Amol Gawande, who is a BAMS doctor, Asha worker Sangeeta Masram and Anganwadi Sevika Savita Pusnake were found guilty by district health officer Dr Hari Pawar who submitted a preliminary report. “I have ordered a thorough inquiry into the episode and on receiving the final report, action will be taken against the medical officers under whose jurisdiction the lapses occurred,” said Panchal. Medical officers, Dr Mahesh Manwar and Dr Bhushan Masram, claimed to have trained the terminated employees from January 15 onwards as the event was a national programme. ZP president Kalintha Pawar and the health committee chairman Shreedhar Mohod visited the GMC paediatric ward on Tuesday and enquired about the health status of the 12 kids. Mohod has not ruled out filing of an FIR against the guilty. He added that appropriate steps would be taken after the final inquiry report is submitted. “Though the children are fine, they are under observation,” said GMC superintendent Dr Surendra Bhuyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanitizer-case-3-contractual-employees-terminated/articleshow/80659169.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||Nearly 50% of econ fraud cases closed||Panaji: The Economic Offence Cell (EOC), since its inception in 1998, has closed nearly 50% of its cases due to lack of evidence. Of the 170 cases registered by the cell, only 50 have been chargesheeted, while 11 have been transferred to the central bureau of investigation (CBI). Goa Police said that as of now convictions have been made in only two cases and acquittal in one. The cell investigates cases of property and financial fraud and cheating among others, with most offences pertaining to financial fraud. Many cases at the EOC are registered as unknown cases. A senior officer said that they have to close the cases because in most cases they are not able to collect evidence as the fraud has been perpetrated via electronic transaction and often even because the accused is non-traceable. In the recently concluded winter session of the Goa legislative assembly, MLAs raised the issue of various banking frauds in the state. Ponda MLA Ravi Naik pointed out how financial institutes are cheating Goans and fleeing the state. He said that the bait offered by such institutions is the assurance of doubling money in a short span. Cooperative minister Govind Gaude said that he would initiate an inquiry into such financial institutes. He assured the House of amending the Goa Cooperative Societies Act to stop financial fraud by cooperative credit societies and give more power to the registrar of cooperative societies to act in such matters. Chief minister Pramod Sawant appealed to the people of the state to check the credibility of the cooperative credit society before depositing their money with it. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco recently said that there is fear and anxiety in the minds of shareholders and depositors of various cooperative credit societies in the state over the alleged recent Rs 39 crore scam reported in the Visionaries Urban Cooperative Credit Society Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nearly-50-of-econ-fraud-cases-closed/articleshow/80656427.cms||Murari Shetye
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccination of front line workers to begin tomorrow||NAGPUR: Covid-19 vaccination of front line workers is likely to commence in the district from Thursday. The state government has reportedly allowed vaccination of front line workers from only one centre in the entire district. Sources from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI, “Centre will be finalized on Wednesday. We have identified five new centres for vaccination of front line workers. One will be hospital of police department and remaining four are NMC-run hospitals. Government is likely to increase the number of centres after launching from one centre,” sources said. For health care workers, 17 centres are in operation in the city. Employees of NMC, revenue department and all agencies falling under ministry of home affairs are eligible in front line. As reported by TOI on Tuesday, 68,736 front line workers have registered in six districts of Nagpur division. Highest registration of 35,542 is from Nagpur district. The number is likely to increase with registration continued and government permitted employees of Panchayat Institutions working in the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccination-of-front-line-workers-to-begin-tomorrow/articleshow/80656429.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid-19 fatalities in single digits for tenth day||MUMBAI: The state on Tuesday added 1,927 Covid cases, the lowest in eight days, taking its tally to 20,30,274. Also, 30 deaths took its toll to 51,139. For the second day in a row, Mumbai reported less than 400 cases. On Tuesday, 334 new cases were added to the city’s tally, pushing it to 3,09,637. Deaths remained in the single digits for the tenth day. Seven fatalities on Tuesday took the city’s toll to 11,368. Of the seven deaths, six patients had comorbidities, and all were above 60 years. Officials from civic wards admitted that testing has dropped in some pockets. “It drops significantly during the weekend, but starts picking up midweek,” said a ward official. The city has been clocking 13,000-15,000 tests every day. Overall, 28 lakh Covid-19 tests have been carried out in the city since February last year. Active cases in the state dropped to 41,586, of which 5,530 cases were in Mumbai. On Tuesday, a total of 4,011 people were discharged in the state, taking its total Covid-19 recoveries to over 19.3 lakh, with the rate of recovery touching 95.4%. In Mumbai, 455 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the number of recovered patients to 2.91 lakh. The city’s recovery rate now stands at 94%. Across the state, only 2,121 people are in institutional quarantine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-covid-19-fatalities-in-single-digits-for-tenth-day/articleshow/80657613.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Graduate girls to get Rs 50,000, Inter pass Rs 25,000 now||PATNA: The state government has increased the scholarship amount for unmarried Intermediate examination pass and graduate girls to Rs25,000 and Rs50,000, respectively under Mukhyamantri Kanya Utthan Yojana from fiscal year 2021-22. Earlier, it was Rs10,000 for girls passing Intermediate examination and Rs25,000 for them on getting graduation or equivalent degree. The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the education department’s proposal in this regard. The scheme is aimed at preventing child marriages and promoting girls for higher education. It is likely to benefit around 1.6 crore girls in the state. The cabinet also approved immediate release of Rs34 crore from Bihar Contingency Fund to pay incentives and allowances to 33,666 students from minority community under Mukhyamantri Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana. The government has also decided to give weightage to contractual employees in appointment in different departments. Also, they will continue to render their services till 60 years of age. The cabinet cleared the home department’s proposal to bring out certain changes in the written test for constable recruitment. Yet another home department’s proposal to bring about certain amendments to the Bihar Police Radio (wireless) and Technical Service Rule, 2021 was approved at the meeting. In a bid to revive the sugar mills in the state, the cabinet decided to reduce the zonal development commission from 1.80% to 0.20% payable by the mills to the state on the purchase of sugar cane. It was also decided that the environment, forest and climate change department will maintain and develop the parks under urban local bodies. The proposal for creation of 208 academic and administrative posts at the Kishanganj Veterinary College and Hospital was also approved. The cabinet confirmed the termination of services of six doctors for their unauthorized absence from duty for a long time. They are Dr Jyoti Sultania (Balia, Begusarai), Dr Md Moshabbir Hayat Askari (Sheikhpura), Dr Ramchandra Prasad (Halsi, Lakhisarai), Dr Indu Jyoti (Rohtas), Dr Sangeeta Pankaj (Phulwaria, Gopalganj) and Dr Sunil Kumar Pathak (Sahepur Kamal, Begusarai). Meanwhile, former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi welcomed the state cabinet decision to increase the financial assistance amount to unmarried girls for higher education. “The HAM(S) had promised before the assembly elections that if voted to power, the government will provide Rs25,000 to girls after passing out Intermediate exam and Rs50,000 after graduation,” he tweeted. Manjhi, whose son is a minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, congratulated CM Nitish for the decision that will benefits the fair sex. HAM(S) led by Manjhi is an ally of the ruling NDA comprising JD(U), BJP and VIP in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/graduate-girls-to-get-rs50k-inter-pass-rs25000-in-state/articleshow/80661546.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Hospitality industry raises toast to new excise policy||Ludhiana: The hospitality industry is upbeat over the new state excise policy that was finalised by the Punjab cabinet on Monday. According to businessmen, the initiative to slash liquor licence and assessed fees for hotels, bars and marriage palaces will support the industry, as it will not only cut down their expenditure on serving alcohol, but also allow them to reduce their rates, thereby attracting more customers.Amarvir Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Punjab, said, “The Punjab government has decided to reduce annual fixed licence fee for bars in hotels and restaurants by around 30% and fee on consumption of liquor (assessed fee) has also been cut. The annual licence fee for marriage palaces has been reduced by 20%. These steps will help in supporting the pandemic-hit hospitality sector. We are grateful to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, finance minister Manpreet Badal and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for accepting long-pending demands of our industry.”Claiming that the policy has covered the concerns of all sectors, including retail, wholesale and liquor manufacturing, Singh said, “All the initiatives combined together, will lead to lowering of liquor rates. But how much we cannot say now.”Paramjit Singh Budhiraja, chief patron of the association, saw a ray of hope. “Last year went in losses and several businessmen had made up their mind to surrender their liquor licences. But these reductions will prove to be a gamechanger. Now more bar, hotel and marriage palace owners will come forward to apply for licences as cost of operation will be significantly low,” he said.Amarjit Singh, a city hotelier, is looking forward to a brisk business. He said, “We had been pursuing the issue of high liquor licence fee and also held a meeting with the financial commissioner, excise and taxation, and other officers. During the meeting, we gave them a presentation on the losses being faced by us and demanded reduction in the licence fees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hospitality-industry-raises-toast-to-new-excise-policy/articleshow/80655351.cms||Mohit Behl
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Indo-Pak war victory flame reaches Dausa||JAIPUR: The victory flame commemorating the 1971 Indo-Pak war reached Dausa on Tuesday where the veterans will again be felicitated. It had previously been taken to Alwar, Hisar, Bharatpur, Jaipur and Sikar. On Tuesday it reached Dausa where one-mile run was organised along with poem narrations by college students. Prior to this in Sikar, wife of Late Ris Prithi Singh VrC (Vir Chakra) as well as wife of Late Banne Singh (VrC) were felicitated. From Dausa, the victory flame will continue to Karauli. Previously in Jaipur, Army Commander, South Western Army Command, Lt Gen Alok Kler felicitated wife of Col Late Hoshiyar Singh, PVC (Param Vir Chakra) and Sawai Padmanabh Singh on behalf of Late Brig Bhawani Singh, MVC (Maha Vir Chakra). To commemorate 50 years of victory in the 1971 war, year 2021 is being celebrated as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. Prime Minister Narendra Modi lit four ‘Victory Flames’ at the National War Memorial on December 16, 2020 and set them out in all four cardinal directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indo-pak-war-victory-flame-reaches-dausa/articleshow/80657628.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||Incomplete, shoddy ring road work irks citizens||Nagpur: For Amar Meshram, a resident of locality off inner ring road, using the road is akin to off-roading. The road surface is uneven due to incomplete and open storm water drain work at many places on the 7-km stretch from Chhatrapati Square to Hingna T-Point. Recently, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, former chief minister and MLA Devendra Fadnavis, BJP city president Pravin Datke, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, former mayor and ex-MLC Anil Sole, among others, ‘inaugurated’ the newly concretized road effectively adding insult to the injury of motorists who claimed many patches that were repaired have again come off. TOI on Tuesday travelled on the Chhatrapati Square to Hingna T-point stretch and found the newly laid road uneven, many patches having cracks, open storm water drains and incomplete works posing threat to motorists. Near the busy Chhatrapati Square, TOI spotted broken stormwater drain posing a threat to pedestrians. At Raje Sambhaji Square, a busy junction, road was not properly laid. According to roadside shopkeepers, the uneven patch there causes many minor accidents involving two-wheelers. Shekhar Soni, a resident of the locality, expressed concern over the inferior quality work. He pointed out Gadkari was claiming that cement road last for 50 years but in reality, the road is not even good to drive now, he said. Prakash Motghare, another resident of Pratap Nagar, said, “Is public money meant to be wasted in such a way? What about accountability.” Members of NGO Janmanch had staged protests over shoddy works by the contractor. Janmanch member Rajiv Jagtap wondered how could the minister was invited to open the road despite having several flaws that were still not rectified. “If this was the new standard of quality, citizens should start thinking about their safety,” he added. MLA Vikas Thakre too said the quality of construction was very shoddy. “I would want Union minister Nitin Gadkari to conduct an inquiry as the work was executed using central road funds,” he said. TOI had reported many times about the poor quality works being carried out by RPS Infra, which was blacklisted for seven years by Mumbai civic body for same reason. A senior PWD official said the defect liability period was for three more years. “Besides part payment (of the Rs70 crore road work of the patch) to the contractor has not be released,” the official said. The defects will be rectified, he assured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/incomplete-shoddy-ring-road-work-irks-citizens/articleshow/80656474.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||37 test positive||Ludhiana: Thirty-seven residents of Ludhiana tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “On the day, 45 positive reports were received. Of them, 37 are Ludhiana residents and eight from other districts and states.” The 37 new cases include three contacts of positive patients, 12 from OPD, 16 from flu corners and six through tracing process.The district case count has reached 25,884 and the toll tally stood at 1,001. On the day, 1,625 samples were collected for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/37-test-positive/articleshow/80655356.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Schools balk at RTE registration, want Rs 1,200 crore dues||PUNE: With a nearly Rs 1,200 crore pending from state government to private schools that have admitted students under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, the outlook for the forthcoming season of admissions starting next week looks bleak. About 400 private schools in Maharashtra have decided not to register on the admissions portal until the state government makes a disbursement of the pending amount, the association of private schools has stated. Working president for Independent English Schools Association of Maharashtra, Rajendra Singh, said, “The schedule has been announced by the government, but there has been no word on the reimbursement. We have been rigorously following up with the government on this issue, but there has been no response. So, we have decided to boycott the admissions this year.” According to Singh, nearly Rs 1,200 crore is pending for reimbursement to the schools in the state since the admissions began. Singh said the schools have been bearing the cost of education of these children for many years now and it was time for the government to reimburse the amount. Singh added that the association had the support of over 400 schools that were participating in the mass boycott. The registration for schools started on January 21 and the last date with updated vacant seats under the scheme will be February 10. When contacted, Dinkar Temkar, in-charge of the RTE admissions in Maharashtra, said the schools should deal with the reimbursement issue separately and not mix it up with admissions. Leader of the Aam Aadmi Party and RTE activist, Mukund Kirdat, said the problem is at both ends, with the government and schools. “The issue was tabled in the high court two years ago by the private schools but there was no solution to it as the government promised to clear the dues and yet the problem persists. This issue needs to be solved amicably by both the parties and students should not suffer in their tussle. It will be wrong for schools to mix the issue with admissions as students will lose out," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-balk-at-rte-registration-want-rs-1200cr-dues/articleshow/80656450.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Govt school teacher contracts Covid-19||Ludhiana: A teacher of Government Primary School, Chet Singh Nagar, has tested positive for Covid-19.Block primary education officer Tripta Rani confirmed that the school teacher was down with novel coronavirus. “She came to the school on Saturday. As she was feeling unwell, she got herself tested. That day, 45 students had attended the school,” Rani added. “The school is run in two shifts, morning and evening. She was in the morning shift in which 432 students study. The school authorities have informed the education department so that further testing can be conducted,” Rani said.Over the past some days, several cases were reported from government schools in the district. These included 14 teachers and 25 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan, two teachers of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhamal, four teachers of a government school in Gidderwindi, one teacher of a government school in Mundian Kalan. The health department teams are collecting samples of their contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-school-teacher-contracts-covid-19/articleshow/80655369.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||Fire breaks out in heritage building||Vadodara: Despite repeated incidents of fire, the district administration doesn’t seem to have learnt a lesson. On Tuesday morning, another fire broke out in the heritage Kothi building which houses the district collectorate, reducing large number of documents and some wooden structure to ashes. Fire officials said that fire broke out sometime after 11.30am on the first floor of the building. Two women, who were present in the room where the fire started, got scared and rushed out. Their colleagues in the neighbouring rooms tried dousing flames with extinguisher, but fire had spread by then. As firemen from Dandiya Bazaar fire station reached, they tried salvaging some documents that had not caught fire. However, many old documents related to voters list and election were destroyed. “As the building is made of wood, the flames spread to a corner in the room beneath the office where the fire had started,” said fire officer Digvijaysinh Parmar. He added that the cause of fire is being investigated. “We called officials from Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL) and checked the wirings and switch board, but there doesn’t seem to be a short-circuit. We asked around if someone had thrown a burnt cigarette butt, but that was also not the case,” Parmar said. Later, s everal election-related activities came to a halt as electricity was turned off for some hours as a precautionary measure. In 2017, two fire incidents had put a question mark on the fire safety of the Kothi building. In May, a major fire had broken out which had completely gutted the district collector’s chamber and other rooms. Later, in October records in the civil defence office right below the collector’s chamber were gutted. Fire department had submitted an audit report after the two incidents, But considering the building’s age and several wooden partitions created over the years, fire officials had said that an advanced fire-fighting system is necessary as fire extinguishers alone cannot help. Then collector P Bharathi had also directed the roads and buildings department to conduct a thorough inquiry. Collector Shalini Agarwal was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-breaks-out-in-heritage-building/articleshow/80655416.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Salem||Couple held for forcing daughter to abort fetus||Salem: The district police arrested a couple on charges of forcing their daughter to abort her four-month-old fetus by giving her herbal medicines in Attur. According to the Attur all-woman police, M Ganesan, 28, of Muthukolathur in Ramanathapuram district, lodged a complaint on January 28 against his father-in-law S Subramani, 40. In his complaint, Ganesan said Subramani and his wife Gomathi had forcibly aborted his wife’s four-month fetus without his knowledge. During the inquiry, police learned that Subramani’s daughter Renuka Devi, 19, married Ganesan without her parent’s consent on August 20, 2020. Renuka came to her parent’s house on January 21 after she became pregnant. “The couple had given some herbal medicines to Renuka Devi and aborted the fetus,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/couple-held-for-forcing-daughter-to-abort-fetus/articleshow/80657719.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Tik-Tok fame couple take 20kVA generator to Singhu border||POWERFUL GESTURE Ludhiana: City-based YouTubers and Tik-Tok fame ‘Mr & Mrs Narula’ are taking a Rs 3-lakh worth 20kVA (kilovolt-ampere) generator to Singhu border. A resident of Jagraon, Samreet Narula, 22, and his wife Arshreet Narula, 21, on Tuesday left for Singhu border along with the generator, which has one full tank of diesel that can supply electricity for 14 hours continuously.In December last, Samreet and Arshreet had gone to Delhi to support the farmers and participated in the protest for two days. Samreet said, “I believe that farmers are the backbone of the country as they feed us. We should stand with them in these tough times. A few days ago when the electricity supply was disconnected at Singhu border, we decided to send them the generator that we use at our photo studio. Though after the outrage the electricity has been restored, we are still taking the generator in case they need it in future. It can supply power to at least 50 trolleys at one time.”Arshreet said, “This is just a small gesture from our side to support the farmers’ agitation. In future too, we will keep supporting them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tik-tok-fame-couple-take-20kva-generator-to-singhu-border/articleshow/80655385.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 3, 2021||Nagpur||With Rs 200 crore for NIOH, Nagpur set for another national institution||NAGPUR: Budget 2021 has given the long-pending approval for setting up of the national institution for one health (NIOH). The path is now clear for another national-level research institute in the city. The institute will focus on all zoonotic infections and maintain a database of all diseases, including Covid-19. While the budget speech had a one line mention about the NIOH, officials told TOI that Rs200 crore will be sanctioned for the NIOH through ICMR soon. The funds will ensure speedy construction and appointments at the NIOH. Initially, it will start off as a satellite centre for the Pune-based national institute of virology (NIV). In the next phase, it will be developed as an independent research institute of national level. “Land at Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) has already been marked for the NIOH. We were waiting for the budgetary allocation. The excavation work, which is a must for the institute, will start soon,” said Dr Nitin Kurkure of department of veterinary pathology at NVC Nagpur. Acquisition and construction of the boundary wall of the 4 Ha land is already complete. The institution will have one of the nine biosafety level III (BSL-III) laboratories sanctioned in the same budget. This advanced lab will enable the institute to conduct clinical, diagnostic, teaching, research and production facilities. All work will be performed in the bio-contained environments using appropriate engineering controls. Member of the Rajya Sabha, Dr Vikas Mahatme, said that the NIOH in Nagpur will work as a regional research platform for WHO South East Asia Region. “The importance of the NIOH was underlined during the pandemic and we have got budgetary sanction for the same. This centre will not only be a national and regional centre for epidemiological control and studies but will also come up with timely remedies and guidelines for controlling human to animals and vice versa diseases in the future,” he said. MAFSU officials said that Dr Mahatme, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis were instrumental in bringing this centre to Nagpur. The concept of One Health relates to connection between human and animal health. The centre in Nagpur will involve biological sciences, environmental impact and veterinary sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-rs-200cr-for-nioh-city-set-for-another-natl-institution/articleshow/80659217.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||NET to be held from May 2 to 17||PUNE: The National Eligibility Test (NET) for junior research fellows and assistant professors will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) from May 2 to 17. The test will have two papers and candidates can fill the online application forms from Wednesday. On Tuesday, the NTA announced it will conduct the exam on May 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 17. The two papers will be conducted in two shifts. Paper I will carry 100 marks and Paper II 200 marks and 150 questions in the MCQ format. The first session will be conducted from 9am to noon and the second from 3pm to 6pm. Candidates will get time till March 2 to apply for the exam and application fees can be paid online till March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/net-to-be-held-from-may-2-to-17/articleshow/80655388.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||School students not being tested as parents aren’t ready||Ludhiana: After one teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Mundian Kalan, was confirmed to have contracted coronavirus on Saturday, students are not being tested as their parents are not agreeing to it. The health department has collected samples of teachers who came in contact with the positive staffer. A teacher of the school said on Monday, health department teams had visited the school and collected samples of all teachers, but students could not be tested due to parents’ reluctance in giving an undertaking. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said, “We are not forcing anyone to get their tests done. Samples of only those who are willing will be collected.” The school has 1,377 students, of which 1,000 have started attending classes. The school has a staff of 32, including 28 teachers and four midday meal workers. Samples 26 teachers were taken as two were on leave. At present, all teachers are under quarantine till their reports are out. Harpreet Singh, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Gidderwindi, said, “In our school too, only few parents were willing to get their wards tested after our four teachers were reported positive. However, we approached them and made them understand that it was important for the health of their children. Convinced, they allowed testing of their children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/school-students-not-being-tested-as-parents-arent-ready/articleshow/80655408.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 76,734 students without FYJC admission prompt last round||PUNE: As many as 76,734 students did not get admissions even though there is a vacancy of 1.88 lakh seats, 34.56% of the intake, in colleges in the six divisions of Pune, Mumbai, Aurangabad, Nashik, Amravati and Nagpur after the First-year Junior College (FYJC) admissions via the centralised admission process ended on January 31. Triggered by the high number, the Centralised Admission Process committee has decided to hold another final round, officials said. This year, there were three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first-come-first-served rounds for the admissions. In Pune, 36,000 seats (34.4%) remained vacant while 16,670 students did not get admissions against an intake of over 1.07 lakh seats. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education for Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online, but did not upload the documents or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to our office seeking an extension of dates. We sought permission from the director for an additional round which has been permitted and would be announced in a day or two.” Parents have also complained about colleges seeking full fees and not giving the option of payment in instalments. “There are hardly 2-3 months remaining and yet there is no fee concession offered. In fact, some colleges are insisting on full payment at the time of admission making it difficult. The least they can do is give us the option of payment in instalments,” a parent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/76734-students-without-fyjc-admission-prompt-last-round/articleshow/80665044.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: 76,734 students without FYJC admission prompt last round||PUNE: As many as 76,734 students did not get admissions even though there is a vacancy of 1.88 lakh seats, 34.56% of the intake, in colleges in the six divisions of Pune, Mumbai, Aurangabad, Nashik, Amravati and Nagpur after the First-year Junior College (FYJC) admissions via the centralised admission process ended on January 31. Triggered by the high number, the Centralised Admission Process committee has decided to hold another final round, officials said. This year, there were three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first-come-first-served rounds for the admissions. In Pune, 36,000 seats (34.4%) remained vacant while 16,670 students did not get admissions against an intake of over 1.07 lakh seats. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education for Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online, but did not upload the documents or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to our office seeking an extension of dates. We sought permission from the director for an additional round which has been permitted and would be announced in a day or two.” Parents have also complained about colleges seeking full fees and not giving the option of payment in instalments. “There are hardly 2-3 months remaining and yet there is no fee concession offered. In fact, some colleges are insisting on full payment at the time of admission making it difficult. The least they can do is give us the option of payment in instalments,” a parent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/76734-students-without-fyjc-admission-prompt-last-round/articleshow/80665041.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||With partial efforts, police try to drive traffic rules home||Ludhiana: Under the ongoing 32nd national road safety month, the Ludhiana Police organized a drive to create awareness about zebra crossing and stop line at Bharat Nagar Chowk on Tuesday.For the campaign, the police got zebra crossings, which had faded, painted at two sides of the chowk. However, no attention was paid to the faded or missing zebra crossings at other sides of the chowk and across the city. Besides, the drive was limited to one chowk only. Cops said it was the job of the municipal corporation to paint zebra crossings.In the afternoon, Deepak Pareek, joint commissioner of police (city) who also leads the traffic police, reached Bharat Nagar Chowk along with other officials. The officials made people stop their vehicles before the stop line so that pedestrians could use zebra crossings. They ensured people followed the rules. Pareek said, “It is usually seen at traffic signals that commuters stop their vehicles on or ahead of zebra crossing, making it difficult for the pedestrians to cross the road. Therefore, the traffic police conducted the drive to make people aware about the stop line and pedestrian crosswalks.”About only two sides of the chowk painted for the drive, Pareek said, “It is the work of development agencies, like municipal corporation, to paint stop lines and zebra crossings, among others. Since the stop line and zebra crossings at Bharat Nagar Chowk had faded, we went beyond our call of duty and got those painted for the drive.” There are several chowks in the city where either zebra crossings are missing or have faded, like at Gill Road near Arora Palace, Vardhman Chowk, Durga Mata Temple Chowk, Dugri canal traffic signal, B7 chowk, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-partial-efforts-police-try-to-drive-traffic-rules-home/articleshow/80655426.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Anganwadi worker awarded||Udhagamandalam: A woman anganwadi worker from the Nilgiris has bagged the ‘Covid Women Warriors, the Real Heroes’ award conferred by the National Commission for Women (NCW) for her outstanding work during the lockdown period. During the peak period of the pandemic and lockdown, the Nilgiris administration introduced community kitchen, a first of its kind in the district, for the tribal communities and the stranded guest workers in the Nilgiris. R Vennila, attached to the Pudukadu anganwadi in Coonoor block, who was also in-charge of a community kitchen operated at her anganwadi, trekked at least 15km twice a week braving the difficult path and wild animals to deliver dry ration to the vulnerable tribal communities around Pudukadu area. She further walked down to KilSingara estate to deliver dry ration and food to the Jharkhand workers in the estate. She has been playing a pivotal role in ensuring nutri-food security for the Kurumba and Irula tribal communities in Pudukadu by supporting the community kitchen initiative from July till now, an official from the social welfare department said. On January 31, Vennila was bestowed with 'Covid Women Warriors, the Real Heroes' award by minister of state for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria at a function held in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/anganwadi-worker-awarded/articleshow/80657763.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Journo held for assault on cops granted bail in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It’s a well-settled legal principle of law that bail is a rule and jail is an exception. This was stated by a city court on Tuesday while granting bail to journalist Mandeep Punia, who was arrested on charges of assault on policemen and obstruction during the farmers’ protests at Singhu border. Chief metropolitan magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba, in the bail order, highlighted that the alleged scuffle between Punia and the policemen took place around 6.30pm. “However, the FIR was registered at 1.21am the next day. Moreover, the complainant, victims and witnesses were police personnel only. Hence, there is no possibility that the accused/applicant can influence any of the police officers,” added the judge. The court added that Punia was a freelance journalist and no recovery had to be made from him. “Keeping the accused further in judicial custody will not serve any cogent purpose,” it added. Punia, through his advocates Sarim Naved and Akram Khan, had sought bail on the ground that he was carrying out his journalistic duties and not carrying a press ID was no ground for arrest. It was submitted that the offences alleged in the FIR weren’t made out against him. Bail was also sought on humanitarian grounds highlighting that Punia’s 76-year-old mother needed his assistance. The prosecution stated that Punia had pushed a cop and on inquiry he had concealed his identity and tried to mislead police. It was also alleged that Punia had instigated the protesters with sloganeering and shouting. The bail plea was opposed by police stating that he may create “active or passive” nuisance if released. While allowing bail on a bond of Rs 25,000 and one surety, the court directed Punia not to jump bail and attend court regularly. “The accused shall not indulge in a similar offence or any other offence. He shall not tamper with the evidence and shall provide his mobile number to the officials concerned,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/journo-held-for-assault-on-cops-granted-bail/articleshow/80657681.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: 76,734 students without FYJC admission prompt last round||PUNE: As many as 76,734 students did not get admissions even though there is a vacancy of 1.88 lakh seats, 34.56% of the intake, in colleges in the six divisions of Pune, Mumbai, Aurangabad, Nashik, Amravati and Nagpur after the First-year Junior College (FYJC) admissions via the centralised admission process ended on January 31. Triggered by the high number, the Centralised Admission Process committee has decided to hold another final round, officials said. This year, there were three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first-come-first-served rounds for the admissions. In Pune, 36,000 seats (34.4%) remained vacant while 16,670 students did not get admissions against an intake of over 1.07 lakh seats. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education for Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online, but did not upload the documents or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to our office seeking an extension of dates. We sought permission from the director for an additional round which has been permitted and would be announced in a day or two.” Parents have also complained about colleges seeking full fees and not giving the option of payment in instalments. “There are hardly 2-3 months remaining and yet there is no fee concession offered. In fact, some colleges are insisting on full payment at the time of admission making it difficult. The least they can do is give us the option of payment in instalments,” a parent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/76734-students-without-fyjc-admission-prompt-last-round/articleshow/80656481.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Coastal Road sea link will destroy Carter Road, say locals||MUMBAI: The landing arms of the proposed Versova-Bandra Sea Link (VBSL) outside Otters Club on Carter Road will eat into the iconic sea-facing promenade and hamper pedestrian movement, local residents have told the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). They also say that the agency has planned a roundabout on Carter Road across Railway Colony, which too will eat into the promenade and create hurdles for pedestrians. Locals fear that the landing of VBSL’s main connector outside Otters Club will turn the entire sea-facing road into a traffic nightmare. In a letter to urban development and public works minister Eknath Shinde, local Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said, “Concerns have been raised by citizens on the uninterrupted accessibility and usage of the Carter Road promenade. The VBSL entry point is right next to Otters Club, which is also the starting point of the promenade… No details have been given to us about the level of the entry/exit point, whether it will be on pillars or on an embankment…” Zakaria said, “Pedestrians will have to wait endlessly at the crossing near the entry/exit point and this will hamper the movement of senior citizens and children. The use of the promenade will reduce. A roundabout is also proposed further on Carter Road. For this, the entire promenade will be consumed and Carter Road will be cut into two parts, thus depriving seamless access to pedestrians.” Vivek Sundara, trustee, Bandra West Residents Association (BWRA), said, “The entry/exit points will create a big hurdle for pedestrians. All walkers will be hit. Walkers use Carter Road from this point till the end. Apart from locals, citizens from all over Mumbai come here. VBSL must be pedestrian-friendly.” Locals have sought a joint site visit by MSRDC and BMC officials, asking MSRDC to hold a public hearing to take suggestions from local citizen groups. Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director, MSRDC, said, “We will ensure that no inconvenience is caused to pedestrians in any way. They will have seamless access. In fact, we are working to enhance their walking experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coastal-road-sea-link-will-destroy-carter-rd-locals/articleshow/80658347.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Using cartoon characters to create traffic awareness||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana traffic police have been thinking out of the box these days to create awareness about road rules. On Tuesday, the police hired artists dressed as cartoon characters, ‘Motu Patlu’ and ‘Doraemon’, to help cops spread awareness at Bharat Nagar Chowk, where they distributed pamphlets and candies. The awareness drive was conducted under the ongoing 32nd national road safety month. Joint commissioner of police Deepak Pareek said, “Our focus was to engage children in road safety. We arranged children’s favourite cartoon characters, like ‘Motu Patlu’ and ‘Doraemon’, to talk to them about road rules. They were also asked to correct their parents if they violate any rule. I believe this will leave a long-lasting impression on young minds.” “Under this drive, we targeted the visible violations, like parking on zebra crossing, not wearing a seat belt, triple riding and not wearing helmets,” added Pareek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/using-cartoon-characters-to-create-traffic-awareness/articleshow/80655438.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Can’t depend on others for defence: Union defence minister Rajnath Singh||BENGALURU: Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday that India cannot remain dependent on other countries for its defence requirements and hailed PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd as an example of Atmanirbhar Bharat. After inaugurating HAL’s second LCA-Tejas production plant here, the minister said the indigenously developed Tejas was better than its foreign equivalents on several parameters and comparatively cheaper. Under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, India is looking to increase its defence manufacturing capabilities, the minister added. ‘LCH proposal may go to panel soon’The new LCA facility is an example of how ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ is shaping up and HAL deserves the largest indigenous order of 83 LCA Mk-IA. LCA is the pride of India and sends the right message to others that India can make fighters of class inhouse,” Singh said. HAL said it’s confident of bagging orders for 15 limited-series production aircraft of Light Combat Helicopter. HAL is set to sign the contract for 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas Mark-1A aircraft on Wednesday. Besides, the request for HTT-40 trainer aircraft quotation is under consideration. HAL chairman and managing director R Madhavan said the proposal for LCH procurement is expected to go to the Cabinet Committee on Security soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rajnath-cant-depend-on-others-for-defence/articleshow/80660011.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC to mediate in row over rates for Covid-19 patients||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday agreed to resolve the dispute between private hospitals and the state government regarding beds reserved for Covid-19 patients after the latter said it could remove reservation, but these hospitals would still have to charge 50% patients at government-fixed rates. State’s advocate Jyoti Chavan told a bench of justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi that at a meeting on January 29, it was proposed to denotify the reservation subject to the collector or municipal commissioner of an area taking an overall view of beds available in government hospitals and the number of Covid patients. “If the patients are less and if beds in government hospitals are available, then they will denotify reservation in private hospitals,” said Chavan. She then informed that treatment costs would stay, but patients would be charged at reduced rates. The earlier ratio fixed was 80:20, where 80% Covid patients would be charged for treatment as per the price fixed by the government and 20% as per hospital rack rates. The state government has now proposed 50:50 ratio, said Chavan. The court heard a clutch of petitions by doctor-owners of hospitals in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel who are aggrieved by the “arbitrary fixation” of treatment rates by notifications since the lockdown began. On January 25, the HC asked the state if it would consider reducing reservation of beds after the Indian Medical Association said the Covid situation has improved in Mumbai and cases are on the decline. Senior advocate S U Kamdar for IMA questioned why the state should hold on to the pricing. “If reservation goes, everything will go,” he said, adding that the state is not compensating private hospitals. The judges also wondered how a hospital would decide which patient to treat at 50% rate and which at rack rate. “If there are two Covid patients, how will you decide?” asked Justice Kathawalla. Chavan said the state is not taking an adversarial stand and urged the judges to intervene and resolve the issue by hold a meeting in chambers with the CEO (health) Dr Sudhakar Shinde and the parties. The judges agreed and fixed the meeting on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-mediate-in-row-over-rates-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/80657752.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||‘Studied under street light to save electricity bill’||Vadodara: As a child, Ronak Agrawal saw his house on New VIP Road getting demolished. His family had to make overnight arrangements for shelter. Despite going through such difficulties, 22-year-old Ronak remained determined to keep studying and help his family come out of financial troubles. On Monday, Agrawal became a chartered accountant, the first in his family, by securing third position in the city. “I had to go to my aunt’s place to study as our house and provision store are in the same premises,” Agrawal said. In the night, he used to sit under a nearby street light for studying so that electricity bill does not get escalated. Agrawal plans of taking up a job in an auditing firm. Agrawal was among the 44 students from Vadodara city who became CAs as the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) declared results of final examination on Monday. The exam was held in November last year. Of the 44, 21 cleared examinations of groups 1 and 2 in old and new syllabus of CA final while the remaining 23 students cleared their pending group examinations to become CAs. As many as 349 students had taken the offline exam which was held after a one-year gap due to the pandemic. Sheel Patel, who cleared both groups in the first attempt, secured All India Rankings (AIR) of 48 and has topped in the city. Son of a businessman father and a homemaker mother, Patel plans to pursue further studies abroad and then take up a job. “It was already a stressful year due to the pandemic and although we got more time for preparation due to prolonging of exam, we had to continue revising what we had studied,” Patel said. Another city ranker Fahad Kagdi, who gave up his dream of becoming an aeronautical engineer to become CA, said that he took up the professional course as there are better prospects of being a CA. His father works in a private dairy while his mother is a homemaker. Kagdi is ranked second in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/studied-under-street-light-to-save-electricity-bill/articleshow/80655450.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Budget for affordable housing raises hope||PUNE: The Centre’s announcement of extending the tax exemption on affordable housing by another year might boost the demand for properties under the scheme in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, the civic officials said. The houses built by the PMC under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) for economically weaker families have, so far, failed to find many takers. The civic administration has built as many as 2,918 apartments at three locations in the city — Hadapsar, Kharadi and Vadgaon Khurd — under the affordable housing vertical. Of these, 1,500 flats are available on first-come, first-serve basis. In October 2020, the PMC announced 3,000 beneficiaries by drawing a lottery. Another 3,000 hopefuls were put in the waiting list. “So far, around 1,400 flats have been booked, of which around 1,200 were taken by those selected through lottery,” senior official of the PMC’s permission department Rajendra Raut said. “The extension to affordable housing benefits in the Union Budget has given a breather to the beneficiaries who will now have more time to raise the funds,” a PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/budget-for-affordable-housing-raises-hope/articleshow/80656490.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 3, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Devotees throng temple as Shivalinga ‘opens eyes’||By Basavaraj MeeshiBELAGAVI: Thousands of devotees thronged a Shiva temple in Gokak on Monday after word spread of the idol opening its eyes — for only the second time in 17 years. The “event”, the priest and devotees said, signals the end of coronavirus, just as the last time, it had put an end to the scourge of dengue in the state. The priest of the Shankaralinga temple said he got the miraculous darshan on Monday — a day after Ganesha Sankashti was observed. He said he had opened the doors of the sanctum in the morning for the daily rituals when he saw the eyes of the shivalinga wide open. “I was both perplexed and happy to see Shiva in that state,” said Satappa Pujari. He immediately alerted residents to witness the miracle and they started to trickle in at first, followed by huge crowds. Gimmick to increase revenue: RationalistThrough the day, word spread and devotees came in from all over the district. Some devotees even claimed to have seen the retina on the idol when asked if they saw the eyes open. Rationalist Ravindhranath Shanbhag said the mass hysteria is similar to that witnessed during the ‘Ganesha drinking milk’ craze of 1995. “To tide over the revenue losses caused by the pandemic, the temple authorities have come up with this gimmick. This is against science and nature.” Dismissing sceptics, Satappa said, “Shiva opened his eyes in 2004 as well when dengue was at its peak. After the lord opened his eyes, the dengue outbreak subsided across the state. This time, god has indicated that Covid will end across India.” “This goes to show the presence of Shiva all around us and that he will intervene during bad times. I strongly feel Covid will end soon,” said Rajeshwari Bhooti, a devotee who queued up for a glimpse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/devotees-throng-temple-as-shivalinga-opens-eyes/articleshow/80660019.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No-trust motion against council chief accepted||BENGALURU: The BJP on Tuesday made a second bid to oust Prathap Chandra Shetty of the Congress from the post of legislative council chairman, and its no-confidence motion has been accepted. During council proceedings, the Congress and BJP were locked in a fierce tussle over when the motion should be taken up for debate and voting — rules stipulate a five-day window from the day the motion is accepted. The session is scheduled to end on February 5, and the government may extend the session by two days to take up the no-trust motion. Motion will be taken up within five days: ShettyAn earlier attempt by the BJP to remove Shetty from the post ran aground during a one-day session on December 15 that ended in ugly scenes and scuffle. Sources said the chief minister had planned to hold an emergency meeting on Tuesday evening to fix the calendar of events for the chairman’s election as the BJP was expecting Shetty to throw in the towel before facing the motion. While the Congress lacks the numbers in the upper house, JD(S) has backed the BJP in this move. With Shetty biding time, the government did not go ahead with its move to hold an emergency cabinet meeting. In the council, BJP’s Ayanur Manjunath urged the chair to announce the date for discussing the no-trust motion. He told the chairperson: “Since the session is set to conclude on February 5 and if you decide to take it on the fifth day, then it will be February 6. By then, the session will be over.” Shetty said no member can fix the time and date for the chair to take up any issue. “Maybe you are in a hurry. As per laws, the motion will be taken up within five days and the same will be notified in the agenda,” Shetty said. This led to a war of words between Congress and BJP members. Law and parliamentary affairs minister Basavaraj Bommai asked Shetty what will happen if the session ends before taking up the motion. Shetty reiterated that the motion will be taken up as per the law. Bommai ended the debate, saying he would leave it to Shetty’s discretion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-trust-motion-against-council-chief-accepted/articleshow/80660021.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||AP sets up body to raise funds for medical colleges||AMARAVATI: In order to expedite the setting up of eight government medical colleges in the state, the government has constituted the Andhra Pradesh Medical Education Research Corporation. The newly constituted corporation will raise funds for upcoming medical colleges in the state. The government floated the new corporation to rope in financial institutions, including banks, to extend loans for medical colleges. The APMERC board will comprise eight senior officials headed by special chief secretary, health. Deputy chief minister (health and family welfare) Alla Nani said the government has set its focus on the healthcare sector and construction of new medical colleges, along with teaching hospitals, for providing better healthcare facilities. Speaking to the media in the secretariat on Tuesday, Nani said the government is contemplating signing an MoU with top-level research institutes in the country to take up investigation into the mystery disease in Eluru in West Godavari. “Experts from several top research institutions have already carried out an in-depth study into the case and found that high level lead content in the food is a possible reason for the sudden illness among the locals. We need further studies to determine the exact reason,” said Nani. The minister, however, assured that the government has started taking measures to provide safe drinking water in all villages and towns in East and West Godavari districts keeping in view of the frequent incidents of mysterious illnesses. The minister said one of the reasons the state could achieve around 48 per cent of the Covid-19 vaccination target was the sudden announcement of elections to gram panchayats. He said about 3.88 lakh healthcare professionals had been identified for vaccination in the first fortnight of the programme, of which only 1.89 lakh people could get the dose. “Minor apprehensions among healthcare professionals about efficacy and side-effects of the vaccine are also a reason. We are unable to focus on the issue due to the local body elections,” said Nani. He said the government would take care of the health needs of those took the vaccine in case of adverse affects. Principal secretary, health, Anil Kumar Singhal said that expert committees on the Eluru incident had found the presence of high volumes of lead in food consumed by locals to be one of the reasons for the spread of the mysterious illness in the region. Singhal said that they have directed the district administration to monitor whether farmers are using banned pesticides and herbicides. The water resources department has also been asked to test river water before releasing it for drinking water schemes, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-sets-up-body-to-raise-funds-for-med-colleges/articleshow/80655469.cms||Samdani MN
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||15-day police remand for Aslam Bodiyo||Vadodara: A special GCTOC (Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act) court remanded notorious criminal Aslam Sheikh alias Aslam Bodiyo to police custody for 15 days on Tuesday. Aslam was arrested by the crime branch on Monday with his accomplice Shoaib Ali Saiyad from Chhota Udepur on the basis of a tip-off. The cops said that their focus is on questioning Aslam regarding the properties he owns and his modus operandi for extorting money from the traders. “We have begun gathering details of his entire gang and how he started it. The investigators are trying to track down the properties owned by Aslam in partnership with others,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The police on Tuesday informed the court that during the search at Aslam’s house they found several sale deeds, power of attorneys, bill of sale of several properties and bank documents. “There are allegations that he made money by confiscating people’s properties so he will be interrogated about where he invested the money and through whom,” the court was told. Special public prosecutor for GCTOC cases Raghuveer Pandya also argued that police have acted sternly against Aslam’s Bichhu gang, yet they continued their criminal activities. “It is quite possible that somebody was giving legal advice to him so police will find out who was advising him,” Pandya added. The cops said that apart from the 26 members of Bicchu gang, who have been booked under the GCTOC, there are others who too supported them. Aslam is accused in over 62 criminal cases including that of extortion, murder, rioting and assault. Sources in the police department said that after he was booked under the GCTOC, Aslam had offered to surrender as he was scared. Cops said that despite several warnings, Aslam had refused to stop his criminal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/15-day-police-remand-for-aslam-bodiyo/articleshow/80655505.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Housing societies with more than 250 members can hold polls||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to allow all co-operative societies, including housing societies, to hold elections. The state had postponed elections in co-operative institutions since last May and as per an order in January, elections were postponed till March 31. The government order on Tuesday said the January order stands cancelled and elections in co-operative societies, like banks and housing societies can be held. Experts said societies with up to 250 members will not be able to hold elections despite being allowed as rules for their elections have not been notified by government for two years. “Only housing societies with more than 250 members can hold elections,” said Ramesh Prabhu, Maharashtra Societies’ Welfare Association. The order said that against the backdrop of recent gram panchayat and legislative council elections, the state decided to allow elections to cooperative societies. “There was also a demand by cooperative society members to allow elections. All Covid-19 protocols will have to be followed while conducting the elections,” said a state government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsg-societies-with-more-than-250-members-can-hold-polls/articleshow/80657796.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Check EVM-ballot paper option: Speaker Nana Patole||MUMBAI: Speaker Nana Patole on Tuesday asked law and judiciary department to study and draft a law which will give voters an option of voting through EVMs and ballot paper in state assembly and local body elections. Patole, who chaired a meeting at Vidhan Bhavan on Tuesday, was hearing an application submitted by a Nagpur resident, Pradeep Uke, demanding ballot papers as an option apart from EVM, for state assembly and local self-government polls. Satish Uke, an advocate on behalf of Pradeep, argued that state legislature can enact the law under Article 328 of Indian Constitution. According to this, voters can exercise their right to vote through EVM or ballot paper, as per their wish, he said. Patole told the department to verify the provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/speaker-check-evm-ballot-paper-option/articleshow/80657793.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Metro extension to end travel woes of techies, govt staff||Kochi: The phase-II extension of Kochi Metro is expected to bring a relief to the travelling woes of techies at Infopark and employees of civil station at Kakkanad. The extension of the project from JLN Stadium to Infopark will provide a metro-rail link between the city and the IT park, which currently lacks a proper public transport system. Progressive Techies, a socio-cultural organization for the IT employees, points out that after 7pm there is no bus service connecting Infopark. Most people working in the IT hub depend on private vehicles. “Parking has become a serious issue as most techies depend on private vehicles to reach offices. The coming of Metro is expected to address this issue. Most importantly people can save travelling time,” said Progressive Techies state president Anish Panthalani. However, he pointed out that the outbreak of Covid-19 has reduced the number people working in Infopark. During the pre-Covid days, around 45,000 people worked here. “Now, the number of people working at the IT hub has reduced to below 5,000,” he said. “Once the situation improves, companies will bring back people to office spaces. By the time Kochi Metro becomes a reality, it is expected that companies will also favour a back to office policy,” he added. The Infopark region experiences heavy traffic from 6.30pm to 9pm and 8am to 10.30am. Apart from the IT crowd, around 13,500 employees work in the Civil Station, other associated government offices and private institutions located in the neighbourhood will also get the benefit of Kochi Metro, when the project gets extended, said collectorate staff council secretary Sharat Gopi. “Most of these employees commute to Kakkanad from other regions daily. Currently, those who travel everyday are either depended on two-wheelers, cars, private and KSRTC buses,” he said adding that hardly one or two KSRTC buses operate services from Cherthala, which concurs with office timings. The KSRTC bond buses operating from Vaikom, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam and Thodupuzha regions have become helpful for the employees. Meanwhile, real estate developers are also hopeful that the coming of Kochi Metro will give a push to real estate deals. Arun Jagannath an investor said: “People are looking for affordable properties. Though it will take time for real estate to recover, the Kochi Metro project gives much hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metro-extension-to-end-travel-woes-of-techies-govt-staff/articleshow/80655513.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||70K birds spotted in 2nd count at Wadhwana lake||Vadodara: The number of birds at Wadhwana Lake went up in the second round of counting that was conducted by the forest department on Tuesday. Officials said that approximately 70,000 birds were spotted at Wadhwana Lake and the adjacent Simaliya Lake during the two sessions of counting done on the occasion of World Wetland Day.“The number of birds went up as compared to the first counting that we conducted on January 1. On Tuesday, about 70,000 birds were counted in and around the lake. The count of species though went down as many migratory birds seem to have left the wetland and were headed home,” said Baldevsinh Waghela, divisional forest officer (DFO) (wildlife), Vadodara.Thirteen teams including the forest officials and volunteers of NGOs took part in the counting. “The counting was done for the second time to meet the criteria for Ramsar Site. We are now documenting the details of both the counts,” Waghela told TOI.In the first counting, 62,570 birds of 133 species were spotted at the lake. The numbers were much less than 2020 when 83,000 birds were spotted at Wadhwana wetlands. Forest officials said that the weather was foggy and water level in Wadhwana was high during the first count. “Most birds prefer marshy waters. If the level is too high, they stay away from the lake. Many birds preferred to roost in the fields near the lake, so the numbers were less during the first census,” a forest official said.The forest department has been making efforts to get Ramsar site for Wadhwana Lake that is one of the biggest wetlands in the state. The officials have compiled migratory and local bird census of the last three years apart from the flora and fauna for the proposal that has been sent to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/70k-birds-spotted-in-2nd-count-at-wadhwana-lake/articleshow/80655527.cms||Tushar Tere
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Re-look at train timings for aam janata possible: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: A day after the general public was allowed to board local trains, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government was open to taking a re-look at the time slots that had been earmarked for the category of commuters. Though the state government allowed the general public to board local trains from Monday, travel timings for the category are restricted to non-peak hours. As a result, the general public is allowed to travel on the suburban network from the time the first train of the day starts till 7 am, and then again from noon to 4 pm, and finally from 9 pm till the time the last train operates. These restrictive travel timings led to several commuters complaining that these were not in line with their office timings. “The most important thing is to see people’s convenience. If any improvements are required to be made in travel time, such suggestions will be communicated. The people’s interest is the priority while deciding the timings of any public transport,” Tope said. The minister said the state would try to make local train travel useful and convenient for the public. “We are open to rescheduling the train timings. My department will make suggestions in this regard as well,” Tope said. Ashok Shah, who works in a cloth shop at Crawford market, said that even if he takes a train at 6.50am from Borivli, where he lives, he will arrive at Churchgate before 8am. “My shop doesn’t open before 9.30 am. What am I supposed to do till then? And there is no point in opening the shop early as there are no shoppers at that time. There is definitely a need to review the train timings,” Shah said. Rail Yatri Sangh’s Subash Gupta said the local train timings allowed for the general public were impractical. “The government should allow the general public in peak hours as economic activity begins with banking hours,” Gupta said. Shailesh Goyal, member, Divisional Rail Users Consultative Committe of the Western Railway, said that many traders and employees who leave their shops in the evening had to face the hardship of having to wait till 9pm to board their train back home. “This leads to overcrowding in trains and on platforms. The government should at least allow the general public to board suburban local trains from 7.30pm during the evening peak hour in order to spread out the crowd,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/re-look-at-train-timings-for-aam-janata-possible-tope/articleshow/80656539.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 3, 2021||Pune||882 schools under PMC start classes||PUNE: As many as 882 schools under the Pune Municipal Corporation reopened on day 2 for classes from standards V to VIII. Of these, 530 schools were inspected and 436 schools reopened on Tuesday. A PMC team inspects the schools. On Monday, 480 schools were inspected of which 398 had reopened. These schools, both private and public, cater to over 1.8 lakh students. Of the 15 wards in Pune, data of attendance for Tuesday was available from eight wards, as shared by the PMC officials. One ward sent details of just PMC-run schools in the area. In these schools, of the 81,727 students, 11,801 students (14%) were present on day 2. Shubhangi Chavan, deputy education officer for primary classes, said, “We do not have the attendance data of day 1. For day 2, only some wards submitted their data, hence it is hard to give a comprehensive attendance figure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/882-schools-under-pmc-start-classes/articleshow/80656546.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kochi||Kerala high court quashes government order issuing leave to its striking staffers||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Tuesday quashed an order issued by the state government allowing its employees who were absent from work during a two-day strike to avail casual leave. The two-day strike, on January 8 and 9 of last year, was called by trade unions to protest against central government policies. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly, declared the order issued by the government on January 31, 2020 as illegal, arbitrary, and contrary to statutory provisions. It ordered department heads to scrutinize attendance registers and take action against employees involved within two months. The government was also asked to file a compliance report after the two-month period. The court was considering a petition filed by G Balagopalan of Kalarkode, Alappuzha. After citing statutory provisions prohibiting government employees from participating in strikes, the court said they struck work in violation of rules, notifications or circulars issued by the state government, affecting the normal life of the public and the public exchequer. Even though right to form associations is a right guaranteed under the Constitution, there is no legal right for workers or such associations to call for a general strike or instigate employees to strike in the guise of the said fundamental right, the court said. Offices came to a standstill for two days due to the strike and the public had suffered substantially due to it, it noted. The government order protects the interests of employees who struck work, despite clear mandate in rules that any government servant indulging in strike is liable to be proceeded against, the court said. In the judgment, the division bench said the government was not at liberty to issue a blanket order in view of the clear provisions of the law. The court further said the government’s order “enabled the striking workers to go scot-free, unmindful of the imperatives contained in the provisions of law, which according to us, is a practice clearly deprecated by the Hon’ble Apex Court in the decisions cited supra.” Though the government contended that it was a policy decision and therefore saved from interference by the court, the bench said, “we do not think that government is at liberty to take any policy decision in absolute violation of the rules in vogue and the proposition of law laid down by the Hon’ble Apex Court in regard to the illegal strike of government servants.” After citing various SC rulings, the bench said, “Therefore, going by the preposition of law laid down by the Hon’ble Apex Court in the decisions cited supra, and the rules in vogue, it is clear that not only there was any right conferred on the Government servants to go on strike, but also there is clear prohibition under law to call for and participate in strikes and, therefore, the action of the Government in issuing Exhibit-P1 order dated 31.01.2019, regularizing an illegal act, cannot be sustained in law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-quashes-go-issuing-leave-to-its-striking-staffers/articleshow/80656611.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||KCB’s first public library with computers, internet opens soon||PUNE: Students in the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) limits will have a new place to study with facilities, including access to the internet. The KCB is all set to open its first public library within a week. The final phase of work is going on. The facility will accommodate 100 students at a time. It also has a conference room for group study. “We are going to carry out a survey of students preparing for competitive examinations. This would help us purchase relevant books. Currently, we have made available basic books for these examinations,” chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said. Computers for reading online books, headphones for listening to audio books and a discussion room for group studies would be available at the facility, he added. The two-year project was introduced by then chief executive officer Amol Jagtap, who had established a similar facility in Deolali cantonment in Nashik, on public demand. “There is no public library in this cantonment. Many poor students find it difficult to study. The new facility would provide them adequate space, facilities and a conducive atmosphere,” Singh said. The library will have separate sections for girls, boys and other citizens. For safety and security, the cantonment would collect basic information of the member. “Students would not be given access to the facility without their school identity cards. Those below 15 years of age would be allowed only with guardians,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcbs-first-public-library-with-computers-internet-opens-soon/articleshow/80656576.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 3, 2021||Pune||Pune airport closure for two weeks upends summer travel plans||PUNE: The recent announcement that the Pune airport would be closed for two weeks has thrown a spanner in the works for many travellers and agents. The two-week closure is scheduled to facilitate the ongoing recarpeting of the airport’s runway. Many people who booked flight tickets from Pune during this window claimed airlines were not responding to their queries. Kothrud Amol Kapse, who spent Rs18,000 on flight tickets and Rs20,000 on a two-day hotel stay from May 1 in Delhi for his family, said the airline was not being communicative. “I have been trying to contact them since Sunday evening, but got no concrete response. In fact, they insist all their flights are operational, which makes no sense,” a frustrated Kapse said. Hundreds of other flyers — and many travel agents who are fielding calls and dealing with mass rescheduling and trip cancellations — are similarly angry and confused. Nilesh Bhansali, director of the Travel Agents’ Association of Pune (TAAP) said the closure — scheduled till May 9 — could not have come at a worse time. “April and May are peak travel months. Our business is just starting to get back on track after a disastrous 2020,” Bhansali said. He said the number of people who made plans to go to Delhi or Kashmir on a summer vacation was higher this year, as many did not travel last year due to the pandemic. Bhansali said that there was no clarity on what would happen after May 9 either. “Many travel portals and airlines’ websites are still accepting bookings during this window, as well as showing night flights even though the airport is shut from 8pm to 8am,” he added. Only IndiGo commented. “All IndiGo passengers have been notified ... We would either provide a refund or take them to the nearest destination in case of cancellations,” an IndiGo spokesperson told TOI. Many airlines’ social media feed was full of queries and complaints. “I have booked seven tickets from Pune to Coimbatore (6E6877) and Pune airport is closed from April 26 to May 9. IndiGo customer care number is not responding nor did we received (sic) any mail for refund,” Sidhant K tweeted. Kunal Koul, another flyer, was miffed with GoAir. “What exactly you are doing by keeping customers’ money when Pune airport has already informed that airport will be closed? Your customer care doesn’t even know,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-closure-for-two-weeks-upends-summer-travel-plans/articleshow/80656600.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ticket sales on second day match opening day figures||MUMBAI: Passenger numbers on the second day of opening of train services for the general public on Tuesday remained more or less similar to the figures for Monday. On Monday, 19 lakh passengers travelled on the Central Railway and 12 lakh on the Western Railway. CR chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar estimated that 20 lakh passengers would have used the line by end of working day on Tuesday, a lakh more than the Monday figure. The WR said it estimated that 12 lakh passengers would have used the line on Tuesday. Before Covid-19, 80 lakh people used to travel on the suburban network, with the WR accounting for 35 lakh and the CR for 45 lakh passengers. “There will be a gradual increase in ridership as most offices have allowed their staff to work from home till the end of the financial year,” a railway official said. Another official said that even educational institutions were closed, because of which the student population was missing from the ticket sales. Like on Monday, there were long queues for season tickets at the stations on the second day. WR chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said 24,322 season tickets and 1.87 lakh daily tickets had been sold till 4pm. “During this period, 8,837 people updated their old season tickets,” Thakur said. By 6 pm, on the CR, 45,585 people had bought season tickets, while 4 lakh daily tickets were sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ticket-sales-on-second-day-match-opening-day-figures/articleshow/80656619.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen seek mega textile investment park, better infra for city||Ludhiana: After being termed as disappointing by middle class and salaried persons, the Union Budget has turned out to be ‘good’ for businessmen despite having nothing significant for them, due to which they seek more reforms. This because their biggest nightmare of imposition of Covid cess or some new kind of tax on them did not turn out to be true. Besides this, the taxation reforms like reducing the re-opening of income tax assessments to three years from six also proved to be a step in the direction of giving the businessmen some relief. Moreover, several changes in the custom duties are being welcomed by the engineering sector as it will address the problem of incessant hike in the rates of iron and steel being faced by Punjab’s industry. Though there is nothing concrete for the textile and garments sector, but reduction of custom duty on certain products and imposition of duty on cotton is getting mixed response from the businessmen of this sector. Pankaj M Munjal, chairman and managing director, Hero Motors Company, said, “As expected, the finance minister has ensured that the focus of the Budget has been on inducing a much-needed economic revival in a contracting economy. The commitment to infuse significant spending into building infrastructure projects and strengthening roads, public transport and metro systems augurs well for the automobile sector as well as for the economy at large as it will generate much-needed activity and employment. Taking note of the rising air pollution, the FM has also proposed an outlay of Rs 2,217 crore to help 42 urban centres address the environmental concern, which is a highly welcome move.” Munjal added that, “However, we hope the measures initiated to utilise these funds to tackle air pollution give due importance to promoting cycling as an environmentally friendly mode of transport. We will like to see the 42 urban centres demarcated for this to lay down dedicated and safe cycling tracks. However, from the manufacturing perspective, we would have liked to see dedicated announcements to help India’s bicycle sector improve its manufacturing capacity and export competitiveness under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. We will also like to see a greater rationalisation of GST structure and its compliance.” Raj Kumar Singla, president of the Fasteners Suppliers Association Ludhiana, said, “Even after having nothing for us, this Budget is still very relieving for us because there were strong signals that new taxes or Covid cess will be imposed on the industry to compensate for the huge expenditure incurred by the government in the wake of coronavirus. Besides this, the changes in several laws, particularly with regard to the direct taxes like reducing the time period for re-opening of assessment cases are good steps indeed and should have been taken long back. Doing away with the physical appearances in the tribunals will save a lot of time and money of the businessmen.” According to Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings, “By taking steps aimed at reducing steel raw material prices, like reducing the import duty by 5% on certain steels and waiving import duty on scrap, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has managed to impress thousands of engineering goods manufacturers in Punjab, especially those in the bicycle, auto parts, fasteners, sewing machine and furnace industry, who for the past few months have been feeling the heat of the rising rates. So, barring a few industries, the overall engineering sector will witness correction of rates of raw material, which will definitely lead to the revival of the sector.” Sanjay Goel, chairman of Indian Institute of Architects (Punjab chapter), said, “We welcome the extended tax holiday on affordable housing and reduction of tax on steel, which may increase construction activity all over. Ludhiana being Manchester of India, must get one mega textile investment park out of seven declared by the central government. The upcoming smart city of Ludhiana needs lots of funding from the central and state governments on big projects. I hope Ludhiana will get good connectivity through roads and railway station of Ludhiana will get modernised, which is long awaited. The city also needs big government hospital like AIIMS as the population already had grown many times and there is only civil hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-seek-mega-textile-investment-park-better-infra-for-city/articleshow/80655570.cms||Mohit Behl
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Bird shelters may become must for upcoming New Town buildings||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is planning to come up with a mandate that all upcoming buildings in the township will have to set up bird-friendly small box like structures on roofs. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) organized recently an interactive session where bird expert and secretary of Nature Environment and Wildlife Society (NEWS), Biswajit Roy Chowdhury, delivered a talk on birds of Kolkata. It was discussed during the talk that modern buildings lack the old time architectural features like ‘ghulghuli’ that would help birds build small nests and that trees for social forestry should be chosen carefully to attract birds to build their nests. According to estimates, around 133 species of birds have been spotted in New Town’s Pakhibitan and its surrounding areas. Of these species, about 99 are migratory birds while the other 34 birds are found throughout the year. Among the rare species of birds that have been spotted in the township are yellow bittern, Taiga flycatcher, Siberian rubythroat, greater coucal, plumheaded parakeet, common snipe and several others. “The idea of setting up bird-friendly structures on the roofs of upcoming buildings is in an initial stage and we will discuss the matter again,” said an official. Hidco, in consultation with experts, will also finalise a list of trees that can be planted on the median dividers in New Town. This will be suitable with the township’s soil and can attract birds. Officials said Roy Chowdhury would be included in the committee to finalise the species of trees that would be planted in New Town. Horticulture experts have already shared their suggestions in this regard, keeping in mind Cyclone Amphan that had damaged thousands of trees. Roy Chowdhury said the trees like banyan, guava, neem, mango and other small fruit trees, which attract birds, should be considered for plantation. After Amphan tore through Bengal, damaging a large number of trees, Hidco and NKDA took up a plantation drive on vacant plots. Several trees have already been planted in many parts of the township. The authorities have come up with a list of over 100 varieties of trees for further plantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bird-shelters-may-become-must-for-upcoming-new-town-bldgs/articleshow/80656606.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam gets Rs 1,400 crore grant for boosting infra||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tipped to become the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, Vizag city may get a major revamp as the Fifteenth Finance Commission has recommended a Rs 1,400 crore allocation for the development of core infrastructure in the city. According to the Finance Commission’s report, the AP government requested the Commission for grants to help the state build Vishakhapatnam as a major economic hub that could serve as an important source of revenue. The grants would be utilised for provisioning of core infrastructure such as roads, water supply, power distribution, underground drainage and essential buildings in Vishakhapatnam. In recent years, the state government and local authorities have lined up or proposed several projects for Vizag city. These include the metro rail project, Bhogapuram airport, the six-lane coastal road to Bhogapuram, underground drainage revamp, water supply projects, beach road development, industrial corridors, IT development and other infrastructure projects. For example, the metro rail project is alone estimated to cost about Rs 22,000 crore while the six-lane coastal highway to Bhogapuram may cost about Rs 1,500 crore. Meanwhile, the Finance Commission has also recommended funding worth Rs 900 crore for safe drinking water supply in areas affected by chronic kidney disease, ﬂuorosis and deﬁcient rainfall. Uddanam in Srikakulam, which has been plagued by chronic kidney disease for the last two decades, has been recommended a grant of Rs 300 crore. In 110 villages in Uddanam, thousands suffer from CKDu/CKDnT (chronic kidney disease of unknown aetiology/non-traditional causes). Palanadu in Guntur district affected by ﬂuorosis and Kanigiri in Prakasam district affected by deﬁcient rainfall will jointly get Rs 400 crore. Pulivendula in YSR Kadapa district affected by uranium ﬁltering is likely to get Rs 200 crore. All grants recommended by the Finance Commission would be released over a span of five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-gets-rs-1400cr-grant-for-boosting-infra/articleshow/80655544.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||IAS officer takes charge as MPSC head||MUMBAI: IAS officer Swati Mhase Patil, joint secretary, directorate of information technology (GAD), has been appointed as Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) principal secretary in place of Pradeep Kumar, who has proceeded on a long leave. Last week, some cabinet members, led by the CM, had demanded action against Kumar and MPSC officials for approaching the SC, without the state’s knowledge, over the Maratha quota issue. Kumar, an IFS officer of the 1987 batch, said he had sought advice from the state, but there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ias-officer-takes-charge-as-mpsc-head/articleshow/80657841.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Business||New policy makes it costly to keep old cars||NEW DELHI: Holding on to 15-year-old vehicles will become an expensive affair once the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy is rolled out from next year. While the cost for getting a fitness certificate for such commercial vehicles will go up by up to 62 times, the fee for renewal of registration of private vehicles will increase by up to eight times. Also, states will impose green tax over and above the road tax that every vehicle owner needs to pay. The road transport ministry will announce the scrapping policy in the next two weeks. Sources said the fitness certificate fee for commercial vehicles that are more than 15 years would increase from the current Rs 200 to approximately Rs 7,500 for cabs and nearly Rs 12,500 for trucks. Scrapping policy: Vehicles failing fitness test to be removed from central databaseAs per the motor vehicle law, renewal of fitness certificate is mandatory annually once it is more than eight years old. “Hiked fee will kick in once such vehicles are of 15 years. Paying such a high charge every year will discourage people to keep their old vehicles,” said a source. On top of this, states can levy a green tax, which can be 10-25% of the annual road tax. This will be in addition to the normal road tax a vehicle owner pays. Similarly, in the case of 15-year plus private vehicles, the registration charge would go up for two-wheelers from the current Rs 300 to Rs 1,000 and it would increase from Rs 600 to Rs 5,000 for cars. States can levy green tax on such vehicles for five years, which would be in addition to road tax. “All private vehicles need to renew registration after 15 years and subsequently every five year. This is expected to work as a disincentive for owners,” the source said. In both cases, vehicles failing in the automatic fitness test will be de-registered from Vahan, the central database of vehicles. While the government is ready to launch the policy, the biggest challenge is the lack of infrastructure to implement it. Currently, only seven out of the 25 sanctioned automated fitness test centres are operational and there are only two authorised scrapping centres, including one in Noida. At a meeting on creating ecosystem for phasing out of unfit and polluting vehicles which was chaired by PM Narendra Modi on January 14, the transport ministry was urged to encourage vehicle manufacturers to develop automatic fitness test centres with “appropriate safeguards” and to come out with a complete business model with guidelines for development of such centres and scrapping centres. The ministry has also been tasked to explore the possibility to come out with voice messages about the benefits of the scrapping policy in the mobile phones of vehicle owners and drivers at petrol pumps, dealers and service centres. The ministry will also come up with measures to prohibit any misuse of policy for scrapping any stolen vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-policy-makes-it-costly-to-keep-old-cars/articleshow/80659841.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Phase 2 of vaccine drive to start in AP today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The second phase vaccination for frontline respondents of various state and central government departments would begin from Wednesday, health minister and deputy CM Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) said on Tuesday. The first phase vaccination drive covered about 1.9 lakh people (48.9%) out of the targeted 3.88 lakh healthcare workers, the minister informed. “About 5.9 lakh people registered their names for the second phase vaccination drive. As many as 3,181 session sites would be set up for this exercise. Vaccine hesitancy has been reported among healthcare workers, which might be the reason for the low turnout (for vaccination),” he said. He added the government has specially focused on adverse events following immunisation. “The family of the Asha worker who died following immunisation in Guntur district has been given Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia. Her post-mortem report is yet to be received. A dentist (Dr K Dhana Lakshmi) who fell ill after the taking the jab has been shifted to Chennai for better treatment and is currently doing well,” he said. Principal secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal said the health department currently has a stock of about 16.3 lakh vaccine doses. “About 89,000 police personnel, 1.55 lakh municipal staff and 3.32 lakh revenue staff have registered their names in the CoWin platform for the second phase vaccination drive,” said Singhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/phase-2-of-vaccine-drive-to-start-in-state-today/articleshow/80655573.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vadodara||BJP leaders in a fix over new ticket norms||Vadodara: BJP’s decision of not giving tickets to those who were above the age of 60 years and to those elected on three occasions and relatives of leaders, has left many in the party surprised. These include heavyweights who were eyeing tickets for themselves or their relatives in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls. Waghodiya MLA Madhu Shrivastava’s son Dipak Shrivastava was a corporator from the Waghodiya Road area and is eyeing a ticket again. Similarly, Dabhoi BJP MLA Shailesh Mehta is eyeing a ticket for his son Dhrumil Mehta. Shailesh was also a corporator, along with Dipak from the same ward. Former BJP MP from Chhota Udepur, Ramsinh Rathwa and former BJP MLA from Sankheda Abhesinh Gadvi had also sought tickets for their children. Apart from Dipak, Madhu is also eyeing tickets for other relatives in the panchayat polls in Waghodiya taluka. Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt’s sister Panna Desai is a corporator from ward two. Former standing committee chairman Ajit Patel is also eyeing a ticket for his son from the party. Patel whose priority is getting a ticket for himself has also served three terms and does not fit in the criteria. Leader of the ruling BJP in VMC, Ketan Brahmbhatt, also becomes ineligible in wake of the three-term norm announced on Monday. Also, several women corporators are related to BJP workers. Former mayor Dalsukh Prajapati, who joined the BJP a few years and was the chairman of Gujarat Matikam Kalakari and Rural Technology Institute, has his son Rajesh Prajapati in the line for a ticket. It would also be interesting to see if the BJP grants a ticket to heavyweight Rajesh Ayre, who recently joined the party again. Ayre has been a corporator for three terms that include one as an independent, one from the BJP and the last one from the Rashtriya Samaj Paksha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-leaders-in-a-fix-over-new-ticket-norms/articleshow/80655576.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Two Mumbai girls do city proud, 1 tops CA exam, other is third||MUMBAI: Mumbai’s Komal Jain (22) has topped the final chartered accountancy (CA) exam in the country. Results for the exam conducted in November amid the pandemic were announced on Tuesday by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). Jain, who has graduated from R A Podar College, scored 600 out of 800 in the paper set as per the new syllabus. Mudit Agrawal from Surat and Rajvi Nathvani from Mumbai bagged the second and third positions, respectively. Jain, a Ghatkopar resident who had completed her BCom in 2019, is keen on pursuing a career in the corporate world. “I will either get into consultancy or finance. I am yet to choose between the two,” said Jain, adding she is not keen on an independent practice. Her father, a retired accountant, and her mother, a homemaker, were both from the commerce background and, therefore, she was keen on entering the stream right from her school days. Rajvi Nathvani (22) from Kandivli, who graduated from NM College, has bagged the third position in the country. The daughter of a CA, Nathvani too plans to pursue a career in management consulting or finance. “I was expecting a decent score but not a rank among the top three,” she said. CA exams are usually conducted in May and November every year. Due to the pandemic, the exam scheduled in May last year was eventually conducted in November, after it was postponed four times. The conduct of the exam was opposed by a section of students. Both Nathvani and Jain said the delay was frustrating. “Every time students prepared, the exam would get postponed. At some point, we did not feel like reading more,” said Jain. When finally held, the exam was smooth, she added. Jain loves reading business articles. “I play chess and other board games,” she said. Music, Jain added, is a good stress-buster which helped her maintain her calm during the lockdown. Nathvani prefers reading and drawing in her leisure time. Around 14.5% of the 19,284 students who appeared for the final exam in both groups under the new syllabus cleared it. The success rate marginally dipped from November 2019 exam when it was 15.1%. Over 32,000 students took the exam in Group-I and 28,000 Group-II. In the old scheme of exams, Essakiraj A from Salem, Sripriya R from Chennai and Mayank Singh from Jaipur bagged the top three positions. Only about 4,100 students took the final exam in both the groups in the old scheme and the success rate was 5.8%. Individually, the success rate in Group I and II was 17.84% and 31.77%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-mumbai-girls-do-city-proud-1-tops-ca-exam-other-is-3rd/articleshow/80655582.cms||Yogita Rao
February 3, 2021||Pune||Cantts’ elected board term to end on February 10||PUNE: The term of the elected ward members of Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments will end on February 10. Considering the term expiry, elections will have to be held for the cantonments. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has already given two extensions to the elected body as per Cantonment Act, 2006, and there is no provision for a third extension. As a result, the board will be dissolved and only three members — president, CEO and one nominated member will run the business until fresh elections take place. “As per Cantonment Act, 2006, one civilian will be nominated by the MoD as a representative for the board. The member should be a resident of the cantonment area. The final announcement will be made by the ministry,” said CEO Amit Kumar of Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) At least six months are required to conduct elections of cantonment board as many cantonments are yet to finalize voters’ lists. The MoD had to cancel the voter list drive due to the pandemic last year. The board would need a couple of months to finalize the voters’ list, added Kumar. A total of 56 cantonments out of 62 will face a similar situation across the country. The MoD has already issued a notification telling cantonments to dissolve the elected body by February 10. Meanwhile, activists have expressed disappointment over the development. Ghorpadi-based activist Sanjay Kawade said, “The ministry neither allocates funds to the cantonments nor does it have any intention to smoothen their functioning. Most cantonments could not undertake infrastructure projects due to paucity of funds. Now there would be no public representatives on the board. The ministry must issue a special order for the voter registration exercise and finalize it within the deadline period, then it should conduct elections at the earliest.” “The ministry has ignored the development of cantonments over the last five years. No infrastructure project could be taken up in Dehu Road cantonment limit due to shortage of funds. Ultimately, citizens are at the receiving end,” said Raghuvir Shelar, vice president of Dehu Road cantonment board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cantts-elected-board-term-to-end-on-february-10/articleshow/80656623.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Budget welcome, but urgent need of raising customs duty on man-made yarn’||Ludhiana: Reacting to the Union Budget-2021, yarn manufacturers are giving a mixed response to it. According to the businessmen, several positive steps have been taken by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, which will benefit them, but there is an urgent need for raising customs duty on the man-made yarn from 5% to 10% and this is the only way by which the local yarn industry can prosper. Giving more information, Sanjay Garg, president of Northern India Textile Manufacturers Association (NITMA), “We welcome the proposal of the Union Budget as the grant to the textile and clothing sector is budgeted at Rs 3,631.64 crore, which is about 10% higher than the previous year’s revised Budget of Rs 3,300 crore in 2020-21. Also, in the present Budget, the government has emphasised on infrastructure development and research and capacity building as the grant for these sectors has been increased by about 43.7% and 77.5%, respectively as compared to last year. Mega Investment Textiles Parks (MITRA) scheme is a very positive step and with the active support and cooperation of the government, the textile industry will become globally competitive, attract large investments and boost employment generation and exports in the years ahead.” Garg added that, “Basic customs duty (BCD) rates on caprolactam, nylon chips and nylon fibre and yarn will be uniformly reduced to 5% to spur the textile industry, MSMEs and exports. Customs duty on cotton from nil to 10% and on raw silk and silk yarn from 10% to 15% will benefit domestic cotton and silk growers. The taxation changes proposed in the Budget will help and benefit the MSMEs in a big way. The measures taken to simplify GST are praiseworthy with the hope that the government will take corrective measures to smoothen the GST further by removing anomalies such as the inverted duty structure.” Garg added that, “We humbly appeal to the FM that there was an urgent need of raising customs duty on man-made yarns from 5% to 10%, which has not been considered by the finance minister. Man-made yarn sector, which is one of the largest employment generating segments within the textile industry and it’s highly capital and labour intensive industry as well. The unreasonably low-priced imports of man-made yarn into India have been causing considerable amount of injury to domestic manufacturers for the last five years or so. The industry has deep concerns over the rise in import quantities being dumped into India, which can potentially cause permanent damage to domestic MMF (man-made fibre) sector with a cascading effect, from closure of units to NPAs and eventually resulting huge employment losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/budget-welcome-but-urgent-need-of-raising-customs-duty-on-man-made-yarn/articleshow/80655589.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Motorcyclist crushed under bus wheel, driver held||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Monday arrested a private luxury bus driver, Janaji Darade (28), on the charge of causing the death of a motorcyclist at a bus stop near the Royal Western India Turf Club on Pune-Solapur Road around 11.35pm on Sunday. The deceased, Amar Tamboli (42), was on his way to Hadapsar from Swargate; Darade too was headed in the same direction. Tamboli was not wearing a helmet. Assistant inspector Vishwajeet Jagtap from the Wanowrie police said, “The bus driver was speeding. He lost control over the vehicle and hit the bike from the rear. The impact of the accident was such that the left rear tyre of the bus ran over the victim, killing him instantly.” Jagtap said the Sassoon hospital, in its post-mortem report, had attributed the cause of death to multiple injuries. “Darade told the police that he was not responsible for the victim’s death as the latter had lost control, fallen on the road of his own accord and had come under the wheel of the bus. We have seized the bus and arrested him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-crushed-under-bus-wheel-driver-held/articleshow/80656646.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Principals to sing for unity in Covid times||Kolkata: Around 27 principals from various Anglo-Indian schools across the state will join a choir and sing ‘We are the World’ that will be played at a national conference of these institutes later this month. Lending their voice to the song penned by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie, the school heads aim to hold each others’ hands at a time when the world has been going through a crisis . “The song, ‘We are the world’, is commensurate with the present time that calls for unity. We chose this song to convey our message of unity and solidarity to the audience. It is time to care for each other and help those who are finding it difficult to survive in the present difficult times. Moreover, a school is the best place to start a change,” said Fr Rodney Borneo, principal of Loyola High School, who is part of the principals’ choir. “This is the 99th annual conference but we are being forced to organize the mega event on a virtual platform. Principals will share their personalized message through the great anthem,” he added. The principals will gather at a city studio for the recording while some others will send their clips that will be merged in the video. “The song, ‘We are the world’, has been selected as it speaks about solidarity and unity, like that among Anglo Indian schools during these trying times of pandemic,” said Richard Gasper, principal of St Augustine School, who has composed the music for the video. Five principals from the Anglo-Indian schools across the country formed ‘Principals of Rock’, a rock band last year. “The song is a part of the entertainment segment during the three-day conference. Initially, we had planned to organize a picnic on the last day of the event. Several principals from the Anglo Indian schools across the country have already demonstrated their excellence in singing and playing instruments during a programme last year. This time, ‘We are the world’ will be a tribute from the principals of the schools in Bengal. Each region of the country will put up a similar programme. We want to shoot the video where all the principals will come together to sing on a single platform,” said Julian Broughton, chairman of the Julien Day group of schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/principals-to-sing-for-unity-in-covid-times/articleshow/80656659.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 3, 2021||Kozhikode||‘MYL leadership swindled Kathua, Unnao funds’||Kozhikode: Former member of Muslim Youth League (MYL) national working committee Yusuf Padanilam has alleged that the organization’s leadership has swindled the fund collected to help the victims of the Kathua and Unnao sexual abuse cases. Addressing a news conference here on Tuesday, he said the fund was collected from mosques after Friday prayers on April 20, 2018 in Kerala and the Gulf countries. “It was unofficially told in the national committee meeting that Rs 48 lakh was collected as funds. But nothing was handed over to the families,” Padanilam said. MYL national secretary C K Subair had said that a part of the money was used for fighting the Kathua case. “Subair had gone to Punjab and took a selfie, but it has been proven that an organization called Punjab Muslim Federation is fighting the case. What Subair did was only a drama,” he said. He said it was unofficially informed at the committee meetings that Rs 15 lakh was given to the Kerala Yathra conducted by MYL state leader P K Firos and Rs 5 lakh was given to the relatives of Rohit Vemula. “There was controversy when the cheque given to the Vemula’s family bounced and it was settled by giving Rs 5 lakh from the amount collected for Kathua and Unnao cases,” Padanilam said. Yusuf said he had raised the issue several times in the committees and before the IUML leaders. “P K Kunhalikutty had asked Subair to place the documents on the fund in the MYL committee, but it didn’t happen. IUML president Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal’s son Moyeen Ali Thangal has also raised the issue,” he said. Yusuf said there were attempts to insult Moyeen Ali and remove him from the post of the national vice-president of the MYL after he sought explanation on this issue. “MYL national president Sabir Gafar resigned from the post to register protest on issues, including the one related to the fund,” Padanilam said. The MYL leader said though the committee was informed that Rs 48 lakh was collected, the actual amount collected could be much more. “The IUML did similar things in the fund collected for the victims of Gujarat violence, Tsunami and to help the Rohingya refugees,” he added. Yusuf said he would approach the government seeking an inquiry into the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/myl-leadership-swindled-kathua-unnao-funds/articleshow/80656685.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Rayapati case: Accused Sukesh Chandrasekhar moves Telangana HC for bail||HYDERABAD: Alleged conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar, who was caught by CBI in a Delhi star hotel while trying to strike a Rs 50 crore deal to ensure allocation of ‘two leaves’ symbol of AIADMK to Sasikala and Dinakaran faction, filed an anticipatory bail petition before the high court. Justice G Sri Devi on Tuesday directed the CBI to file a counter to Sukesh’s plea. The accused is seeking bail in a case filed by the investigating agency, charging him with misusing the names of top CBI officials to extort money from former TDP MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao. The case was posted to February 11 for further hearing. In Sambasiva Rao case, Sukesh impersonated as a senior CBI officer and also as Saketh Kumar of Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and demanded Rs 100 crore from the former MP to bail him out of the CBI case. Sambasiva Rao is facing charges of committing one of the biggest bank frauds in the country worth Rs 7,926 crore through his Transstroy (India) Ltd company and diverting funds to fictitious firms. Sukesh has been languishing in Tihar jail for the last three years following his arrest by CBI sleuths who also seized Rs 1.31 crore from him. CBI sleuths had also recovered from Sukesh fake identity cards showing him as an MP, a judge of Supreme Court, top official of MHA and also as a personal secretary to law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. The CBI charged Sukesh with providing undue favours to police escort teams which had taken him to Bengaluru, Coimbatore and Mumbai as part of investigation. As many as 24 cases are pending against him all over the country, it said. “He collected Rs 2 crore towards advance from TTV Dinakaran, nephew of Sasikala, for ensuring AIADMK party’s official symbol allotted to them,” the CBI said. Sasikala fell into the trap and arranged Rs 5 crore that went into the hands of Leena, wife of Sukesh, who later distributed the amount to various persons as per the dictates of her husband. In the first FIR lodged against Sukesh, the CBI said he struck the deal with Dinakaran for Rs 50 crore with a promise that he would ‘manage’ the top officials of the Election Commission of India to grant the AIADMK’s official symbol of two leaves to Sasikala faction. CBI, in its latest FIR, said Sukesh, Leena and their associates entered into a criminal conspiracy and started blackmailing wealthy persons facing CBI cases and extorting them by taking the names of top CBI officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rayapati-case-accused-sukesh-moves-hc-for-bail/articleshow/80656662.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Kinjarapu Atchannaidu arrested for threatening candidate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police on Tuesday arrested TDP state president and former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu on charges of preventing YSRC-backed candidate Kinjarapu Appanna from filing a nomination for the post of sarpanch at Nimmada panchayat, the home village of Atchannaidu’s family in Srikakulam. Police also arrested twelve others in connection with the case. Police reached Atchannaidu’s residence at Nimmada village and took him into custody. He was remanded in Ampolu sub-jail for 14 days. Atchannaidu was named as accused number 3 in a poll-related incident in Nimmada two days ago. Speaking to TOI, SP, Srikakulam, Amit Bardar said they have registered cases against 22 persons, including Atchannaidu. “Following the complaint from Appanna and after examining video footage, we registered cases under Sections 147 and 148 of IPC and Section 212 of Panchayat Raj Act, 1995. So far 13 persons have been arrested,” he added. It may be recalled that YSRC-backed candidate Kinjarapu Appanna, who is also a relative of Atchannaidu, had tried to file a nomination for the panchayat polls when Atchannaidu tried to dissuade him. When Appanna went ahead to file the nomination, Atchannaidu’s brother K Hari Prasad and TDP functionaries reached the spot and tried to stop him. Appanna later filed the nomination under heavy police presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/atchannaidu-arrested-for-threatening-candidate/articleshow/80655587.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Sudhir Mungantiwar and Maharashtra CM meet behind closed doors||MUMBAI: BJP politician Sudhir Mungantiwar on Tuesday met CM Uddhav Thackeray at Sahyadri, a government guest house, leading to speculation about his party and the Shiv Sena getting close. Mungantiwar, talking to the media after the meeting, said: “Sena will not be our enemy till the last breath.” The closed-door meeting lasted over half an hour. Mungantiwar later clarified that he met the CM to sort out development issues related to his constituency in Chandrapur district and discussed the airport issue there. “Uddhav Thackeray is a son of Sena supremo late Balasaheb Thackeray. He will not tolerate any pressure from Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Once in the past we [Sena-BJP] had broken the alliance but after a few years we come back together,” he said. On Sunday, leader of opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis and leader of opposition in the council Praveen Darekar attended the engagement ceremony of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mungantiwar-and-uddhav-meet-behind-closed-doors/articleshow/80656666.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: SHRC seeks report on MLA’s remarks||HYDERABAD: The comments made against SCs, STs and BCs by TRS Parkal MLA Challa Dharma Reddy is snowballing into a major controversy for the ruling TRS ahead of elections to seven urban local bodies, a couple of MLC seats and bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency. At a public meeting in Warangal on Sunday, Dharma Reddy had claimed that government officers from backward castes are incapable and inefficient, which has led to the state becoming spoiled. The Congress and BJP have threatened to launch state-wide agitations if TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao does not expel Dharma Reddy from the party and disqualify him from the membership of the state assembly. Further, the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) on Tuesday issued directions to Warangal police commissioner to submit a report on the comments made by the legislator before March 1. A complaint has also been lodged with the National SC Commission against Dharma Reddy. It also urged the director general of police (DGP) to book a case suo motu under SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act against the TRS MLA. The development comes after BC leader Dasu Suresh lodged a complaint with TSHRC and Telangana Congress general secretary Bakka Judson lodged a complaint with National SC Commission urging it to book a case under SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act against Dharma Reddy. Meanwhile, Dharma Reddy said that he has apologised publicly for the comments, stating that his intention was not to hurt these sections of the community and that he has withdrawn his comments. However, leaders of SC, ST and BC communities from the Congress, BJP and other welfare associations refused to forgive the legislator and said that his comments only reflected the racist mentality and upper caste arrogance of the legislator. BJP leader Motkupalli Narasimhulu said Dharma Reddy has no moral right to continue as MLA. “KCR and TRS working president K T Rama Rao should apologise to the weaker sections of the society. KCR should not forget that Telangana state was achieved due to the sacrifices of students from the SC, ST and BC communities,” he said. Congress leaders Bakka Judson, Ramulu Naik, Vijay Kumar and N Pritam blamed KCR for his party MLAs publicly displaying racist hatred against the SCs, STs and BCs. “KCR had promised to make a Dalit leader as the chief minister of Telangana but did not do so. Later, he sacked deputy chief minister T Rajaiah from his post. The ruling TRS is snatching away lands of Dalit farmers on the pretext of setting up projects like Pharma City and others,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-seeks-report-on-mlas-remarks/articleshow/80656656.cms||Roushan Ali
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cop’s bail plea rejected in Manjula Shetye case||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of Wasima Shaikh, one the six police guards accused in the 2017 murder of Byculla jail inmate Manjula Shetye. Shaikh cited the lack of evidence against her and the Covid-19 pandemic to seek bail. Shetye was allegedly severely beaten by the jailor Manisha Pokharkar and five guards, Shaikh, Surekha Gulave, Bindu Naikode, Shital Shegokar and Aarti Shingane, on June 23, 2017, in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-bail-plea-rejected-in-manjula-case/articleshow/80657865.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Council’s online sessions to clear doubts of teachers||KOLKATA: Teachers, who teach ISC and ICSE curriculum, will get a chance to clarify their doubts on both online and offline teaching methods through February and March with experts from the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). This training will be done in online mode, which is a first because earlier all such training programmes used to happen on-site. The training starts from February 8 and will go on till April 23 on specified days. Though for over 10 months now teachers have been taking online classes for the board-year students, there are several areas in which they have encountered problems while delivering lectures in a distant mode. Schools feel that the blended mode of teaching is here to stay and new ways need to be devised to teach more efficiently. TimesViewOnline classes are here to stay. We are, at best, going to see a hybrid model (some classes on campus and some classes online) in the near future. So it is better to be prepared and attune ourselves to the demands of the time.Most schools have registered their teachers for the training. “The fear of the unknown has almost dissipated and most teachers are comfortable now with teaching in the distance mode. Now we need to fine-tune the process so the delivery reaches even the average student. The most challenging bit of online teaching is how to bring up even the average student because a brilliant student will in any case pick up. We have to plug the gaps,” said Sujoy Biswas, head of Rammohan Mission School. Since classwork and homework could not be given or checked in exercise copies in the frequency in which they are done in physical classrooms, many students could not cope up with the syllabus, schools feel. La Martiniere for Boys has registered teachers who are relatively new and need help in understanding the Council’s way of teaching and the final learning outcomes. “There are subjects like chemistry and maths where the teachers need to adopt different methods of teaching to make a student understand the inferences and derivatives. So, the training will help,” said John Rafi, principal of La Martiniere for Boys. “Maths and lab results oriented subjects or ones where applications of formula to derive results are required, need a special delivery in online mode,” felt T H Ireland, principal of St James’ School. “Even if schools re-open, we cannot bring in everyone at one go. So, blended learning will remain for some time. We hope the training helps resolve the issues,” Jessica Gomes Surana, principal of Loreto Convent Entally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/councils-online-sessions-to-clear-doubts-of-teachers/articleshow/80656703.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rollout of infectious diseases hospital may be announced today||MUMBAI: Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal, who will table his first civic budget on Wednesday, is likely to announce a sizeable increase in allocations for healthcare facilities, including a new infectious diseases hospital for the city. Dedicated public health infrastructure for handing infectious diseases is currently limited to two facilities in the city. This will be the last budget before the 2022 civic elections. With its finances hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, Chahal will have to do a careful balancing act to meet demands from various political quarters and find funds for both big-ticket projects and regular upkeep of amenities. BMC officials said the focus will be on public health; a large chunk of funds will be earmarked for creating new health infrastructure and upgrading existing hospitals and dispensaries. With chief minister Uddhav Thackeray keen to make the city flood-free, Chahal is also likely to allocate funds for underground flood tanks and Storm Water Drain (SWD) projects like the Mogra and Mahul pumping stations. With corporators demanding more to woo voters in an election year, Chahal will have to make hard choices on whether to allow discretionary spending or cut costs by reducing both capital and revenue expenditure. Last year, the BMC unveiled a total outlay of Rs 33,441 crore. This year the budget may get truncated unless he chooses to widen the deficit between revenue and expenditure. Officials said due to the pandemic, health may see a 10% hike in allocation. Besides, funds will have to be set aside for major ongoing infrastructure projects like the Coastal Road, Mithi River rejuvenation and upgradation of BMC schools. A senior official said Chahal is likely to announce a new hospital for infectious diseases along with new desalination plants, waste-to-energy units and reconstruction of dilapidated bridges, for which a dedicated fund is likely to be announced. BMC will also announce that it will float infra bonds to raise around Rs 4,000 crore to pay for big ticket infrastructure projects 2023 onwards. With the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP sharing power in the state, Chahal will have to ensure that priority projects of all three parties receive funds, especially in view of the 2022 BMC elections. With octroi abolished, property tax dues of around Rs 20,000 crore pending, and the state giving builders a 50% discount in premiums, Chahal is also likely to explore new sources of income. However, in view of the upcoming elections, there may be no new taxes or hikes in existing ones. Last year, after cutting spending of around 2500 crore on big ticket projects the BMC imposed a flat 20% cut in revenue expenditure across all departments in the face of falling revenues and increased spending on tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rollout-of-infectious-diseases-hosp-may-be-announced-today/articleshow/80657903.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 3, 2021||Ludhiana||6 from city make it through CA final exam||Ludhiana: The result of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India’s (ICAI) CA final exam was released late on Moday. The CA exam was held in November 2020. Over six candidates from the city have made it to finals, including Charu Wahi, Jaspreet Singh, Neha Garg. Charu, 26, has done BCom Hons from Arya College and had scored 246 in group 1, for which she appeared in November 2019, and she scored 223 out of 400 in group 2 in November 2020. She cleared this exam in her first attempt and is aiming to do the CPA from abroad. She said , “It’s been five 5 years since I had been preparing for it and I finally cracked it.” She belongs to a family of chartered accountants and states, “Hard work and patience pays well. We have to stick to material provided by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.” She had her marriage two weeks before the exams and said, “It needs consistent studies of 16-18 hours, but I had total support from my family members as well.” Her hobbies include listening to music and drawing. Jaspreet Singh, 26, has done BCom from Arya College and had scored 203 in group 1, for which he appeared in November 2020, and he scored 200 out of 400 in group 2 in November 2019. He cleared this exam in six attempts and is aiming to practice for six months for experience. He said, “ I want to run my own business.” He belongs to a business family which deals in office furniture. “We should not lose confidence and being regular in studies are the only key mantras. I used to visit PAU library regularly for studying there. I have taken test series and my mentor CA Ashok Goyal has helped me a lot.” Neha Garg, 28, has also done BCom from Arya College and has scored 216 in group 1, for which she appeared in November 2019, and has scored 240 out of 400 in group 2 in November 2020. She cleared this exam in her first attempt and wants to do a job in an MNC or bank .She said , “It's been almost seven years since I had been preparing for group 1 exam for had attempted four times and finally cracked it.” She belongs to a family of businessmen and states that, “My self motivation has driven me to achieve this success. I feel that test series has helped me a lot and I have focussed on revisions and stuck with one specific book.” She has faced ligament fracture just after the exams of group 1 and her father Satpal Garg underwent bypass surgery a month before the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-from-city-make-it-through-ca-final-exam/articleshow/80655619.cms||Mehak Jain
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||T mountaineer meets Prez||Hyderabad: Telangana mountaineer Amgoth Tukaram, who successfully scaled Mount Everest last year, met President Ram Nath Kovind at Parliament House in New Delhi on Tuesday. The President congratulated the mountaineer and lauded Tukaram for his efforts in creating awareness on environment protection. He also met VP M Venkaiah Naidu . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-mountaineer-meets-prez/articleshow/80656692.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Three from Ahmedabad shine in CA final exams||Ahmedabad: Three students from Ahmedabad were among the top 50 students in the country to secure an All India Rank in the CA final exam. The results of the exams were announced on Monday. All India results stood at 31% whereas that in Ahmedabad centre was 26%. Some 215 students appeared for the CA final exam this time around, of which 56 cleared the exam. In November 2019, the CA results stood at 23.4%, when 11 students from Ahmedabad figured in the top 50. Krutang Darji AIR – 26 | RJ Tibrewal College Class 10 – 92% || Class 12 – 88% Son of an IT professional, Krutang aspires to work as a chartered accountant. However, before beginning his practice, he also intends to pursue MBA. “The paper was tough and I did not expect a rank but only thought I would barely clear the exams. The situation was quite uncertain in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Krutang. Interestingly, he took the CA final exams on the same day of his sister’s wedding. “All the preparations and home-bound ceremonies were shifted to my grandmother’s place so that I could pursue my CA final exams preparations. Unfortunately, I missed out each and every ceremony and I regretted it but as I see my results, I am glad and my family is also happy,” said Krutang. Muzibur Rehman Doi || AIR - 30 RJ Tiberwal College Class 10, 12 – 86% Muzibur is the son of an apparel businessman based in Juhapura. “My father always wished to pursue cost accountancy but he could not, due to certain circumstances back then. He had a wish that I should become a chartered accountant. As I see my results, my father and my tuition teacher are both delighted. I am so happy to see my dad’s dream fulfilled,” he said. “I was mentally very disturbed during the preparations in the wake of the Covid-19 situation and repeated change in examination schedule. Time management was crucial for me. Moreover, as there was no coaching, so it was all the more a concern,” said Muzibbur, who aspires to start his own practice. Priyal Choudhary | AIR – 34 Class 10 – 10 CGPA || Class 12 – 96% RJ Tibrewal College Priyal Choudhary wants to pursue a career in the corporate world, having specialization in auditing and financial management. “I want to become a CFA as it interests me,” said Priyal, whose father is a chartered accountant as well. For her, preparation was an uphill task as she herself was diagnosed with Covid-19 just ahead of her exams. “I and my entire family were quarantined as all of us were diagnosed with Covid-19. At one point, I was stressed out and thought I just won’t be able to take the exams. However, after the quarantine was over, my preparations gained momentum and I was confident of being able to take the exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-from-ahmedabad-shine-in-ca-final-exams/articleshow/80656701.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||NCB now arrests Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend for ganja supply||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, on Tuesday arrested Rajput’s friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar for supplying him ganja. Pawar is the 30th accused to be arrested. Pawar was picked up early on Tuesday and taken to NCB’s office. “Pawar was never absconding. He was Rajput’s employee. NCB is giving a different colour to media,’’ said advocate Rameez Imitaz. Sources said Pawar supplied ganja to Rajput through his cook, Deepesh Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-now-arrests-sushants-friend-for-ganja-supply/articleshow/80657905.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||After 2 SDMs, former Dausa SP arrested by ACB in bribery case||JAIPUR: A fortnight after arresting two sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and a middleman for accepting bribes from a road construction company, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested former Dausa superintendent of police (SP) allegedly for corruption in the same case. Senior ACB officers said that they have collected documentary, oral and other incriminating evidence against the accused, Manish Agarwal, a 2010 batch IPS officer currently posted as SP, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). He was arrested from the control room in Jhalana. This is the fourth arrest that the ACB has made in the case of taking bribes from a highway construction company. On January 13, the bureau had arrested Pinki Meena, SDM of Bandikui, and Pushkar Mittal, SDM of Dausa, and a middleman petrol pump owner, Neeraj Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-2-sdms-formerdausa-sp-arrested-byacb-in-bribery-case/articleshow/80657918.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Bonthu joins ‘KTR as CM’ chorus||Hyderabad: Outgoing mayor Bonthu Rammohan on Tuesday joined the bandwagon of TRS leaders in chanting ‘make KTR as CM’ slogan. After worshipping the lord at Tirumala, Rammohan said it (KTR as CM) will happen. When reporters questioned him on municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao being made the chief minister, Rammohan said: “With the blessing of God and CM KCR’s decision, it will happen. When the right time comes, things will fall in place.” Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, deputy speaker T Padma Rao, TRS MLA from Bodhan Shakeel Ahmed were among several leaders who made no bones about KTR being made the next CM. Meanwhile, mayor aspirants are leaving no stone unturned to bag the coveted post. Apart from visiting temples and going beyond their brief to solve civic issues, some of the aspirants are solving the issues in a jiffy, especially those raised on Twitter where KTR is tagged to the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bonthu-joins-ktr-as-cm-chorus/articleshow/80656682.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Chennai woman gets Jaipur teenager’s heart & lungs||JAIPUR: Heart and lungs harvested from a 14-year-old boy from Bassi near Jaipur were flown to Chennai for transplantation on Tuesday morning. The organs were transplanted into a 46-year-old woman undergoing treatment at Chennai’s Apollo Hospital. It was the 41st cadaver organ donation of the state which happened at Sawai Man Singh Hospital. The boy, Vishal, gave a new lease of life to four patients, suffering from end stage diseases of heart, liver and kidneys. Around 3am on Tuesday, heart and lungs of the teenager were taken to the airport. Vishal was not wearing a helmetAround 3am on Tuesday, heart and lungs of the teenager were taken to the airport from where it was flown to Chennai where doctors transplanted it into a woman suffering from heart disorder. Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Medical College and chairman of State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO) said, “The work for harvesting the organs started in the intervening Monday-Tuesday night.” On Republic Day, Vishal along with his two other friends was riding a bike when they hit a bus. At the time of the accident, Vishal was not wearing a helmet and he suffered serious head injuries. He was immediately rushed to SMS Hospital. His treatment continued till January 31 but his condition continued to deteriorate. A committee of doctors at SMS Hospital examined him and declared him brain dead. The family was counselled and encouraged to donate his organs. While his heart and lungs were flown to Chennai, his liver was transplanted into a patient at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Jaipur and his two kidneys were transplanted into patients at SMS Hospital. According SOTTO officials, they did not find any suitable recipient for heart and lungs in Rajasthan and after that they contacted NOTTO and through which his heart and lungs were transported to Chennai. CM Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “My compliments to team SMS Medical College, SOTTO for their untiring efforts to make 14-year-old patient’s organ donation happen today. Four lives have been saved due to the noble cause of organ donation. #Rajasthan is one of the leading state in the country in this field.” “The doctors & staff at SMS Hospital Jaipur, officials of Rajasthan State Transplant Authority, government officials, transport and police officials and transplant co-ordinaries worked so efficiently and seamlessly - that heart and lungs were transported in record time to Chennai,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chennai-woman-gets-city-teens-heart-lungs/articleshow/80657963.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Youth lures 10-year-old girl out of housing society, tries to rape her||NAVI MUMBAI: NRI coastal police have registered a case of kidnapping and rape under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act against an unidentified youth for trying to sexually assault a 10-year-old girl in CBD-Belapur on Sunday midnight. The housing society was hosting a function when the youth lured the girl outside. He took her to an isolated spot near a petrol pump and tried to sexually assault her. The girl managed to escape and run towards the road where an auto driver spotted her. Senior inspector Ravindra Patil said: “We have got the images of the accused, who seems 20-22 years old, but his face is not visible. He tried to target four other girls, but they didn’t take the bait.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/youth-lures-10-year-old-girl-out-of-housing-society-tries-to-rape-her/articleshow/80656709.cms||George Mendonca
February 3, 2021||Agra||After Rajasthan, over 2,000 farmers from MP set to join protesters in Ghazipur, says BKU||AGRA: A fresh batch of over 2,000 farmers, this time from Madhya Pradesh, are expected to join protesters at Ghazipur border in the next few days, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) claimed here on Tuesday. The movement of farmers from states other than Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh gathered momentum after an emotional appeal by BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait last week. On Monday, farmer leaders from as far as Karnataka and Maharashtra addressed a ‘mahapanchayat’ held in Bijnor, a never-before spectacle for local farmers. Bhopal-based farmer leader Anil Yadav told TOI, “In the next two days, 2,000 farmers from different districts of MP will reach Ghazipur border. They have been told to launch protests wherever they are stopped by police.” BKU’s UP president Rajveer Singh Jadoun also attended a public meeting in Dabra town of Gwalior district on Tuesday afternoon. “We are getting overwhelming support from MP. Farmer leaders across the state have expressed complete support for Rakesh Tikait. The sentiments of farmers in MP are similar to those in western UP. They want to come to the Ghazipur border to show support. We have welcomed them,” Jadoun told TOI. “The protest at Ghazipur border will intensify in the next few days. We are working on different plans. The central government will have to take back the three farm laws and guarantee MSP to the farmers,” he added. While Yadav claimed, “In last four days, over 500 people from different districts of MP have already reached Ghazipur border. Over two dozen batches of farmers are on their way to the protest site. Farmers will also be staging a protest at the local level.” When contacted, district president of BKU in MP's Damoh, Mukesh Kumar Patel, said, “We are holding public meetings to unite farmers. On February 9, we will take out a massive tractor parade in the district. Over 500 tractors and 5,000 farmers will participate in it.” Senior BKU leader Dharmendra Malik, who was at Ghazipur border, said, “We are getting massive support from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Thousands of farmers will be joining protests from Madhya Pradesh. Over 2,000 people from Rajasthan are already camping at the protest site. We are also getting support from farmer leaders in southern India and from northeast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-rajasthan-over-2000-farmers-from-mp-set-to-join-protesters-in-ghazipur-says-bku/articleshow/80654498.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Seven held for 45-year-old woman’s murder||HYDERABAD: Seven persons have been arrested for the murder of a 45-year-old woman from Narayanpur. The accused allegedly killed the woman suspecting that she performed black magic. Choutuppal police have arrested M Narsimha, 30, a poultry businessman, his brother M Nagesh, 26, a truck driver, their parents, M Baddu, 65, a tractor driver, and M Bangari, 60, their associates — A Seetharam, 45, K Shanker, 45 and K Naresh, 23, of Gandhi Nagar thanda in Narayanpur mandal — for allegedly abducting and killing N Bujji, 45 on Sunday. According to police, Bujji was a neighbour of Narsimha. On December 30, Narsimha’s brother Rajesh got electrocuted at their poultry farm. On the day of his death and subsequently, Bujji mentioned several times to Rajesh’s family members that he might have died due to sorcery. “Subsequently, chicken in the poultry farm died due to unknown illness and Narsimha’s wife too fell ill. He suspected that Bujji was performing black magic and decided to eliminate her,” DCP, Bhongir, Narayana Reddy said. Police arrested the accused from Narsimha’s poultry farm on Tuesday and they were sent in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-held-for-45-yr-old-womans-murder/articleshow/80656696.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Bogus doctor cheating patients’ kin held in Pune||PUNE: A 34-year-old school dropout from Navi Peth was arrested on Tuesday for cheating several relatives of patients undergoing treatment in hospitals posing as a doctor from December last year. The Bund Garden police identified the arrested person as Amit Kamble. He used to call the kin of the patients admitted in Sassoon General Hospital and other private health hubs in the city, and demand money from them on the pretext of buying costly medicines for the ailing people. Acting on a tip-off, a police team led by senior inspector Yashwant Gawari and comprising sub-inspector Ramkrishna Dalvi arrested Kamble — an unemployed man — from a place in the old part of the city. Gawari said, “Dalvi is good at mimicry and he has been cheating people from 2010. So far, a total of 21 offences of cheating have been registered against him. He became more active from December last year.” Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Sagar Patil said “The police team analysed the technical data in the case and arrested Kamble.” A senior police officer said, “The police analysed the data of the UPI application on which the duped kin of the patients transferred money. Also, the cellphone used by Kamble was put under observation.” From December 2020, the cybercrime police station received seven complaints pertaining to an unidentified man cheating relatives of patients admitted to various hospitals in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bogus-doc-cheating-patients-kin-held/articleshow/80657949.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Police codify database of 1.4 lakh sex offenders||Vijayawada: In a bid to curb crimes against women, AP police have formulated a database comprising 1.4 lakh sexual offenders and geotagged them across the state. Officials informed chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, during a review meeting on various initiatives taken to implement the Disha Act on Monday, about the geotagging of 1.4 lakh people involved in sexual offences including rape. The state saw a 7.5% reduction in crime rate against women in 2020 compared to 2019. After the passing of the Disha Bill in December, officials noted that they have been following the spirit of the legislation by submitting charge-sheets within seven days in 471 cases. The idea of the Disha Act is to initiate action against perpetrators, through special courts, within 21 days after a crime is committed. Apart from this, officials also said they have opened 1,531 cyberbully sheets against online harassers. Till date, a total of 4,178 cases have been received between Jan 1 and Jan 24, 2021. The Disha one-stop centres across the state are functional with full staff strength in teaching and district hospitals. To make police stations more women-friendly, the CM directed the police department to come up with a women help desk at every police station across the state. Close to 700 such help desks have already been set up and are set for launch, the CM was informed. The CM will soon inaugurate Disha Patrol as part of visible policing initiative for women safety. Close to 900 GPS-fitted scooters will be launched next month under the initiative. The vehicles will cover educational institutions, hostels and market places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-codify-database-of-1-4-lakh-sex-offenders/articleshow/80655628.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 3, 2021||Pune||Alert staffers foil robbery bid at finance firm in Pune||PUNE: Alert staffers of a private finance firm’s Hinjewadi branch foiled a robbery attempt by four men on Monday afternoon. Despite being held at gunpoint, the employees showed presence of mind and pushed the siren button, prompting the suspects to flee from the spot. Sanskruti Sharan (26), the branch manager of the firm, lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police. Balkrishna Sawant, senior inspector, Hinjewadi police, told TOI, “There was gold worth crores inside the branch. But due to the bravery and courage demonstrated by the employees, the suspects failed to rob anything. We have some clues about the suspects and will arrest them soon.” The financial firm, located on the first floor of a building at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk in Hinjewadi, has a separate access from outside. Police said around 2pm on Monday, a man came to the branch on the pretext of obtaining loan against gold ornaments. There were four employees, including the manager, at that time. After collecting relevant information, he told the employees that he would return with gold ornaments. “Within a few minutes, the man returned with three of his accomplices. He pulled out a firearm and asked the employees to hand over gold and cash in the branch,” Sawant said. “The manager and other employees raised an alarm and pushed the siren button. As soon as the siren went off, the robbers escaped from the spot,” the senior inspector said. He said that the finance firm has installed a system whereby any employee can access the siren button during emergency. A team from the Hinjewadi police reached the spot.  “The complainant could give description of three suspects. Our probe is on,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alert-staffers-foil-robbery-bid-at-finance-firm/articleshow/80657957.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA issues tenders for multi-level car park||VISAKHAPATNAM: The long-awaited multi-level car parking facility (MLCP) is going to be a reality as the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has issued tenders to develop an 11-level MLCP in the busy Siripuram junction of Vizag city. Of the 11-level structure or seven-floor building, five floors will be earmarked for parking, which can accommodate 450 four-wheelers and 600 two-wheelers. This is going to be the biggest multi-level car parking facility in the public setup in Visakhapatnam, perhaps in Andhra Pradesh. The development of the ramp-based MLCP and commercial space is expected to cost about Rs 65 crore to the urban development authority. The MLCP would come up on 1.35 acres of vacant land of the VMRDA, situated adjacent to its office premises in Siripuram. The land is a contagious parcel with roads on three sides and the VMRDA building on the other side. This major commercial node of the city largely comprises commercial, office, institutional and residential activities. The proposed MLCP building will consist of seven floors, including five floors (three floor that will comprise cellars, first and second floors) for parking, one stilt/ground floor for commercial space and five floors of institutional and office area. The terrace can be used for setting up a high-end restaurant with a beach view. Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited is the project management consultant. The VMRDA had proposed the parking facility much before, but it did not make headway due to feasibility issues and finances involved in the project. Due to the same, the VMRDA later incorporated the commercial space aspect in the project, hoping to attract more private parties and reduce the car parking tariff. The VMRDA hopes that the plot, overlooking the sea, will become an ideal location given the commercial activity and potential of the locality. Apart from sorting out parking woes in the vicinity, the VMRDA may get a revenue of Rs 50 to Rs 60 lakh per month. The VMRDA officials say the proposed site will prove to be an ideal location for development of commercial space along with MLCP as tens of major commercial establishments are located in a 500-metre radius from the location of the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-issues-tenders-for-multi-level-car-park/articleshow/80655670.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 3, 2021||Agra||Rain likely in Agra region||Agra: Agra region is likely to receive rainfall on Thursday and Friday due to western disturbance, predicts the metrological department. High level of relative humidity and westerly winds may cause rainfall, says weatherman, predicting overcast sky and cold winds in the region for the next five days. On Tuesday, people woke up to mild fog. The minimum temperature in the district was recorded at 8.4 degrees Celsius— one degree below normal — while the maximum temperature was recorded at 28.3 degrees Celsius. However, the sunshine brought some relief in the afternoon. Besides Agra, cold wave swept Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri districts. Aligarh remained colder than Agra with the maximum temperature here settled around 25 degrees Celsius — 3.3 notches below the normal. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra was recorded at 285 (poor category) by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) with particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. According to CPCB, a poor AQI results in breathing discomfort to most on prolonged exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rain-likely-in-agra-region/articleshow/80654506.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Pvt schools plan to write to CM on campus reopening||Kolkata: The Bengal government’s decision to re-open schools coincided with several private schools planning to write to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting her to reopen schools, shut since March last year due to the pandemic, at the earliest. The letter will enumerate how the school authorities have planned to reopen schools in a phased manner with all safety guidelines of the government in place. It will also illustrate why it is important that the schools are reopened at this stage which will be of immense help to the students who will be appearing for their boards in a few weeks from now. Several hundred private schools from Bengal were keen to talk to the state government on the school re-opening issue. The Centre had in an SOP on September 30 allowed for phased re-opening of high schools. However, unless the Bengal government gave its nod, the schools could not reopen their campuses for students. The schools, however, have started limited functioning by calling teachers to the school. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has written to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee — and CMs of all other states — seeking permission to reopen schools by January 4, 2021 for students of classes X and XII before their board examinations. School authorities said this was also a strategy to stress upon the government that administration of schools across the city was unanimous about a phased reopening. Principals told TOI they had already drawn up a standard operating procedure. “We are fully aware of our responsibility towards the children and teachers. Keeping the pandemic in mind we plan to open in a phased manner. For our school, we have planned to call only those students who need to do practical work before their board examinations because it is very important for them. We will call them in batches so that the labs and washroom are not crowded,” said a principal of a south Kolkata school. Principals have also been writing to the parents explaining how the arrangements made by the school authorities will ensure that their wards are safe in schools. Parents with children in lower classes have not been very enthusiastic about this idea and want the vaccination drive to complete before schools reopen. Principal of a south Kolkata school said: “The proposal is to send the letter to the chief minister urging her to reopen schools at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-schools-plan-to-write-to-cm-on-campus-reopening/articleshow/80656723.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||At over 36 C, Tuesday was hottest day of the season||Mumbai: The city recorded the season’s hottest day on Tuesday with the temperature rising to 36.3 degree Celsius—also the highest so far this year. Indian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory, which represents the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees, 4.9 degrees above normal. The highest till date was recorded on January 12 at 35.3 degrees. In Colaba, too, the maximum temperature on Tuesday was 33.8 degrees, 3.5 degrees above normal. Temperatures rose after a week-long cold spell. Minimum temperatures at both the observatories were also higher than normal. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, tweeted: “...In the morning there was land breeze with easterly component that continued to dominate almost till 3.30 pm. This delayed the setting of sea breeze which normally happens before 1 pm. However, gradual reduction in both day and night temperatures are expected in the coming four to five days.” On Tuesday, the city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) dropped to 283 from Monday’s 221, though it remained in the poor category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-over-36-c-tuesday-was-hottest-day-of-the-season/articleshow/80655690.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM to continue with 2-term norm for MLAs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOTTAYAM: CPM state secretariat that met on Tuesday is learnt to have decided to continue with the two-term norm as the general criterion while selecting candidates for upcoming assembly poll. The norm says that MLAs, who have won consecutively from a constituency two times, needn’t be considered for candidature. However, CPM used to give exemption to leaders who the party feels are irreplaceable and to ensure win constituencies where only incumbent MLA appears winnable. Sources said broad guidelines for candidate selection will be presented at the state committee meeting on Wednesday though discussion on candidates will be held only after the completion of LDF regional rallies planned from mid-February. With LDF government seeking a re-election, most incumbent ministers may contest again as the party seeks vote for continuance in office. CPM leadership also decided not to rake up a controversy (Sabarimala issue) during this poll season. As the issue is sub-judice, party leaders will cite that and won’t discuss its merit. The secretariat, which also discussed UDF’s campaign targeting acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan, decided to clarify the party’s stand that criticizing Muslim League has nothing to do with CPM’s approach towards Muslim community. Though a section of the leaders felt that Vijayaraghavan should have been careful while giving a statement last week alleging communal motives for the discussion held between Congress and IUML leaders, others felt that exposing the League would help the party to consolidate votes of other Muslim factions. Power minister MM Mani, who spoke to reporters after the meeting, said CPM was the only party which came to the rescue of Muslim community whenever there was a crisis. He recalled how leaders like EMS, MV Raghavan and Pinarayi Vijayan stood guard for the community during Thalassery riot. “When there was a massacre in Marad, CPM took a strong stand,” he said. Referring to Congress, Mani said leaders of that party had criticized EMS when the latter decided to form Malappuram by alleging that EMS was trying to create a Pakistan in Kerala. In Kottayam, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran didn’t hide his displeasure over Vijayaraghavan’s statement against IUML. He said that it is Vijayaraghavan who must decide whether he should make such statements. Rajendran said that while LDF is secular, UDF is resorting to appeasement of minorities. Minority and majority communalism are dangerous, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-to-continue-with-2-term-norm-for-mlas-sujit/articleshow/80656717.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED adds name of Kapil Wadhawan in Mirchi case||MUMBAI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) submitted a supplementary chargesheet in a money-laundering case against drug smuggler, the late Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi, before a special court on Monday, in which it named Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) promoter Kapil Wadhawan as an accused. The court is yet to take cognizance of it. ED had arrested Wadhawan in January last year and he is in jail with his brother Dheeraj aka Baba Dewan, in the case. The new chargesheet mentioned Mirchi’s underworld activities, proximity to Dawood Ibrahim and drug business based on statements and documents. It is learnt that ED summoned witnesses from abroad to record statements. ED mentioned business deals of Mirchi in India and abroad. In December 2019, ED filed the first chargesheet, naming Mirchi, his wife Hajra, their sons Asif and Junaid, and others. ED also named DHFL promoter Dheeraj. They did not name Kapil in the first chargesheet as his role was not clear then. ED investigated Kapil’s role and learnt he helped Dheeraj negotiate for Mirchi’s three buildings in Worli. Mirchi was running the drug business in India and fled after the 1993 Mumbai blast executed by Pakistan-based Dawood Ibrahim. Mirchi was operating his drug business from Dubai and then shifted to London, where he died in 2013. Mirchi allegedly owned Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge and Sea View (now demolished) on the seashore behind Samudra Mahal in Worli. The building belonged to Sir Mohammad Yusuf Trust, from whom Mirchi purchased it in 1990. But the trust agreed to remain proxy owner of properties as Mirchi was facing criminal cases in India. The buildings were attached by Indian agencies during probe against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-adds-name-of-kapil-wadhawan-in-mirchi-case/articleshow/80657937.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Kishan to steer BJP poll strategy in TN||Hyderabad: BJP has appointed minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy as election in-charge for Tamil Nadu. Apart from Kishan, Union minister Pralhad Joshi would be election in-charge for Kerala and Arjun Ram Meghwal for Puducherry election. Earlier, Kishan Reddy was national secretary of BJP Yuva Morcha. Another leader Ram Madhav was the election in-charge in northern eastern states Meanwhile, Adilabad MP Soyam Bapu Rao was appointed as Railway Board member .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-to-steer-bjp-poll-strategy-in-tn/articleshow/80656719.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Ravindra Bharathi to reopen on Feb 7||Hyderabad: After over 10 months of hosting events on virtual platforms, Ravindra Bharathi is set to reopen its auditorium to the public from February 7. “We were waiting for comprehensive guidelines from the government before taking the decision to allow 100% occupancy,” said Mamidi Harikrishna, director, department of language and culture. Online workshops and programmes, however, will continue alongside offline performances. “While we were initially hesitant about online classes and shows, the response from the audience has been tremendous. This is because there is no physical constraint in attending a virtual workshop,” he explained. The department started online classes for classical music and dance a month into the lockdown and has since been hosting three programmes or workshops a day on its social media platforms. Between the Janata Curfew on March 22, 2020 and February 1, over 900 virtual events were conducted and attended by viewers and participants from across the globe. As many as 7,000 people attended the theatre festival, a feat that could not have been achieved had it been held offline, he said. Between the Janata Curfew on March 22, 2020 and February 1, over 900 virtual events were conducted and attended by viewers and participants from across the globe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ravindra-bharathi-to-reopen-on-feb-7/articleshow/80656713.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Man slits wife’s throat in AP's Chittoor district||TIRUPATI: A 36-year-old man allegedly killed his wife near KVB Puram in Chittoor district on Tuesday. According to police, the victim was identified as Suhasini (30) who had married Suri Babu about 12 years ago. The victim had separated from her husband and was living alone with her three school-going daughters. The accused had sought a divorce a few years ago, suspecing Suhasini was having an extramarital affair. Suhasini, who did not agree to a divorce, separated and lived alone with her daughters. Suri Babu, who developed a grudge, waylaid Suhasini on Tuesday and killed her by slitting her throat. Police have launched a hunt to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-slits-wifes-throat-in-chittoor-district/articleshow/80655698.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 3, 2021||Agra||Five arrested in connection with CTET paper leak in Agra||Agra: While five persons, including a director of a private coaching institute, were arrested in connection with the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) examination paper leak in Agra on Tuesday, three others, including a ‘Munnabhai’, were nabbed in Mainpuri for impersonating a candidate at the examination held on Sunday.The examination was conducted in two shifts on Sunday at 96 centres across Agra district. The solved paper was leaked two hours before the commencement of the exam at 9:30 am. The solved paper was viral on social media 40 minutes before the exam, said police, adding that the solved paper was bought by a student, Mohit Yadav, for Rs 3 lakh from a person from Prayagraj.Mohit told police that he had bought the solved paper and circulated it to others in order to make money and many persons were involved in this plan. While police have arrested Apex Coaching director Vikas Sharma, teacher Prabhat Sharma and three students Mohit, Kuldeep Fauzdar and Than Singh, whereas two others— Prashant Yadav and Mano Yadav-- are still absconding.Agra SSP Babloo Kumar said that the cost of the solved paper was Rs 50,000 each. “Seven mobile phones have been seized by the police and have been sent for data analysis to develop the link of the network,” he said, adding that those who conducted the exam at their centres have also been informed.Police have recovered mobile phones, nine sets of CTET paper photocopies along with cash of Rs 13,150. The FIR has been registered against them under relevant sections of IPC, IT Act and UP Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act at Lohamandi police station.In Mainpuri, police arrested three persons, including Mahendra Singh, who impersonated and appeared for the CTET exam on behalf of Rahul Verma in 'Munnabhai' style. During interrogation, Singh claimed that he was assured Rs 50,000 to appear in the written examination on behalf of Rahul and Akshay had introduced him to the candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-arrested-in-connection-with-ctet-paper-leak-in-agra/articleshow/80654509.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||9-m widening policy ‘only for roads in DP’||PUNE: The state urban development secretary, Bhushan Gagrani, on Tuesday told TOI that the Maharashtra government’s policy to widen six-metre roads to nine metres in the municipal corporation areas in Maharashtra pertained only to those streets listed in the Development Plan (DP) of those cities. “It is not meant for internal layout roads which are not in the DP,” the senior bureaucrat said, adding that the corporations can propose relaxation in the widening policy in case of “cul-de-sac” (street or passage closed at one end), which are part of the DP. When TOI pointed out that several citizens had lodged an official objection stating that lanes in their internal layouts and those culminating into dead ends had been shortlisted for widening in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s proposal, Gagrani said, “I shall seek information about the PMC’s road-widening proposal.” Under its “Planning Controversy” campaign, TOI has published a series of reports since January 24, 2021, highlighting the objections raised by the citizens. In the February 1, 2021 edition, TOI had published a report “TP scheme roads added for uniform policy: Panel chief”. The PMC’s standing committee chairman, Hemant Rasane, had told TOI that the public streets in plotted layouts, approved Gunthewari and approved TP schemes were included in addition to the roads proposed by the administration to have a uniform road-widening policy across the city and to usher in transparency. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had said the BJP acted as per the state guidelines and the road-widening would not be forced if a majority of the citizens in a lane objected to it. Asked if the committee followed the right process under Section 210 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act by passing a resolution asking the commissioner to include these roads, Gagrani said, “I shall not comment on the use of Section 210 of the MMC Act as that is PMC’s call. I can only inform you about the state policy on nine-metre-wide roads.” He said, “The nine-metre widening proposed under the unified Development Control regulations for Maharashtra state pertains only to the roads listed in the DP. It has been discussed in all details over the last four years. These link lanes connecting major roads were under stress because of traffic and on-street parking. These need to be widened to nine metres.” When pointed out that the residents had objected to the PMC’s proposal to include lanes culminating into dead ends and which were not thoroughfares, Gagrani said, “I have not seen the PMC’s road-widening plan. But the corporation can table a proposal to offer relaxation (from nine-metre widening) in case of cul-de-sac. There is a provision for the same in the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-metre-widening-policy-only-for-roads-in-dp-urban-development-secretary/articleshow/80657985.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Ex-AMU student leader booked for speech at Elgar Parishad 2021||PUNE: The Pune police on Tuesday night booked former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student-leader Sharjeel Usmani on the charge of alleged provocative speech at the “Elgar Parishad 2021” held in the city on January 30. “We have registered an offence under Section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) of the Indian Penal Code following a preliminary inquiry and after going through a video of the speech made at the Parishad,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Sagar Patil told TOI. Usmani hails from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and was earlier arrested by the UP police in relation to the anti-NRC, anti-CAA protests. State BJP youth wing leader Pradeep Gavade had filed a complaint application with the Swargate police seeking action against Usmani for promoting enmity between different groups through his speech. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had said on Monday that they were verifying it and would take a call on registering an offence. BJP MLA Atul Bhatlkalkar also filed a police complaint at the Dindoshi police station in Mumbai. BJP’s leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has written to the chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, demanding action against Usmani. Fadnavis alleged Usmani’s speech was “anti-Hindutva and spread communal hatred”. He said the MVA government should not have given permission for the Parishad given the outcome of the last conclave. Author-activist Arundhati Roy, former IPS officer S M Mushrif, former Bombay high court judge B G Kolse-Patil and former bureaucrat Kannan Gopinath were among the persons who addressed the “Elgar Parishad 2021”, held after a gap of three years as a part of the “Koregaon Bhima Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan” by various organisations. The earlier Elgar Parishad held on December 31, 2017, was followed by caste clashes at the Koregaon Bhima war memorial near Pune. The police claimed in a subsequent probe that the Parishad was organised as a part of a larger conspiracy by the banned CPI-Maoist outfit to foment trouble and overthrow the government. Sixteen activists have since been arrested in the “Elgar Parishad 2017” case for their alleged links with the Maoists. The 2021 event was held against this backdrop and immediately drew a complaint application from the BJP’s youth wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-books-ex-amu-student-on-charge-of-provocative-speech-at-elgar-parishad-2021/articleshow/80658020.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Focus on tax evasion too, observes Delhi HC while hearing PIL on garbage||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a PIL that sought its intervention to tackle the problem of garbage strewn in the city by striking sanitation workers. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said there were many PILs on citizens rights, but nothing seeking to enforce duties. “There are many public interest activists who file PILs. Every time they walk on the road, they point out that the government has done this or that. They do not see the issue of tax evasion while walking on the road,” the Chief Justice remarked. The bench then cited an example. “Activists of Delhi should also bring forth PILs on tax evasion. These citizens are not performing their duties. We have heard enough about your rights, where is the PIL to perform the duties by the citizens? You people are not able to see the violation of the performance of the duty by the public,” it said. The court was hearing a petition related to the garbage issue, especially in the Central Delhi area, due to alleged failure of civic agencies. The petitioner asserted that non-availability of funds with corporations was no reason for them to not perform their duty. However, following the court’s indication, the plea was withdrawn. Meanwhile, another bench of the high court asked North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday as to why FIRs were not registered against those who had dumped garbage on the streets of Model Town. It was hearing a plea alleging that sanitation workers, who have been on strike for about three weeks, have been dumping garbage in “the middle of the residential areas, markets and public roads.” Justice Saneev Sachdeva directed the concerned deputy commissioner of the corporation to virtually join the proceedings in the matter on Friday, if the strike is not over by then and garbage collection work has not begun. “If the strike is over and work is going on, then he need not join,” the court said.During the hearing, the court asked the corporation “why no FIRs lodged against those dumping garbage on the streets? What are you going to do about it?” The court warned that if nothing was done soon by the corporation, residents of Model Town would get the garbage collected from the streets and dumped outside the municipal officials’ offices. It was hearing a plea by the Federation of Model Town Associations, which has contended that sanitation workers of the corporation are not only “wilfully absenting themselves from work for more than three weeks and not performing their statutory duties of removing garbage,” but they are also allegedly “bringing trucks full of garbage and filth and dumping them in the middle of the residential areas, markets and public roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/focus-on-tax-evasion-too-observes-hc-while-hearing-pil-on-garbage/articleshow/80657952.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Missing from Ghazipur, farmer, 31, found dead in Delhi hosp||Pilibhit: Missing for the last nine days, the body of a 31-year-old Pilibhit farmer was traced to a hospital in Delhi where police claimed that he was killed in an accident. The family members, after seeing the body, alleged that he had been murdered. Balvinder Singh, a farmer from Bhopatpur village of Pilibhit, had left home on January 23 to take part in the farmers’ protest at Ghazipur border, from where he went missing under mysterious circumstances on January 24. Balvinder’s younger brother, Virender Singh, told TOI over phone that he was carrying home the body after post mortem. Virender said that he was searching for his brother near Ghazipur for the last one week. Farmers from Pilibhit, who had accompanied his brother, were unable to give any information about him. Virender returned home on January 30, and filed a missing complaint. He also published a search notice in NCR newspapers seeking any information about Balvinder. “On February 1, Delhi Police called saying that Balvinder was killed in an accident,” Virender said. “Had my brother collided with a speeding vehicle, as alleged by Delhi Police, his abdomen and leg bones would have been crushed. But we found no sign of injuries on any part of his body barring multiple wounds on his face, which looked as if someone had crushed it,” Virender said. When contacted, Pilibhit’s superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav told TOI that Delhi Police had only shared information on Balvinder Singh’s accidental death with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-from-ghazipur-farmer-31-found-dead-in-delhi-hosp/articleshow/80655746.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 3, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Official data reveals KIIFB-linked infractions||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government spent most of the proceeds of the masala bonds raised abroad on zero-interest yielding welfare projects – allegedly in violation of Article 293(1) of the Constitution. Moreover, the government paid Rs 313.77 crore as interest on the money raised, official figures show. Kiifb had raised Rs 2,150 crore via masala bonds at a comparatively high interest rate of 9.723% and had parked the funds at a lower rate of interest in banks. The government has so far spent Rs 2,076.11 crore of the corpus, according to its own data. As of January 13, as many as 734 projects of 18 departments have received funding. The majority are spread across four departments -- general education (234), public works (211), health & family welfare (77), and water resources (74). Though government claims that Kiifb is a corporate body, most of the projects undertaken by the agency are welfare projects that would not yield any returns – which would have helped in repaying loans. Some of the projects involved improving basic school infrastructure, improving health infrastructure, paying for land acquisition and construction of bridges and roads. Such projects could easily have been financed with low interest-bearing development grants, of the sort issued by agencies such as the World Bank. In 2019-20, Kiifb paid Rs 401.12 crore to service its entire debt -- masala bonds, loans availed from banks and other financial institutions (Nabard, SBI, Union Bank, Indian Bank, Syndicate Bank), KSFE bonds and guarantee commission. “More than Kiifb’s way of spending the funds, what makes it more dubious is that the funds have been availed at a high interest rate from overseas markets. The Canadian pension fund investment, that was being transacted at a small rate of interest to the tune of three to four percentage before, was availed at an exorbitant rate by Kiifb. Instead, we could have floated bonds under agencies like the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation like many other states. State financing agencies are availing refinancing funds at 9-9.25% interest. The rate of interest could have been 7.5-8% which is the usual rate of borrowing for other state government-guaranteed bonds,” a government official said. Even before the comptroller and auditor general termed the Kerala infrastructure investment fund board’s practice of availing funds from overseas markets unconstitutional, a 2019 audit had flagged the unhealthy practice of raising money at high interest and parking the funds in private banks. In addition to Rs 2,150 crore raised through masala bonds, Kiifb also availed loans from Nabard (Rs 565 crore at 9.30%), SBI (Rs 1,000 crore at 9.15%), Indian Bank (Rs 500 crore at 9.15%) and Union Bank of India (Rs 500 crore at 8.95%). All these loans were secured for a period of 10-12 years with a repayment period moratorium of two years. These would mean that future governments will have to repay it, as the government is the guarantor for all loans availed by Kiifb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/official-data-reveals-kiifb-linked-infractions/articleshow/80656747.cms||KP Saikiran
February 3, 2021||Agra||Mainpuri cops add rape charges in minor’s abduction case||Agra: Days after a 13-year-old girl lodged a complaint alleging that she was kidnapped on January 15, held captive by her kidnappers in Delhi and repeatedly gang-raped for eight days, Mainpuri police added gang rape charges in the abduction FIR after she recorded her statement before the magistrate. Police have also arrested two of the three named accused -- Hariom, 15, and Guddu, 22 -- from Delhi. The third accused, Aakash, is still absconding. Police have also imposed POCSO charges against them. According to police, the girl was allegedly kidnapped by the three suspects in the morning on January 15. She was rescued by her parents from Delhi on January 25. She then lodged a police complaint against the accused at Aucha police station in Mainpuri. Though the police had registered an FIR, the girl’s family members alleged that they had initially toned down the charges against the accused and merely registered a case of abduction against them under section 363 and 366 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mainpuri-cops-add-rape-charges-in-minors-abduction-case/articleshow/80654522.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Fake vehicle insurance business still thrives in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The fake vehicle insurance scam seems to be continuing unabated in the city despite Telangana police’s crackdown on the illegal business which led to the arrest of 11 persons including an insurance agent within a month. Even after the police seized 1,125 fake insurance certificates from the possession of the accused last month, TOI found that the racket is much bigger than what it seemed like after the crackdown last month. TOI approached an agent involved in the activity along with an auto driver (transport vehicle owner) to see if he can get a fake insurance for his vehicle. The transport vehicle owner could obtain fake insurance certificate within a day by paying just Rs 600 to an agent at the RTO. “More than 90 percent of auto drivers, two-wheeler riders and even a few school buses and vans get vehicle insurance before they take their vehicles to the RTO for a fitness certificate. These agents have a printed copy of a fake insurance ready where they just type in the details of the vehicle owner from their RC (registration certificate) and hand over the insurance copy directly to the vehicle owner either on the same day or the next day,” said M Dayanand, general secretary, Telangana Auto and Motor Vehicle Union. “The accused can execute their fraud as they are well aware that integration of insurance policies is not done with RTA information system,” he added. “Vehicle owners who approach these agents for fake insurance only see the money they save by paying these agents which is just one fourth of what the original insurance costs. What they fail to understand is that they will lose out on the benefits of the insurance policy covers in case of damages or losses in the situation of an accident, natural calamities, collisions, fire, etc,” said Praveen Kumar of a private insurance firm. To issue a fake insurance policy, agents usually charge Rs 600 to Rs 800 for an auto, Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 for two-wheeler, Rs 5,000 for car and Rs 10,000 for goods vehicles. Insurance certificate is mandatory for vehicle owners to get a fitness certificate from the RTO. Agents also type in the names of insurance companies such as HDFC Ergo general insurance, IFFCO-TOKIP general insurance, Reliance general insurance, Kotak general insurance, Chola MS general insurance, Future general insurance, Shreeram general insurance and Royal Sundaram general insurance to ensure that it looks like an original policy certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-vehicle-insurance-business-still-thrives-in-city/articleshow/80656715.cms||Moulika.KV
February 3, 2021||India||2 Lt Gens at war withdraw complaints as Army chief orders court of inquiry||NEW DELHI: The Army is finalising a court of inquiry (CoI) into a bitter tussle between top two generals of the crucial Jaipur-based South Western Command (SWC) — an unprecedented development in the top echelons of the over-13-lakh-strong force in recent history. The two warring generals, SWC chief Lt Gen Alok Kler and his second-in-command, Lt Gen K K Repswal, withdrew their complaints against each other on Tuesday, sources said. Top sources, however, said the final decision will be taken by Army chief Gen M M Naravane as the “higher convening authority” of the CoI after the report is submitted to him in a few days. The CoI is headed by Lucknow-based Central Command chief Lt Gen I S Ghuman, who is senior to the two officers involved in the unseemly fracas. Both come from illustrious military familiesThe “serious” allegations and counter-allegations range from administrative lapses and major functional troubles to even misuse of authority on certain fronts, sources said. While Lt Gen Kler, an armoured corps officer, is slated to retire on March 31, Lt Gen Repswal, who is from the Corps of Engineers, has been transferred to the Eastern Command in Kolkata. Both of them come from illustrious military families, with several of their relatives having served in top positions in the Army and IAF. The rift between the two generals had been festering for long, with both making representations and complaining about each other’s conduct to the Army chief last year. Gen Naravane had even deputed then vice-chief Lt Gen SK Saini, who retired on January 31, to inquire into the matter. “The CoI was ordered by Gen Naravane after it was found that certain serious issues raised by the two officers required greater scrutiny. The day-to-day functioning of the SWC has been badly affected,” an officer said. SWC, one of the six operational or regional commands of the Army headed by senior lieutenant generals, was established in 2005 as part of the overall plan to restructure formations based along the Indo-Pak border to strengthen strike capabilities for multiple thrusts across the border. Though there have been some rifts between Army commanders and their senior subordinates over the last 2-3 decades, this is the first time that things have come to such a head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-lt-gens-at-war-withdraw-complaints-as-army-chief-orders-court-of-inquiry/articleshow/80659839.cms||Rajat Pandit
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Another corporator in child norm row||Hyderabad: Days after a losing TRS candidate approached the city civil court against an AIMIM corporator from Erragadda, another ruling party candidate who lost to BJP corporator D Venkatesh in Jubilee Hills has filed a writ petition in high court urging it to declare the latter’s election as illegal for having more than two children. With mayoral election scheduled for February 11, the TRS candidate, K Suryanarayana, also urged the court not to allow Venkatesh to take oath as a GHMC corporator. This is the third instance of losing candidates filing complaints in the last 20 days against those who won as corporators. Suryanarayana alleged that Venkatesh has three children. Under section 21-B of the GHMC Act, those with more than two children cannot contest the municipal elections. In case the candidate violates the two-children norm, he or she will be disqualified. The TRS leader said Venkatesh’s poll result should be declared as null and void for violation of the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-corporator-in-child-norm-row/articleshow/80656726.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||BMC notice: Bombay HC relief for Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Actor Kangana Ranaut got relief for two days from Bombay HC on Tuesday against civic demolition action.  The actor appealed before the HC against dismissal by a city civil court of her plea for interim protection after BMC issued her a notice alleging unauthorised alterations and “merger of three flats’’ in Khar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-notice-hc-relief-for-kangana/articleshow/80658019.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Men travel from Odisha on moped with 111-kg ganja, held||Aurangabad: The special squad of the Aurangabad city police laid a trap and nabbed three accused along with more than 111kg of marijuana, with a market valuation of nearly Rs 22 lakh, in the early hours of Tuesday. The accused had collected and packed the high-quality marijuana from jungles in Odisha and travelled for over 900 km, across three state borders, on a moped to reach Aurangabad. After reaching the outskirts on the city, the accused moved the contraband into an autorickshaw brought by their boss, before starting their journey in the city. Police have also seized multiple strips of painkiller medicines — which the accused would consume to avoid body ache due to riding a two-wheeler for such long distance — apart from water bottles and food packets the accused were carrying with them. The accused were heading towards Cambridge square from the Jhalta Phata area and the banned substance, which was systematically packed in brown-coloured air-tight and waterproof packets stuffed under the seat of the three-wheeler. The accused have been identified as 36-year-old Bakhtiyar Khan (alias Raja) of Sharif Colony in the Kiradpura area, Shaikh Shahrukh (23) of Asefiya colony in the Townhall area and Shaikh Shoeb (20) of Rehmaniya colony in the city. Citing the preliminary inquiry, special squad’s assistant inspector Rahul Rode said Raja is the key accused in the case, while the other two just work for him. The officer said Raja has a history of arrest and is being questioned for his role in some serious offences committed in the city. The accused used to compress the marijuana before packing it. These packets used to be hidden under blankets. If stopped by the police, the accused used to claim that they were sellers of blankets and shawls. Following their arrest, the accused have been handed over to the MIDC Cidco police station, where a case under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered. Police said that at the time of arrest, Shoeb was riding a moped without any registration number plate, while Raja was sitting in the autorickshaw (MH-20-EF-5582) that was being driven by Shahrukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/men-travel-from-odisha-on-moped-with-111-kg-ganja-held/articleshow/80656775.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 3, 2021||Pune||Finolex profits & revenue up in Q3||Pune: City-based PVC pipe maker Finolex Industries announced a significant increase in profits for the third quarter of the ongoing fiscal as against the previous year. In the quarter ended December 2020, Finolex reported a profit of Rs255.86 crore, a significant increase over the Rs93.32 crore earned in the corresponding quarter the previous fiscal. Its net revenue of Rs1,066.88 crore in Q3 2020-21 is 52.5% higher over the same for Q3 2019-20. The firm’s earnings before income, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) margin also improved significantly in Q3 to 32.5%, as against 19.9% in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/finolex-profits-revenue-up-in-q3/articleshow/80656769.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Two arrested in temple theft cases||Hyderabad: In a bizarre incident, a childless couple committed idol thefts from two temples to perform pooja at their home seeking children. The issue came to light when Khulsumpura police arrested one of the accused and recovered the stolen idols. In another incident, Khulsumpura police arrested a notorious temple burglar and recovered Rs 2 lakh worth stolen jewellery from his possession. Acting on specific information, cops arrested S Siddesh, 27, a labourer from Deen Dayal Nagar in Banjara Hills and recovered a brass coated wall hanging of Laxmi Narasimha Swamy, stolen from Kovela Ranganayaka Swamy temple in Langar Houz on December 11, 2020 and a brass coated plate of Naga Devata and Katta Mysamma idol stolen from Katta Mysamma temple in Jiyaguda on January 18. “Siddesh married Sujatha four years ago. Someone advised the couple to perform pooja to Laxmi Narasimha Swamy, Naga Devata and Katta Mysamma idols to have children,” Khulsumpura inspector P Shankar said.  Cops also arrested, E Ram Babu, 52, a temple thief from Secunderabad for committing five temple thefts at Khulsumpura, Begumpet, Gandhi Nagar, Madgul and Chilakalguda during the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-in-temple-theft-cases/articleshow/80656720.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thane||One more death in Bhiwandi godown crash||KALYAN: The death toll in the Bhiwandi godown crash rose to two on Tuesday. Kritik Patil (22), one of the seven injured victims, died in Thane’s Jupiter Hospital. Narpoli police lodged an FIR for negligence against godown owners Suryakant Patil, Ramchandra Patil and Mahanand Patil, and VY Buildcom that was entrusted with its maintenance. Patil’s mother Jaimala told TOI: “Both my sons had got jobs during the lockdown at the godown for essential goods. I lost one son there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/1-more-death-in-bhiwandi-crash/articleshow/80656120.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Reinstall Mahatma Gandhi statue: VHR||Warangal/Hyderabad: The Congress on Tuesday demanded reinstallation of the Mahatma Gandhi statue which was vandalised by unidentified persons a few days ago in Warangal. Congress leaders led by former MP V Hanumanth Rao staged a dharna at the site of the demolition at Tower Colony in Hanamkonda on Tuesday demanding reinstallation of the statue. Rao demanded stringent action against those responsible for damaging it. The dharna lasted for 3 hours before GWMC deputy mayor Embadi Ravinder and officials reached the spot and assured a new statue would be installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reinstall-mahatma-gandhi-statue-vhr/articleshow/80656782.cms||Roushan Ali
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Man gets 7 years jail for minor’s rape in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A local court in LB Nagar has sentenced a carpenter to seven years imprisonment for sexually assault a minor girl in Medchal Malkajgiri in 2016.  A case was registered against the accused under sections 376, 366-A, 342 IPC and sections 3 & 4 of the POCSO Act. After the trial, on Tuesday, the accused was sentenced to undergo seven years imprisonment and pay Rs 25,000 fine. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-7-yrs-jail-for-minors-rape/articleshow/80656749.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Bajaj Auto’s exports improve||Pune: Bajaj Auto reported that it broke its two-wheeler and overall export figures for the second month running in January. However, the Pune-based automaker’s sales figures were softened again by a 62% monthly drop in domestic sales of commercial vehicles. Bajaj said it sold more than 1,57,404 two-wheelers in India in January, as against 1,57,796 units sold in January 2020. Over the corresponding month last year, Bajaj exported more than 2.27 lakh two-wheelers — an increase of 30%. In December, the company had shipped 2,09,942 units. Domestic two-wheeler sales from April 2020 to January 2021 were down 19% over the same period last fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-autos-exports-improve/articleshow/80656780.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Nigerian among eight held for inter-state cyber con in suburbs||MUMBAI: Eight men, including a Nigerian, have been arrested in connection with an inter-state cyber fraud running into lakhs. More arrests are likely. Police chanced upon the racket when, during patrolling, they spotted two men hiding near a cinema hall in Goregaon (west) on January 25. They were brought to the Goregaon police station. A number of Pan cards, Aadhaar cards and SIM cards were found on them. “They led us to their aides who lived near Ram Mandir. These men used their bank accounts and those of acquaintances to receive money earned through fraud. They were got a cut for it,” said a police official. The accused and their aides would call up people across India, posing as bank officers, and seek vital bank details to update KYCs. With this, they transferred money into their accounts. They used fake documents to open bank accounts. The money was sent to the mastermind of the racket. They also duped job-seekers on email and got their bank details by offering attractive job offers. The police said that the gang operated 27 bank accounts, and that the Nigerian is likely to be one a key individuals in the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nigerian-among-eight-held-for-inter-state-cyber-con-in-suburbs/articleshow/80658054.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Rajkot||Plastic bricks push eco park’s commitment to safe environ||Rajkot: Forty thousand and counting — this is the haul of eco bricks that is literally paving the way for environ consciousness at the Akwada lake garden in Bhavnagar. And, what is even better is the fact that the process is a citizen initiative. In a clever move by Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), these non-recyclable plastic waste bricks or eco bricks will take hundreds of years to get destroyed, and thus, will prevent pollution in land, water and air. The actual brain behind BMC’s innovation is Dr Tejas Doshi, a family physician by profession and brand ambassador of Bhavnagar in Swachh Bharat mission. For the project, the civic body asked the citizens to fill PET bottles of one litre or more with all types of non-recyclable plastic wastes like wrappers of namkeens and chips, milk bags, gutkha and chocolate among many other such plastics. Paying Rs10 for every three such filled bottles or equivalent to one kilo, BMC also took their novel concept to schools with the help of teachers.Children were lured to fill these PET bottles with plastic bags that come in their homes and earn their own pocket money from utilizing waste. Even rag pickers found it an easy way to earn some extra money. One PET bottle contains around 350 grams of plastic waste. The civic body asked citizens to deposit such eco bricks in the civic centres of all the 13 wards. These bricks will be utilized to make tree guard, walkways, sitting benches, walking tracks, small huts, boundary wall, dustbins among other utility items at the park. Dr Doshi said that the idea of eco bricks was floated on social media and his message on Facebook was shared 6,000 times. “The use of non recyclable plastic is huge in our day to day life and it’s dangerous. I went to BMC officials with the idea to develop Akwada garden using these eco bricks, which are solid and can sustain for more than 300 years. We have collected 40,000 such bottles that means we could use 14 ton plastic in a developing garden,” he said.Akwada lake was developed by Bhavnagar’s popular ruler Krishnakumarsinh on Ghogha road. The BMC developed a lakefront here which was opened for public four months ago.M A Gandhi municipal commissioner of Bhavnagar told TOI: “We are requesting people to contribute in this project for their future generation. If it’s not for the measly Rs 10, it’s a chance for the middle class or upper middle class person to contribute towards saving the environment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/plastic-bricks-push-eco-parks-commitment-to-safe-environ/articleshow/80654542.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Farmer duped of Rs 6.5 lakh in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 31-year-old farmer of Balpur Mafi village under Amaria police station was allegedly duped of Rs 6.5 lakh by a man who sold a second-hand tractor to him in the presence of four witnesses. The registration number on the tractor later turned out to be the registration number of a motorcycle. Following the chief judicial magistrate order, police booked the accused on Monday night. Manpreet Singh said he had bought a tractor from Kamlesh Kumar, 34, of Tanda Dayanatpur village under Hafizganj police station in Bareilly for Rs 6.5 lakh on January 1 last year after Kumar had duly signed all papers, sale deeds and no objection letter for the transfer of tractor’s registration on his (buyer’s) name. Besides, a receipt of the amount paid was also executed at the Pilibhit court campus by the seller, said Singh. On January 2, however, Kumar approached him with a request to give the tractor to him for a day for important work, and he would return the vehicle the next day, said Singh, adding that following Kumar’s request, he handed over the tractor to him, while alleging that Kumar had not returned the vehicle to him. “When I contacted Kumar, he refused to return the tractor and threatened me when I demanded my money back. Upon making inquiries about the tractor's particulars with the transport department, I came to know that the registration number on the tractor was the registration number of a bike,” alleged Singh. “I filed repeated complaints with the SHO concerned and also took up the matter with the superintendent of police, but an FIR was not lodged. Then I approached the court,” added Singh. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Atar Singh said Kamlesh Kumar was booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forging a document), 468 (committing forgery intending that the document forged shall be used for cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-duped-of-rs-6-5-lakh-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80655814.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Metro beats for transplant heart||HYDERABAD: In a first such initiative, an exclusive passenger train of Hyderabad Metro was used to transport a live organ (heart) for a transplant in just 30 minutes to avoid peak traffic. The live organ, harvested from a 45-year-old brain dead man was transported to Jubilee Hills check-post Metro station from Nagole Metro station in a special train to cover 21km and 16 stations from Kamineni Hospital in LB Nagar to Apollo Hospitals in Jubilee Hills. A team of medical experts, led by Dr AGK Gokhale, travelled along with harvested heart in the special train. “We were planning to do this transplant surgery on a 44-year-old patient who has been suffering from a heart condition. Considering the usual city traffic and the fact that both the hospitals are on opposite ends of the city, we consulted Metro rail authorities for transportation. Short of helicopters, we thought this is the best option for a fast, uninterrupted commute in such crucial times,” Dr Gokhale of Apollo Hospitals said. While green channels are used for transporting lungs and heart, the attempt reduced the transit time. “When we started it was around 4.30pm which is the peak traffic hour and hence metro was a better option than the road. It more time is spent in transit, the chances of the heart functioning well in the recipient reduces drastically,” added Anoop Antony, transplant coordinator, Apollo Hospitals. Dr G Swarnlatha, in-charge, Jeevandan programme, explained that for a heart transplant, the time period available for transit and transplantation is only four hours. “This is the very first time that an organ had been transported through the metro rail anywhere in the country,” she said. NVS Reddy, managing director Hyderabad Metrol Rail Limited (HMRL) explained how Hyderabad Metro Rail created a special green corridor between Nagole and Jubilee Hills Check post stations to facilitate non-stop transport. “It’s for the first time that such a special dedicated train was run to transport a heart to save a life,” he added. The state has seen 14 organ donations during the first month of this year and organ donations have picked up after seeing a dip during the first six months of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-beats-for-transplant-heart/articleshow/80656787.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 3, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: Man rapes three-year-old girl after luring her with sweets||MEERUT: A man allegedly raped a three-year-old girl after luring her with sweets while she was playing outside her house in Hastinapur area of Meerut. The accused took the child to his house and raped her. The child was rushed to a nearby community health centre and then later referred to Meerut. A probe has been ordered in the matter. According to the FIR, the girl’s parents are labourers. When the girl’s parents were off to work, a villager in the area lured her with sweets and allegedly raped her at his house. The incident came to fore only after a neighbour heard the cries of the girl and ran to check what the matter was. The woman then contacted the girl’s parents and the police. Circle office, Mawana, Uday Pratap, said, “A probe has been set up in the matter. Efforts are on to arrest the accused and the girl has been referred to Meerut where her treatment is underway.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-rapes-three-year-old-girl-after-luring-her-with-sweets/articleshow/80654574.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 3, 2021||Pune||Delay in transfer of govt land holds up PMRDA Metro work||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) on Tuesday said a delay of land transfer from seven central government agencies was holding up work on the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro corridor. PMRDA officials said they have been “struggling” for the past two months to take possession of the land for the 23.3km elevated corridor. An official said they have invoked the “compulsory acquisition” clause of a 2013 land transfer Act to force the agencies’ hand. PMRDA said it expects to announce the commencement of work in 15 days. The 23.3km-long elevated corridor needs a total of 28 hectares from seven central government and 13 state government departments. The land would be used to build a depot, a car shed, stations and their entry/exit facilities. PMRDA said it has acquired 75-80% of the required land and aims to expedite the process. As per officials, the concessionaire (Tata-Siemens) needs 90% of the land in hand before it can start work on the project, which, because of its “vital infrastructure” tag, is on a tight schedule. “We have been able to hand over 75-80% of private land and some government land to the concessionaire. However, we must hand over 90% and hope to do so soon, provided we take possession of the central government lands,” stated PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase told TOI. IISER, IMD and NCL are among the agencies that are to hand over land. In all, PMRDA needs to acquire 9,579 sqkm of land from these agencies, and has only acquired 194.9 sqkm, from Khadi Gram Udyog. “We have floated a compulsory acquisition notice for the remaining land, under Section 11 of the Land acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013,” Diwase said. He said this would speed up the land acquisition process, which would allow them to set a date for the concessionaire to begin work. The state revenue department had earlier invoked the “compulsory land acquisition” clause to speed up the acquisition process for private land. This clause grants the government power to acquire land for public infrastructure projects without the consent of the owner or occupant. PMRDA said peripheral work, such as establishing a casting yard on a 15 hectare plot in Tathawade, readying the design, testing the piling and shifting high-tension lines in Hinjewadi, is ongoing. “Work worth Rs90 crore has commenced,” Diwase said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delay-in-transfer-of-govt-land-holds-up-pmrda-metro-work/articleshow/80658140.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech, Ocugen ink Covaxin deal for US||HYDERABAD: Over a month after it signed a binding letter of intent, vaccine maker Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it has inked a definitive agreement with US-based biopharma player Ocugen Inc to co-develop, supply and commercialise India’s first indigenous Covid vaccine, Covaxin, for the US market. Ocugen will have US rights to Covaxin and will be responsible for clinical development, regulatory approval (including EUA) and commercialisation of the vaccine for the US. It will retain 45% of the profits from the US sales of Covaxin and share the rest with Bharat Biotech, which will supply the initial doses of the vaccine to US once Ocugen receives the Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) nod. “In preparation for development of Covaxin in US, Ocugen’s Vaccine Scientific Advisory Board (VSAB) and management have initiated discussions with the US Food & Drug Administration (USFDA) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to develop a regulatory path to EUA and eventually, biologics licence application (BLA) approval for Covaxin,” Ocugen said. Ocugen is in talks with US manufacturers to produce a significant number of Covaxin doses. Ocugen chairman, CEO & co-founder Shankar Musunuri said Covaxin, which has the potential to treat all age-groups, may offer important option to protect lives across US. “Covaxin has generated excellent safety data with robust immune responses to multiple viral proteins that persist. With the recent progression of Covaxin use under EUA in India, I am confident that we will be able to work with Ocugen to develop a plan to bring Covaxin to the US market,” Bharat Biotech MD Dr Krishna Ella said. The US company will retain 45% of the profits from the US sales of Covaxin and share the rest with Bharat Biotech, which will supply the initial doses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-ocugen-ink-covaxin-deal-for-us/articleshow/80656801.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: 13-year-old detained in friend’s murder case||PUNE: The Kothrud police on Tuesday claimed to have solved the murder case of 11-year-old boy from Kalewadi slums, two after after his body was found in an open plot along Paud Road. “Our probe has revealed that a 13-year-old friend of the deceased, Vishwajeet Vanjari, bludgeoned the boy to death on January 29 after a petty quarrel. The boy pushed Vishwajeet on the ground. After Vishwajeet started bleeding, the friend bludgeoned him to death with stones. He tried to bury the body and went home like nothing had happened,” inspector Balasaheb Bade of the Kothrud police told TOI. Bade said Vishwajeet’s friend then went to his tuition class and also attended wedding on Saturday. Sub-inspector Santosh Patil of the Kothrud police said after the body was found on Sunday, the minor was on the police’s radar as he was the only person Vishwajeet was last seen with. “The boy, however, claimed that he did not meet Vishwajeet in the evening. For two days, he was firm on this,” Patil said. Patil said the police then collected the CCTV footages. “On Tuesday, senior inspector Meghsham Dange again questioned the boy. When we showed him the CCTV footages, the boy admitted that he had killed Vishwajeet. The boy has been sent to the correction facility,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Surendra Deshmukh said, “The detained minor used to issue orders to his peers. If anyone did not follow his instructions, he used to get upset with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-year-old-detained-in-friends-murder-case/articleshow/80658152.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Action against consumers for power fraud worth Rs 4 crore||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has initiated criminal action against over 1,000 consumers for power theft in Pune district. The electricity distribution company has exposed power theft to the tune of around Rs3.99 crore in the district in the past few days. Areas such as Bhosari, Pimpri, Kothrud, Parvati, Padmavati and Rastapeth have recorded most incidents of power thefts. Action has been initiated against those involved in illegal activities under section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act. A statement from the MSEDCL stated that power thefts are carried out by altering the electricity meter or by putting hooks on the supply line. Ankush Nale, acting regional director, MSEDCL, Pune, has requested the authorities concerned to initiate stringent action against those involved in such illegal activities. The statement added that dues worth Rs59 lakh have been recovered in 194 such cases in the past few days. From last week, different squads of over 200 staffers have detected power thefts on 142 premises of consumers. The MSEDCL also found unauthorised use of electricity during the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/action-against-consumers-for-power-fraud-worth-rs-4cr/articleshow/80658176.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Clear dues for kids’ Class-XI admissions’||KOLKATA: Most schools have decided that unless parents of Class-X students clear all the dues, their wards will not be allowed admission to Class XI. But these students are being offered all assistance so that they can appear for their boards exams. Guardians of about 10% Class-X students at different institutes are yet to clear the dues and most schools have barred such kids from using the school apps or websites to download Class-XI forms. The parents will first have to clear the arrears of the past quarters for their kids to get admission to plus-two . With some defaulting guardians approaching schools with requests of payment deadline relaxation and allowing their wards to take admission, one-on-one sessions are being held with them. However, the authorities are not accepting any verbal assurance of payments, especially from those who have been defaulting since the first quarter. Shri Shikshayatan School has asked 20-25 such parents to clear the dues. “Admissions for Class XI are happening in February, but we are allowing only those who have cleared dues. There will be no relaxation for Class XI admissions. But we have helped the kids so that they can take their boards,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson for the school. “The school system will collapse unless we take a tough stand now. Class XI admissions are granted based on pre-boards results and we are allowing only those who have cleared their tuition fee dues,” said T H Ireland, principal of St James’ School. Some schools said they might take a softer stand for meritorious kids’ parents on production of proof. “If parents can’t afford to pay, they can shift their wards,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for Birla High and Sushila Birla. About 10% students are yet to take plus-II admission here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clear-dues-for-kids-class-xi-admissions/articleshow/80656796.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Birbhum colleges may come under new university||Bolpur: General degree colleges in Birbhum may be affiliated to the new Biswa Bangla University in Bolpur. Now, the colleges are under Burdwan University. HIDCO Chairman Debashis Sen, the new VC of Biswa Bangla University, Swapan Kumar Dutta, and other officials visited the campus on Monday. Dutta said , “As colleges are usually affiliated to a nearby university, those in Birbhum will come under this university. But it is yet to be finalized.” Sen said, “The project is going on professionally.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birbhum-colleges-may-come-under-new-university/articleshow/80656795.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal minister Partha Chatterjee to meet VCs today, reopening decision likely||KOLKATA: A decision on reopening of college and university campuses was likely on Wednesday, indicated officials in the higher education department. Education minister Partha Chatterjee will have a round of discussion with vice-chancellors of all state-run universities at the meeting of West Bengal Higher Education Council. “I have an important meeting with vice-chancellors on Wednesday over reopening of colleges and universities. We will wait for their collective advice and then, take a decision. Colleges are already functioning. The first semester online classes are going on, offices are open. But whatever will be done will be in strict adherence to health protocols. Sanitisation and other steps have to be carried out,” Chatterjee said on Tuesday. A VC said they were hopeful about a decision on campus reopening from the education department. “Those who have practical classes are at a loss. The final-semester students need to attend labs without which, their learning will remain incomplete,” a senior CU teacher said. Many institute heads predicted that individual universities might be given the autonomy to decide on phased reopening. Most VCs are set to seek permission to reopen hostels as well. “A large section of students travels from places away from Kolkata and they can’t return home the same day. If hostels are shut, most students from districts will be unable to attend classes,” pointed out a VC. A senior Jadavpur University official said they would go by the state government’s decision. Most institutes have, however, already chalked out a reopening plan and said they could bring students back on a day’s notice. Some colleges said they would hold classes for each batch on alternate days, bring students of various faculties on different days and continue online classes simultaneously. “We have decided to hold classes in arts and science on alternate days. Another proposal is to let 50% students attend classes a day,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partha-to-meet-vcs-today-reopening-decision-likely/articleshow/80656792.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Days after Nowhera Sheik gets bail, ED files prosecution complaint||HYDERABAD: Days after the Supreme Court granted an interim bail, the Enforcement Directorate has filed a prosecution complaint against Nowhera Sheik of Heera Group of companies and others in the ponzi scheme fraud case.  In 2019, the ED had attached assets worth Rs 299 crore of Nowhera, Heera Group and others in different states. The ED initiated investigations under PMLA on the basis of FIRs registered by the central crime station, Hyderabad, Karnataka CID and AP police against Nowhera and her Heera Group. During the course of investigation, it is revealed that Nowhera hatched a well-planned conspiracy and lured innocent people to deposit their savings with her for profit sharing. She incorporated Heera Group of companies and promptly paid the monthly assured profit to win the gullible despositors’ trust. “By engaging a network of marketing executives and direct selling agents working on a commission basis, she collected deposits to the tune of Rs 5,600 crore from around 1,72,000 investors across the country by making false promises of paying high rate of returns at 36% to 40% a year,” the ED charged. “The accused diverted the depositors’ amounts to their personal accounts for wrongful gain and amassed huge movable and immovable assets,” it said.  ED filed the first prosecution complaint against 28 accused persons before the court with a prayer for awarding punishment to accused and confiscation of attached properties under PMLA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/days-after-nowhera-gets-bail-ed-files-prosecution-plaint/articleshow/80656777.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||JNTUH sees ‘malpractice’ soar during pandemic||HYDERABAD: The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH), has seen a rise in number of malpractice cases during the pandemic after the varsity allowed students to appear for the examinations from their parent colleges. According to officials, of the 20 lakh answer sheets that were evaluated, close to 3,000 were found to have copied content. “Evaluators at spot evaluation centres found that a few cases were suspicious and brought them to the notice of standing committee which reviewed the observations. Many of these observations were found to be justified and were then booked for malpractices,” said Kamakshi Prasad, director (evaluation), JNTUH. Students however differed. “In one subject (basic electronics and electrical engineering), the university has stated malpractice found whereas I have not indulged in any malpractice,” said Guntha Pranathi, second year, Sridevi Women’s Engineering College. Another student said that he was accused of indulging in malpractice despite being absent for the exam. “Without attending an exam, how can the university allege that I have indulged in malpractice,” asked Kiran Chowdhary, student of SVS Institute of Technology, Hanamkonda. The university has decided not to take stern action against students due to the pandemic. “The punishment is very serious including fine and cancellation of admissions. However, we have decided to allow students charged for malpractices to appear for the ensuing March, 2021, exams so that they do not lose a year,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-sees-malpractice-soar-during-pandemic/articleshow/80656791.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Vehicle registration in Nashik drops 32%||NASHIK: The Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) has witnessed a drop of 32% in registration of new vehicles in the past 10 months of the current financial year as compared to the registrations during the same period in the last financial year. Senior RTO officials attributed the drop to Covid-19 pandemic. Vinay Ahire, deputy RTO Nashik said, “Along with various other sector, the automobile sector was also hit by the pandemic and it reflected in the registration of new vehicles.” For more than two months, the automobile showrooms were also closed during the lockdown period that led to drop in sales and registration. As per the RTO records, from April 2019 to January 2020, they registered as many as 81,046 new vehicles. Meanwhile from April 2020 to January 2021, the RTO registered only 55,215 vehicles. With drop in the vehicle registration, the revenue the RTO generated has also gone down significantly. However, in the new year, the registration of vehicles has improved significantly. Ahire said that on the brighter side the new year has begun on a good note and things are returning to normalcy. In January 2020, the RTO had registered 9,459 new vehicles, while this year in January, the number of vehicle registration was 11,285 — a rise of over 19 per cent. Among the registered vehicles, the maximum (8,614) were two-wheelers followed by 1,566 motor cars. This year’s January figures also show registration of 98 autorickshaws that were 324 in January last year. Further, 385 trucks and lorries were also registered last month as against 555 trucks and lorries that were registered in January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vehicle-registration-in-nashik-drops-32/articleshow/80656794.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 3, 2021||Meerut||Foresters on alert after rare sighting of leopard in Meerut village||MEERUT: The repeated sighting of a leopard in Meerut’s Kithore region on Monday has set alarm bells ringing. The forest department has sent a team there to capture it. The foresters along with the villagers combed the area but the big cat proved to be elusive. A cage with a live bait has been placed in a mango orchard where it was sighted, to trap it. The sighting of a leopard is virtually unheard of in Kithore region. It is surmised that the big cat has strayed into the area by following the river Kali. What is worrying the forest department officials is the possibility of a man-leopard conflict flaring up any time as the leopard may poach a calves or pet dogs. They do not want a repeat of a Saharanpur or Bijnor incident wherein villagers brutally killed the leopards that had strayed near human habitats. For the safety of both man and animal, they want to capture the feline at the earliest. Rajesh Kumar, divisional forest office of Meerut, said, “Our teams are on the ground and keeping a close watch on the situation. We have also set up cages but haven’t got any success so far.” He added, “We are sensitizing villagers on a continuous basis to avoid any mishap. In fact, we are conducting rescue operations keeping villagers close by our side.” Kumar dismissed as rumours reports that two leopards were prowling about in the region. For the residents of the region, the big cat’s presence has revived memories of a leopard that had strayed into Meerut Cantonment hospital campus in 2014, forcing schools, colleges and markets to shut down for three days. Rambir, a villager, said,“A cage set up in a mango orchard was found closed on Tuesday with the bait inside. Now, the foresters are changing its location. It should not have been done because the leopard was sighted there and will come again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/foresters-on-alert-after-rare-sighting-of-leopard-in-meerut-village/articleshow/80654589.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 3, 2021||Pune||Police solve 21 burglary cases||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Tuesday claimed to have detected 21 cases of burglaries and vehicle thefts with the arrest of two brothers, who have over 20 cases registered against them, from Hadapsar. Police have recovered five four-wheelers, four two-wheelers, gold and silver ornaments, collectively worth Rs30 lakh, from suspects Surjitsingh Tak (32) and his younger brother, Jeetsingh (26). “Their third accomplice, Sunnsingh Dudhani, has been arrested by the Pune police,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said here on Tuesday. The commissioner said that on January 23, sub-inspector Mangesh Bhange received a tip-off that a gang of criminals from Hadapsar would be coming to Bhosari to commit burglaries. During custodial interrogation, Tak brothers admitted their involvement in 21 burglaries and vehicle thefts in the last one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-solve-21-burglary-cases/articleshow/80658184.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man asked to pay Rs 40,000 maintenance per month to 62-year-old estranged wife||MUMBAI: Observing it did not find any reason why a 62-year-old woman married for 45 years would live alone, except that she was being ill-treated by her husband, a magistrate court ordered the retired merchant navy captain to pay her Rs40,000 monthly maintenance. “The record prima facie shows the applicant is a victim of domestic violence,” the court held. The woman had submitted that her husband had over Rs 1.3 crore in bank accounts and Rs 2.3 crore in mutual funds and other investments. The estranged couple jointly own flats and other properties across the city. “From the record it is clear that at present the respondent (husband) is receiving the rent of the property jointly owned by the parties. The applicant (wife) is residing separately. In the circumstances, it is the legal and moral duty of the respondent to pay a reasonable amount to the applicant for her interim maintenance during pendency of the proceeding,” the court said. The woman in her plea told the court they had got married in 1975. She said both their children were married and settled abroad. She alleged her husband had subjected her to severe physical, emotional and mental violence since the time they got married. The woman said she had started living separately four years ago in a flat they jointly owned. She alleged her husband had a “peculiar mind set”, due to which he would talk in an extremely abusive manner throughout the day. The woman claimed he would start his day with abusive words. She alleged that due to this behaviour their children had stopped visiting them whenever they came for holidays. The woman alleged her husband’s behaviour also affected her health. Claiming a monthly interim maintenance of Rs 75,000, the woman’s lawyer had submitted that the man was getting rent from various properties, including flats and shops. The man refuted the allegations and claimed the woman was a habitual liar and untrustworthy. He sought rejection of her plea. The court said while both parties had made several allegations against each other, it would be inquired into at the time of the trial. “After considering the submissions of both parties and considering the status of parties which appears from record, I am of the view that an amount of Rs 40,000 per month is fair and reasonable for interim maintenance of the applicant,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-asked-to-pay-rs-40k-maintenance-per-month-to-62-yr-old-estranged-wife/articleshow/80656817.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 3, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra’s first naval museum to come up in Kalyan near fort||KALYAN: The state's first naval museum will be set up in Kalyan along the Kalyan creek near Durgati fort, according to Kalyan-Dombivli civic body’s plan. The site is said to be where the country's first naval base was set up by Chhattrapati Shivaji Maharaj. However, these footsteps of history have been erased in the course of time and now the municipal corporation has taken the initiative to retrace them. The modern museum will be a naval ship-type of structure which will have information about different naval ships, including INS Vikrant and aINS Viraat. It will also feature the history of the Navy and house auditoriums where films on the Navy will be screened showing the changes that the Navy has gone through over the years. To set up this museum, the Kalyan civic body has sought help from the Indian Navy. The plan is to draw tourists from across the country as also to inspire young students to join Indian Navy. Commissioner of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation Dr Vijay Suryawanshi said, “The naval museum will be built over 4 acres — between fort Durgadi and Durgadi bridge along the Kalyan creek. Tenders will be floated soon to pave the way for construction work to begin.” The naval museum will be constructed using funds under the smart city project. Along with the naval museum, the municipal corporation also has plans to develop the water front over a 5km stretch along the Kalyan creek which will be also an attractions point for tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/states-1st-naval-museum-to-come-up-in-kalyan-near-fort/articleshow/80658145.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Knife-wielding man attacks people||Kolkata: An allegedly drunken youth wielding a chopper and a bamboo stick attacked people on Barrackpore-Barasat Road on Tuesday. Two civic volunteers who tried to stop him were seriously injured and had to be admitted to a hospital. The accused, Bidyut Dey, was arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/knife-wielding-man-attacks-people/articleshow/80656811.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Deolali cantt hosp set to treat non-Covid cases||Nashik: The 90-bed hospital run by the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) is all set to restart operations as non-Covid patients. Senior officials of the CBD are taking necessary steps to ensure that the hospital is properly sanitized before reopening it for the non-Covid patients. Ajay Kumar, CEO of the CBD, said the hospital would be restarted within a few days. The hospital was converted into a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) around seven months ago after cases of Covid-19 started to increase all over the district. Subsequently the CBD had set up an Outpatient department (OPD) in one of its schools where patients from across Deolali Camp and surrounding villages used to come and get themselves treated by the doctors and get medication. In case the patients needed hospitalization, they were referred to the Bytco hospital on Nashik Road or civil hospital. While Bytco hospital is about 10-km from the CBD hospital, the Nashik civil hospital is approximately 20-km away. Over the past couple of months, cases of Covid-19 are fast dropping and at the same time very few Covid-19 patients are getting admitted. Since the number of patients are dropping at the DCHC in Deolali Camp, the CBD officials had written to the district administration to give permission to stop admitting Covid-19 patients and convert it back to the regular non-Covid hospital. While hundreds of Covid-19 patients have been treated at this hospital till date, the number of patients getting admitted in this hospital for treatment of the viral infection is consistently dropping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-cantt-hosp-set-to-treat-non-covid-cases/articleshow/80656815.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 3, 2021||Pune||Offences registered against ex-staffers of co-operative bank for stealing data||Pune: Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday registered two separate offences against former employees and chairman of a cooperative bank for stealing data from the bank’s system. Chinchwad police have registered a case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information and Technology Act, while Pimpri police have registered an offence under the IPC. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “We have registered the offences because the complainants have given us the CCTV footage of a former employee stealing the data.” In Chinchwad case, an employee who recently resigned from the bank, went to the branch to collect his personal belongings on Monday. He, however, transferred some data in the pen drive. When he was leaving the bank with some documents, the staff stopped him. He, however, told them he had come there on the directives of former chairman and former additional CEO, the officer said. In Pimpri case, an FIR has been registered against the bank’s former HR officer and five others for stealing documents related to an offence registered against former office bearers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/offences-registered-against-ex-staffers-of-co-operative-bank-for-stealing-data/articleshow/80658204.cms||---
February 3, 2021||World||Global Covid vaccinations hit 100m mark||Fifty nine days after the first confirmed shot against Covid-19 was given, the global inoculation drive to subdue the pandemic reached a significant milestone on Tuesday with the number of vaccine doses administered crossing 100 million (10 crore). A total of at least 101.6 million vaccine doses had been administered globally by Tuesday, with India’s number crossing the 4 million mark. The first reported doses of any Covid-19 vaccine were administered in Russia, where the drive began on December 5, as per reports, even though the country’s Sputnik V vaccine was still undergoing mass trials to test its safety and efficacy. Three days later, the first shots were given in the United Kingdom. While reports quoting Chinese officials say the vaccination programme in that country began in November, there’s no official confirmation of this. Inoculations began in the US on December 14 with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. The country now leads the world with 32.8 million shots administered so far, a little less than a third of the global total, as per news agency Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. The US is followed by China, which had given 24 million shots till latest reports from the country came on Sunday. The country is racing to inoculate a big portion of its population ahead of the Chinese new year (February 12), when millions of Chinese travel to their hometowns. The UK has administered the third highest number of shots so far at 9.8m, followed by Israel (nearly 5m) and India. In doses per 100 people, Israel was way ahead of the rest of the world at over 55. As much as 20.2% of the country's population had been fully inoculated against the virus for now, having received two doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Studies in the country indicate that people fully inoculated against the virus had shown very low infection rate (0.04%), raising hopes across the world that vaccines could provide an effective shield against the pandemic. The UAE had the second highest number of does per 100 people at 32, followed by the UK at 14.7 and the US at 10. In China the number was 1.7 while India had so far given the jab to around 0.4 out of every 100 people in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/global-covid-vaccinations-hit-100m-mark/articleshow/80660094.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 3, 2021||Patna||Congress workers create scene at Buxar meet||PATNA: Congress workers again created a scene in the presence of newly appointed party’s state incharge Bhakta Charan Das and state president Madan Mohan Jha during a meeting at Buxar on Tuesday. The scene turned ugly when Congress’s Buxar Sadar MLA Sanjay Kumar Tiwari alias Munna Tiwari engaged in a verbal duel with the supporters of the party’s youth wing functionary Pankaj Upadhyay. “They cooled down only after the senior leaders intervened,” said a district Congress functionary, requesting anonymity. Pankaj alleged that Tiwari asked his supporters to vacate the meeting venue. “Tiwari even tried to humiliate me,” he alleged. The MLA, however, denied the charge and said Pankaj instigated his supporters to disturb the meeting. Ruckus at Congress meetings in the presence of Das has become a routine affair. Chaotic scenes were witnessed on Monday when former MLA Jyoti created a ruckus at the felicitation function of Das at Ara in Bhojpur district. She alleged that dedicated party workers were denied tickets in the state assembly polls. “The seats were given to CPI(ML) under the seat-sharing formula of the Grand Alliance and Congress did not contest even a single seat out of the seven assembly constituencies in the district,” a Congress leader quoted Jyoti as saying. Earlier, a similar scene was witnessed in Gopalganj. Das, however, blamed the media for blowing the ‘verbal duel’ among party workers out of proportions. Jha, however, said every worker has the right to convey his/her feeling to the party leaders in a proper manner and not by fighting with each other. “We are aware of the grievances of the grassroots party workers,” he told the media. He suggested the district level functionaries to convey their grievances through letters. “The state incharge will certainly pay attention to the issues raised by them through proper channels,” Jha told Congress workers at Buxar. In January, the supporters of two groups had clashed with each other and hurled chairs in the presence of Das and other top leaders at the meeting of the Congress farmers’ cell at the party headquarters. Das promised to ensure discipline in the party. “Anushashan zaroori hai (discipline is essential),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-workers-create-scene-at-buxar-meet/articleshow/80655744.cms||Ramashankar
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Nomination process begins for 2nd phase of local polls||Amaravati: The submission of nominations for the second phase of elections to village panchayats began on Tuesday. District administrations stepped up security arrangements as many sensitive and hyper-sensitive mandals are scheduled to face elections in the second phase. Barring minor incidents, the process of filing of papers for the first phase ended on a peaceful note. However, police administration is on its toes as several faction-ridden regions are going for polls in the second phase. While YSRC is determined to continue its dominance, the principal opposition, TDP, is making fervent attempts to regain lost ground by fielding candidates in as many seats as possible. The focus of the state election commission (SEC) to reduce alleged forcible unanimous elections in villages is also giving new energies to those eager to contest the polls in villages. About 19,419 candidates filed papers to contest the sarpanch elections in 3,251 villages in the first phase. This shows that about 5-6 candidates filed papers in each village. However, the exact number of candidates in the race would be known after the closure of the deadline for withdrawal of nominations on Thursday as many of those already filed papers were either dummy candidates of the actual nominees or rebel candidates. Since senior leaders from all political parties are engaged in pacifying rebel candidates, they are most likely to withdraw by the last date. However, it looks like that the contest between two or three candidates backed by main political parties is imminent. The situation might not be the same in the second phase as many villages are expected to go for unanimous polls to avoid clashes. Despite pressure from top leaders, village-level leaders are not so keen to jump into the race and face the consequences in the areas like Palnadu region and Rapathadu of Ananthapuram. Sources said that key leaders in the villages from opposition parties have already disappeared from their native places in Palnadu to avoid pressure from top leaders. “YSRC is using police to create panic among our leaders. We are not going to leave the field,” said former legislator from Palnadu, Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao. However, Gurazala legislator Kasu Mahesh Reddy said: “TDP leaders are not keen to contest the polls after seeing the overwhelming public support for YSRC government. TDP leaders are making baseless allegations,” said Mahesh Reddy. He said they would welcome if anyone wants to contest and test their popularity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nomination-process-begins-for-2nd-phase-of-local-polls/articleshow/80655806.cms||Samdani MN
February 3, 2021||Patna||West Bengal-bound arms seized in Khagaria, 3 arrested||PATNA: A joint team of special task force (STF) and police arrested three people in Khagaria on Tuesday and seized 199 live cartridges, four country-made semiautomatic pistols and three extra magazines from their possession. The consignment was being smuggled to poll-bound West Bengal. Three people – Mohd Abu Salim of Malda, Pintu Yadav and Roushan Kumar (both from Khagaria) – were arrested. According to police, Salim was supposed to take the consignment to West Bengal. Pintu and Roushan, on the other hand, had brought the consignment to Khagaria from Munger. Four cellphones, a motorcycle and Rs 1,900 in cash were also seized from the possession of the arrested people. Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar said the consignment was seized from the vicinity of the bus stand under the Mufassil police station area. Mini gun factory unearthed in Munger: An STF team unearthed a mini gun factory deep inside jungles of Rishikund under the Bariyarpur police station area in Munger on Tuesday. The STF carried out the operation with the help of Munger police. Munger SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon said five people – Shivam Kumar, Mohan Paswan, Mohammad Mahboob Alam and Mohammad Tabrez – were arrested. He said five partially-manufactured pistols, five barrels, six magazines, 53 different kinds of equipment, a pickup autorickshaw and two cellphones were seized from the possession of the arrested people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/west-bengal-bound-arms-seized-in-khagaria-3-arrested/articleshow/80655595.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Privilege body discusses plaint against SEC||Vijayawada: The assembly privileges committee is ready to take action against state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, if required. The committee held its first meeting on Tuesday to consider the complaint referred to it by speaker Thammineni Sitaram. The complaint was filed by ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Botsa Satyanarayana alleging that the SEC had caused breach of their privileges by making objectionable allegations against them in the letter he had written to the governor. The ministers had referred to a letter written by the SEC to the governor on December 29 alleging that the two ministers have crossed the Lakshman Rekha, the code violation and sought action by the governor. The SEC wanted the governor to direct the ministers to restrain from resorting to code violation. The ministers took strong exception to these comments and said that the comments were nothing but breach of their privileges and sought protection. The privileges committee chief and MLA Kakani Govardhan Reddy after the meeting told media that the committee had taken the views of the complainants, and would make its next move. He said the committee would not hesitate to take action against anyone for breach of privileges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/privilege-body-discusses-plaint-against-sec/articleshow/80655999.cms||Gopi Dara
February 3, 2021||Patna||India Post set to issue ATM cards by March in Gaya division||GAYA: The postal department will soon issue ATM cards to people having their savings accounts at different post offices in the district. For withdrawal of cash, ATM booths will be opened at the post offices. An ATM booth is already functional at the head post office in Gaya town. Senior superintendent of post offices, Gaya division, Ranjay Kumar Singh said, “The ATM facility of postal department will be made available in the division comprising Gaya and Jehanabad districts by March this year. Space is being identified to open the ATM booth in post offices and the sub post offices in urban and rural areas. After the ATM booths are made available in rural areas, people will not have to travel long distances for cash withdrawal. The postmen will make people aware of this.” Singh said the postal department employees did commendable work during the Covid-19 pandemic. “A sum of Rs 26 crore was made available to 1,70,684 people at their doorsteps through the Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS) software. Apart from this, cash payment was also made through mobile cash van of the postal department. Ragini Ranjan of Ismailpur post office in Sherghati sub-division of Gaya district delivered cash in 406 houses in a single day, while Alok Kumar of Karathi branch delivered cash in 399 houses in a single day,” he added. Regarding other achievements of the postal department, Singh said, “From January 4 to 19, a mega drive was launched to provide life insurance benefits to people. During the period, 1,600 people were covered under postal life insurance and the rural postal life insurance schemes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/india-post-set-to-issue-atm-cards-by-march-in-gaya-division/articleshow/80656062.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Car overturns in Kamareddy, 2 dead||Hyderabad: A mechanic and his wife died while five of their family members sustained injuries when their speeding car overturned in Kamareddy district on Monday night. The deceased were identified as Praveen, 26, a car mechanic-cum-farmer from Elpugonda village in Kamareddy district and his wife Renuka, 23. The accident occurred when the couple along with five of their family members were travelling from Elpugonda to Gambhiraopet in Rajanna-Sircilla district for treatment. When the car was passing through Laxmidevunipally village in Kamareddy district, the vehicle veered off the road and overturned. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-overturns-in-kamareddy-2-dead/articleshow/80656819.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Bhagalpur residents to launch campaign for air connectivity||BHAGALPUR: The members of Bhagalpur Welfare Society (BWS), in a meeting held on Tuesday, decided to start ‘Postcard Abhiyan’ to draw the attention of PM and chief minister towards the need to start flight services from the local airfield, which was built in 1983. The campaign will be followed by hunger strike, road marches and other means of peaceful protest. The president of Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (EBCCI), Ashok Bhiwaniwala, and its other members demanded air connectivity from Bhagalpur to boost local silk industry as well as other businesses and entrepreneurship. “Silk exporters and foreign buyers avoid coming to Bhagalpur in the absence of air connectivity,” Bhiwaniwala said. BWS president Ram Gopal Poddar said the Bhagalpur airfield has sufficient space and basic infrastructure for commercial air services. The denizens also coined slogans such as “Sirf neta aur afsar hi nahi, janata bhi udey jahaz mey (not only the politicians and officials, but common people should also travel by air)”. Former EBCCI president Shailendra Kumar Saraf said commercial flights were provided by the private operators from Bhagalpur airfield way back in 1983. “However, due to non-viability (low passenger volume) at that time, the services were withdrawn after sometime,” he said. “Air connectivity from Bhagalpur is not necessary only for communication but also for medical emergencies. Many critical patients die due to poor means of transportation,” said Dr Birendra Kumar Badal, secretary of Bhagalpur chapter of India Medical Association (IMA), adding air connectivity would be helpful in airlifting critical patients to big hospitals with emergency facilities at metropolitan cities. Former zila parishad chairman and industrialist Dr Shambu Dayal Khaitan, BWS general secretary Girdhari Kejriwal, Deepak Bhuwania (former mayor and JDU leader), RTI activist Ajit Kumar Singh, social activist and others said the need of the hour is to provide air connectivity from Bhagalpur under the ‘Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) — Udaan’, keeping in view that the city is being developed under the ‘Smart City Mission’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-residents-to-launch-campaign-for-air-connectivity/articleshow/80655535.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 3, 2021||Patna||PACS chairman shot at in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF: Primary agriculture credit society (PACS) chairman of Keshopur panchayat under Ekangarsarai block in Nalanda district, Ram Lakhan Singh, was shot at by criminals near his home around 10pm on Monday. A critically injured Singh was rushed to Ekangarsarai primary health centre from where he was referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital after first aid. Police said the incident occurred when Singh, also a JD(U) activist, was returning home from a rice mill. Singh’s son Om Prakash said the criminals pumped four bullets into his father’s body and escaped. “After hearing the gunshots, we rushed to the spot and found him lying in a pool of blood,” he added. Hilsa SDPO Krishna Murari said the police were probing the case from various angles. “Those involved in the crime will be arrested soon,” he added. On Sunday, two brothers from a scheduled caste family were killed in Nalanda district. The bodies of Ajay Kumar Paswan alias Bhola (27) and his younger brother Ranjit Kumar Paswan alias Titu (24), both autorickshaw drivers, were recovered from the outskirts of Kushahar village under the Bind police station area in the district. An FIR was lodged against 10 people in connection with the case. However, all the accused are still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pacs-chairman-shot-at-in-nalanda/articleshow/80655696.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana vaccine wastage below 5%, less than cut-off||HYDERABAD: The health department has been able to contain the wastage of Covid vaccine. The state vaccine wastage is much below 5%, less than the allowed vaccine wastage at 10% fixed by the Union government. According to regulations, each vaccine vial has to be used within a four-hour window. Vaccinators, however, have to be careful to control the wastage at the centres as turnout of beneficiaries is low. “In the state, the wastage is much below the permissible level as we are waiting for the required number of people to turn up at the vaccine centres,” director medical health Dr Srinivas Rao said. Suppose a vial is opened, 10 registered beneficiaries have to take the shot within four hours. Officials said wastage could have reduced considerably ever since site-in charges were allowed to utilise remaining doses by calling colleagues who have registered on CoWIN. Wastage was at a minimum even during the first three days of the drive as authorities instructed every centre in-charge to open a vaccine vial only if there were 10 beneficiaries present at the site. After the introduction of spot vaccinations, there has been a further drop in wastage. Spot vaccination is meant for those who have registered on CoWIN. Officials say that accepting a one-dose loss per vial is ideal. Mistakes can also occur while filling up a syringe. However, vaccinators are well-trained. Many have years of experience working in large-scale immunisation programme like Pulse Polio. Some sites were now allowed to carry out vaccination of over 100 registered healthcare workers, who are randomly selected a day before the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-vax-wastage-below-5-less-than-cut-off/articleshow/80656821.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 3, 2021||Pune||Landlord booked for negligence after 11 month-old boy drowns in water tank||Pune: The Kondhwa police booked a landlord on the charge of causing death due to negligence on Monday, five days after the 11-month-old son of one of the tenants drowned in an open water tank on his rented premises in Gokulnagar on January 26. “The deceased, Tilya alias Prithviraj Ajay Salunkhe, was playing with the 11-year-old daughter of the landlord when he fell into the tank,” said senior inspector Sardar Patil of the Kondhwa police on Tuesday. Patil said the Sassoon hospital in its advance post-mortem report had certified death due to drowning as the cause of the boy’s death. “However, his parents insisted on registered a complaint against the girl for allegedly pushing the boy into the tank,” he said. The police registered a complaint relating to accidental death and launched investigations to probe the circumstances leading to the boy’s death. Patil said, “During questioning, the girl said the boy fell into the tank after he removed the tin sheet. We shared details of the investigations with the victim’s parents and brought to their notice that a complaint relating to murder cannot be registered because she had no intention to kill the child.” The parents are now insisting on registering a complaint relating to culpable homicide not amounting to murder under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, he said. “We have registered a case against the landlord after investigations revealed that he had not taken safety measures to fix a proper lid on the tank,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/landlord-booked-for-negligence-after-11-month-old-boy-drowns-in-water-tank/articleshow/80658232.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 3, 2021||Patna||Nalanda SP asked to file ATR in missing girl case||BIHARSHARIF: Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board judge Manvendra Mishra on Tuesday directed SP Hari Prasath S to submit an action taken report (ATR) by February 10 in a minor girl’s abduction case lodged three years ago. The minor went missing on July 5, 2018. Her father Vijay Prasad of a village under Parwalpur police station area had lodged a named FIR the next day, accusing one Vipin Kumar and his two accomplices of abducting his daughter. The three were arrested and a chargesheet was submitted against them on October 6, 2018 under Section 366 (A) of the IPC. But the girl could not be traced. APP Rajesh Pathak said it is like Muzaffarpur’s Navruna case. The court pointed out that the complainant had claimed that the headless body found in a sack on the Biharsharif Bazar Samiti premises on July 19, 2018 was as that of his daughter on the basis of a burn mark on her hand and the black and red threads tied on her wrist. But the police then refused to hand over the body saying only a DNA test could confirm it. The court also wanted to know what action was taken by the police regarding the DNA test in a forensic laboratory or whether anyone other than the complainant had claimed the body or any unnatural death case was lodged by the police. Justice Mishra said the aggrieved complainant wanted to know whether his daughter was alive or dead. Justice Mishra had completed the trial in a rape case in record nine days last week and sentenced 3 years’ imprisonment to an 18-year-old boy under Section 376 of IPC and concurrent 3 years each under Section 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act for unnatural sex with the 6-year-old daughter of his cousin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nalanda-sp-asked-to-file-atr-in-missing-girl-case/articleshow/80655654.cms||Farrukh Nadim
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Tapping the booze flow, SEB books over 1.7k cases||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to control the flow of liquor during the local body elections, the special enforcement bureau (SEB) have bounded over 11,034 persons involved in smuggling alcohol and other habitual offenders under CrPC sections 109 and 110. An additional SP-ranked officer has been nominated as the nodal officer for each of the 18 SEB units across the state. Since the release of the poll notification by the state election commission (SEC), officials have registered 1,107 cases and arrested 568 persons for running illicitly distilled (ID) liquor businesses in the state. Official data goes on to show that over ten thousand litres of ID arrack has been seized while over 5.6 lakh litres of jaggery wash were destroyed and 73 vehicles have been seized from the accused. To contain the illegal sale of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL), SEB sleuths have booked 234 cases, arrested 283 persons and seized over five thousand litres of alcohol. The enforcement drive against illegal sale of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and beer has resulted in 383 cases being booked and 405 persons arrested. Officials have seized close to three thousand litres of IMFL, 484 litres of beer. While the SEB’s primary focus is to curb illegal liquor sales, officials also pointed out that they had caught three cases of model code of conduct violations. The cases, registered in Kurnool and Kadapa districts, have resulted in the seizure of large amounts of unaccounted cash. For instance, during a vehicle check at Panchalingala checkpost in Kurnool, SEB seized 170 pieces of jewellery weighing close to four kilos, studded with over 3.4 kilos of gold and over 439 carats of diamonds. The SEB arrested two persons involved and have ascertained the cost of the seized, unaccounted jewellery to be around Rs 2.47 crore. “SEB control rooms have been established in the headquarters and each unit was provided with numbers for collecting actionable intel, complaints from the public,” a senior SEB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tapping-the-booze-flow-seb-books-over-1-7k-cases/articleshow/80655839.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Rawat becomes first CM to reach remotely located Durmi Valley in Chamoli since independence||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday reached the remote Durmi Valley in Chamoli district. Authorities claimed that it was the first visit by a chief minister to the valley since the country's independence. Durmi comprises 14 gram panchayats and has a total population of around 8,000 people. Located in Chamoli, infrastructure development still remains a major concern for the residents of the area. During the state foundation day celebration programmes, the locals had invited CM to visit the area to get a first hand account of the ground reality. On Wednesday, Rawat directed the authorities to open a primary health centre in Durmi-Nijmula valley and also announced a dozen projects under Badrinath assembly constituency. “We are dedicated towards helping the women in the hills find livelihood opportunities.,” the CM said. Incidentally, the CM had announced the revival of Durmi lake during the state foundation day event in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rawat-becomes-first-cm-to-reach-remotely-located-durmi-valley-in-chamoli-since-independence/articleshow/80676626.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Meerut||After crash, truck rams into barricades, killing 2 PAC jawans, injuring others||Meerut: Two Uttar Pradesh Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) constables were crushed to death when a truck after collision with another vehicle lost control and crashed into barricades killing them and injuring two others. The two jawans – Praveen Singh and Praveen Kumar, both in their early 20s – died on the spot. The two were residents of Ghaziabad and recruited in 2019. The crash occurred in the early hours of Tuesday in Sikandrabad area of Bulandshahr where a unit of 38th Battalion of PAC was deployed on duty.Anees Ansari, Commandant, 38th Battalion, said, “During the accident, these two jawans took the maximum impact while several others standing near the barricade were also injured.” According to police sources, the driver of one truck is injured and admitted to hospital, but the second truck’s driver is on the run and efforts are on to identify him. The bodies of the PAC jawans were sent for postmortem and later brought to Police Lines. After paying respect to the mortal remains, the PAC officials handed them over to their families.“I don’t know how to come to terms with this loss. He was the second of my three children. I got a phone call early on Tuesday and rushed to Bulandshahr," Ranveer Singh, father of Praveen Kumar, said. “He used to call at 8pm every day. We spoke to him the previous evening too. It was a casual talk. I didn't know it would be the last time we were speaking,” Singh said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also spoke to senior officials and expressed grief over the tragedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-crash-truck-rams-into-barricades-killing-2-pac-jawans-injuring-others/articleshow/80654601.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||TDP spokesperson attacked in Vijayawada, car vandalised||VIJAYAWADA: TDP spokesperson Kommareddy Pattabhi Ram was on Tuesday attacked by a group of unidentified persons with iron rods, sticks and stones near his residence in Guru Nanak Colony. The attack on Pattabhi is the second in the last four months. The incident happened at around 10.45 am when Pattabhi was going towards the party office in his car. The TDP leader said a group of 10 to 15 people intercepted his car and smashed its windscreens with a rod before injuring him on his elbow and knee. Pattabhi, whose car was also vandalised in October last year, said the miscreants also damaged his cell phone before fleeing from the spot. He alleged that ruling party leader Kodali Nani was behind the attack. “I have been receiving threats for a while now, particularly after I raised voice against the ruling party’s corrupt activities. I had sought police help several times to increase my security but my requests were never heard. Such attacks will not stop me from exposing the corruption,” Pattabhi said. Meanwhile, TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu and former MLA Bonda Umamaheswara Rao reached Pattabhi’s residence and extended their support. “A high court judge, senior IAS officers and many popular personalities reside in this locality. Today we saw goondas and rowdies having their way here,” Naidu said. Patamata police said a case has been registered under sections 427 (mischief or causing damage to property), 307 (attempt to murder) read with 34 of IPC and CCTV footage has been collected to identify the accused. A wooden rod used to vandalise Pattabhi’s vehicle has also been recovered from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-spokesperson-attacked-car-vandalised/articleshow/80655986.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 3, 2021||Chennai||8,000 get vax, Tamil Nadu govt expects drive to gain momentum||CHENNAI: The number of people taking Covid-19 vaccine marginally increased to 8,058 till 6.30pm on Tuesday when frontline workers from three departments were invited to take the jab at 400 sessions organised in 400 vaccination centres. On Monday, 6,866 healthcare providers had taken the shot. The state did not have the number of frontline workers from the 8,058 recipients as data was still being collated, but officials said 7,951 took Covishield and 107 opted for Covaxin. With this, the beneficiaries in the state moved to 1,20,467 of whom 1,17,685 have taken Covishield and 2,782 Covaxin. From Tuesday, the state started a combined vaccination drive for frontline workers from the home, revenue and local administration departments along with healthcare providers. It increased the number of vaccination centres by allowing nearly 200 private hospitals to take up vaccination. “We are hoping to see more vaccinations in the coming days,” joint director (immunisation) Dr K Vinay Kumar said. The directorate of public health may once again announce changes in vaccination protocols. Public health officials said frontline workers will get messages on their phones a day before vaccination. “We will draw names of people from the Cowin portal and add them into the schedule a day in advance. They can take the vaccine at the specified time and venue,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. The state has so far registered more than 4 lakh frontline workers from the three departments and is likely to add more by the weekend. On Tuesday, the state received instructions from the Centre not to vaccinate people who are not registered with the Cowin portal. Until now, the state did not turn away healthcare workers when they walked into the vaccination centre, even if they were not registered. Officials made a backend entry and updated the portal after vaccination. “Now, the Centre may freeze this option. We may no longer be able to vaccinate people without registering them. So we have asked all clinical establishments to ensure names of all their staff are on the list,” said Dr Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/8k-get-vax-govt-expects-drive-to-gain-momentum/articleshow/80656822.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Three held for stealing motorcycles||PUNE: The police has recovered 20 stolen motorcycles, worth Rs8 lakh, from the possession of three men, who stole the vehicles from different parts of the city over the last eight months. Among those arrested are two criminals on police record as well as a wrestler. The police said that the trio stole motorcycles from Khadak, Hadapsar, Koregaon Park, Dattawadi, Swargate and Wanowrie. A team, headed by senior inspector Shrihari Bahirat, constables Sameer Malwadkar and Bunty Kamble of Khadak police station, received a tip off about the presence of the trio near Seven Loves flyover on Shankarseth Road. They laid a trap near the flyover and nabbed the trio. The three arrested men have been identified as Nitin Suresh Bhosale (29) of Parvati Payatha, Pratik Prakash Gavhane (20) of Hadapsar and Hrishikesh Balasaheb Gade (21) of Raviwar Peth. The three are distant relatives and hail from Osmanabad. According to the police, Bhosale has been named in cases of theft, body offences and others in Osmanabad while Gavhane has been previously arrested by the Pune police in the cases of robbery and vehicle thefts. Gade was pursuing his passion of wrestling and is a member of a prominent Talim in Pune. Gade joined them in stealing the vehicles to earn a quick buck. The men would unlock the ignition lock using a motorcycle key, the police said. The trio allegedly took the motorcycles to their native village and dumped them in their farm. They informed local villagers that these vehicles belonged to a finance company and they have been seized due to non-payment of EMIs. Before they were able to sell the vehicles to the local villagers, they were nabbed by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-held-for-stealing-motorcycles/articleshow/80658227.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Engineer hangs self as wife refuses to return home||PATNA: An electronic engineer working for a multinational firm in Bengaluru allegedly committed suicide in Katihar town after his wife refused to return home despite several requests and phone calls, police said on Tuesday. The deceased, Ajay Kumar Bharti (26), was presently working from home at Katihar, police said. Town police station SHO Raghvendra Prasad Singh told TOI over phone that the matter came to light at around 10am on Monday when his father Parmeshwari Bharti returned home from night duty and Ajay didn’t open the door. “Ajay used his wife’s scarf as a noose to hang himself from the ceiling fan. Police had to break open the door which was locked from inside,” he said. The SHO said Ajay had an intercaste love marriage with one Priyanka Kumari around a year back. “They had returned from Bengaluru after the lockdown. Though both used to have some minor disputes,” he said. Ajay’s father had asked him to bring Priyanka back as she had gone to her parental residence almost a fortnight back after some dispute between them. When Ajay visited his wife, she refused to return immediately. Priyanka said she would come home on Tuesday, the SHO said. Priyanka’s parents live at Shanti Nagar in Katihar town. “Ajay returned home after which his father, an ex-serviceman, left for night duty. He even called his wife again, but in vain. He finally committed suicide,” the SHO said. A case of unnatural death has been registered, he said, adding that Ajay’s family did not press any changes against Priyanka. He said Ajay’s father only said he committed suicide due to family dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/engineer-hangs-self-as-wife-refuses-to-return-home/articleshow/80655555.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||CBI notice to Amanchi for personal appearance||Vijayawada: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has issued a notice to former MLA and YSRC functionary Amanchi Krishna Mohan for personal appearance before the investigation officer in connection with abusive comments made against the high court and its judges. The HC had transferred the case to CBI as the crime investigation department (CID) probe did not include politicians and other prominent persons who made objectionable comments on judges. Following the directions of the high court, CBI had registered a case under sections 153a, 504, 505(2), 506 of IPC and section 67 of Information Technology Act against several persons, including some political leaders, who had posted defamatory comments on social media. In the notice issued to Krishna Mohan under section 160 CrPC, the CBI stated that it appears he is acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case and is required to attend before the investigation officer on February 6 at the CBI office in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbi-notice-to-amanchi-for-personal-appearance/articleshow/80656010.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt to set up screening committee for HRC: AG||Vijayawada: The state government is in the process of the setting up a screening committee to establish State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), advocate general S Sriram told the high court. The chief minister, leader of the opposition and other prominent persons will be members of the committee, he said. Hearing a contempt petition moved by AP Civil Rights Association, the HC asked the government by when the SHRC will be established. Earlier, the government told the court that they will establish SHRC within four months on October 30, 2019. As the government did not meet the obligation of setting up of SHRC within stipulated time period, a contempt petition was moved to take action against the officers responsible. Sriram told the court that setting up of SHRC is a work in progress and sought time to get instructions from government and submit exact status of the screening committee meetings. Considering his request, the court posted the matter for further hearing to February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-set-up-screening-committee-for-hrc-ag/articleshow/80656069.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||New commandant of MILIT||Pune: Major General Hari Singh on Monday took over as commandant of the Military Institute of Technology (MILIT), the premier tri-services technology training institution. The general officer was commissioned to 234 Armoured Engineer Regiment of the Corps of Engineers (Bengal Sappers). The officer has served in various operational environments in the country||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-commandant-of-milit/articleshow/80658206.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Amaravati||Amaravati: Civic body to appoint part-time teachers in urban schools||AMARAVATI: The reopening of primary schools with increase in enrollments has prompted the municipal administration department to appoint part-time teachers in all urban schools. The decision to appoint part-time teachers (vidya volunteers) has been taken to manage the student-teacher ratio at a decent level as the enrolment of children in public schools had witnessed a steep jump during the current academic year. The school managements are anticipating that the admissions in primary schools might go up once parents send their wards leaving Covid-19 fears behind. The state government reopened schools for Class-IX and X last November and Class-VI, VII and VIII in January. After assessing the covid-19 situation, the government decided to resume classes, including pre-primary schools. Although pre-primary schools (anganwadi centres) have sufficient staff to manage the children, the principals of primary, upper primary and high schools are struggling to manage the increased number of students due to shortage of teachers. The state government’s flagship programme Amma Vodi and renovation of public schools under Naadu-Nedu scheme has prompted many parents to admit their children in government schools. The government’s decision to provide uniform, shoes, books to all students well before the reopening of the schools also reported to have increased the enrolments into the schools. According to initial reports, municipal schools alone reported nearly 30,000 to 35, 000 new admissions during the current academic year. “Covid-19 induced financial troubles have also prompted many parents to keep away from private schools to lessen their fee burden and admit their children in the government schools,” said S Ramakrishna, president, Municipal Teachers Federation (MTF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/civic-body-to-appoint-part-time-teachers-in-urban-schools/articleshow/80655319.cms||Samdani MN
February 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: In a first, panchayat polls get NOTA option||VISAKHAPATNAM: Voters in this year’s panchayat polls will have the none of the above (NOTA) for the first time. The state election commission (SEC) introduced the NOTA option for panchayat elections on non-party lines. Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam district electoral officer J Nivas said they were also spreading awareness about NOTA option among voters.  “For the first time, the NOTA option has been added for panchayat polls in the state,” Nivas said. Voters who wish to exercise the option not to vote for any candidates in the fray can use the NOTA button. Meanwhile, state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said that if the elections are held impartially, democratic system will be respected. The commissioner, who visited Srikakulam district on Monday to inspect election arrangements, reviewed the situation with top district officials at the collector’s office. Ramesh Kumar mentioned that he had served as Srikakulam district collector in 1991 and was happy to come for review in the district where he worked. State election commission special officer, additional director general of police Sanjay said police personnel should make arrangements without waiting too long. Elsewhere, political functionaries opined that since the government is encouraging unanimous polls by offering huge packages ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh for each panchayat depending on the population, there would be no use of the NOTA in several areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-a-first-panchayat-polls-get-nota-option/articleshow/80655954.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Complete EoDB reforms by February 28: Chief secretary||HYDERABAD: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials to complete reforms under ease of doing business (EoDB), especially simplification of compliance burden such as inspections, registrations, renewals, maintaining records and other issues in seven departments, by February 28. The CS held a review meeting with officials of revenue, civil supplies, transport, energy, home, municipal administration and urban development, labour, employment and training shared by department for promotion of industry and internal trade at BRKR Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complete-eodbreforms-byfeb-28-cs/articleshow/80656829.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Pune: Woman who duped 16 men via dating app in net||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday said they recently arrested a 27-year-old woman who allegedly drugged and robbed 16 men, whom she met on a dating application, in the past year. Four men had approached the police with complaints stating that a woman they met on the app spiked their drinks and robbed them of their valuables. Police created fake profiles on the dating app, tracked down the woman on January 26, and recovered gold ornaments weighing 289gm worth Rs15.3 lakh. She has been charged under IPC sections 328 and 379. “She told us during questioning that she stole her targets’ valuables to make a quick buck,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said on Tuesday. “We recovered some jewellery from her house and the rest from a jeweller in Rasta Peth. She had mortgaged the gold claiming she needed money for her father’s cancer treatment,” Prakash added. The woman is from an educated family. Her father, a teacher, had passed away in 2010, following which she left dropped out of her computer science course and took up a telecom job. She quit that job a year ago, police said. “Her brother works in a call centre. Her mother used to take tuitions but stopped due to some health problems,” Prakash said. The suspect told the police she was got the idea from a show on a streaming platform. “She deliberately picked men from other cities and states, invited them here and got them to take her to a lodge or a hotel,” the commissioner said. He said the woman would carry sleeping pills prescribed for her mother. “She would mix the tablets in the man’s drink and, when he falls unconscious, steal his valuables and cellphone. She would delete her chat history from his cellphone and destroy it,’’ Prakash said. He said the woman’s other victims were unwilling to lodge a complaint. “We were unable to convince them to lodge a complaint. They did not even want to claim their stolen property. They should come forward. We will maintain confidentiality,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-who-duped-16-men-via-dating-app-in-net/articleshow/80658253.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||T sees 150 new cases, 1 death||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 152 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. With 2,022 active cases, the spread of Covid is under control, officials said. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 29 new cases on Tuesday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-150-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/80656826.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Rajkot||Four female elephants abandoned in Dantiwada||Palanpur: Villagers of an interior village Saatsan in Dantiwada taluka of Banaskantha were in for a pleasant surprise on Tuesday morning when they saw four female elephants abandoned outside the village. It was a rare event for villagers in the semi-desert region to see an elephant, let alone four, at the same spot. The villagers informed the local forest officials who took custody of the elephants and arranged water and fodder for them. Residents of Saatsan village had spotted the four elephants, tied with rocks, around 9.30 am and informed the forest department, said Dantiwada range forest officer (RFO), S L Parmar. “The elephants have been sent to the veterinary hospital. Preliminary investigation revealed that the four female elephants were brought here during the night. Villagers did not report noticing any suspicious movement during the night,” Parmar told TOI. “All four elephants are healthy. We have arranged water, fodder and green leaves for them,” he added. Gujarat does not have any natural habitats or reserves for elephants. The majority of elephants in the state are owned by temples or religious leaders. Elephants are hired during marriages and publicity events, but there was no such an event in the area, Parmar noted. Parmar added that they were trying to find out how these elephants reached such a remote area and who is their owner was. “Meanwhile the animals will be kept at the rescue centre if needed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-female-elephants-abandoned-in-dantiwada/articleshow/80654619.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Tax defaulters give dud cheques to AMC||Aurangabad: The civic body’s rigorous drive to recover property tax dues ahead of the the current financial year has recived a jolt as some defaulters issued dud cheques as payment in order to avoid sealing of their properties. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has reported as many as 31 incidents of cheques being dishonoured towards realization of tax worth Rs 10.9 lakh since the drive began on January 3. Aparna Thete, head of the AMC’s task force for tax recovery team, said legal action would be invoked against property holders issuing the dud cheques. “According to section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, dishonouring of cheque is a criminal offence and is punishable by imprisonment of up to two years or with monetary penalty or with both. Besides, we are also thinking of slapping additional penalty on errant property holders for issuing dud cheques without sufficient balance in their bank account,” she said. Thete said timely payment of taxes is a win-win situation for the citizens as well as AMC. “The property tax is one of the major sources of revenue for any local self-governing body. If citizens pay their dues on time, the civic authorities can carry out different development and maintenance works in a smooth manner, which is beneficial for public,” she said. Sharad Advant of advocacy group the Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad said the practice of issuing dud cheques during the tax recovery drive was observed in the past as well. “The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation should take stern action against such citizens by following the legal procedure till the case reaches its logical end. Such a measure could only set a strong precedent and citizens will realize that they cannot get away easily even after bouncing of cheques,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tax-defaulters-give-dud-cheques-to-amc/articleshow/80656823.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||One held for duping techie of Rs 25.6 lakh in Pune||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Monday arrested a 24-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh in connection with a cheating case. In December, a 29-year-old software engineer lodged a complaint stating that fraudsters claimed her boss was going to send her an expensive gift from Australia and cheated her of Rs25.6 lakh on the pretext of various charges. “The arrested man, Ravikumar Gulabchand, rented his bank account to the fraudsters,” senior inspector Balkrishna Sawant said. He said they managed to recover nearly Rs8 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-duping-techie-of-rs-25-6l/articleshow/80658261.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Six youths attack cop & 2 security guards with sticks, four arrested||PUNE: The Wanowrie police on Monday arrested four of the six youths on the charge of rioting and attacking a police personnel and two security guards with sticks around 7.40pm on Sunday in Camp. The incident had occurred outside the post office on Stavely Road, when assistant inspector Govind Jadhav (51) told the youths, all on motorcycles and armed with sticks, to stop. “All six of them were yelling and using foul language. The pillion riders had sticks in their hand. I signalled them to stop and asked them to drive safely, following which one of them held me, while the two others hit my head, hands and right ear with sticks,” Jadhav told TOI. “Two security guards posted at the army officers bungalow came came to my aid. The youths hit them as wellI then alerted the city police control room, following which an FIR was registered,” he said. The officer said the identities of the youths were established after one of the guards recognised one of the suspect and noted down latter’s vehicle number. The identified suspect resided in the army officer’s servant quarters, police said. “We arrested four youths — Kishore Khandale (18), Sunny Tak (24), Shailesh Punekar (21) and Akash Jadhav (26) — based on the information received soon after the incident. The fifth youth could not be arrested as he met with an accident on the same day. The sixth suspect was on the run,” assistant inspector Bhagwan Kamble from the Wanowrie police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-youths-attack-cop-2-security-guards-with-sticks-four-arrested/articleshow/80658277.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Skip RTE admissions, get derecognised: Edu dept||Aurangabad: The education department of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has warned schools that they would face derecognition if they did not comply with the admission rules of the RTE Act, 2009. As per the official schedule, February 10 is the last date for registration of schools for admissions for the 2021-22 academic year. AMC education officer Ramnath Thore said every eligible school should register before the deadline. “Barring the minority schools, all other schools — of any language medium or board — come within the ambit of the RTE admissions and they must enrol for the admission process. Schools not carrying out the necessary admissions will be subjected to stern action,” he said. Thore said schools have to upload their database of students of Class I in the SARAL portal as a first step of the registration. Educational activist Prashant Sathe alleged that a section of schools had skipped the RTE admissions in past. “The AMC authorities, as a corrective measure, must carry out proper scrutiny of schools that do not register for RTE admissions this year. If any school, other than the minority schools, is found missing, strict action should be taken,” he said. As per official data, only five schools in Aurangabad district had registered for RTE admissions for 2021-22 till Tuesday. There are just eight days more left to complete the necessary formalities before the deadline of February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/skip-rte-admissions-get-derecognised-edu-dept/articleshow/80656834.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Four golden jackal pups reunited with mother||PUNE: Four golden jackal pups, found in a sugar cane field while it was being harvested at Udmaiwadi in Indapur taluka, were recently reunited with their mother by city-based RESQ Charitable Trust and the forest department. The landowner informed the RESQ Charitable Trust team of their presence after 80% of the field was cleared and the pups were completely exposed. The founder and president of RESQ Charitable Trust, Neha Panchamiya, said, “We informed Pune forest department’s assistant conservator of forests (ACF), Ashutosh Shendge, and together we planned the reunion of the mother with her pups. We also called local group members of RESQ, Baramati, and requested them to secure the pups at a safe location.” “We set up our live cameras near the pups and waited at a distance,” said Tuhin Satarkar, head of rescue wildlife operations at RESQ. The team waited for over an hour when they suddenly spotted an adult female jackal hovering nearby. “We had ensured that the pups had urinated so that their smell was strong for the mother to find them, especially since we had to move them from their original location slightly as the field had been completely harvested,” said Sumedh Tarde, who was part of the team of rescuers. Panchamiya added, “The mother jackal came about one-and-a-half hours after the pups were placed and then carried them away one by one. After taking the last pup, she returned and carried away one of our cameras as well. A diligent and reserved mother indeed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-golden-jackal-pups-reunited-with-mother/articleshow/80658290.cms||Neha Madaan
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong demands recruitment dates||Hyderabad: Congress has demanded that the state government come out with a recruitment calendar. The state government should make public department-wise vacancies and the number of new posts created for which the recruitment would be taken up along with a timeline, AICC secretary Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-demands-recruitment-dates/articleshow/80656841.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Pune||Animal with stomach infection recovers; released to natural habitat||Pune: A three-year-old female jackal was released in Otur forest in Junnar tehsil on Tuesday after undergoing treatment.The jackal was suffering from a stomach infection and was rushed for treatment to the Manikdoh leopard rescue centre in Junnar. Local farmers found the jackal lying in a semi-conscious state near a field a few days ago and immediately called for help.After a few days of care and treatment, she was fit for release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/animal-with-stomach-infection-recovers-released-to-natural-habitat/articleshow/80658302.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Three booked for siphoning off Rs 6.2 lakh, hacking email||AURANGABAD: Three suspects have been booked by city police on the charges of hacking the official email of the purchase manager of an engine parts manufacturing company in Aurangabad and fraudulently withdrawing Rs 6.2 lakh. MIDC Waluj police station’s senior inspector Madhukar Sawant said, “The alleged transactions took place on and after January 29. We will probe the role of each of the suspects and based on the evidence, they will be arrested.” As per the complaint lodged, the suspect trio hacked the email of the purchase manager and accessed crucial data related to the transactions by the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-booked-for-siphoning-off-rs-6-2l-hacking-email/articleshow/80656845.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two held with foreign currency worth Rs 54 lakh at airport||HYDERABAD: Customs sleuths apprehended two Dubai-bound passengers at the Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport while they were trying to smuggle out foreign currencies equivalent to Rs 54 lakh on Tuesday. The accused concealed the currencies in Boondi packets. The two suspects were scheduled to board an Emirates flight (EK-525). They were intercepted after suspicious material was spotted in their checked-in baggage. In the presence of the two passengers, customs officials searched their baggage and found foreign currencies. “We found Saudi Riyals, Omani Rials, Dollars of the United State and Australia, United Arab Emirates (UAE) Dirhams, Bahraini Dinars and Kuwaiti Dinars,” said a customs official. The two accused pretended that they did not know each other and customs officials suspect that they are carriers. A case was registered under the Customs Act and the accused have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-with-fgn-currency-worth-rs-54l-at-airport/articleshow/80656840.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Metro footfalls up, but still 38% of pre-Covid numbers||CHENNAI: Ridership on the 45km metro rail corridor has nearly doubled to 13.43 lakh passengers in January from an average of 7.8 lakh passengers a month between September and December last year. Office-goers and domestic fliers have helped increase the daily average ridership from 14,798 in September to around 44,000 in January but it is still only 38% of the pre-Covid daily average of 1.16 lakh. Nearly half of the passengers who used metro trains in the last five months bought tokens for their commute instead of opting for contactless travel. Metro rail officials said that since services resumed on September 7, after nearly five months of lockdown, 45 lakh people have travelled by metro trains. On January 27 this year, 63,999 passengers boarded trains on the two corridors of phase-1. An official said employees returning to work from office and operation of 125 domestic flights a day in January have boosted ridership. Airport metro station is one of the busiest along with Thirumangalam and Alandur. The rise in numbers come at a time when a 9km metro rail line with eight stations from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar is getting its finishing touches and is expected to open on February 14. “We hope the numbers will go up steadily on our existing lines and there will be a 10%-30% increase in patronage when the north Chennai line opens,” an official said. In the last five months, around 26 lakh people opted for contactless travel either through purchase of QR-code tickets through smart phones or by swiping their smartcard on a travel card reader to top up. The rest purchased tokens, which are otherwise discouraged to prevent spread of infection. CMRL converted first class coaches to women-only coaches to encourage more commuters to use train service while also maintaining social distancing. But many office-goers complained that the trains are nearly crowded during peak hours and wanted CMRL to increase peak hour frequency. “Passengers do not follow social distancing despite clear markings put up in trains especially during peak hours when everyone is in a hurry to go to work. CMRL has to bring back the pre-covid peak-hour frequency of five minutes from the existing seven-minute frequency to prevent crowding in trains,” said S Gayathri, a regular commuter who travels from Anna Nagar East to AG-DMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-footfalls-up-but-still-38-of-pre-covid-numbers/articleshow/80656852.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||KRMB meet on February 5||Hyderabad: Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) will meet on February 5 to discuss Krishna river water allocation between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. In the meeting, engineer-in-chiefs of both the states and KRMB secretary will participate. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-meet-on-february-5/articleshow/80656860.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Businessman booked for GST evasion scam||HYDERABAD: The anti-evasion team of Secunderabad GST Commissionerate booked a case of fake invoices and evasion of GST against businessman Rambabu Pula who floated several fictitious firms. The accused allegedly issued invoices without supplying goods or services, facilitated fraudulently availing input tax. He floated six firms — one in the name of his wife and the remaining five in the names of known persons. These firms passed on input tax credit based on bogus invoices. Gopal Trade Impex, Maruthi Enterprises, Siri Enterprises, Lasya Enterprises, Abhigna Enterprises and S.V. Enterprises allegedly issued fake GST Invoices and e-waybills. The accused facilitated in passing of ineligible ITC to the tune of Rs 49 crore out of which the department already recovered Rs 2.3 crore during the investigation conducted so far. Investigation has revealed that he had a well-thought out conspiracy aimed at duping the exchequer by way of creation of a complex web of inter-connected firms engaged in fraudulent issuance of tax invoices without supply of goods or services to enable the recipient companies to avail and utilise fake input tax credit leading to loss of government revenue. Pula has accepted his involvement in respect of first three firms. He was arrested and was produced before the Economic Offences Court on Tuesday. The accused was remanded to judicial custody up to February 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-booked-for-gst-evasion-scam/articleshow/80656854.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Vaccine for frontline workers in Delhi from this week||NEW DELHI: Frontline workers like police personnel and sanitation workers are likely to start getting vaccinated from this week. Out of the 6 lakh frontline workers in the national capital, around 3.5 lakh have been registered for getting the shots. Though 9,357 healthcare workers, the highest in a single day so far, turned up to receive the jab on Tuesday, the percentage was significantly lower because of an increase in the number of vaccination centres from 106 to 183. In all, a total of 18,300 healthcare personnel were expected to turn up, but only about 51% went to the vaccination centres, one of the lowest turnouts till date. So far, nearly 74,000 healthcare workers have been inoculated. Their turnout has been lower than expected with the highest single-day turnout being only 91.5%. Delhi government wants to open the exercise to frontline workers so that the turnout improves and the process becomes quicker. Health minister Satyendar Jain in a press conference on Tuesday said that frontline workers would be permitted to get the shots from this week. Tuesday’s turnout was far lower than the 74.4 per cent beneficiaries who had reported for inoculation during the last session. The turnout has not even touched 85% since the number of vaccination centres were increased from 81 to 106. Each centre is supposed to inoculate 100 healthcare workers daily. As part of the upscaling plan, the state government slowly wants to increase the number of vaccination centres even further. Only 17 adverse events were reported across the 11 districts, with South and West reporting four cases each followed by Shahdara, which reported three. Southeast and Southwest did not report any adverse event. “The number of adverse events is declining and the confidence among healthcare workers is fast growing. This has resulted in a higher demand for the shots. Due to this, the number of vaccination centres have been increased. However, this is also the reason for the decrease in percentage of beneficiaries inoculated despite their numbers being high. When the highest turnout of 91.5% was witnessed, only 7,408 healthcare workers had been inoculated,” said an official. The government official added that with vaccine hesitancy going down, the inoculated healthcare workers were directly or indirectly inspiring their colleagues to get the shot. “The nervousness associated with vaccination has fast declined as people are seeing more beneficiaries getting the shots and not reporting any adverse events,” he added. The overall turnout was only 53% on the first day, 44% on the second day and 48% on the third day. It increased to 91.5% last Monday, 80.8% on Wednesday and 82.7% on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-for-frontline-workers-from-this-week/articleshow/80656876.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 3, 2021||Meerut||Meerut doctor removes coin from five-year-old boy's abdomen||Meerut: A coin of Rs 5, stuck inside the abdomen of a five-year-old boy, was successfully removed by a Meerut-based paediatric gastroenterologist at a private hospital here. The incident came to fore when the parents of the child came to the doctor complaining that he had ingested a coin. When the traditional laxatives could not remove the coin from the abdomen, an endoscopy was done and the coin was removed. Special care was taken because of the child’s age and his weight of 15Kgs. Dr Shubham Jain, Pediatric gastroenterologist & hepatologist, said, “The family of the child approached me when the child complained of stomach pain. During an x-ray, it was found that he had ingested a coin and it had got stuck in his abdomen. Initially, we tried to give laxatives in the hope that the coin will move out of the body naturally. However, when even 24 hours later the coin remained stuck in his abdomen, an endoscopy was done.” It should be noted that Dr Jain is the only paediatric gastroenterologist in the city. “The coin of Rupees five has blunt edges due to which ulcers were formed inside the abdomen of the child. This is the reason that gastroscope should be used and any foreign body should be removed,” said Dr Jain. Dr Jain has done his superspeciality from Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-doctor-removes-coin-boys-abdomen/articleshow/80654608.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana, AP units start exporting rice to China||HYDERABAD: Millers from the Telugu states have started exporting broken rice to China. The neighbouring country began importing rice from India for the first time in December last year apart from its traditional suppliers like Pakistan, Vietnam and Myanmar. Out of 24 rice plants selected in India for the exports, three are in the Telugu states. They are even gearing up to export regular long grain rice, which farmers in Telangana see as a good opportunity. “We are paid 350 dollars per tonne for broken rice,” Hiten, a rice exporter from Nizamabad said. Out of three plants in Telugu states, one is in Nizamabad and two are in the East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The broken rice variety is used for making noodles and flour. The low-quality rice is used as cattle feed. Chinese traders have now sought samples of long grain rice from Indian exporters. “China plans to import about one million tonnes of rice, including broken and long grain rice, from India this year. About 30% of the export will happen from Telangana and AP, say exporters. “Telangana and AP have great potential as they have a second crop of paddy. Quality produce will be available from March,” National Rice Exporters’ Association president R Krishna Rao said. Exporters add that Telangana being close to ports, and cargo facilities being good can turn the demand in China into a great opportunity. They say China’s annual rice import is five million tonnes. “But perception about Indian rice imports is low as there are proper parameters internally for exports. We need to overcome these problems,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-ap-units-start-exporting-rice-to-china/articleshow/80656886.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Five booked for ‘attempting to kill’ Nerul cop||NAVI MUMBAI: Nerul police have arrested three of five youths from a slum near Balaji temple in Nerul for allegedly assaulting a 31-year-old constable with a liquor bottle and slashing his face. The incident took place after he questioned them on why they were creating chaos in a drunken state near the temple at around 11.45pm on Monday. The men even damaged the window pane of the constable’s car. Constable Santosh Rathod has been admitted to Apollo Hospital in CBD. An FIR has been filed under IPC sections for attempt to murder, rioting and criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty, said Sham Shinde, senior inspector, Nerul police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/5-booked-for-attempting-to-kill-nerul-cop/articleshow/80656121.cms||George Mendonca
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man attacks relative with axe over arrest||HYDERABAD: Upset about his arrest for misbehaving with a woman relative, a real estate broker tried to kill her by attacking her with an axe on Monday night. Luckily the victim escaped with injuries and police launched a manhunt to nab the offender. The accused, Ch Rahul Goud, 26, a real estate broker was arrested by Meerpet police on January 2 for misbehaving with a 28-year-old relative from Gurramguda. “Rahul got out on bail a day after his arrest and he bore grudge against the housewife for lodging a complaint against him,” Meerpet inspector M Mahendar Reddy said. On Monday night, Rahul went to the house of the victim and attacked her with an axe. “The victim suffered three bleeding injuries on her palm, forearm and shoulder. After the assault, the accused fled from the spot. The woman is out of danger,” the inspector said. An attempt to murder case was registered under section 307 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-attacks-relative-with-axe-over-arrest/articleshow/80656878.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||DDA to restart public hearing at Vikas Sadan from Thursday||New Delhi: Delhi Development Authority will restart public hearing at its headquarters at Vikas Sadan from Thursday.A DDA spokesperson said public hearing will take place on Mondays and Thursdays, but in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, people visiting Vikas Sadan will be allowed entry only after thermal screening and they must comply with social distancing norms, including having ‘no risk’ or ‘low risk’ status in the Aarogya Setu app.The online appointment link is https://citzservices.dda.org.in, which is also available on DDA’s website under the Online Public Service section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-to-restart-public-hearing-at-vikas-sadan-from-thursday/articleshow/80656881.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Colleges face fine if details of fee not on site||MUMBAI: The Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) has launched a crackdown on unaided professional colleges not disclosing fee structure fixed by the authority on their portals. The FRA on Tuesday asked colleges to display the fee structure or face penalty, up to Rs 5 lakh. It plans to send notices to colleges flouting norms. After checking college websites, FRA found many not disclosing the structure fixed by FRA. Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions Act, 2015 makes it a must for all unaided institutions to display course-wise fees approved by FRA on their notice board and website in Marathi and English. “The step has been taken in the larger interest of the student community. Many are not aware of the fees fixed by FRA and, therefore, end up paying excess fees and realise it only after two to three years in a programme,” said an FRA official. The official said that the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission in 2018, in fact, are more comprehensive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/colleges-face-fine-if-details-of-fee-not-on-site/articleshow/80658288.cms||Yogita Rao
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Telangana, AP units start exporting rice to China||HYDERABAD: Millers from the Telugu states have started exporting broken rice to China. The neighbouring country began importing rice from India for the first time in December last year apart from its traditional suppliers like Pakistan, Vietnam and Myanmar. Out of 24 rice plants selected in India for the exports, three are in the Telugu states. They are even gearing up to export regular long grain rice, which farmers in Telangana see as a good opportunity. “We are paid 350 dollars per tonne for broken rice,” Hiten, a rice exporter from Nizamabad said. Out of three plants in Telugu states, one is in Nizamabad and two are in the East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The broken rice variety is used for making noodles and flour. The low-quality rice is used as cattle feed. Chinese traders have now sought samples of long grain rice from Indian exporters. “China plans to import about one million tonnes of rice, including broken and long grain rice, from India this year. About 30% of the export will happen from Telangana and AP, say exporters. “Telangana and AP have great potential as they have a second crop of paddy. Quality produce will be available from March,” National Rice Exporters’ Association president R Krishna Rao said. Exporters add that Telangana being close to ports, and cargo facilities being good can turn the demand in China into a great opportunity. They say China’s annual rice import is five million tonnes. “But perception about Indian rice imports is low as there are proper parameters internally for exports. We need to overcome these problems,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telangana-ap-units-start-exporting-rice-to-china/articleshow/80660467.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 3, 2021||Chennai||Win for residents, Anakaputhur civic body to mill roads||CHENNAI: Residents of Anakaputhur municipality, south of Chennai, have won a battle they were fighting with the local body. From now on, all roads laid by the municipality will be milled, as per the direction of the Madras high court. In February last year, the court took serious note of roads in Chennai being laid without milling and summoned three top secretaries of the government for explanation. The judges pointed out how lack of milling resulted in inundation during rains, flooding of homes and blocking of drainage. On Tuesday, roads in Anna Nagar area of the municipality were milled with an excavator. Three weeks ago, residents had protested after the height of a road in Balaji Nagar was raised by two feet. Municipality engineers had laid concrete road without milling effectively leaving many houses below the road level. These roads had covered the inlets of storm water drains, said G Abinaya, a resident who had complained along with others. Apart from increased road height, residents were worried about maintenance of electricity, OFC cable and telephone lines. “With no milling, the layer of concrete has become thicker and special drills are required to rectify minor faults. Such drills may break the road,” Pugalventhan Venkatesan, a social activist, said. Abinaya said though engineers have started milling roads, there was no word on whether the roads laid in violation of the guidelines would be re-laid. “I have raised a complaint with the chief minister’s cell regarding this,” she said. Govindaraju, engineer in-charge in the municipality, said they were discussing if it could mill roads that have been laid. “If there is stagnation of rainwater, we propose to build some channels to help drain it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/win-for-residentsanakaputhur-civic-body-to-mill-roads/articleshow/80656877.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 3, 2021||Pune||PMC panel rejects civic chief’s property tax hike plan||PUNE: The civic body’s standing committee on Tuesday rejected the 11% hike in property tax proposed by commissioner Vikram Kumar in his draft municipal budget for 2021-22. “It will not be appropriate to impose more tax on citizens diligently paying taxes. We have urged the civic administration to find new sources of income instead of putting the burden on the existing tax payers,” standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane told TOI. The commissioner’s budget of Rs7,650 crore was presented on January 29. Besides the public private partnership model, the budget was anking on Rs130 crore to be generated from the tax hike. Committee rejects PMC’s property tax hike proposalPune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data reveal that 10.5 lakh properties are in its property tax net. Around Rs1,200 crore is collected every year via property tax. But the revenue dropped drastically in 2020-2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The committee also told the civic administration to categorize suggestions and objections on widening 350 roads. Around 1,000 suggestions and objections have been submitted. “We will categorize objections pertaining to every road slated for widening. The number of properties on each road and objections raised by the property owners on that respective road will be separated. The data will be made public. After the public hearings, only roads that citizens want widened, will be considered. We will not impose road widening against the will of residents,” said Rasane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/committee-rejects-pmcs-property-tax-hike-proposal/articleshow/80658324.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Pollution levels higher this winter in Hyderabad, AP||HYDERABAD: This winter was dirtier for Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam as compared to that of 2019 in terms of atmospheric pollution. For Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, the dirtiest week during winter 2020-2021 was the week ending January 3. For Tirupati and Visakhapatnam, the dirtiest week was the one ending on December 27, 2020. The high winter pollution is blamed on the reopening of the economy and changing meteorology. A study of the air quality in major cities in South India, including Hyderabad in Telangana and Vijayawada, Amaravati, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) revealed that the cleanest week for Rajahmundry, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam was recorded pre-monsoon in April, May, and early June 2020. The CSE study, comparing pollution during lockdown and post lockdown, was released on Tuesday. According to the CSE report, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam had an earlier start of bad air days in winter of 2020. The rolling weekly average rose over the 24 hour standard (60 micrograms per metre cube) in Visakhapatnam on October 23 (9 days earlier), and ink Hyderabad on October 25 (14 days earlier). This winter overall has been 34% dirtier in Visakhapatnam and 7% in Hyderabad. The study revealed that the number of days with particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration meeting standards was considerably lower this winter in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. There have been 31 days of poor or worse air days this winter compared to 10 recorded last year in Visakhapatnam. Hyderabad registered a day with poor air quality compared to zero in winter of 2019. Similarly, standard days have been lesser by 11 days in Hyderabad and 23 days in Visakhapatnam. The CSE took data up to January 26, 2021 for its study. It said even though atmospheric conditions during winter in the south is not the same as that in the Indo-Gangetic plains in the northern region, trapping of winter pollution is quite high, especially in inland cities. As part of the study, pollution data of 21 cities spread across five southern states was analysed. The 2020 average PM 2.5 level in many inland cities in the Deccan plateau has climbed up to breach the average concentration recorded in 2019. Tirupati has registered a 1.8% increase. Amaravati at 24%, Visakhapatnam at 16% and Hyderabad & Rajahmundry at 14% are the other best performers in the pool. From the respective cleanest week, the weekly average of PM 2.5 in Hyderabad rose seven times, while in Visakhapatnam it rose 14 times to the dirtiest week. Rajahmundry deteriorated 19 times and Amaravati 17 times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pollution-levels-higher-this-winter-in-hyderabad-ap/articleshow/80656903.cms||Syed Akbar
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Plans to make T EV hub: Minister||Hyderabad: The guidelines for the electric vehicle policy 2020-30 including concessions were issued on Tuesday. There will be total exemption of road tax registration fee and steps have been initiated to ensure employment generation. Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said, “The policy was in line with government’s plans to make the state an electric vehicle and energy storage hub.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plans-to-make-t-ev-hub-minister/articleshow/80656888.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Vijayawada||Pollution levels higher this winter in Hyderabad, AP||HYDERABAD: This winter was dirtier for Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam as compared to that of 2019 in terms of atmospheric pollution. For Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, the dirtiest week during winter 2020-2021 was the week ending January 3. For Tirupati and Visakhapatnam, the dirtiest week was the one ending on December 27, 2020. The high winter pollution is blamed on the reopening of the economy and changing meteorology. A study of the air quality in major cities in South India, including Hyderabad in Telangana and Vijayawada, Amaravati, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) revealed that the cleanest week for Rajahmundry, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam was recorded pre-monsoon in April, May, and early June 2020. The CSE study, comparing pollution during lockdown and post lockdown, was released on Tuesday. According to the CSE report, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam had an earlier start of bad air days in winter of 2020. The rolling weekly average rose over the 24 hour standard (60 micrograms per metre cube) in Visakhapatnam on October 23 (9 days earlier), and ink Hyderabad on October 25 (14 days earlier). This winter overall has been 34% dirtier in Visakhapatnam and 7% in Hyderabad. The study revealed that the number of days with particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration meeting standards was considerably lower this winter in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. There have been 31 days of poor or worse air days this winter compared to 10 recorded last year in Visakhapatnam. Hyderabad registered a day with poor air quality compared to zero in winter of 2019. Similarly, standard days have been lesser by 11 days in Hyderabad and 23 days in Visakhapatnam. The CSE took data up to January 26, 2021 for its study. It said even though atmospheric conditions during winter in the south is not the same as that in the Indo-Gangetic plains in the northern region, trapping of winter pollution is quite high, especially in inland cities. As part of the study, pollution data of 21 cities spread across five southern states was analysed. The 2020 average PM 2.5 level in many inland cities in the Deccan plateau has climbed up to breach the average concentration recorded in 2019. Tirupati has registered a 1.8% increase. Amaravati at 24%, Visakhapatnam at 16% and Hyderabad & Rajahmundry at 14% are the other best performers in the pool. From the respective cleanest week, the weekly average of PM 2.5 in Hyderabad rose seven times, while in Visakhapatnam it rose 14 times to the dirtiest week. Rajahmundry deteriorated 19 times and Amaravati 17 times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pollution-levels-higher-this-winter-in-hyderabad-ap/articleshow/80660445.cms||Syed Akbar
February 3, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Pollution levels higher this winter in Hyderabad, AP||HYDERABAD: This winter was dirtier for Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam as compared to that of 2019 in terms of atmospheric pollution. For Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, the dirtiest week during winter 2020-2021 was the week ending January 3. For Tirupati and Visakhapatnam, the dirtiest week was the one ending on December 27, 2020. The high winter pollution is blamed on the reopening of the economy and changing meteorology. A study of the air quality in major cities in South India, including Hyderabad in Telangana and Vijayawada, Amaravati, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) revealed that the cleanest week for Rajahmundry, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam was recorded pre-monsoon in April, May, and early June 2020. The CSE study, comparing pollution during lockdown and post lockdown, was released on Tuesday. According to the CSE report, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam had an earlier start of bad air days in winter of 2020. The rolling weekly average rose over the 24 hour standard (60 micrograms per metre cube) in Visakhapatnam on October 23 (9 days earlier), and ink Hyderabad on October 25 (14 days earlier). This winter overall has been 34% dirtier in Visakhapatnam and 7% in Hyderabad. The study revealed that the number of days with particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration meeting standards was considerably lower this winter in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. There have been 31 days of poor or worse air days this winter compared to 10 recorded last year in Visakhapatnam. Hyderabad registered a day with poor air quality compared to zero in winter of 2019. Similarly, standard days have been lesser by 11 days in Hyderabad and 23 days in Visakhapatnam. The CSE took data up to January 26, 2021 for its study. It said even though atmospheric conditions during winter in the south is not the same as that in the Indo-Gangetic plains in the northern region, trapping of winter pollution is quite high, especially in inland cities. As part of the study, pollution data of 21 cities spread across five southern states was analysed. The 2020 average PM 2.5 level in many inland cities in the Deccan plateau has climbed up to breach the average concentration recorded in 2019. Tirupati has registered a 1.8% increase. Amaravati at 24%, Visakhapatnam at 16% and Hyderabad & Rajahmundry at 14% are the other best performers in the pool. From the respective cleanest week, the weekly average of PM 2.5 in Hyderabad rose seven times, while in Visakhapatnam it rose 14 times to the dirtiest week. Rajahmundry deteriorated 19 times and Amaravati 17 times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pollution-levels-higher-this-winter-in-hyderabad-ap/articleshow/80660443.cms||Syed Akbar
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Vaccination drive to take place six days a week now||NEW DELHI: After increasing the number of Covid vaccination centres, Delhi government has also increased the number of days immunisation will happen in a week. A Delhi government official said the vaccination drive would now be carried out on all days of the week, except Sunday. Beneficiaries were so far vaccinated only four days a week—on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The decision is aimed at ensuring that more healthcare and frontline workers get inoculated in the capital. The beneficiaries’ turnout for the vaccination drive has remained below expectations since the drive began on January 16. “More days will give greater flexibility to healthcare workers and others. The decision has been implemented with immediate effect and the next vaccination drive is on Wednesday,” said the official. The central government had recently issued directions in this regard. Doctors at various centres claimed to have received necessary directions regarding the change on Tuesday. “We received the directions and teams of doctors and paramedical staff have been formed to work on a rotational basis so that everyone will work efficiently,” said an official from Hindu Rao Hospital. Staff engaged at various centres in South Delhi Municipal Coproration areas as well as doctors at Swami Dayanand Hospital in east Delhi also claimed to have received the directions. “We will implement them from this week and coordination will be made with cold chain points linked with the centres for timely delivery of Covid-19 vaccines,” said an SDMC official. However, a few centres were still awaiting an official order to start the vaccination service on six days. “We got to know about the development but there was no official direction issued till Tuesday afternoon,” said an official at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccination-drive-to-take-place-six-days-a-week-now/articleshow/80656892.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||3 deaths, 47 Covid-19 cases recorded in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded three more coronavirus-related deaths — all in Dehradun — on Tuesday. With this, the toll of the virus shot up to 1,651 in the state. All the three victims were men. Besides the casualties, 47 fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced in the state on Tuesday. The overall count of cases stood at 96,227 and that of the active infections was 1,043 in Uttarakhand on the day. Test results of 7,338 samples were still awaited till the time of filing this report. On Tuesday, the maximum of 19 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 10 in Nainital, none in Udham Singh Nagar, five in Haridwar, two in Champawat, and one each in Almora and Bageshwar districts. The highest casualties, so far, have been recorded in Dehradun (938), followed by Nainital (238), Haridwar (153), Udham Singh Nagar (117), and Pauri (58). Also, 80 people recovered from Covid-19 infection, taking the tally of cured cases to 92,185. The recovery rate was 95.89%. Meanwhile, 5925 people were vaccinated for coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the overall count of beneficiaries to 43,230 in the state. So far, 710 vaccination sessions and 105 sessions to sensitise people regarding inoculation have been conducted by the health department in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-deaths-47-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-ukhand/articleshow/80654651.cms||Shivani Azad
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Plea opposing bed quota at pvt hosps withdrawn||New Delhi: With the Aam Aadmi Party government steadily reducing the 80% quota of ICU beds for Covid patients in private hospitals, an association of hospitals withdrew its challenge to the decision on Tuesday.The Association of Healthcare Providers told the high court that various private hospitals, which were earlier asked to reserve 80% ICU beds, were now satisfied with Delhi government’s recent decision to reduce the number to 25%.Justice Navin Chawla was informed by the counsel for the association that he had the instructions to withdraw the petition seeking quashing of the government’s September 12, 2020 order to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid patients at 33 private hospitals, which are its members.The court then allowed the prayer for withdrawing the petition and disposed of the plea. Last month, the government said the reservation of ICU beds was reduced from 40% to 25%.The reservation percentage had been gradually reduced by the government after reviewing the pandemic situation. With the Covid number reaching its peak of over 8,000 in a day in November, it has been declining, and was at 121 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-opposing-bed-quota-at-pvt-hosps-withdrawn/articleshow/80656887.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Amaravati||Pollution levels higher this winter in Hyderabad, AP||HYDERABAD: This winter was dirtier for Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam as compared to that of 2019 in terms of atmospheric pollution. For Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, the dirtiest week during winter 2020-2021 was the week ending January 3. For Tirupati and Visakhapatnam, the dirtiest week was the one ending on December 27, 2020. The high winter pollution is blamed on the reopening of the economy and changing meteorology. A study of the air quality in major cities in South India, including Hyderabad in Telangana and Vijayawada, Amaravati, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) revealed that the cleanest week for Rajahmundry, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam was recorded pre-monsoon in April, May, and early June 2020. The CSE study, comparing pollution during lockdown and post lockdown, was released on Tuesday. According to the CSE report, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam had an earlier start of bad air days in winter of 2020. The rolling weekly average rose over the 24 hour standard (60 micrograms per metre cube) in Visakhapatnam on October 23 (9 days earlier), and ink Hyderabad on October 25 (14 days earlier). This winter overall has been 34% dirtier in Visakhapatnam and 7% in Hyderabad. The study revealed that the number of days with particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration meeting standards was considerably lower this winter in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. There have been 31 days of poor or worse air days this winter compared to 10 recorded last year in Visakhapatnam. Hyderabad registered a day with poor air quality compared to zero in winter of 2019. Similarly, standard days have been lesser by 11 days in Hyderabad and 23 days in Visakhapatnam. The CSE took data up to January 26, 2021 for its study. It said even though atmospheric conditions during winter in the south is not the same as that in the Indo-Gangetic plains in the northern region, trapping of winter pollution is quite high, especially in inland cities. As part of the study, pollution data of 21 cities spread across five southern states was analysed. The 2020 average PM 2.5 level in many inland cities in the Deccan plateau has climbed up to breach the average concentration recorded in 2019. Tirupati has registered a 1.8% increase. Amaravati at 24%, Visakhapatnam at 16% and Hyderabad & Rajahmundry at 14% are the other best performers in the pool. From the respective cleanest week, the weekly average of PM 2.5 in Hyderabad rose seven times, while in Visakhapatnam it rose 14 times to the dirtiest week. Rajahmundry deteriorated 19 times and Amaravati 17 times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/pollution-levels-higher-this-winter-in-hyderabad-ap/articleshow/80660444.cms||Syed Akbar
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bus crashes into dumper, 15 injured||MUMBAI: The driver and 14 passengers of a luxury bus heading from Mumbai to Gujarat sustained injuries after the vehicle rammed into a parked dumper on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Charoti in Dahanu taluka early Tuesday. Driver Kinvajan Patel told police the brake had malfunctioned and he rammed the bus into the dumper to avoid it from toppling. A case has been registered against him. The victims were given first aid at a government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bus-crashes-into-dumper-15-injured/articleshow/80656891.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Yodha, aides let off in 1 more robbery case||CHANDIGARH: The district court on Tuesday, acquitted gangster Yodha Singh alias Jodha Singh and his accomplices Balraj and Amrik Singh in a robbery and Arms Act case of 2017. Yodha got the benefit of doubt and was acquitted after police failed to prove its case in court. Earlier, Yodha Singh and his accomplices were acquitted in the robbery case of Sector 36 police station in January 2021 and robbery case of Sector 11 police station in November 2019. The case in question dates back to December 23, 2017, when Jairam, 55, a resident of Sector 56 alleged being kidnapped and robbed as he was returning home on his scooter at around 12.30am. He said when he reached near the bus stop on the road dividing sectors 40/55, occupants of a car stopped him. Two men stepped out of the car and assaulted him. Later, one of the accused allegedly pointed a pistol at him and dragged him into the car. They allegedly took him to Khanna and withdrew Rs 10,000 from Axis bank there. The complainant said he managed to escape and inform Khanna Police, who informed UT Police and his relatives. On the Jairam’s statement, Sector 39 police registered a case under sections 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act. Vaneet Kumar, the defense lawyer, argued that the prosecution did not obtain CCTV footage of the ATM kiosk from where money was allegedly withdrawn by Yodha and his men. He said police also failed to recover his scooter, which was left at the spot from where he was kidnapped. Besides, police showed fake recovery of wallet and gun in the case, the defense lawyer said. No test identification of the accused was done in the case. Giving benefit of doubt to Yodha Singh, Amrik SIngh and Balraj, the court acquitted them in the case. BOX: Out of the police net —Yodha Singh and his accomplices were booked in 10 cases of carjacking and Arms Act by different police stations of the UT Police. He has been acquitted in four cases so far. The local court convicted him in only one robbery case of Sector 17 police station and sentenced him to seven-year imprisonment. Five cases are still pending against Yodha and his accomplices in the local court —On October 21, 2019, the local court acquitted Yodha Singh and his accomplice Amrik Singh in a robbery case of 2018. This was the first of the multiple cases in which Yodha Singh was acquitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gangsteryodha-singh-aides-acquitted-in-fourth-robbery-case/articleshow/80655993.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||On leave Shiur cop assaulted in Cidco||Aurangabad: The in-charge of Aurangabad rural’s Shiur police station was brutally assaulted in the Cidco area on Monday. The officer, Satyajit Taitwale, was apparently on leave citing some medical emergency at home. Senior police officers took serious cognizance of the incident and have decided to dig out truth behind the whole episode. Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police Mokhsada Patil told TOI, “The officer had taken leave due to some medical emergency at home. We have ordered a departmental inquiry into the entire episode.” The officer added that whoever is the victim of the violence or injustice should come forward and lodge a complaint so that an offence is registered. As per the preliminary reports, Taitwale along with his acquaintance had gone to a hotel in Cidco area where a brawl broke out between them and another group. Soon after Taitwale left the hotel, the six suspects followed him and waylaid him in the Cidco area before assaulting him. The incident has left the officer with multiple injuries following which he fell on the roadside. Some of the commuters along with former corporator Manoj Gangwe reached the spot and rushed the officer to a private hospital. On learning about the incident, police team from MIDC Cidco police station rushed to the spot and tried finding clues about the suspects. Inspector Vitthal Pote said, “So far no offence has been registered. If the officer comes forward with his complaint, we will register an offence.” Crime branch assistant inspector Ajabsingh Jarwal said, “The officer is recovering at the hospital and we are trying to find the suspects who assaulted him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/on-leave-shiur-cop-assaulted-in-cidco/articleshow/80656907.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Buddilane firing: Second accused held||AURANGABAD: The city police have arrested the key accused in Buddilane area firing incident that took place around Thursday midnight following a scuffle between a scrap trader and the two accused over parking of a vehicle. The man arrested on Tuesday has been identified as Akram Sherkhan, a resident of Jahangir Colony, who fled the city after the incident. He has been remanded in police custody till Thursday. The other suspect — Shaikh Mehmood Ahmed alias Raja Bhai — was arrested within hours of the incident. He was remanded in four-day police custody. City Chowk police inspector Sambhaji Pawar said, “We have arrested the accused and efforts are on to identify the source of the firearm.” He said Sherkhan was arrested from Pachod when he was returning from Bengaluru in Karnataka. “Though Sherkhan was on the run, we carried out a search of his house and found a country-made pistol and four live rounds,” said Pawar. The firearm and the rounds have been sent for ballistic testing. The incident took place hours ahead of home minister Anil Deshmukh’s visit to the city. Not taking any chances, the officers had scaled up bandobast and increased police patrols. Based on the complaint lodged by victim Abdul Jabbar, the City Chowk police registered a case of attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt, abetment of offence and intentional insult for causing a breach of peace against the two suspects. Sections of the Indian Arms Act have also been slapped on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/buddilane-firing-2nd-accused-held/articleshow/80656943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Mass jabs will boost antibody shield: Experts||NEW DELHI: The city is unlikely to witness another major spike in Covid-19 cases, according to public health experts, who cited the latest sero-surveillance report showing the presence of antibodies against the coronavirus in more than 56% of Delhi’s population. “It’s highly unlikely that we will have another major outbreak in Delhi,” Dr Sajnay Rai, professor of community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, told TOI, pointing out that the survey suggests over half of the capital’s population has been exposed to the virus. “People have developed antibodies through natural infection and it is likely to protect them from infection or severe symptoms for some time,” Rai said, adding, however, that mass immunisation was still a necessity. A recent sero-survey in parts of Brazil and the United Kingdom also showed a high prevalence of antibodies against the Covid coronavirus. India currently has approved Covishield and Covaxin for emergency use against Covid. Rai headed the clinical trials conducted at AIIMS to test the safety and efficacy of Covaxin. “The vaccines are safe,” he said. “People shouldn’t get complacent. They must get the jab when their time comes for additional protection.” Dr Suneela Garg, member of the Lancet commission for Covid-19 India vaccination task force, said, “We cannot hope for herd immunity through exposure to the disease. It will come only through mass vaccination,” said Garg, who is a member of India’s Covid vaccination task force. Herd immunity occurs when a large section of the populace has been affected by a virus and has subsequently become immune through the development of antibodies. They form a layer between the infected and those who aren’t and cause a disruption in the infection chain. Dr Arun Gupta, president, Delhi Medical Council, cautioned that all care must still have to be taken to wear masks and maintain social distancing because a large number of Delhiites remained susceptible to infection. The survey to detect antibodies in the 28,000 samples collected from across Delhi’s 11 districts in the fifth sero-prevalence study was conducted at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. Its director, Dr S K Sarin, told TOI that nearly 25% of the respondents had high levels of antibodies or neutralising antibodies. “The rest had moderate to low levels of antibodies against Covid,” he said, adding that the presence of antibodies in over 50% of the city’s population was a good sign, but in itself did not rule out the need for mass immunisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mass-jabs-will-boost-antibody-shield-experts/articleshow/80656951.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reported 88 robbery, burglary, theft cases in January||CHANDIGARH: As many as 88 robbery and theft cases — 40 of them of vehicles — were registered in the first month of this year as compared to 88 in the same period last year. According to police data, Sector 39 police had registered 13 cases, out of which eight were of vehicle thefts and the rest of house thefts and burglaries. Recently, miscreants stole 15 water meters from outside houses in sectors 40 and 41. However, sector 39 police merged all the complaints together and registered only two separate cases. After auto lifting, sixteen police stations registered a total of 34 cases of theft at houses, shops and other places. As many as nine cases of snatching, burglary and robbery were also reported from different sectors of the city in January. Interestingly, the maximum cases of thefts were registered when the police had beefed up security and intensified checks at hotels, markets and colonies owing to the Republic Day celebrations. Residents alleged as maximum cases of vehicle thefts take place during night hours, police should increase late night nakas. “Patrolling of PCR vehicles should be increased in night hours, especially in and around colonies and peripheries,” residents said. Cops said they recently busted a gang of auto lifters and recovered stolen vehicles from them. Night patrolling has been increased in the city and arrested several snatchers and auto lifters. Nakas are being laid in different places and in crime-prone areas to keep a tab on thieves, cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-reported-88-robbery-burglary-theft-cases-in-jan/articleshow/80655997.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Dog-bitten Pkl woman harassed for vaccine||Panchkula: In the city that aims at being free of stray cattle and dogs in five months, a 25-year old dog-bitten woman of Sector 7 was harassed at the Sector-6 civil hospital and advised to go to Chandigarh or a private hospital for vaccination. Harpreet Kaur was on her way home from the bus stop at the Dhillon traffic lights when a pack of four stray dogs came after her, barking. When she gathered pace, one of those dogs bit her on the left leg. Had the passersby not heard her screams and come to her rescue, worse could have happened. She walked home injured and shared the incident with her father, Gurcharan Singh, who moved her to the civil hospital. Adding to her pain, the hospital told her it had no anti-rabies vaccine. Gurcharan Singh said: “The doctors told me to go the PGI in Chandigarh or buy an injection from outside.” I bought the first dose for Rs 350 from a chemist.” This isn’t the first incident where a dog-bitten person was harassed in Panchkula for vaccination. The cases are as common as dog bite and there’s no relief from either the municipal corporation or the hospital. Officials at the civil hospital said they received an average of 250 cases of dog bite every month from the district. The residents have asked the MC to start catching stray dogs, since the canine sterilisation campaign has made no impact. Confronted, mayor Kulbhushan Goyal promised to get dog catching off to a start from February 5 after the inauguration of a kennel for strays at Sukhdarshanpur village, and capture all stray dogs before June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dog-bitten-pkl-woman-harassed-for-vaccine/articleshow/80656003.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi reports just 2 Covid deaths in past 24 hours||The capital reported two deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. Fresh cases, too, remained low at 114 while the positivity rate was recorded at 0.19%. Tuesday’s Covid toll was the lowest in the city since 11 May 2020, when zero deaths were reported. The tally of active cases in the capital, meanwhile, dropped to 1,217. A total of 10,858 people have died due to the virus in Delhi. A total of 58,598 tests, including 31,159 RT-PCR and 27,439 via rapid antigen were conducted on Tuesday. According to the health bulletin, 5,684 beds out of 6,305 in city’s Covid hospitals remained vacant. The number of people in home isolation dropped to 466 from 504 on Monday. In view of the falling number of cases, Delhi government has ordered resumptions of surgeries and OPDs at state-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-reports-just-2-deaths-in-past-24-hours/articleshow/80656991.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||Delhi to Colombo: Honour pact on India-Japan project||NEW DELHI: The government asked Sri Lanka to abide by its commitment to allow India and Japan to develop the east container terminal (ECT) of Colombo port. Reports from Colombo had said on Monday that Lanka had pulled out of the agreement signed earlier with India and Japan. “I would like to reiterate the expectation of Government of India for expeditious implementation of the trilateral Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC) signed in May 2019 among the Governments of India, Japan and Sri Lanka for the development of ECT,” a spokesperson for Indian High Commission in Colombo said. The state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) had signed an MoU with India and Japan to develop the strategic ECT. However, the Sri Lankan government said on Monday that the ECT will be operated 100% by the SLPA. “The commitment of the Government of Sri Lanka has been conveyed several times in the recent past, including at the leadership level. ...All sides should continue to abide by the existing understandings and commitment,” the Indian spokesman added. The Colombo port trade unions had opposed the proposal of investors from India and Japan buying 49% stake in the ECT and had demanded it remain fully owned by SLPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-to-colombo-honour-pact-on-india-japan-project/articleshow/80660106.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Finally, key corpn hospitals join vaccine centre list||NEW DELHI: Seventeen days after the Covid-19 vaccination programme started in Delhi, major municipal corporation hospitals have also been included in the list of vaccination centres. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor visited four hospitals, including Hindu Rao Hospital, Kasturba, Balak Ram and Mrs. Girdhari lal Maternity hospital, on Tuesday to inspect the arrangements. Around 60 municipal doctors and paramedical staff have been engaged in the process. The services started after all paramedical staff ended the strike last week following payment of pending salaries. “At Hindu Rao, we have two centres, while rest three hospitals have one centre each for Covid-19 vaccination. To begin with, our doctors and nurses took the vaccination being frontline warriors and then there were other health care workers coming from nearby hospitals. Anyone who has registered on Co-WIN application and approved by the district administration can visit for vaccination,” said north DMC mayor Jai Prakash. On Tuesday, 185 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the four hospitals and there was no report of adverse reaction, a north corporation official said. “At each centre, a limit for administering 100 vaccinations was given. Of the total target of vaccinating 200 beneficiaries at Hindu Rao, 67 turned up on Tuesday. At Kasturba it was 34, Mrs Girdhar Lal 13 and 71 at Balak Ram hospital,” the official added. Being a tertiary hospital, Hindu Rao has made all preparations to support the other three hospitals in case of emergency. “Besides arranging for a makeshift ICU at the Hindu Rao centre, we have readied all support systems including ICU, CCU and advance life support ambulance. We have engaged specialists as well in this exercise in addition to nodal officers and a medical superintendent who are ensuring everything is in place,” said an official. Of the four hospitals, Covaxin is administered at three hospitals including Hindu Rao, Girdhari Lal and Kasturba and Covishield at Balak Ram. In east Delhi too, a vaccination centre started at Swami Dayanand Hospital. “We’ve engaged three doctors and four nursing staff in addition to paramedics and civil defence volunteers provided,” said east corporation mayor Nirmal Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/finally-key-corpn-hospitals-join-vaccine-centre-list/articleshow/80656997.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Catch-up round to jab 1.2 lakh health workers starts today||BHOPAL: Around 1.2 lakh health workers, who could not be vaccinated in the two-week-long vaccination drive held from January 16 onwards, will be vaccinated in the catch-up round from February 3. There would be no major changes in the procedure and it will be done at around 1,100 vaccination booths across the state. It is noteworthy that approximately 4.17 lakh health workers — both from government and private institutions — had to be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination in the state. The database of these health workers was prepared and they were called for vaccination through SMSes from January 16 onwards. However, several health workers could not come and only 60% vaccination could be done in these two weeks of the drive. Now the remaining — around 1.2 lakh health workers — will be vaccinated in the catch-up round, held from February 3 onwards. “There would be no changes in the procedure, vaccination will be carried out at approximately 1,100 vaccination booths in the state. Several health workers who have been left behind are now calling to enquire about the catch-up round and we are hopeful that there will be great response,” state immunisation officer, Dr Santosh Shukla, told TOI. Sources said that in this catch-up round, vaccination centres will not prepare any list of people who would be vaccinated there. Earlier, 100 people were vaccinated at each of the polling booths and their lists were prepared in advance. Only those 100 people were sent messages, now messages will be sent to all the left out health workers, and anyone can walk in at a vaccination booth of their convenience and get vaccinated as it is a catch-up round, added sources. Watch Bhopal: Health workers vaccinated at Gandhi Medical College during catch-up round||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/catch-up-round-to-jab-1-2l-health-workers-starts-feb-3/articleshow/80657013.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 3, 2021||Trichy||Youth held for marrying minor girl||Trichy: A 22-year-old man has been arrested for abducting, marrying and sexually assaulting a minor girl here on Monday. He was taken into custody by the All women police station (AWPS) in Golden Rock. The police arrested R Nagendran, of Ariyamangalam in Trichy, for marrying and having sex with a 17-year-old girl under the sections of IPC, Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and Pocso Act. Her mother filed a complaint on Monday and a case was registered by the police. On January 28, when the girl’s parents went to work, she called up her mother and informed she was going to school. However, when her father returned home in the evening and she did not return till 7pm. The couple searched for the girl and found her near the district court. When parents brought her home and asked the girl, she told them that Nagendran and she were in love with each other. On Thursday, Nagendran took her to Samayapuram Mariamman temple in Trichy and married her. He then took her to his uncle’s house in Karur district and had sexual relations with her.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youth-held-for-marrying-minor-girl/articleshow/80657003.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Fake govt staffers’ remand extended||Chandigarh: A local court on Tuesday extended the police remand of two men arrested for allegedly duping a tailor after posing as employees of a ministry in the central government by three more days. Police produced Ram Meher and Parveen Kumar in the court after the completion of their two-day remand and demanded their custody for more days for interrogation. Now, the crime branch will take them to Haryana, from where they got printed their fake ID cards of the ministry. Police recovered fake ID cards of the ministry of welfare, Government of India from their possession. Crime branch police also hinted that more people would be arrested in the case in coming days. The crime branch had arrested both accused on Saturday from Sector 17 for allegedly duping Saurav Wahee of Panchkula’s Sector 15 of Rs 1 lakh on the pretext of providing his workers a government job. Saurabh Wahee, who runs a tailor shop specialising in stitching uniform for cops in Sector 17, said the accused came to his shop dressed in khaki uniform to buy belt buckles and introduced themselves as employees of the “ministry of welfare”. They came in a Mahindra Bolero jeep with ‘Bharar Sarkar’ etched on the registration number plater in Hindi, Wahee said. “Mehar showed me identity cards mentioning him to be chief director and Parveen supervisor, security guards, at the ministry of welfare,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-govt-staffers-remand-extended/articleshow/80656025.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Three men held with leopard skin in Almora||The special operation group (SOG) of the Almora district, on Wednesday, arrested three persons in possession of the skin of a leopard from Almora city. The accused were trying to sell the skin in Haldwani, police said. Acting on a tip-off, a team from SOG nabbed the accused from Pandey Khula area and recovered the skin of an adult leopard from their possession, told SSP Pankaj Bhatt. The accused have been identified as Virendra Singh Negi of Chamoli district, Yashpal Singh Rawat and Govind Singh Rawat — both Almora residents. SOG in-charge, Bhupendra Singh Brijwal, said, “The accused had brought the leopard skin in a car and were heading to Haldwani to sell it. Upon interrogation, the accused revealed that they killed the feline in the jungles of Almora. We have recorded the statement of the three accused and are investigating whether any larger racket is working behind the illegal trade of wild animals’ skin.” The accused were booked under the Wildlife Protection Act and presented before court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-men-held-with-leopard-skin-in-almora/articleshow/80676796.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 3, 2021||Trichy||DMK sells Stalin campaign through shop name boards||Trichy: Taking a leaf out of corporate brand campaigns, DMK has launched the strategy of using shops’ name boards to advertise the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ campaign as part of its preparations for the assembly elections. Hundreds of shops in at least three assembly segments of Trichy district sport name boards sponsored by the principal opposition party. DMK sources said they had conducted surveys in Trichy East, West and Srirangam assembly segments to identify shopkeepers willing to publicise the party. The name boards of varying sizes have the DMK’s “rising sun” symbol, a portrait of the party president and chief minister candidate M K Stalin and smaller images of Dravidian stalwarts Periyar E V Ramasamy, C N Annadurai and M Karunanidhi. The party has roped in its area secretaries and IT wing for the initiative across the state. “Local DMK functionaries approached us for placing the board promoting the party. As we gave our consent, they provided us a new board,” A Jaffer Ali, a fruit stall owner in Varaganeri, Trichy city, said. DMK sources said they planned to erect the colourful name boards in 10 shops in each of the wards in the city. The shopkeepers said they were not offered any money but provided with the new boards bearing the shop’s name, that can be illuminated. DMK IT wing sources said they contacted about 300 shops in Srirangam assembly segment for sponsoring name boards with the slogan “Stalin than varaaru, vidiyal thara poraaru” (Stalin is coming, he will give us a dawn).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-sells-stalin-campaign-through-shop-name-boards/articleshow/80657075.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||Morena first Covid-free district in Madhya Pradesh, 11 more have single-digit cases||BHOPAL: At a time when Covid-19 cases are declining all across the state, Morena has become MP’s first district to have no active coronavirus cases. And apart from Morena, in 12 other districts of the state, there were less than 10 active cases, as on February 1. Districts like Alirajpur, Mandla and Niwari only have three active cases each. Ashok Nagar has four and Anuppur has five active cases. According to officials in Morena, which had once reported the highest number of cases around last June-July, the rugged lifestyle of Chambal makes people’s immunity stronger and is one of the key factors behind the district now having no active Covid cases now. “We have ensured appropriate sampling and immediate isolation throughout. And even now, we are continuing with sampling at the same pace. In the last few days, when we got very few new positive cases, then also we continued with the same stringent contact tracing and subsequent sampling like we used to do in the peak Covid-19 time in our district. And lastly, Chambal’s lifestyle also makes people stronger and this stronger immunity is also one of the reasons for the decline in cases,” chief medical and health officer, Morena, Dr RC Badil, told TOI. Overall, there were a total 2,554 active cases in the state as on February 1. And it has reduced to nearly one-fourth in a month’s time as there were 9,222 active cases as on January 1 in the state. Now, the maximum number of active cases are in state capital Bhopal where there were 800 active cases as on February 1. Bhopal is followed by Indore, which had 382 active cases on February 1. Cumulatively, these two districts are home to nearly half of the active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/morena-1st-covid-free-dist-in-mp-11-more-have-single-digit-cases/articleshow/80657052.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||BMC’s fire safety audit a knee-jerk reaction, say nursing home owners||MUMBAI: In the 732 hospitals and nursing homes in the city that were found non-compliant with fire safety norms by the audit undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after the Bhandara district general hospital fire incident where ten newborns had died, many of the violations were minor and fixed on the spot. “Many of the violations were very minor, like the exit door was locked or the fire extinguisher expired—it needs to be renewed every year —and those were corrected immediately after our inspection. Notices were issued where gross violations were found,” said a senior fire officer. “The 178 hospitals-nursing homes where major violations were noticed have been issued notices to put fire safety measures in place within 120 days or face action,” the officer added. Times ViewFire safety audits are indeed necessary, but they need to be regular, after a fixed time gap, and merely a reaction to a certain event. Unfortunately, such examinations in the city and the state end up creating the impression that they are ‘after the tragedy’ wisdom. This perception has to change, and for it to change, the BMC must communicate clearly with establsihments and ensure that timely and accurate checks are made so that tragedies are averted in the first place.Some of the private nursing homes, however, said they were given 10 days to submit fire compliance, form B and even electrical audit. An officer, requesting anonymity, said that compromising with the fire safety norms at hospital and nursing homes are serious compared to other premises. Several nursing home owners, however, said that the BMC should carry out timely inspections, rather than initiate knee-jerk exercises. “After every fire incident, whether it’s in AMRI in Kolkata or ESIC in Marol, such mindless audits are imposed on hospitals. There was a fire in a major vaccine manufacturing plant recently. Why was no audit sought of all manufacturing units?” asked a nursing home administrator. The owner of a south Mumbai nursing home said that he was served a notice by the BMC for not having Form B which is granted by an independent agency every six months after checking if the firefighting equipment are functional. The doctor said that because of the coronavirus pandemic, most couldn’t get the six-monthly audit done. “And now that the municipal corporation has told us to submit Form B within 15 days, the agencies doing such audits are asking for three to four times their usual charges,” he complained. Another nursing home owner said that such agencies were asking for Rs 25,000-Rs 30,000, up from their usual demand of Rs 8,000. Dr Deepak Baid, president of the Association of Medical Consultants, said, “The fire safety norms treat a big hospital and a 10-bed nursing home on par. We have urged the state government to form an expert committee to study the feasibility of these norms.” He added that the decision of not allowing some nursing homes to admit patients has been put on hold on the Association of Medical Consultants’ request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmcs-fire-safety-audit-a-knee-jerk-reaction-say-nursing-home-owners/articleshow/80658409.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 3, 2021||Trichy||Kollidam bridge nears completion, to ease link between Trichy, Thanjavur||Trichy:The Rs 90.96-crore bridge across the Kollidam near the Grand Anicut is nearing completion with the state highways department finishing 90% of the civil work. The bridge will link Trichy and Thanjavur districts, facilitating easy access to Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai towns by minimising the travel time. Proposed in 2014, the work on the 1.05-km high-level bridge was started in December 2016, but several factors including flood had delayed the construction. At present, only two-wheelers and cars from Thiruvaiyaru and other parts of Thanjavur district reach Trichy using the narrow bunds of the Grand Anicut. The bridge will facilitate a new link allowing heavy vehicles and buses from Kumbakonam to access Thiruvanaikoil and Srirangam in Trichy city. The 25-span bridge has a carriageway for 10.50 metres and pedestrian platforms on either side for 0.75 metres. The work on the approach road is pending. “Retaining wall for 280 metres will be erected soon. Improvements at the junctions will be made to commission the bridge by May 2021,” district collector S Sivarasu said after inspecting the bridge. On the plan for a subway on Trichy-Pudukkottai NH abutting Trichy international airport and perpendicular to the runway, the district collector said that a proposal was sent to the NHAI. Regarding the Trichy semi-ring road project, the district collector said that land acquisition between Thindukkarai (Trichy-Karur NH) and Panjappur (Trichy-Madurai NH) will be completed by March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kollidam-bridge-nears-completion-to-ease-link-between-trichy-thanjavur/articleshow/80657062.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Congress candidates file papers on last day of nominations||Mohali: With just a day to go for the end of the process of filing nominations, Amarjeet Singh alias Jeeti Sidhu, along with all Congress candidates, filed nominations here in Mohali. Jeeti Sidhu was accompanied by sitting Congress MLA and Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. In all, 652 candidates filed nominations in Mohali, Lalru, Derabassi, Zirakpur, Kharar and Banur civic body elections. In Mohali, 16 candidates of BJP and 18 candidates of Shiromani Akali Dal filed nominations. Jeeti is contesting elections from ward number 10. Candidates from ward numbers 1 to 25 filed their nominations at the SDM office in Mohali while candidates from ward numbers 26 to 50 filed nominations at Mandi Board office, Mohali. After filing nominations, Balbir Sidhu said, “We will fight the poll on development works carried out by the Congress government in Mohali over the last four years.” Talking about state government works being carried out in Mohali, Sidhu said that a medical college and modern community centre in Phase 3B1 would be set up at a cost of Rs 14 crore and Rs 6.38 crore respectively. Work on replacing the damaged sewer system also started at a cost of Rs 22 crore, he said. On the other hand, Azad group candidates supported by former mayor Kulwant Singh also went all out with door-to-door campaigning in Mohali. While campaigning, Kulwant Singh said Mohali is the first city in Punjab to have an open air gym in every ward. He said, “All candidates of Azad Group are seeking votes in the name of development done over the last five years and our main goal is to develop the city of Mohali in the next five years, making it a world class city.” Kulwant Singh said that in the last five years he has ensured all-round development in every ward of Mohali without any discrimination. He said it is a matter of great pride for Mohali that it is the first city in Punjab to have an open air gym in every ward. The swings for children are also of very high standard, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congress-candidates-file-papers-on-last-day-of-nominations/articleshow/80656051.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Railway passenger electrocuted in Mumbai, cops track kin||MUMBAI: On the basis of a few words that a critically injured commuter had spoken before his death, the Churchgate GRP tracked down his family in Rajasthan. Despite learning of the man’s critical condition and later his death, the family said they could not travel to Mumbai as they had no money. The police got in touch with an NGO in Rajasthan, which convinced the family to travel to Mumbai. Ajay Nayak, 25, suffered a high voltage electric shock on January 22. He was rushed to JJ Hospital by the GRP, and succumbed on January 27. The family managed to attend Nayak’s last rites which were performed at the state’s government’s expense.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rly-passenger-electrocuted-cops-track-kin/articleshow/80657044.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||3,500 people behind bars for over 14 years, SC cracks whip on states||NEW DELHI: Jamlabhai Hursingbhai Meda has been in a Gujarat prison for more than 30 years because of a life sentence in a murder case. Gauri Shankar Singh and Ravi Ranjan Singh, convicted for armed dacoity, are waiting for release from a Chhattisgarh prison even after serving more than 25 years in jail. A life convict is entitled to seek remission of sentence and release from prison after serving 14 years. But as many as 3,487 prisoners, who have completed 14 years in jail without remission, are awaiting consideration of their release pleas for a possible reunion with their families. A Supreme Court bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy decided to take up the case of these forgotten prisoners after amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal and the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) collated statistics from state prison authorities, which depicted a grim picture. The bench had sought the report after it came across a case from Chhattisgarh where a remission plea of one Sonadhar was sent by the jail superintendent two years after he completed 14 years in prison. The state home department took one more year to accept the plea and order release. The bench asked the reason for the delay of three years when the person was entitled to remission after 14 years and sought to fix responsibility. Times ViewThis is primarily a human rights issue. Life convicts are also humans. They deserve their freedom after serving the appropriate sentence. Codification of the process through which this can be realized is a much-needed move and should help get rid of arbitrariness.It asked Chhattisgarh “to file an affidavit setting out as to what process they have or propose to initiate to ensure that immediately on completing 14 years of sentence, the superintendent, jail, is responsible for ensuring that the application is sent for consideration for remission, not later than one month...” The amicus curiae’s report said of the 3,487 lifers, 2,868 were eligible for release after remission. Applications of 1,649 of them were pending with state governments and 752 such applications were rejected, it added. Gujarat led the table with remission applications of 405 lifers pending consideration. In Uttarakhand, 266 are pending. Bengal has rejected 522 and is considering pleas of 264 prisoners. Chhattisgarh has 183 pending pleas, Assam has 150 and Jharkhand 99. The bench said it would be preferable that remission applications are made by jail superintendents within a month of a prisoner completing 14 years of life sentence. The home department should decide it within two to three months. “There are 1,649 applications of convicts for premature release pending. It should be verified as to how long have these applications been pending...,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3500-people-behind-bars-for-over-14-years-sc-cracks-whip-on-states/articleshow/80660108.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 3, 2021||Goa||Goa generates 3,000kg biomed waste a day, most left untreated||Panaji: Healthcare facilities in the state generate up to 2,500kg of bio-medical waste daily, but due to a lack of a common treatment facility, most of it is left untreated. This anomaly has been confirmed by a recent report released by the Goa Waste Management Corporation. “In the absence of an appropriate and comprehensive bio-medical waste management system, including a treatment facility, there lies the risk of dumping bio-medical waste, open burning and disposal of bio-medical waste along with municipal waste, which poses a serious health concern,” the report stated. Currently, part of the bio-medical waste generated is disposed of by healthcare institutions by adopting the deep burial pit method. Recyclable treated waste is disposed after pre-treatment to recyclers, some is picked by local municipalities, and a large proportion is incinerated at Goa Medical College’s (GMC) facility. Goa health monitoring services (GHMS), which has been authorised by the Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB), also collects some bio-medical waste generated in the state, but its collection is limited to healthcare facilities located in and around Panaji. This waste is treated at GM’s incinerator and a hydroclave. Sources in the know suspect bio-medical waste generated by healthcare institutes that are operating outside municipal areas is dumped without treatment. While most panchayats do not collect bio-medical waste, many do not pick any kind of waste at all. Many do not segregate the waste they collect. The preliminary requisite of the Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, which came into force in March 2016 and were amended in 2018, is segregation of waste into different categories. This was done to contain the hazardous infectious waste, and separate non-hazardous waste in order to carry out necessary treatment options. The GWMC is in the process of setting up a state-of-the-art common bio-medical waste treatment facility at Kundaim for scientific management and disposal of bio-medical waste generated within the state. The land, admeasuring 10,000 sq m, has been handed over to GWMC by the Goa Industrial Development Corporation on a lease rent. M/s The Just Environmental Charitable Trust (Toxics Link) has been appointed as management consultant to develop the bio-medical waste management plan. The GWMC has also signed a concession agreement with M/s Biotic Waste Solutions Pvt Ltd to set up the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-generates-3000kg-biomed-waste-a-day-most-left-untreated/articleshow/80658474.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Apni Mandis are back, but street vendors are filling in for protesting farmers for now||Chandigarh: With most farmers camping at Delhi borders for the protest, street vendors have taken over Kisan Mandis. Also, reduction in the prices of vegetables has come as a relief for most. Kisan Mandis have come back in Chandigarh and Mohali, much to the relief of people, who will finally be able to keep a check on grocery expenditure. Prices of vegetables in Kisan Mandis as compared to street vendors were down by 20% as such mandis are maintained by the administration of the two cities. Asha Sachdev, a homemaker said, “We were fed up of bargaining with street vendors as they have been charging at will. Now, at least a department will monitor the prices and keep them within range.” “Vegetable and fruit sellers will have to maintain a minimum distance of two metres from each other and wear masks. Only farmers registered with Punjab Mandi Board will be allowed to set up stalls at the mandi after presenting their registration card,” a Mandi Board officer said. He added that while there was no cap on visitors and sellers at mandis, sellers would have to abide by prices set by the Mandi Board and they were not allowed to charge at will. Vegetable prices in mandis were now within the range of the common people. Onions, being sold for Rs 50 per kg by street vendors are priced at Rs 40 per kg in mandis; potato, which is sold for Rs 20 to Rs 25 a kg on the streets is priced at Rs 15 per kilo in mandis. Cauliflower is priced at Rs 10 per kilo in mandis while street vendors charge Rs 15 to Rs 20 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/apni-mandis-are-back-but-street-vendors-are-filling-in-for-protesting-farmers-for-now/articleshow/80656063.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Trichy||NCC cadets back from R-Day camp||Trichy: In all, eight cadets from Trichy district were part of the 26-member team from Tamil Nadu that attended the Republic Day Camp (RDC) held in New Delhi last week. They returned home on Tuesday after 41 days. “It was a dream to make it to RDC when only 26 cadets from Tamil Nadu made it this year due to Covid-19 restrictions against 116 last year,” said Chris J Bernald, a cadet from Bishop Heber College. Besides the cold weather of Delhi, Bernald said that the language barrier was indeed a challenge though he was enjoying the stay. He said knowing Hindi would have been an added advantage to communicate with cadets from rest of the states and the staff as Hindi was a common language for them. “Most of the instructions from the staff came in Hindi. We managed as the fellow cadets from other states were cooperative. But it made me realise the need for knowing multiple languages,” said T Surya, Botany student from Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College. For T Santhiya, another Army cadet from Government arts college, Kumbakonam said that the first thing that she would do was learn Hindi. She was part of the prime minister’s rally in the Republic Day camp. “Despite the language barrier, cadets made friends from other states which was the purpose of the camp,” said Lieutenant Colonel Vinod Chhaunkar from Trichy NCC group.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ncc-cadets-back-from-r-day-camp/articleshow/80657107.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Six bird flu samples positive in Navi Mumbai||NAVI MUMBAI: After a bird fell victim to the H5N1 flu last Saturday, 18 samples were collected from chicken shops and farmhouses in Ghansoli and Mahape and sent to NIV for testing. Of these, six tested positive. NMMC said the city does not have a poultry farm. NMMC veterinary official Dr Vaibhav Zunjare said, “The test reports were shared with the district collector.” Civic chief Abhijit Bangar said, “As many as 225 birds in a 1km radius were culled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/6-bird-flu-samples-positive-in-n-mum/articleshow/80656122.cms||B B Nayak
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu man arrested for marrying minor girl, raping her||COIMBATORE: A 20-year-old man has been arrested for marrying a 17-year-old girl and raping her. Police identified the accused as C Velmurugan, a native of Thoothukudi district. He was employed with a private travels firm at Gandhipuram in the city. A police officer said Velmurugan had befriended the girl in February 2020, when he arranged a vehicle for her family to attend the Maha Shivratri function. “They exchanged their mobile phone numbers and became close friends. They subsequently fell in love and eloped and got married in a temple two weeks ago.” The girl’s parents lodged a complaint with the city police, who registered a girl missing case and traced her to Thoothukudi. Police rescued her on Monday morning and brought her, along with Velmurugan, to the east all-woman police station, where police inspector Amutha held an inquiry with them. Police registered a case against Velmurugan under Section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage etc.,) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 5 (l) (penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 9 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. After arresting him, he was produced before the special court for Pocso cases and lodged in jail under judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-marrying-minor-girl-raping-her/articleshow/80657128.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Pkl’s Sector 20 set to get a fire station||Panchkula: The municipal corporation (MC) is setting up a sub-fire station for Sector 20 and trans Ghaggar Sector residents, where high rise buildings are situated. Residents had been demanding the fire station facility for a long time. MC officials said three fire tenders, including a hydraulic ladder fire tender, a normal fire tender and a motorbike fire tender would be installed here. The MC has appointed 12 staff members at the sub-station. The fire tenders will get the water from the water works behind the Sector-20 police station. Officials have appointed three fire tenders on temporary basis at the Sector 20 community centre. MC officials are also getting a new landline number for the sub-station, which will be provided to resident welfare association members to call during emergency. MC is also looking for their own land to build a separate place with all facilities. RWA members of Sector-20 said, “A fire station with hydraulic ladder fire tender is the need of the hour here as high rise buildings are situated all over the sector here. We had been writing about the issue for long .” MC officials plan to inaugurate it as soon as the mayor will give time to the officials for its inauguration. Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said “The agenda was passed in the house meeting. All necessary arrangements have been made and soon the sub-station will start functioning for the trans Ghaggar and Sector 20 residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/finally-pkls-sector-20-set-to-get-a-fire-station/articleshow/80656057.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
February 3, 2021||Trichy||200 sing pancharatna kritis at Thyagaraja aradhana||Thanjavur: As many as 200 musicians rendered pancharatna kritis in unison at the samadhi of the saint Thyagaraja to pay homage to the legendary composer at the 174th aradhana celebrations held in Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur on Tuesday. Musicians including Sudha Raghunathan, Mahathi, OS Arun, and Srimushnam V Raja Rao, while adhering to the Covid-19 protocol, recited the Thyagaraja kritis at the aradhana. The event which commenced at 8 am with ‘mangala isai’ concluded with the Anjaneyar procession. Earlier, a portrait of the saint was brought in a procession from Thyagaraja Kutir to the samadhi, where a special puja was performed. Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha president, GK Vasan, secretary, Arithuvaramangalam AK Palanivel, Kanchan Gadkari, wife of the Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, director of South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanuavur (in-charge), Deepak S Kirupahar, were present at the event. Thanjavur district collector, M Govinda Rao, had inaugurated the event on Monday. The aradhana, which is usually held for five days, was curtailed to a two-day event this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/200-sing-pancharatna-kritis-at-thyagaraja-aradhana/articleshow/80657088.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Trichy||NIT-TCS deal to help churn out students ready for jobs||Trichy: The National College Trichy (NCT) will be collaborating with TATA Consultancy Services (TCS) to offer BCom in business process services (BPS) as an undergraduate program from the coming academic year. This is the second collaborative program to be launched by NCT this year focusing on cent percent placements. NCT had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Logistics Sector Skill Council (LSC) for launching bachelors in management science (BMS) - a new undergraduate programme with specialisation is logistics and supply chain management. While the curriculum for BPS is framed by TCS, the programme is designed in such a way that students will be industry ready at the end of the course. “The entire curriculum will be designed by TCS so that students will be trained based on their requirements. The NCT faculty members will also be trained by the TCS on handling the curriculum,” said K Kumar, dean, NCT school of commerce.“BCom continues to remain one of the popular undergraduate programmes in arts and science colleges. But not all the students are employable due to the lack of specific skillets required for particular jobs,” he added. “This is a professional programme started with an objective of training students towards jobs so that cent percent placements could be ensured at the end of the programs.” Kumar said that the academic council of the college has approved to launched it from 2021-22. “We are expected to get the approval from Bharathidasan University soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-tcs-deal-to-help-churn-out-students-ready-for-jobs/articleshow/80657127.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||Knife removed from food pipe at AIIMS Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 14 cm long and about 3.5 cm wide knife was removed from a patient after he was brought to AIIMS Bhopal from Chhatarpur, according to a press release here on Tuesday. It is not the first time the patient has been operated to remove foreign objects from his body. Two years ago, multiple foreign bodies were removed from his stomach. The patient is a resident of Chhatarpur which is 330km away from the state capital. AIIMS ENT department performed a challenging and life-saving emergency surgery on a 32-year-old male patient on January 26. He complained of severe pain in swallowing with inability to swallow anything for two days. The patient revealed he had swallowed the knife two days prior to reaching AIIMS Bhopal. An X-ray report showed the knife stuck in the neck region. Endoscopy of the food pipe identified one end of the knife along with a pen refill. The pen refill was removed through the endoscope. Due to the large size of the knife and associated risk, a 4 cm surgical incision in the food pipe was made to remove the knife. Patient is recovering well and is presently being fed through the nasogastric tube while the food pipe heals, officials said. The ENT surgical team was led by AIIMS Bhopal additional professor, Dr Vikas Gupta along with Dr Ganakalyan Behera, Dr Shrey, Dr Sandeepan and Dr Prince. Anesthesia Team was headed by Dr Ritika with Dr Manish along with Dr Aditi, Dr Akhil and Dr Ria. Multiple foreign bodies ingested by the patients in the last 6-8 months are still there in his abdomen, official said. A second round of surgery is planned for removing the other objects from his stomach once the neck area heals. The patient is also being evaluated by the Department of Psychiatry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/knife-removed-from-food-pipe-at-aiims/articleshow/80657092.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||Two more jump ship: TMC MLA, neta join BJP||BARUIPUR: Two Trinamool Congress-turned-BJP leaders, Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, led a blistering attack on the Mamata Banerjee government in the Trinamool fort in South 24 Parganas after some party supporters greeted them with black flags on the way to the public meeting, reports Monotosh Chakraborty. At the event, MLA Dipak Haldar and Trinamool block president Bhaktaram Mandal joined BJP in presence of Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh and party national vice-president Mukul Roy. While Suvendu targeted Mamata and her nephew Abhishek, Rajib listed development dreams for Bengal, saying home minister Amit Shah had assured him of a special economic package for the state once BJP took office in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-more-jump-ship-tmc-mla-neta-join-bjp/articleshow/80660159.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Dharani allows applicants to raise grievance with collector’||Q. Dharani still doesn’t have provision for firms to get agriculture land registered. It’s been six months and we have no clue how to go about. Several transactions are on hold and businesses are getting impacted. Please tell us how companies can sell, buy and update their lands on the portal. -- Vikranth Vasireddy A. For issue of Pattadar Passbooks (PPB) for existing lands held by Institutions/companies, a new module is available wherein institution/company/firm can apply for PPB. The application has to be made in MeeSeva with details. It will go to the collector and once approved, PPB will be issued and land details will be available in Dharani for registration. Q. Facing issues with raising complaints with the Dharani call center. Can you do something? -- Rohith Rao A. Thank you very much for your valuable feedback, we will definitely work on this aspect and ensure the issues are rectified. An alternate mechanism to raise grievances with the collector is now enabled in Dharani under ‘Application for Land Matters’ wherein citizens can apply with the grievance. Q. I am a 70-year-old retired person. I am very keen on taking the Covid vaccine but do not know who to approach. Everybody gives a different answer when asked when it will be available to us. - Dr KRamchander A. At present, vaccination has been taken up for Covid-19 frontline workers – health staff (government and private). Now, it will be taken up for other frontline staff for departments like police, revenue, municipal, etc. In the next phase, vaccination for persons above 50 years will be taken up. Q. I bought agricultural land from a real estate company that was procuring land from farmers. While I paid the total amount, the company now claims that Dharani portal is not allowing individuals to company and company to individuals’ registration. Could you please confirm this? -- Naveen Kumar A. The prerequisite in Dharani to go ahead with sale deed execution is to have a PPB pattadar passbook. Earlier companies were not given Pattadar passbooks and hence they could not do transactions. Now the facility is available where they can obtain the PPB by applying through MeeSeva. Q. Those who applied under GO 166 are waiting for the last seven years for regularisation of land. These applicants could not avail of GO 58 and 59 as possession of land is necessary as per these GOs, while under GO 166,registered sale deed is considered. When will this be resolved? More than 8,000 applications are pending with the government. -- K Kasinath A. GO 166 is dispensed with and Government issued orders vide GO 134 to refund the amounts received under GO 166 to applicants and opportunity was given to them to apply under GO Ms No 58/59 afresh. In GO 58, 59registered document is considered as proof of possession as in the case with GO 166. Opportunity was given to citizens to apply online through GO Ms No 179 but only few applications have been received till date. Government will take a view on how to proceed in the matter and ensure that the issue is redressed as soon as possible. Q. Will you be uploading land records of the Secunderabad Cantonment on Dharani? - Sanjay Reddy A. Dharani deals with agricultural lands. For non-agricultural properties, the system of stamp and registration (CARD) is functional. There is no issue. Q. We hear about governments of other states taking action against errant builders under RERA. Ln Telangana, we get no such information. Has the state cracked down on any builder here? - Siddharth Ray A. RERA has been taking up registration of new real estate projects. It is aimed at safeguarding the interest of the public. As and when complaints are received, action is taken. Q. Some pattedars have not been issued PPBs yet, though they have all records including RORs, passbooks (old) and entries in the maa (mee) bhoomi portal. Even the PPBs that have been issued are ridden with mistakes. Please arrange for these issues to be addressed. -- Venkatapathi Raju Kosuri A. A provision is now enabled in Dharani under ‘Application for Land Matters’ where in citizens can apply regarding such issues. Please visit Dharani @ https://dharani.telangana.gov.in Q. From what we have been reading, many healthcare workers are apprehensive about taking the vaccine. Should the common man be worried? - Premila Rao A. The government has made it clear that the Covid-19 vaccines are safe. Various measures have been taken to create awareness about the need for vaccination etc. Q. I am 62-years-old and retired. On the Prajavani website of Telangana State, I registered a grievance (Reference number COMGHMC/E/2020/00009) on September 17, 2020 and subsequently sent three reminders. But I have received no response yet. Can you please help? -- G D Prabhu A. We regret the delay in redressal of your issue. The issue is forwarded to the concerned authority for taking immediate necessary action. Q. My daughter entered into an agreement of sale to purchase a flat in Tellapur and we went for registration on August 28 at the registrar office in Sangareddy. But the registration could not be done due to some technical problems. Later my daughter cancelled the agreement and we applied for refund of registration charges (paid by me) on November 28. But we have still not received the amount. I request you to look into this and do the needful. -- G Ramesh Babu A. District Registrar, Medak has informed that the refund proceedings have been issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-allows-applicants-to-raise-grievance-with-collector/articleshow/80657130.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Trichy||Pawan Kumar Singh new director of IIM Trichy||Trichy: Pawan Kumar Singh, former director of Management Development Institute (MDI), Gurgaon, will assume charge as the director of Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy on Wednesday. He will take over the charge from Godwin Tennyson, dean, administration, IIM Trichy, who was holding additional charge of the director after Bhimaraya Metri demitted office in October last year. Metri was appointed director of IIM Nagpur after a three-year stint in IIM Trichy. The new director is a professor in organisation behaviour and industrial relations. He was also the director in-charge of IIM Indore where he served in various capacities since 2004. Starting his career as an industrial relations officer in Bank of India, Singh joined his alma mater as a lecturer. He was with Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE) Mumbai before moving to IIM Indore in 2004.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pawan-kumar-singh-new-director-of-iim-trichy/articleshow/80657136.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Trichy||Meet to attract local vendors held at Golden Rock workshop||Trichy:To encourage the vendors and to have them a better knowledge about the material required for railways, a vendor development meet was conducted by the materials management department and the central workshop of Golden Rock in Trichy where various types of materials were displayed. Delivering the presidential address, principal chief materials manager (PCMM), Southern Railway, K Shunmugaraj highlighted the need for finding new local vendors to enlarge the sources of supply of materials required at Golden Rock Workshop. The chief works manager of Golden Rock workshop, Shyamadhar Ram, emphasized the availability of business potential at Golden Rock.To enrich the knowledge of vendors, presentation on various topics such as business potential, procurement policy, registration in Indian Railways e-procurement system (IREPS), Research Designs and Standards Organization (RDSO) and Integrated Coach Factory (ICF), inspection procedure and payment procedure are explained by the officials from the material department of the Golden Rock workshop.A representative of the BHELSIA (BHEL Small Industries Association) explained the supply potential of vendors and their capabilities in various fields and also expressed their readiness to cater to the requirements of railways. Various types of materials were displayed at 8 different locations at the workshop. A total of 128 items of conventional and LHB coaches, 110 items of wagon production, 105 items of diesel locos and 32 items of X class locos were displayed with detailed specifications, and annual requirements with estimated rate. Items required for AC loco and signaling and telecommunication workshop have also been arranged for display by store branch. ICF has displayed 70 boards depicting pictures and details of materials required for LHB coaches.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/meet-to-attract-local-vendors-held-at-golden-rock-workshop/articleshow/80657157.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||Amid Covid, state may hold Carnival next week||PANAJI/MARGAO: The Carnival floats parade, which is an annual attraction in Goa, is likely to be held on February 13 and 14 this year. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, however, Goa Tourism has decided to organise the event only in Panaji and Margao. This is likely to be the first big state-supported tourism event after a 10-month hiatus due to the pandemic. Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar told TOI that since Goa has been thrown open for tourists, his department did not see any harm in conducting Carnival. He said it would be in Panaji on February 13 and Margao the next day. But he clarified that celebrations will not be permitted across the state and that standard operating procedures (SOPs) would be put in place ahead of the parades in Panaji and Margao. The tourism department held a meeting to discuss the modalities of the event on Monday. Tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar said district collectors have been asked to work out the SOPs that will be required to be followed, which would then be communicated to the organising committees. South Goa collector Ruchika Katyal on Tuesday chaired a meeting with representatives of the police, health, transport and electricity departments to discuss the arrangements for the Carnival floats parade in the state’s commercial capital on February 14. The parade will originate from the vicinity of the district hospital and culminate near Borkar’s super market. Chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council, Agnelo Fernandes, who is chairman of the Carnival committee, told TOI that the floats parade will be held from 3.30-9pm. Besides Panaji and Margao, the tourism department normally supports Carnival parades held in Vasco, Ponda, Mapusa and Pernem. The parades held in other towns are generally supported by their respective councils. Since November, Goa has reported a significant dip in Covid infections and since December, the state’s daily average of fresh cases has fallen below 100. Mortalities too have reduced to one or two cases each day. However, as Goa continues to report new infections, health experts feel people should implement Covid-appropriate behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-covid-state-may-hold-carnival-next-wk/articleshow/80658507.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Husband beat me up after drugs’||Panchkula: A resident of Pinjore has accused her husband of thrashing her under the influence of drugs and threatening to kill her for not giving dowry, leading the police to register a case. Mehak Sharma, the victim, got married to Vikas Sodhi, a resident of Saini Mohalla, Pinjore, on January 29, 2019. Soon after the marriage, her husband and in-laws started demanding dowry, she alleged. She alleged she found out that her husband was a drug addict. She said she requested her father in-law to take her husband to some de-addiction centre and they visited two de-addiction centres – one in Panchkula and one in Kalka - but to no avail. “Vikas under the influence of drugs thrashed me in Pinjore garden. Her started selling gold jewellery and also sold my mangalsutra for drugs. He later started demanding dowry and a plot to be registered in his name,” the victim alleged. She had then started staying at her mother’s house. On August 15, 2020, the accused allegedly came to their house and threatened to kill her and her mother if they will not give a plot to him. Police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/husband-beat-me-up-after-drugs/articleshow/80656067.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Rajkot||Three workers die in chemical factory in Mehsana, owner booked||Palanpur: Three workers died after inhaling the toxic fumes of bromine gas in a chemical factory located in Tundali village near Mehsana on Monday night.The incident happened in Raj Chemicals in Someshwar GIDC and police on Tuesday booked its owner Ravi Patel and contractor Mitul Mistry for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.Those who died were Ramsingh Ravana, Uttam Kumar Gavariya and Pukhraj Sampaji, all natives of Jhalore district in Rajasthan. Preliminary investigation suggested that the bromine gas might have got liberated due to some reaction when the three were emptying the tanker of sodium bromide into a storage tank. Sources said the gas might have got liberated from sodium bromide due to reaction with some other chemical in the tank.A team of Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) and Directorate of Industrial Safety (DISH) have also joined the probe.According to the complaint lodged by Ramsingh’s brother Dinesh, he got a call from Ravi Patel’s brother-in-law on Monday night, informing that his brother had fallen unconscious due to sudden increase in ‘gas pressure’ in a tank. Dinesh, who works in Sanand, told police that when he reached the unit, he saw three persons lying unconscious on the floor. The team of 108 emergency services was called by they declared all three dead.He further alleged that there was no safety equipment on the bodies of the deceased and the accident was caused due to utter negligence of the owner and contractor.The complaint was lodged with Langhanj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-workers-die-in-chemical-factory-in-mehsana-owner-booked/articleshow/80654900.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||ICOMOS defines Kahn-do spirit for IIM-A||Ahmedabad: After issuing a ‘world-wide heritage alert’ about IIM-A, the ICOMOS has now laid out a roadmap for the premier B-school to conserve its old campus designed by the celebrated architect, Louis Kahn. ICOMOS (International Council on Monuments and Sites) is an advisory body to the Unesco in matters of world heritage.The roadmap is not limited to the conservation of student dormitories but concerns the entire campus.The institute was caught in a controversy in December 2020 when it had taken the decision to level 14 of the 18 dormitories, considered to be central to the overall architecture of the campus. The institute had wanted to replace the dormitories with new structures. IIM-A put its plans on hold and decided to re-examine the issue afresh following an outcry around the world over the plan.The 61-page report has been prepared by the ICOMOS ISC Twentieth Century Heritage International Scientific Committee. It seems to answer the moot questions of IIM-A regarding technical challenges it faces in restoring and conserving the buildings designed by Kahn.The purpose of the report is to gather international support for the protection and comprehensive conservation of the iconic IIM-A buildings, said an official aware of the development.Though the threat to the dormitory units has been shelved, the original historic fabric of Kahn’s IIM-A continues to be under the threat of irreversible alterations, the report says. It says the risks include the potential demolition of several structures and the construction of multistorey blocks. The report says the changes would adversely impact the unique hierarchical spatial order, functional linkages, and visual harmony for which the campus is renowned.HCP Design’s proposed master plan for 25 years should be put on hold till a comprehensive conservation management plan is in place and heritage impact assessment is undertaken, according to the report. If required, the master plan should be revisited to ensure protection and conservation of culturally significant components of the old campus, the report suggests.The report notes that the campus is a product of global-to-local partnership and cultural exchange. It says the campus is a result of the vision of Ahmedabad’s social and political leaders as well as India’s post-Independence nation-building activities that aimed to develop modern infrastructure for social, economic, and cultural growth. “However, it holds equal significance for being a part of global narrative of de-colonization, the emergence of nation states, the consequent changing approaches to governance and similar progressive efforts in various parts of the world,” the report says. IIM-A does not figure in the list of protected heritage structures issued by the AMC and does not enjoy any legal heritage protection.In 2001, HCP was awarded the work of construction of a new campus for IIM-A spread over 39 acres of land. Later, in 2014, it proposed a master plan which envisaged the demolition of some of the old campus buildings, including faculty and staff houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icomos-defines-kahn-do-spirit-for-iim-a/articleshow/80657228.cms||Maulik Pathak
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||168 new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh; tally 2,55,431||BHOPAL: A total 168 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state on Tuesday, taking the count of total positive cases to 2,55,431. Apart from the fresh cases, three deaths were reported in MP as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,815. Districts where these deaths were reported include one death each from Khargone, Ratlam and Damoh. On Tuesday, new cases were reported only from 36 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Tuesday include Agar Malwa, Ujjain, Morena, Neemuch, Shahdol, Mandsaur, Harda, Anuppur, Singrauli, Datia, Guna, Sheopur, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Panna and Niwari. Of these 36 districts, where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from three districts. The highest number of cases was reported from Bhopal where 39 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 31 tested positive and Jabalpur where 11 tested positive. On the brighter side, 296 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the count of recoveries so far in the state reached 2,49,193. A total 15,154 samples were tested on Tuesday, of which 168 people tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 1.1 per cent. As on February 2, there were 2,423 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/168-new-cases-in-mp-tally-255431/articleshow/80657138.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Madurai||HC dismisses plea of man seeking to register clinic||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed a plea moved by a man who sought to register his clinic under the Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act, saying the petitioner did not have the required qualification to run a clinic.Petitioner M S K Thangavel alias K Thangavelu had obtained a diploma certificate in Community Medical Services issued by Indian Council of Medico Technicals and Health Care in 2005. Based on it, he set up an establishment and wanted the authorities to recognize it under the Act. Since his application was rejected by the Karur district joint director of medical and rural health services, the petitioner challenged it.Tamil Nadu Medical Council’s standing counsel C Karthik submitted that a registered medical practitioner is one who possesses any of the government-recognised medical qualification and who has been enrolled in the register of the respective medical, dental, siddha, ayurveda, unani or homeopathic councils or the board or any other statutory body recognised by the state government.He submitted that Rule 2(1)(i) of Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Rules, 2018 defines a doctor as a registered medical practitioner offering consultations or treatment under allopathy or AYUSH.Taking cognizance of the submissions, Justice G R Swaminathan observed that only if the petitioner falls within the aforesaid statutory definitions can he apply for recognizing his establishment as a clinical establishment. But since the petitioner has not acquired qualification in any of these systems of medicine, authorities were justified in rejecting his request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-of-man-seeking-to-register-clinic/articleshow/80658509.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||28-yr-old woman falls off TNSTC bus, dies||Coimbatore: A 28-year-old woman died after she fell accidentally from a TNSTC bus while travelling on footboard near Neelambur on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as Thaniga, 28, wife of Anandavel, from New Housing Unit at Puliyakulam. Police said Thaniga, her younger sister and her uncle were travelling to Salem from Coimbatore in a TNSTC bus on Sunday night. When the bus reached near Neelambur, she felt vomiting. Immediately, she went to the footboard of the bus to wash her face. However, she lost balance and fell on the road from the footboard. Thaniga suffered severe head injuries and was rushed to a private hospital at Neelambur where doctors declared her brought dead. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Her younger brother T Kirubanandan, 21, of Mayiladuthurai, lodged a complaint with the Sulur police on Monday. Police registered a case. Following the postmortem, the body was handed over to the family members on Monday evening. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/28-yr-old-woman-falls-off-tnstc-bus-dies/articleshow/80657177.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut meets farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena reached out to farmers at the Ghazipur border between Delhi and UP on Tuesday. Party MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut along with others from the party met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and extended support. Raut said he conveyed the CM’s message to Tikait and expressed solidarity. Raut said the farmers’ issue is not related only to the two states, but to the country. He criticised the Centre and said it had attempted to suppress the movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sanjay-raut-meets-farmers-leader-tikait/articleshow/80657159.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||Toxic times: Air in major Madhya Pradesh cities ‘not fit for breathing’||BHOPAL: Air quality of major cities in Madhya Pradesh -including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur - ranges between moderate to poor. It means the air quality is ‘not fit for breathing’ and may lead to discomfort, as per the pollution control board. Track the pollution level in your cityAllocation of Rs 150 crore in the Union budget to clean the air quality of the four MP cities confirms the fact that there is need to take immediate steps to control the deteriorating air quality. As per Union budget, in the financial year 2021-22, around Rs 150 crore has been allocated to clean air pollution. It is part of the Rs 2200 crore kept for 42 cities in the country. The sum would be given to six different departments - including urban administration, transport, agriculture, industries, environment and energy - to take steps to control pollution. Dust and smoke would be checked under these measures taken to control pollution. Air quality is measured taking into account the levels of sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (Nox), RSPM10 and fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in the air. While the rise in sulphur dioxide is due to vehicle emissions, increase in nitrogen oxide is caused by human activity, including vehicles and sewage etc. PM 10 depends on dust, construction, including building of roads while PM2.5 is due to dust, human activity and climatic conditions. Of these four, PM2.5 is the most harmful for health since it causes severe lung diseases, said officials. Air quality index between 0 and 50 is termed as good with minimal possible health impacts while air quality between 51 and 100 is satisfactory but may lead to minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people. Air quality above 100 is moderate and leads to breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases. AQI of Bhopal and Indore was between 100 and 200 on Tuesday. AQI above 200 leads to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The AQI of Gwalior and Jabalpur was between 200 and 300. AQI above 300 may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure as per the pollution control board. In MP, Gwalior and Jabalpur are more polluted when compared to Bhopal and Indore, as per the central pollution control board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/toxic-times-air-in-major-mp-cities-not-fit-for-breathing/articleshow/80657174.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Education should not be affected: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has asserted that children’s education must not suffer due to the inability of their parents to pay fees and “education is something which should never be compromised”. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala disposed of the suo motu PIL the high court had initiated on the basis of a news report on a survey conducted by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and UNICEF, Gujarat. It reflected the hardships faced by poor parents during the lockdown period. The bench reminded the state government “to ensure that the inability to pay fees should not compel parents to stop providing education to their children. This is the worst that can happen to any family. It is possible that help rendered by the government may not have reached a few families. This is what the survey talks about. The government should pay due attention to such cases and try to render assistance in all possible manners. Education is something which should never be compromised”. The HC accepted the explanation submitted by the state government on how the families of students in government and aided schools were supported during the lockdown. It also said that “by accepting the report of the state government and closing this litigation, we do not want to convey that the survey carried out by the IIM-A and the UNICEF, Gujarat, was not correct”. The HC appreciated the survey. It revealed that despite a flat 25% cut in fees, parents were not aware of any such benefits and very few received foodgrain under the mid-day meal scheme. The court said the state government “seems to have put in strenuous efforts to ease the hardships of various families during the period of lockdown”. The HC recalled its observation made earlier while exhorting the government and society to join in relief efforts during the pandemic, “crisis does not build character, it reveals it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/education-should-not-be-affected-hc/articleshow/80657224.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt goes for bureaucratic reshuffle||New Delhi: In a fresh spell of bureaucratic reshuffle in Delhi government on Tuesday, Khilli Ram Meena has been posted as principal secretary-cum-director (vigilance) and Ashish Kundra has been posted as principal secretary-cum-commissioner (transport). Sanjay Goel, who is managing director of DTTDC, has been posted as excise commissioner while continuing to hold additional charge of DTTDC. Apart from this, Geetika Sharma has been posted as secretary, DSSSB, and excise commissioner Rahul Singh, has been posted as deputy commissioner, SDMC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-goes-for-bureaucratic-reshuffle/articleshow/80657178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Madurai||HC raps officials for delay in disbursing compensation||Madurai:Taking a serious view on not disbursing compensation for a land acquired in 1967 to a land owner, Madras high court on Tuesday observed that neither the government nor its officials are interested in the issues of citizens or honoring the orders of the court. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Dindigul district administration who had sought extension of time to comply with the order passed by HC Madurai bench in 2018. Expressing shock, Justice R Subramanian observed, “The facts of the case would demonstrate the lethargic, indifferent and cruel attitude of the government officials in dealing with the rights of the citizens. This can happen only in this country and with these officials.”The judge noted that it has been 54 years since the land was acquired. Considering the fervent request of the special government pleader, the judge granted time till March 25 to comply with the earlier order of the court to disperse the compensation, failing which the Dindigul district collector will have to appear before the court on March 26. Land was acquired by the state government from a person to set up a bus depot at Palani in Dindigul in 1976. The land acquisition officer had fixed the price at Rs 1.70 per sq.ft. Later, the compensation amount was enhanced to Rs 7.82 per sq.feet by the Palani sub court in 2004. An appeal filed by the land acquisition officer challenging it was dismissed by HC Madurai bench.The first generation legal heirs of the land owner filed an execution petition in 2007 to execute the enhanced award and the court directed attachment of tables and chairs in the office of the Palani revenue divisional officer in 2010.Challenging the order, a revision was filed before the HC in 2011. During the hearing, the state government submitted a memo of calculation signed by special tahsildar fixing the amount to be dispersed at Rs 25,42,894.Recording the calculation memo, the court had disposed of the revision petition directing to disperse the amount to the land owner before January 10, 2019. However, the award amount was not paid yet and the authorities had filed an application seeking extension of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-raps-officials-for-delay-in-disbursing-compensation/articleshow/80658530.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 3, 2021||Trichy||Thanjavur fishers want high-speed boats confiscated||Thanjavur: Fishermen from Thanjavur and Pudukottai have demanded that the government take steps to confiscate the mechanized high-speed boats operating along their coasts, and arrive at a permanent solution in this regard. A Thajudeen, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Fishermen Federation at Mallipattinam, said at a consultation meeting of Thanjavur, Pudukottai district mechanized boat fishermen association at Peravurani that there has been an agreement among fishermen on fishing by both mechanized and country boats. Accordingly, mechanized boats could fish for three days and and country boats for four days a week in Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram coasts. However, fishermen on high-speed boats from other districts have been violating the agreement, leaving the local fishermen high and dry. The association appealed to the government to do the needful to instruct these fishermen to follow the 40-year-long agreement.A resolution was also adopted at the meeting condemning the Sri Lankan navy for sinking the boat of TN fishermen killing four of them on board. The meeting expressed displeasure at the human rights commission remaining “mute spectator” to fishermen’s issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-fishers-want-high-speed-boats-confiscated/articleshow/80657166.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Chandigarh||200 cartons of IMFL liquor seized, 2 held||Mohali: Police have arrested two persons after 200 cartons of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) liquor were allegedly recovered from them from two different sites here on Tuesday. Police set up a check post near the new bus stand and stopped the truck. Cops claimed they recovered 150 boxes of ‘Royal General’ whisky having the marking of ‘For Sale in Chandigarh Only’. The drive was taking the consignment to Amritsar. In the second incident, Zirakpur police seized 50 boxes of IMFL being smuggled to Patiala. A check post was put up on Patiala road. Cops said a canter driver attempted to reverse the vehicle and flee but was chased and caught. His assistant fled. Cops claimed they recovered 18 cartons of ‘Royal Challenge’ whisky and 36 cartons of ‘Royal Stag’ whisky from the canter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/200-cartons-of-imfl-liquor-seized-2-held/articleshow/80656087.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Lt Col Purohit insists he was on official duty||Mumbai: Accused in 2008 Malegaon blast case, Lt Col Prasad Purohit, on Tuesday before Bombay high court sought quashing of a terror case against him, arguing he was on official duty, so sans prior sanction, cognizance of the case stands vitiated. His counsel, Shrikant Shivade, said section 197(2) of CrPc prevents court from taking cognizance in absence of valid sanction if act is done by a member of armed forces in due or purported discharge of official duty, as Purohit “was and is’’. He read from a military officer’s document to say, “There is no record to suggest Purohit was not operating as he was expected and trained to, and in the line of duty as every other military intelligence... would do.’’ “The officer has infiltrated... underground outfits through his capabilities and go-getter attitude.,” said another document. Shivade also said IPS officer, the late Himanshu Roy, had written that Purohit “shared vital and sensitive of information with police which proved of help”. He added that NIA, in its chargesheet, had “doubts’ on “recovery of RDX’’ and said “recovery itself becomes suspect as ATS (Mumbai) may have planted RDX traces to implicate him and other accused”. The hearing will continue on February 9 before a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lt-col-purohit-insists-he-was-on-official-duty/articleshow/80658531.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Goa||Sub-standard work damaging Tillari canal: Dodamarg locals||Keri: Repair work on the left bank of the main canal of the Tillari irrigation project is currently on which has again hindered the regular water supply to Goa. This portion of the canal had got damaged on January 25 at Khanyale village in Dodamarg taluka of Sindhudurg district in Maharashtra and officials of the water resources department (WRD) of Goa and the Maharashtra have been repairing the damage since. However this is not the first time that such damage has affected the water supply to Goa. Tillari locals allege that it is the sub-standard work carried out on the main canals as well of the distribution channels which is repeatedly affecting the flow of water to Goa. On June 25 last year the left bank of the main Tillari canal burst at Khanyale and flooded the Yelpai rivulet in Avade, Dodamarg resulting in major losses to agriculture and horticultural crops in the area. A few years back a major breach in the main canal at Parme village had affected the water supply to Goa. The Tillari irrigation project is a joint venture between Goa and Maharashtra and was started as far back as 1965 when an area of seven villages of the Dodamarg taluka was taken up for development. Though the aim was to provide water for irrigation to a command area of 11,970 ha in Bicholim and Bardez taluka through the left bank of the Tillari canal, there have been repeated incidents of the canals bursting which has in turn affected the flow to Goa. “The sub-standard work on the main canals and distribution channels is repeatedly affecting the flow of water to Goa. Though we had brought the leakages in the left bank main canal to the notice of officials of Tillari project in Maharashtra, they did not pay heed which led to the canal bursting once again,” said Suhas Desai, a youth leader from Dodamarg. Immediately after the damage was reported, officials from WRD, Goa, visited the spot and after holding discussions with their counterparts in Maharashtra, took necessary mitigation measures. “As Goa’s Bardez, Pernem and Bicholim taluka depend on this canal for irrigation and drinking water needs, we have urged Maharashtra officials to put a pipeline in place on priority basis. Presently our officials have already taken steps to provide 80-million liters per day (MLD) raw water from the Amthane reservoir and 20MLD from the Colvale river to the Assonora water treatment plant. In order to cater to the irrigation needs we are pumping water from various sources. Our officials are continuously facilitating the repair work of the canal in Khanyale,” said Goa WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil. Since 2009 this ambitious multi-crore project has been a major source of drinking and irrigation water needs of Goa’s Bardez, Pernem and Bicholim talukas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sub-standard-work-damaging-tillari-canal-dodamarg-locals/articleshow/80657328.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Farmers’ delegation meets Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: A delegation of Samyukta Kisan Morcha met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday in connection with release of the protesters lodged in Delhi jails and the missing persons connected with farmers’ protest. The delegation included Prem Singh Bhangu, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, Inderjit Singh and Harpal Singh Mundal. Meanwhile, Delhi government in a statement said that it has shared the detailed list of 115 farmers lodged in Delhi’s jails. Kejriwal has assured the delegation full support in their fight for justice. Members of the farmers’ body submitted a list of 29 missing youths (noted so far) to the CM and demanded all humanitarian facilities to the agitators lodged in jails. The members also sought a judicial probe into the case so that the “conspiracy of January 26” could be revealed. Kejriwal assured that jail is under his administration and he will not let the jailed agitators face any trouble. “Kejriwal said that he would write a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah on matters which are not under his administration,” Samyukta Kisan Morcha stated in a press statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-delegation-meets-kejriwal/articleshow/80657213.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Four districts account for 75% of Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: It was the second consecutive day for Gujarat to record below 300 daily Covid-19 positive cases. On Monday, the state reported 285 cases and one death, taking the death toll to 4,389. Analysis of the past seven days reveals that out of 2,256 cases, 1,689 were recorded from four districts of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot - accounting for 75% of the state’s total cases. In a first, Vadodara district pipped Ahmedabad and Surat in the highest weekly positive cases at 565. Botad and Dangs did not record a single case in past seven days, whereas nine districts — Banaskantha, Aravalli, Patan, Chhota Udepur, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Navsari, Porbandar, Surendranagar, and Tapi — recorded less than 10 cases in seven days. The state recorded eight deaths in the past seven days — one of the lowest weekly tally. The deaths included five, and one each from Banaskantha, Mahisagar and Kheda. State health department officials said that 40,550 persons were vaccinated in 24 hours at 684 centres, taking the total to 3.92 lakh. The officials said that the vaccination for both healthcare and frontline workers has begun in the state.  The dip in cases resulted in a smaller number of occupied beds in the city - only 95 patients are under hospitalization in private hospitals. It’s the lowest ever occupancy after the private hospitals were allowed to admit the Covid-19 positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-districts-account-for-75-of-covid-cases/articleshow/80657221.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Filled with potholes, FCI Road remains a pic of official apathy||Coimbatore: Filled with potholes, FCI Road at Ganapathy in the city has become a nightmare for the two-wheelers and light vehicle users. Residents and the area MLA, N Karthik, said they had made several representations to various government agencies to relay the road over the past two years, but to no avail. On Tuesday, they staged a protest, demanding authorities to repair the road at the earliest. Sathish, a resident of Jain Apartments, said, “The road is full of potholes and someone skids or falls daily while negotiating the turnings. Elderly two-wheeler riders and light vehicle users develop severe back pain as a result of travelling through the bumpy road daily.” V Geetha, a resident of Gandhimanagar, expressed a similar view. “Heavy vehicles still ply on the road, worsening its condition further. We are scared to apply break suddenly while negotiating a pothole, as that will cause us to skid or fall. Yet, we are using the road as it is the most convenient route to reach Ganapathy and Sathy Road. It is also a shorter route to Avaampalayam.” The residents also complained of dust problem. “Dust envelops the entire area whenever vehicles pass by. If the authorities were to flatten the road and lay it with bitumen, the dust menace will reduce to a large extent,” Geetha said. Pointing out that heavy vehicles were usually parked on either side of the road, Ashok Kumar, another resident who runs a stationary shop, said there was hardly any space for the motorists. “The usable space has further narrowed down.” The MLA, who led the protest on Tuesday evening, said he had been taking up the issue with officials for the past five years without any results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/filled-with-potholes-fci-road-remains-a-pic-of-official-apathy/articleshow/80657208.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||My art saved me from hunger anddeath: Padma awardee Bhuri bai||Bhopal: Well into her 50s, Pithora artist Bhuri Bai is busy accepting congratulatory notes, gracing the felicitations after being honoured with a Padma Shri recently. Awards and laurels have come in her life aplenty, but getting a Padma award, makes this simple Jhabua-born Bhil artist of Tribal Museum, emotional. “Ever since I was born, I lived through abject poverty; we would struggle to buy a few kilos of grain every month. I helped my father as a labourer; things didn’t change much after marriage. My husband and I struggled as daily wagers too,” she reminisced. But destiny had other things planned for her. Around 1980, while she was busy carrying mud, sand and bricks during the construction of a museum at Bhopal’s Bharat Bhavan, virtuoso painter Jagdish Swaminathan noticed her sketching some designs on mud during a short break, and from that moment her life changed forever. “There was a time, when I was quite sick for four years. My family was sure that I wouldn’t survive, but I continued working with my art. It saved me from abject poverty and death. Today, I have everything in life and my Bhil community considers me as a motivation,” she said and added, “But the best compliment for me is that my grandchildren want to emulate me.” Mother of six and grandmother of 21, Bhuri Bai’s paintings are displayed in some of the top-notch museums across the world. She has passed on her heritage to her daughters and daughters-in-law too. “Art opens the way for real liberation and removes gender bias”, according to her. She has travelled across the globe, but City of Lakes remains closest to her soul. “Bhopal turned my dreams into reality and gave me reason to believe that magic does happen. I can’t imagine myself living anywhere else on this planet,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/my-art-saved-me-from-hunger-anddeath-padma-awardee-bhuri-bai/articleshow/80657194.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Street lights on Puranapul stretch fixed within 24 hrs||Hyderabad: Less than 24 hours after a citizen reporter aired his grievance about a poorly-lit stretch in Puranapal, the issue was resolved by civic authorities, on February 1. The issue was brought to light by Gourav Kumar, using the TOI Citizen Reporter app. According to Kumar’s complaint, commuters in this area in the Old City were having a tough time travelling through this street, especially during the night. Locals and commuters using the route also said that the stretch had became unsafe for women due to poor illumination. “I thank authorities for fixing the problem and TOI for publishing the grievance. Only two lights were working on the street, now the complete stretch is illuminated. I saw accidents on the road due to poor illumination,” said Kumar. A commuter said that the road is safe for women after the issue was resolved. “My friends and I frequently visit that part of the city to click pictures of heritage structures. But since the street lights were not working, we were not comfortable using the Puranapul stretch. Now, thankfully, it has been fixed. Citizen reporter has become a tool to air common man’s issues,” said Syed Sameer Munna, night life photographer. A senior citizen from that area also complained that the street had turned into a den for anti-social elements due to dysfunctional street lights. “There is a open plot located near a place of worship in Puranapul road, some people used to park their vehicles in the open plot, consume liquor and create nuisance. Women felt unsafe to use that road,” said the senior citizen. GHMC officials said that there was issues with the electric cables. “I pressed into service staffers who repaired the cables. After fixing it they even monitored the lights to ensure there are no issues,” said Subash, GHMC deputy executive engineer, electricity wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/street-lights-on-puranapul-stretch-fixed-within-24-hrs/articleshow/80657212.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||2 submit forged papers in court, end up in prison||Coimbatore: A 55-year-old man and a 52-year-old woman have been arrested for producing forged documents before the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act court as surety to get bail for an accused in a cheating case. Police identified the accused as A Palanisamy, of Pogalur near Annur in Coimbatore district, and K Devi, of Anupparpalayam in Tirupur district. One more person, identified as Meeranbhai, is involved in the case and police have launched a manhunt for him as he has gone into hiding. A police source said the economic offences wing police had arrested K Senthilkumar, 32, of Periyaputhur near Annur, on October 3, 2020 for cheating 55 depositors of Rs2.10 crore by way of Ponzi schemes that were offered through his firm Daily Max Capital Pvt Ltd. He was remanded in judicial custody the same day and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. Senthilkumar, however, obtained conditional bail from the court, which directed him to produce two sureties to release him from the prison. On Monday, Palanisamy and Devi produced their documents as two sureties for him before the TNPID Act court. Judge Ravi verified the documents and realized they were forged by the duo. Immediately, he directed the court bench clerk Thangamani to lodge a complaint with the Race Course (crime) police. Inspector Sujatha registered a case against the duo and Meeranbhai under sections 177, 182, 193, 196, 197, 198, 420, 468, 469, 471, 472, 473 and 474 of the Indian Penal Code. The arrested two have been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-submit-forged-papers-in-court-end-up-in-prison/articleshow/80657216.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||No Covid fatality recorded in six Mumbai wards last week||MUMBAI: Six civic wards did not register any Covid-19 death while eight others recorded one each in the last week of January. While nearly all 24 civic wards have seen dramatic decline in fatalities, many recorded zero mortality in a week for the first time since the outbreak. In January, Mumbai, in fact, recorded the lowest number of Covid-19 deaths (236) in 10 months and second lowest since the pandemic began. Wards that did not record any death were A (Colaba, Churchgate, Fort), B (Dongri), H West (Bandra W, Khar W), P South (Goregaon), R South (Kandivli, Charkop) and R North (Dahisar). C (Bhuleshwar, Marine Lines), E (Byculla), L (Kurla), M East (Govandi, Mankhurd) and N (Ghatkopar) reported one death each during January 25-31. The findings emerged in the weekly analysis carried out by a committee. Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the committee, said the weekly mortality rate for the city was somewhere between 1.2% and 1.9%. “We are in a good position now,” he said. The city saw an average 45-50 deaths per week in January, of which majority were from the western suburbs. R Central that covers the crowded stretch of Borivli, Gorai and Magathane has had the highest deaths. In the last week of January, eight of the 45-odd deaths were in R Central. “Overall deaths have declined everywhere. But wards in the western suburbs have seen a late peak so they continue to see more deaths compared to the rest of the city,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. South Mumbai wards like A, B and C have remained at the bottom of the charts and are among with zero mortality now. “Population density in these wards is much less than the western or eastern suburbs,” said another civic official. B and C wards have less than 4,000 cases in all compared to the worst-hit suburban wards that have over 17,000-20,000 cases. Civic officials from Goregaon said it was the first time that no deaths were reported from P south in a span of one week. The health in-charge said at its peak the ward had over five to seven deaths in a day and hundreds of positive cases. “While rest of the city started seeing a surge from May, we witnessed a jump in cases from August which went on till October,” said the senior officer. But recently, the civic team got a clear indicator that the virus was indeed under control. “We tested 400 employees of a hotel in a special drive but didn’t find a single positive case,” the official added. Experts also say the disease curve in M east that covers Mankhurd, Govandi and Deonar has been a mystery. Though it has the worst medical facilities, M east is among the wards with the least deaths in the pandemic. Its neighbouring M west too has a large slum population but cases and deaths are under control. Here, a 50-bed hospital was recently converted into a non-Covid facility due to the decline in cases. “We have not gone beyond 25 cases in a day in recent months. We could make a big dent in mortality because people started coming to hospital without delay,” said Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical officer of health in M west. Besides seeking care on time, the Goregaon health official believes there is also an element of the virus losing virulence. “Previously, we would find multiple positive cases after one index case in a family. That is no longer the case. It could be partly because of less testing, but there is also a possibility that it’s no longer that infectious”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-covid-fatality-recorded-in-six-city-wards-last-week/articleshow/80659535.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 200-year-old stolen idols of Rama-Laxman recovered||BHOPAL: Stolen idols of lord Rama, Laxman and their bows and arrows made up of ashtadhatu have been recovered from an interstate gang of thieves in Chhatarpur district. These 200-year-old precious idols were stolen about five years ago from a temple in Gaurihar village. These idols were found buried in a farm in Banda district of Uttar Pradesh. The accused including Vinay Tiwari, Kaloo Tiwari and Golu Kushwah - all of them about 28 year of age - are residents of Bandaa. These idols along with bows, arrows and ornaments including the pedestal on which they were installed, were stolen in August 2016. Temple priest Shiv Prasad Tiwari had reported the matter to police. SHO Gaurihar police station Jaswant Singh Rajput said, that the accused had buried the idols as they were not able to sell them. He said, they were being quizzed about other theft cases in the region when they confessed about these idols. There are a large number of antique idols of great archaeological importance found scattered in Bundelkhand region and a number of theft cases have already been reported there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/200-yr-old-stolen-idols-of-rama-laxman-recovered/articleshow/80657214.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Gangster Pradhan, his aide arrested||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Tuesday said they had arrested capital’s most wanted gangster Ashok Pradhan and his aide Arun Baba. The two men were next planning to eliminate their jailed rival gangsters Neeraj Bawania and Naveen Bali, police said. While Pradhan was carrying a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh on his arrest and was wanted in seven criminal cases, including four murders, Rs one lakh reward was announced on the arrest of Baba who was wanted in three cases, including two murders. A Maruti Ciaz car, robbed from Rohtak, Haryana and two loaded pistols were recovered from them. The arrests were made on Sunday when the counter-intelligence team of Special Cell received a tip-off that Pradhan and Baba were expected to travel towards Millennium Park on the Outer Ring Road. Deputy commissioner of police (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said a trap was laid and his team managed to nab the two men when they reached there in a car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gangster-pradhan-his-aide-arrested/articleshow/80657218.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Madurai||14th Century inscription shows deity named after land tax||Madurai: An inscription that had been found near Thondi in Ramanathapuram district states that a 14th century AD temple deity was called Puravuvari Vinnakara Peruyan, with Puravuvari referring to land tax.V Rajaguru, president, Ramanathapuram archaeological research foundation, said that they had discovered the stone inscription pertaining to 1329 AD when renovation work was taken up in the sanctum sanctorum of Garudhazhvar in the Uthipootha Perumal temple in Thondi in Ramanathapuram district.He said that the stone inscription contains 35 lines of which the first and last lines have been erased. It was carved during the 15th regnal year of Sri Parakrama Pandiyan, who ruled this region between 1315 and 1334 AD. The inscription says that Thiruvarangarayan from Malai Mandalam had donated money for purchase of land in Sathi Yeri village to provide for the daily pooja of this temple. The land was declared tax free as it was donated to the temple. There is no village called Sathi Yeri now but there is a mention of such a name in another 1201 AD stone inscription found near Thiruvadanai in the district.Rajaguru said that the name Vizhuparayan may be the name of the person who sold the land. Though the temple is now called Unthipootha Perumal Temple, it is referred to as Thirumerkoyil. The presiding deity was called Puravuvari Vinnakara Peruyan according to the inscription. Usually, a temple for the deity Vishnu is called, Vinnakara. But, Puravuvari refers to the land tax imposed by the king and the deity has been named so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14th-century-inscription-shows-deity-named-after-land-tax/articleshow/80658537.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Goa||Even with rain, this Jan was Goa’s warmest in 30 years||PANAJI: The peak winter month was wetter and warmer than usual, recording abnormal rainfall, with the mercury hovering higher than normal. Slightly unpleasant in the city, it also turned out to be the warmest January in 30 years. While the nip in the air was missing for most days of last month, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, released figures that showed that both Panaji and Mormugao recorded higher temperatures. In Panaji, IMD recorded an average monthly minimum temperature of 22.6 degrees C for January 2021. The highest previously was 21.5 in 2010 and fractionally less in 1998 at 21.4. In comparison, Mormugao has been recording higher minimum temperatures. MID recorded 23.3 degrees C for January 2021. The previous highest was 23.2 in 2010 and 22.8 in 1998. “We can attribute this rise in minimum temperature to persisting easterlies and South easterlies in lower level. For ideal conditions for drop in temperature, the winds should be northerly or northeasterly, which come in from colder regions during season,” scientist, IMD, Panaji, Rahul M, said. Meteorologists found the weather unusual this January. “January 2021 was anomalous in terms of unusual rainfall. It is also now seen that minimum temperatures are also showing an increasing pattern, which may result in the winter season waning very quickly,” retired chief scientist, NIO, M R Ramesh Kumar, said. Strangely, the lowest temperature recorded in January 2021 was 20.2 degrees C in Panaji on January 22. This was in the normal range. Mormugao recorded 22.2 degrees C on the same day. Goa experiences a mild winter chill when the mercury drops to 17-18 degrees C. But in January it was stuck between 22 and 23 degrees C. It dropped only in the third week, but to a normal level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-with-rain-this-jan-was-goas-warmest-in-30-years/articleshow/80658539.cms||Paul Fernandes
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Zero marks shock after JNTUH results||HYDERABAD: Scores of students across semesters under Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad (JNTUH) woke up on Tuesday morning to find they had scored zero in external exams The JNTUH released the results of BTech semester exams that were held in examination centres in September/October 2020. But within minutes they were flooded with calls that students who had done well secured zero marks. While JNTUH sources said the complainants could be in hundreds, officials quickly ordered a probe to find out what could have gone wrong. “We have received complaints from three affiliated colleges stating that many of their students have raised an alarm over securing zero marks despite attempting the question paper well. So far, we have identified one evaluator who has done a faulty evaluation. We are in the process of scrutinising further and investigating more,” said Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH. “I have secured 6.5-7 CGPA in last semester exams. To my surprise, I secured zero marks in maths 1 and maths 2 this time. It was unbelievable as I was confident of doing very well,” said S Nikhil Kuma, a final year student of Malla Reddy Engineering College and Management Sciences. During the day, many bright students shared their dubious experience of getting zero in the external examination. Some students, who reached out to authorities got zero in other subjects, including applied physics, engineering graphics and even environmental science. “I have secured 19 out of 20 marks in my internal exams. How is it possible that I secure a zero in my external exam despite writing all the formulas and solving enough questions,” Ryapaku Lal Reddy, another final year student of Spoorthi Engineering College, said. Now students have now formed WhatsApp and Telegram groups to share their results and air their grievances. “I attended tuitions to ensure that I don’t flunk in maths 2. I never expected to secure zero marks,” said Sathwik Reddy, 2nd-year student of Spoorthi Engineering College. Members of the National Students Union of India also submitted a complaint to the university after several students approached them. The student body urged the university to re-evaluate the answer sheets without any charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zero-marks-shock-after-jntuh-results/articleshow/80666319.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 3, 2021||India||Farmers’ stir echoes in Parliament, opposition stalls work||NEW DELHI: Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the government was ready to discuss farm issues both in and outside Parliament even as the opposition staged loud protests over the farmers’ agitation, which disrupted proceedings in both Houses. Before the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day amid the protests, Tomar said there were many questions relating to the farmers’ issues listed in Question Hour and urged members to allow them to be taken up. Tomar’s assurance on a discussion came after Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury claimed that 170 farmers had died during the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws. “Atrocities are being committed on farmers. Situation is similar to British rule,” Chowdhury alleged. The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day without transacting substantial business as Congress and other opposition members created an uproar demanding discussion on the farmers’ protest over the three new farm laws. The opposition is likely to disrupt Lok Sabha again on Wednesday, a move that may put a serious question mark on the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President’s address. The entire opposition, including the otherwise reluctant BSP, has joined hands to press for a discussion on the farmers’ issue. Congress Lok Sabha MPs held a meeting chaired by Rahul Gandhi ahead of House proceedings. Senior congress sources said the party and the opposition wouldn’t relent despite the fact that the Motion of Thanks is a customary agenda and is passed with bipartisan support. Some of the questions, listed for Question Hour, pertained to farm laws, minimum support price (MSP) and fate of APMC mandis. In written responses, the government sought to allay the concerns of the farmers over MSP and state-regulated ‘mandis’ while noting that there are no threats to the existing mechanism. In one reply, Tomar said, “The government does not have any proposal to end MSP.” Opposition MPs forced repeated adjournments of the Rajya Sabha after chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu disallowed their notices to immediately take up a discussion on the farmers’ protests. Naidu said the members could raise the issue in detail during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address, which is scheduled to begin on Wednesday, but to no avail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-stir-echoes-in-parliament-opposition-stalls-work/articleshow/80660181.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Drive against bull bars a flop show||Madurai: Although installing bull bars on vehicles has been banned under the Motor Vehicle Act, many of the vehicles in the city continue to sport them without any fear. As a month-long road safety awareness campaign is underway and various traffic violations are being taken to task, people have urged the authorities concerned to vehicles with bull bars. Bull bars prevent sensors installed in vehicles from working properly in case of an accident, like deployment of airbags, which is a key safety feature. Traffic rule enforcement authorities like police and road transport officials are taking various measures to curb traffic violations as part of road safety awareness month, which kicked off on January 18. Madurai city police is acting on various traffic issues, concentrating on each violation every day. However, they are yet to act against bull bars. This illegal fitting is mostly found on sports utility vehicles in the mid segment range, while most vehicles belonging to politicians have them. Additional headlamps and flag masts are also installed on the bull bar. R Venkatesan, a cab driver from Mattuthavani, said, “When vehicles with bull bars are involved in accidents with vehicles without them, it causes heavy damage to the latter. Apart from posing threat to personal safety, the violation poses threat to others as well,” he said. Saravana Kumar, a regular commuter from Teppakulam, said that action is being taken against it in other districts, but they are yet to see any action in Madurai. “A special drive has to be carried out against the violation,” he said. A police official from the traffic wing said that only transport officials are empowered to take action against bull bars. “We can only treat it as alteration of vehicle, which attracts a meagre amount as fine. We are not empowered to remove them. We have been insisting transport officials to take action,” he said. Officials from the transport department said that they are conducting drives against the violation. In December, they took action against 35 vehicles, but have not been monitoring it due to shortage of officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drive-against-bull-bars-a-flop-show/articleshow/80658571.cms||V Devanathan
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Foresters now guide ‘Revoldo’ to Theppakadu elephant camp||Udhagamandalam: The forest department on Tuesday started the drive to take the tusker Revoldo, which has been wandering in Vazhaithottam and Mavanallah areas in Masinagudi panchayat for the past six years, to the Theppakadu elephant camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR).Anti-poaching watcher Bandan and retired forest guard Ganesa, along with a team of foresters, managed to lead the tusker half way to the destination on the day. L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, said the tusker was obeying the commands of Bandan and Ganesan, who have been feeding the animal for the past four years.Following the recent death of an ailing elephant, which sustained injuries after a burning object was thrown on it at Mavanallah two weeks ago, public had been concerned about Revoldo and urged the forest department to take tusker to the elephant camp in MTR.The tusker’s trunk was damaged in an incident in 2012. Since then, the jumbo has been finding it difficult to eat. So, it has been roaming in and around Vazhaithottam and Mavanallah areas. According to forest officials, the tusker has been domesticated over the past six years, as people used to feed it.“Higher authorities had granted permission to take the tusker to the Theppakadu elephant camp a month ago. But we don’t want to tranquilize the elephant, as the holes in its trunk have shrunk,” Srikanth said. He said the initiative to guide the elephant to the camp would continue on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foresters-now-guide-revoldo-to-theppakadu-elephant-camp/articleshow/80657230.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Govt cut penalty for Pratap Sarnaik’s firm: Kirit Somaiya||THANE: BJP politician Kirit Somaiya accused the state government of arbitrarily reducing to Rs 25 lakh the Rs 11 crore penalty slapped on Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s realty firm for adding unauthorised floors in a residential complex in Pokhran. Somaiya and others protested outside the Thane Municipal Corporation. Somaiya was detained by the police. Sarnaik has refuted the allegations in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/somaiya-govt-cut-penalty-for-sarnaiks-firm/articleshow/80658547.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bhopal||MNREGA not much needed now, says Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister Kamal Patel feels MGNREGA has “lost its significance”. He believes the state has reached a stage of development where the labour-intensive scheme for rural employment “isn’t that much required”. MGNREGA, a social security measure that aims to guarantee ‘right to work’, was launched in September 2005 under the UPA government of Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh. Asked about the scheme at a press meet in Bhopal on Tuesday, Patel said, “The PM rural road scheme has led to a good network of roads in villages. There are piped water schemes in rural areas and all-round development is taking place in the countryside. MGNREGA ki ab utni jarurat nahi hai.” Moving on to the farm loan waiver controversy in MP, the minister accused the bureaucracy of “delaying the inquiry into irregularities” in the scheme launched by the erstwhile Congress government. He alleged that officers were involved in the scheme and they were asked to hold the inquiry, too. “They were creating hurdles but we made them work,” he said. “The BJP will not have any loan waiver scheme as we want to make farmers self-reliant. There was no need for schemes like Bhawantar Bhugtan Yojana or bonus on MSP or loan waiver as my government will procure agri produce on minimum support price,” he said. “Chana is priced in the market between Rs 3,400 and Rs 4,100 a quintal, but as soon as we start procuring it at MSP, the cost will rise to Rs 5,400 a quintal,” he said. “We will make a list of people who are income-tax payers in MP yet taking all the benefits given to poor farmers,” he warned. The agriculture minister will holding a six-hour fast in Harda to request the agitating farmers to give up their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mnrega-not-much-needed-now-says-mp-agri-minister/articleshow/80657226.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Nursery admissions to begin soon: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that nursery admissions for the 2021-22 academic session would begin in Delhi soon. Interacting with principals and managements of private schools, he also said that the government was in full support of the autonomy of private schools. Earlier, the government was apparently mulling scrapping nursery admissions this year. But education minister Manish Sisodia had recently ruled it out. “As of now, there is no plan to scrap nursery admissions this year. We are late this year in issuing notification but it will happen,” he had said. “Education is our top priority. That’s why we had allocated Rs 10,000 crore for education in our very first budget. It was unprecedented and unheard of. Delhi government is committed to work for the most fundamental needs of common people,” said Kejriwal. He praised private schools for performing well and said that both the public and private sectors should work together. He also thanked the action committee, an umbrella body of private schools, for contributing Rs 1.3 crore for the CM relief fund, PPE kits and dry ration during the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal further said, “The Delhi model of Covid management was appreciated across the world because government and private hospitals worked together in close coordination. Similarly, government and private schools need to work together to create a world-class education system in Delhi”. He said that he was in complete favour of schools’ autonomy but asserted he would not allow any sort of injustice to parents and students. In the past, the government has taken action against several private schools over the fee hike issue. The fee issue, however, was not discussed in the Tuesday’s meeting. After the pandemic struck, the government had allowed private schools to just charge tuition fees. They were also barred from taking annual charges and other charges. SK Bhattacharya, chairman of the action committee, said, “It was a courtesy call that was made. It was a very positive interaction, with the CM highlighting the need for public and private schools to work together.” Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia appreciated the efforts of schools in minimising the learning loss during the pandemic. Sisodia said, “Without much preparation or training, teachers and school authorities worked to provide learning opportunities for our students. It is highly commendable”. The education minister said that the Delhi government was working to develop the mindset of students so that they could become honest, emotionally sound and professional. “We are working to create a world-class curriculum for schools in Delhi. Government and private schools need to work together on this to provide quality education to every child in the capital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-admissions-to-begin-soon-cm/articleshow/80657243.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Future demands in-depth expertise beyond mere engineers||The International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad, (IIIT-H) has been engaged in cutting-edge research on emerging technologies like AI/ML, Robotics, Blockchain and Quantum Computing, among others. IIIT-H director, Prof P J Narayanan, spoke to Swati Rathor about some of the initiatives taken up by the institute and their impact on stakeholders. Q: With emerging technologies impacting every aspect of society, how can institutes like IIIT-H contribute to the research ecosystem? IIIT-H has the strongest research groups in the country in the broad AI/ML areas, including Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision, Robotics, Speech, Data Analytics, etc. As an institute, we are organised as research centres instead of departments and the deep involvement of undergraduate students in research is unique. We also have aspirations around making our research matter to society, to solve problems, create products, start-ups and open-source platforms for wide use. IIIT-H has established mechanisms and projects to translate academic research into market or field solutions. We were one of the earliest institutes to establish a full-fledged incubator in 2008. We also have experimented with models to connect research with start-ups, to build products from research and to help companies develop products using co-innovation model. Q: How can higher studies and research be made a lucrative career option for youth? Those who come to IIIT-H are inherently driven by curiosity and a true spirit of research. Society, however, diverts their natural aspirations to more ordinary goals like high-paying jobs in brand-name companies. The real question in front of us is: How do we prevent this diversion? How do we give them the opportunity to go beyond the ordinary and experience the thrill of engaging in research? Aspirations about making a big difference should be promoted over money and positions. Our unique research-led pedagogy model creates some of the best engineers in the country with high presence in product groups around the world. The future demands in-depth expertise beyond mere engineers, just as the healthcare profession looks to specialists over MBBS doctors. Q: What are the new technology and applied research areas for industry and society that IIIT-H is focusing on? We have started major efforts to apply the frontiers of research to impactful problems in society, while advancing the frontier at the same time. An entity called INAI to Integrate AI into population-scale applications was established recently with the support of Intel and partnership with Public Health Foundation of India and government of Telangana. Together with the Technology Innovation Hub on Data Driven Technologies established under the NM-ICPS scheme, we are looking forward to address several problems in public health, advanced diagnostics, smart mobility, Indian languages and agriculture.  Q: How does IIIT-H plan to contribute in the area of Quantum Computing? We have a group of four faculty members, with a mixed background in physics, mathematics and CS, forming our Quantum Computing group and working in Quantum Algorithms, Security, etc. We are looking to grow their activities over the coming years. Combining quantum technologies with large scale machine learning would be something we can uniquely contribute to. Q: How does IIIT-H plan to strengthen industry-academia relationship? We need to engage with industry at the highest technical levels. Industry should engage with academia so that solutions and people for the next decade are produced in academic institutions. Excessive talk of “industry ready” graduates de-values the potential that academic institutions should strive for. Even in very evolved markets, direct engagement from industry is through social funding. And IP connect happens more through advisory and consulting. We have welcomed research engagement from tech companies for years. We have also worked towards creating models and structures that makes it easier for industry to engage with our research. In recent years we have built on early traction to get bigger models in place to amplify the connect such as multi-year CoEs (centre of excellence). We have models now to enable start-ups to innovate and come up with solutions that companies need, and in that process also enrich their use of technology through advice from research. Q: What kind of facilities does IIIT-H have for startups and how do you plan to scale them up? CIE at IIIT-H is perhaps the largest academic incubator in the country. And we have helped seed many incubators over the years, including T-Hub. A very less known fact is that we helped structure the model, processes and activities for T-Hub. Since then, our focus has shifted to enabling deep tech research-centered innovation and start-ups. The support is a full-service one, including technology, business, legal, mentorship and venture capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/future-demands-in-depth-expertise-beyond-mere-engineers/articleshow/80657236.cms||Swati Rathor
February 3, 2021||Madurai||3 Covid-19 deaths in southern dists||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the 10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu stood at 60 on Tuesday while the number of deaths climbed to three, from zero on Monday. In contrast, the central districts saw a fall fresh cases to 53, down by 15 from Monday’s 68. Out of the four Covid-19 deaths in the state on Tuesday, three are from the southern region. This is the highest number of deaths in a day after more than 50 days. The patients died on Sunday and Monday. The deaths recorded on Tuesday include one each in Sivagangai, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari districts. All of them had comorbid conditions. An 87-year-old man from Sivagangai was admitted in the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, Chennai, on Sunday morning, tested positive on the same day and died six hours later. A 72-year-old woman from Tenkasi who tested positive on January 26 was admitted in a private hospital in Tenkasi the same day and died on Monday. In Kanyakumari, a 60-year-old man admitted at the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital on Saturday died after testing positive in the wee hours of Sunday. The last time as many deaths were recorded in the region in a day was on December 11. Madurai with 14 fresh cases recorded the highest in the region, followed by Tirunelveli (12), Kanyakumari (9), Dindigul (7), Sivagangai (5), Virudhunagar (4), Tuticorin (3), Tenkasi (3), Theni (2) and Ramanathapuram (1). The number of active cases dropped below 500 for the first time in more than eight months. In the central region, the number of active cases has climbed up to 404. Thanjavur (18) recorded the highest number of fresh cases, followed by Trichy (12), Ariyalur (4), Nagappattinam (4), Pudukottai (4), Karur (6) and Tiruvarur (5). Perambalur did not report any new cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-covid-19-deaths-in-southern-dists/articleshow/80658579.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Salem||Salem prison inmate dies||Salem: A 56-year-old undertrial lodged in Salem central prison died of epilepsy that led to cardiac arrest in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as V Mohammad Meeran of Omalur who was arrested for peddling ganja on November 21, 2020 by Shevapet police in the city. Prison superintendent T Tamilselvan told TOI that the man was fine till 4.45am. "He went of his cell to relieve himself. While returning to his cell, he developed epilepsy,” he said. He was rushed to prison hospital where he was brought dead on arrival. The doctors at the GH carried out post-mortem and handed over the body to the relatives. The Hasthampatty police registered a case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-prison-inmate-dies/articleshow/80657239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC seeks reply from SEC on civic elections schedule||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday sought reply from the State Election Commission and the state government over a petition filed by Congressmen questioning the civic election schedule and demanding that the counting of votes for both the phases of polls should be kept on a single day.The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora issued notices and sought reply by February 6. The petitioners have been asked to respond to authorities’ response, if they want to, in next two days and posted further hearing on February 9. Petitioners’ advocate Pankaj Champaneri submitted that the election commission’s decision to keep counting of votes for the first phase of elections in municipal corporations three days ahead of the second phase of polls in district and taluka panchayats is “irrational” and should be quashed. The SEC has fixed polling in municipal corporations on February 21 and counting of votes is on February 23. The next phase of polling is on February 28.The advocate submitted that the SEC’s action should not be in anyway cause hurdle in free and fair elections. The decision to keep counting on two different days is against the avowed object of conducting fair elections. Moreover, there is no rationale for keeping different dates for counting. It was further submitted that the decision was without application of mind and is contrary to the principle of free and fair elections. The model code of conduct contains clause 5(c) that says nobody should act in a manner that can influence the voters and elections. This is binding for the SEC as well. The election commission cannot act in a manner which is tantamount to or which may influence the electorate. Advocate Champaneri cited three judgements of the Supreme Court in support of the submission that the counting of votes should be kept on a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-reply-from-sec-on-civic-elections-schedule/articleshow/80657277.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mentally-ill man kills Senior citizen dad||MUMBAI: A 65-year-old man died after his mentally-unstable son hit him on his head with a cricket bat in Jogeshwari on January 30. The accused, Anil Yadav, picked up a fight with his father, Gulabchand, for no reason. The accused, who is jobless, has been arrested and a murder case has been registered against him, a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mentally-ill-man-kills-sr-citizen-dad/articleshow/80657235.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||SDPI names 9 candidates for AMC election||Ahmedabad: Social Democratic Party of India, the political wing of the controversial Popular Front of India, on Tuesday named nine candidates for the forthcoming Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation election. Tasleem Rahmani, national secretary of SDPI, said the candidates will contest the election from Maktampura, Jamalpur, Viratnagar, Behrampura and Dariapur wards. This is the first time that SDPI will contest elections in Gujarat. The party will also contest in elections in other municipal corporations and a few municipalities. Asked if parties like SDPI and All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen contesting the polls will indirectly assist the BJP by dividing Congress votes, Rahmani said this assertion is incorrect as all parties are free to contest elections in a democracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sdpi-names-9-candidates-for-amc-election/articleshow/80657272.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Detain Kalyanaraman under NSA, Muslims tell TN govt||Coimbatore: Several hundreds of Muslims staged a protest at Ukkadam, demanding the state government to detain BJP state executive committee member R Kalyanaraman under the National Security Act (NSA) for his defamatory speech against Prophet Muhammad and Islam. The protesters, who were members of the district united jamath, federation of Islamic organisations and Muslim political outfits, raised slogans against the BJP and the RSS and said Kalyanaraman had defamed Prophet Muhammad and Islam at the BJP’s demonstration that was held at Mettupalayam on Sunday. The Mettupalayam police had arrested Kalyanaraman and BJP Mettupalayam divisional organizing secretary D Sathishkumar for insulting Prophet Muhammad and Islam, and booked eight other BJP and Hindu Munnani cadres. In Tirupur, Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath staged a protest in front of the municipal corporation office on the day, demanding police to detain Kalyanaraman under the NSA. In a press statement, MDMK general secretary Vaiko urged the state government to detain Kalyanaraman under the Goondas Act. He said Kalyanaraman was in the habit of insulting Periyar, Dravidian parties and minorities. “Kalyanaraman is disturbing the communal harmony in Tamil Nadu. So, he should be detained under the Goondas Act.” DMK treasurer T R Balu condemned Kalyanaraman for his hate speech and demanded the state to detain him under the NSA. Sheik Mohideen, state minorities welfare secretary, Pattali Makkal Katchi, said Kalyanaraman had defamed Prophet Muhammad and his speech would trigger violence. “The state government should come forward to protect the communal harmony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/detain-kalyanaraman-under-nsa-muslims-tell-tn-govt/articleshow/80657259.cms||A Subburaj
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Deep water: Flamingo sightings dry up at Nalsarovar||Ahmedabad: Nalsarovar is renowned for attracting flamingos, but this year few of the birds have flown in. The high water level at Nalsarovar has deterred greater and lesser flamingos from flocking to the tourism zone.Nalsarovar is the only Ramsar site in the state. Unesco’s Ramsar convention, named after the Iranian city where the convention was inked in 1971, seeks to protect wetlands of international importance. February 2 each year is the World Wetlands Day.Senior officials in the forest department said this is the second consecutive year in which the lake has recorded high water levels. Because of heavy rain in Surendranagar last year, the lake’s water gauge has been submerged. A senior forest department officer said that in September last year, the water level was about 7 feet. He said even the approach road to Nalsarovar lake near the interpretation zone was under water, which made it difficult for vehicles to move.The officer said that normally flamingos and other birds start arriving by the end of November. But this year, even in February, tourists couldn’t spot the birds. Uday Vora, a former forest officer and a birdwatcher, said: “At present, the lake is good for boating as there are very few birds in the tourism zone.” Vora added: “For serious birdwatching, one has to go to the southernmost part of the lake which is shallow. This area has a large congregation of birds.”Another birdwatcher said this is the time when migratory birds prepare for their return journey. “The return migration begins by the first week of March,” he said. “The water level is about 5 feet in the tourism zone. A level below 3 feet is favourable for the birds. It seems unlikely that the water level will dip before it is time for the birds to fly back.”Brijesh Chaudhary, the deputy conservator of forests, said: “This year temperatures are lower compared to past years and hence the evaporation of water from the lake was not as desired.”A senior officer in Gandhinagar said that heavy rain in Surendranagar and nearby areas and the release of water from Narmada dam have made Nalsarovar’s levels surge. None of the Narmada canal branches passes anywhere near Nalsarovar or its catchment areas. But a forest department study has found that Narmada water released into Bhogavo river and distributary canals of Narmada overflow into small rivulets which empty into Nalsarovar. This leads to a rise in the water level of the lake, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deep-water-flamingo-sightings-dry-up-at-nalsarovar/articleshow/80657284.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Physical classes yet to find many takers in Delhi University||NEW DELHI: Despite Delhi University colleges reopening for final-year practicals, the number of students visiting the campus was quite less. This was attributed to a large number of students being from outside Delhi. Without hostels reopening, few attended the physical sessions. The colleges also saw low attendance of teachers as many of them were unhappy with the university order that stated that all of them, irrespective of the classes they taught, had to be present. North Campus colleges largely bore a deserted look on the first and second day of reopening. Anju Srivastava, principal of Hindu College, said outstation students didn’t come as hostels were not open. “Moreover, we have set a schedule for students coming for their practicals, so their numbers will be less,” she added. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna also said the same thing about low attendance due to a large number of students being from outside Delhi. The staff association of Ramjas issued a statement after an online meeting where they condemned the Delhi University order of January 29 asking all teachers and staff members to attend colleges from February 1. The association asked teachers to continue with online classes till conditions entailed by the government for reopening were provided. Teachers gave the first day a miss complaining about infrastructure issues at colleges. Debraj Mookerjee, associate professor of English at Ramjas College, said it was not just about the Wi-Fi systems as not all of them had laptops. “In our college, even the phone network doesn’t work well. The DU notice should have gone for science teachers because they announced that third-year students had to complete their practical classes,” he added. “A lot of students in Ramjas are from Kerala and Covid-19 cases are still high there. The entry of students must be planned in a phased manner. At this point, opening hostels is not feasible as unlike St Stephen’s, others don’t have the facility. The administration should have consulted us before passing such orders,” said Mookerjee. Amrita Dhawan, a teacher at Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, said, “Currently, we are taking classes from home. If all teachers return to college, the Wi-Fi system will collapse. More than half the parents are not ready to send their children to Delhi as accommodation is not available.” Teachers also pointed out that the university didn’t have the kind of infrastructure needed for the hybrid learning model, where online classes are held for first and second-year students. Sandeep Sindhu, a physics student at Rajdhani College from Haryana, decided to remain absent from classes. “I’m not scared, but my parents are worried as I would have to stay in a paying guest accommodation,” he said. Off-campus colleges, however, saw a relatively larger turnout. SP Aggarwal of Ramanujan College said, “We had a good number of students because apart from the science streams, we had practicals for management and humanities subjects too. Many BVoc students also came.” Sourabh Aggarwal, a third-year student who attended college for the first time since March 2020, said that it was a “surreal experience”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/physical-classes-yet-to-find-many-takers-in-du/articleshow/80657258.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Deer hunters’ gang shells out Rs 10L fine||Tenkasi: When Ramar, 45, and nine others of his gang hunted down a sambar deer outside the thick forests connecting Tenkasi and Virudhunagar districts in the intervening night of January 3 and 4, little did they realise that they would end up coughing Rs 10 lakh as fine for the crime. For, according to forest officials, he has been hunting deer for years and selling the meat for even as cheap as Rs 300 a kg. After hunting down the sambar deer on January 3, they were splitting the meat among themselves on a private land two kilometres from the forest around 4 am on January 4 when forest department personnel emerged from the shadows. The accused took to their heels after dumping a sizeable portion of the meat in a well and leaving behind 9 kgs of it. But three people, Madasamy, 51, of Krishnapuram near Rajapalayam, his son Arun Kumar, 23, and the latter’s cousin Prakash, 28 were caught. But the three were made to shell out a fine of Rs 4.5 lakh at Rs 1.5 lakh each. The seven others were detained on Monday and a fine of Rs 5.5 lakh slapped on them. Ramar was made to pay Rs one lakh while six others had to pay Rs 75,000 each to be released on bail. The forest department personnel also seized an air gun, two bikes and a four-wheeler from the accused. Forest range officer (FRO) of Sivagiri range T Suresh told TOI that prime accused Ramar of Kovilur near Rajapalayam is an illicit toddy seller. “He serves cooked deer meat as a delicacy to niche customers,” he added. Ramar and his accomplices hunt in the thick forests that connect Sivagiri Range in the Nellai Wildlife Sanctuary in Tenkasi district and Rajapalayam Range in Virudhunagar district close to Deiv Aru river. Suresh said they drove the deer out of the forest as it is not possible to hunt in the thick and dangerous forest cover. Once the frightened animal enters Devi Aru, it became easy to pin it down with country-made guns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deer-hunters-gang-shells-out-rs-10l-fine/articleshow/80658615.cms||M K Ananth
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Module on reproductive heath in Dholpur schools||JAIPUR: In a first, Dholpur district administration on Tuesday introduced the ‘Udaan’ programme in all government senior secondary schools, aiming to sensitise students on subjects considered taboo. The project launched on Tuesday has been divided into five categories — reproductive health, nutrition, gender-based violence, mental health and non-communicable diseases. The module has been designed by experts from the state institute of health and family welfare for classes IX to XII. Considering the sensitivity of the matter, teachers have been given special training to teach the new course. The content is activity-based and interactive, involving students to make them understand the concepts in a constructive manner. For example, teachers manual on violence and injuries module has a chapter dealing with ‘Sex and Sexual Identity’ with listed out activities gender-wise. It approaches the subject stating that the menstruation cycle and self-infliction in adolescent boys and girls are gender-based normal functions. Rakesh Kumar Jaiswal, district collector, Dholpur said that the initiative has been launched in all 280 senior secondary schools in the district. “The idea behind this programme is to break the taboo on education of physical and psychological well-being, good touch and the bad touch and nutritional awareness,” said Jaiswal, who initiated the programme with the help of IPE Global, a development body working on education and health. He is expecting that students become more conversant in approaching these programmes and called it important to achieve results like reducing adolescent pregnancy. Dholpur is an aspirational district with poor scores in all socio-economic indicators. The programme is divided into five modules spread in 12 sessions. The programme has a provision of pre and post-programme assessment in order to gauge the learning outcome. The execution of the programme wasn’t easy for the local administration. Several teachers raised their apprehension in teaching the programme in the classroom. Ashish Mukherjee of IPE Global said the programme is designed to empower adolescent girls by accumulating right information. “It will provide girls the power to negotiate for their rights within the family and society. An informed adolescent on the five core subjects sensitises them on all sorts of gender issues. It will further educate the families in achieving the larger aim of educating the society,” said Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/module-on-reproductive-heath-in-dholpur-schools/articleshow/80657248.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||Farm stir: INS condemns FIRs against journos||NEW DELHI: The Indian Newspaper Society on Tuesday condemned last week’s FIRs against senior journalists and editors for “reporting on the farmers’ protests”. “On behalf of the entire Print Media Industry, INS condemns the action taken by the Delhi, UP and MP Police in filing FIRs against senior editors and journalists for reporting on the farmers’ protest,” said INS president L Adimoolam. The INS also appealed to the governments of UP and MP to revisit their decisions “so that the rights of the Press are not circumscribed, and the media is able to perform its tasks, fearlessly,” a statement issued by INS said. Last week, the sedition charges slapped against senior editors and journalist had also drawn sharp condemnation from the Editors Guild of India and the Indian Women’s Press Corps, with both journalist bodies describing the actions as efforts to “intimidate, harass, browbeat, and stifle the media”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-stir-ins-condemns-firs-against-journos/articleshow/80660186.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Hyderabad||Lockdown helped me give wings to my words||There is no greater agony than bearing an untold story within you. -- Maya Angelou The coronavirus and the consequent lockdown were realities that none of us could ever imagine. However, for a person like me who has lived adventures, primarily in her mind, the sudden pause offered more time and space to relax and nestle between the unexplored terrains of my own self. I have always wanted to learn many things but couldn’t do it, probably, because of lack of time or opportunities. This time, I figured out my interests. In the first few months, I took up a one-month certificate course on ‘My Captain’. I learned blogging, content writing, photography and got to know the basics of psychology, and also short film making through an App. I met different people virtually, interacted with them, exchanged ideas, and gained quite an experience. Some months passed this way and slowly idleness started to consume me. I was not sure of what to do next. So, I decided to bring my new skills into action. I started a personal blog on my life experiences, lifestyle choices and also micro fiction. At first, it was not easy for me to write down and edit my thoughts. It was time consuming and each post challenged my writing skills. I had to invest time in reading and improving my writing skills, I learnt things slowly and gradually and though errors are unavoidable, yet, I have learnt to rectify them with sincerity and humility. And today, because of my will and motivation, I am better at what I always wanted to do. After 10 posts -- seven on my life’s experiences and three fiction -- I now have 23 followers. The blog has reached my friends, family and some other bloggers too. I have also taken up sketching with pencil. Drawing and sketching were my childhood hobbies that brought me a balance of mind and body; peace and action and kept me away from over thinking. I am glad that the lockdown gave me a vision, a purpose, a passion to let my words take wings and bring back a positivity that can make me a better person. (The writer is a BA third year student at RBVRR Women’s College)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-helped-me-give-wings-to-my-words/articleshow/80657289.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Parent-teacher meet before classes begin||JAIPUR: The state education department has issued guidelines for the reopening of schools for classes 6-8 from February 8. According to the guidelines, it is mandatory for students to carry a consent letter signed by the parents or guardian to attend classes. Also, a parents-teachers meeting will be held on February 7. Here parents are expected share suggestions with teachers and principals. The principals are directed to make seating arrangements ensuring proper social distancing is being followed. Sources said the government would like to see how the physical classes unfold before taking a call on the new academic session to start from April 1. “Reopening of schools at a time when the session is already closing is meant to see the response of students and teachers under Covid protocol. The government will collect data on the attendance and monitor the health of students to minimize the chance of the spread of the virus,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parent-teacher-meet-before-classes-begin/articleshow/80657251.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Walk-in vaccinations for healthcare workers||Ahmedabad: AMC has decided to give a walk-in vaccination facility to healthcare workers who missed their date with Covid-19 vaccination or could not register themselves for the shots. The workers will have to carry the identity card of the hospital or have a letter issued by the hospital. The aim is to cover the remaining healthcare workers in a week. The walk-in vaccination programme will be held at Pandit Dindayal Hall behind Rajpath Club on Wednesday between 10am and 5pm. The healthcare workers, doctors, nursing staff, administrative staff will have to carry their photo identification cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/walk-in-vaccinations-for-healthcare-workers/articleshow/80657268.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Molestation, murder bid case against KCB ex-VP||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police on Monday registered a case against the former vice-president of Khadki Cantonment Board, Manish Anand, and seven others, including a scooter rider and his son, on the charges of molesting, kidnapping and attempting to kill a woman and beating up her friend, former MLA Harshavardhan Jadhav of Aurangabad, at Bremen Chowk in Aundh on the evening of December 14. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “We have registered the offence against Manish Anand and others on the direction of the court. We shall investigate the allegations made in the case.” Advocate Zahir Khan Pathan, the counsel of the 37-year-old woman and Jadhav, said, “When the Chatushrungi police did not take our complaint after the incident, we approached the court.” Manish Anand, the former vice-president of Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB), said, “The woman and Jadhav are trying to defame me. It was a pure case of accident and they had beaten up my sister (Mamta) and my brother-in-law (Ajay Chaddha), a heart patient, at Bremen Chowk on December 14. This a tactic to mount pressure on me and my relatives to withdraw the criminal case against Jadhav and the woman.” Jadhav and woman’s counsel, Pathan, said, “The complaint filed by the relatives of Manish Anand is false and fabricated.” According to the fresh FIR, the scooter riders deliberately collided against the open door of the car at Bremen Chowk and screamed. Their relatives allegedly reached the spot within a few minutes. The FIR stated that the scooter riders and their relatives then molested the woman and assaulted Jadhav with an iron rod. It also claimed that some people came to the spot in a car and forced the woman into it. They then outraged her modesty in the running car, beat hear up with sticks and then set her at a spot, the FIR stated. On December 14, Jadhav was arrested after he and his woman friend allegedly beat up the scooter rider, Ajay Chaddha (55) of Bhau Patil Road and his wife, Mamta (48), riding pillion. Jadhav had parked his car on the road linking Bremen Chowk and Parihar Chowk. He allegedly suddenly opened the door of his car and the scooter rider, Chaddha, collided against it. He and his wife fell on the road. When Chaddha confronted Jadhav, the latter allegedly started slapping him. Despite Chaddha telling Jadhav that he was a heart patient, the latter and his friend allegedly kicked and hit him on the chest. Chaddha and Mamta were admitted to a private hospital. Chaddha’s son Aman (28), an IT consultant, had lodged a police complaint. Jadhav, who twice represented the Kannad assembly seat in Aurangabad before announcing his retirement from politics in early 2020, was arrested on the charges of attempt to murder and assault. Jadhav, the estranged son-in-law of BJP’s Union minister Raosaheb Danve, has had several run-ins with the law enforcement agency in the past. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/molestation-murder-bid-case-against-kcb-ex-vp/articleshow/80656145.cms||---
February 3, 2021||India||NCB arrests SSR’s friend for ganja supply||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, on Tuesday arrested Rajput’s friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar for supplying him ganja, reports Ahmed Ali. Pawar is the 30th accused to be arrested in the probe into two cases of prevalence of abuse of drugs in Bollywood and supply of drugs to Rajput. Pawar was picked up early on Tuesday and taken to NCB office. He will be produced in court on Wednesday. Last week, NCB opposed his bail application before Bombay high court as there was “strong digital evidence”. Sources said Pawar supplied ganja to Rajput through his cook, Deepesh Sawant. NCB seized Pawar’s mobile and laptop and claimed it found evidence like WhatsApp chats between Sawant and Pawar, and other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncb-arrests-ssrs-friend-for-ganja-supply/articleshow/80660187.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Four women robbed of gold chains during temple festival in Madurai||MADURAI: Four women, who took part in a temple festival in Madurai city, lost their gold chains on Monday. Based on complaints from the women, separate cases have been registered with Tallakulam police station and a hunt for the snatchers is underway. Police sources said that a large number of people took part in the Manthai Amman Temple festival at Narayanapuram on Monday. A Indirani, 65, from Dr Radhakrishnan Street lost gold chain weighing six sovereigns, M Gnanasundari, 65, from Kola street lost a gold chain weighing four sovereigns, V Tamilarasi, 60, and S Alagammal, 70, from Kesavasami Street lost gold chains weighing five and half sovereigns and three sovereigns. A police officer said that all of them lost gold chains between 9 am and 10 pm. Based on suspicion police picked up a few women from Sakkimangalam and an inquiry is underway, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-women-robbed-of-gold-chains-during-temple-festival/articleshow/80658673.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Unable to repay loan, but auto driver returns Rs 14 lakh cash & gold||MUMBAI: An autorickshaw driver who has been unable to repay a loan taken to buy his vehicle returned cash and gold valued at Rs 14 lakh forgotten by a passenger on Sunday. Rickshaw driver Iftikhar Shaikh (40), who was unable to repay the loan due to the lockdown, was felicitated by the police for his honesty. Touched by the felicitation, Iftikhar, a Mira Road resident, said he has lived his life on the principle of honesty. On Sunday, Iftikhar picked up a woman passenger, Nazneen Shaikh, and dropped her on the highway at Kashimira. The woman was to take a bus to Gujarat. Later, Iftikhar ferried a few passengers in and around Mira Road before returning home. The next day, he was cleaning his auto when he found a bag in the space behind the passenger seat. He found cash and jewellery inside. Iftikhar immediately drove to Kashimira police station and handed over the bag to the police. He gave details of passengers he had dropped on Sunday but was not sure whom the bag belonged to. The police found a cellphone in the bag. The number was traced to Nazneen who abandoned her trip to Gujarat due to the lost bag. She had looked for the rickshaw driver but did not go to the police. The cops verified her details and handed over the bag containing cash and valuables of Rs 14 lakh value to her. Iftikharwas called to the police station to confirm if he had dropped Nazneen on Sunday. That is when cops learnt that Iftikhar had taken a loan to buy the rickshaw. During lockdown, his business suffered and he has not been able to repay monthly instalments of the vehicle since October. Iftikhar told the police that he was working overtime to save money and repay the loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unable-to-repay-loan-but-auto-driver-returns-rs-14l-cash-gold/articleshow/80658620.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Centre has lost confidence in corporations: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday said that the central government has lost all confidence in the BJP-led municipal corporations and that is why it has not provided a single penny to the civic bodies in the budget. In a press conference, Pathak said that the mayors and Delhi BJP members had called upon Union finance minister and sought a grant but received nothing. Pathak said that the Centre left the municipal corporations high and dry with zero allocation against the demand of Rs 12,000 crore. “The BJP government has brought down the allocation for the local bodies across India. Earlier, the Centre used to give Rs 428 per person -asis to the local bodies. But now it has come down to Rs 206. Gurgaon has received Rs 200 crore, Ghaziabad got Rs 200 crore and Lucknow also got the same amount. Gurgaon and Ghaziabad are situated at the borders of Delhi and Lucknow is just around five hours drive from the capital. The BJP government has provided aids to the local bodies of these cities but not to Delhi,” Pathak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-has-lost-confidence-in-corpns-aap/articleshow/80657285.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Thane||Three held for dumping debris in Bhiwandi||Three people have been arrested for allegedly destroying mangroves by dumping debris along Dive-Anjur stretch in Bhiwandi on Monday night. The accused have been identified as Ram Prakash Yadav (28), Dharmaraj Yadav (51) and Dinesh Gautam (48). The forest department had received a tip-off and caught the accused red handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3-held-for-dumping-debris-in-bhiwandi/articleshow/80657282.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 3, 2021||Surat||Shrimp farms near SDB razed||Surat: After Olpad taluka, Surat district administration on Tuesday started demolition of illegal shrimp farms on 420 hectare land in Khajod village in Choriyasi taluka on Tuesday. These shrimp farms are constructed on the government land near the Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) at Diamond Research and Mercantile ()DREAM) city. Official sources said that hundreds of illegal shrimp farms in Khajod have come up over last one decade. The Surat international airport is surrounded by the shrimp farms—both on the government and private lands— and they pose a serious threat of bird hits. Sources said that the villages such as Bhimpore, Magdalla, Dumas, Gavier, Abhva etc. house more than 1,500 shrimp ponds. Surat airport is the lone airport in the country surrounded by the shrimp ponds. On Tuesday, a team consisting officials of district inspector of land record (DILR), fisheries dept and the Choriyasi mamlatdar started razing under police protection. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shrimp-farms-near-sdb-razed/articleshow/80655002.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||10-day online Jaipur Literature Festival begins on February 19||JAIPUR: Set to take place between February 19 and February 28, the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) returns with an online programme, spread over 10 days for its 14th edition. Some highlights from the programme unveiled on Tuesday include Glasgow-born author Douglas Stuart whose 2020 Booker Prize-winning debut novel ‘Shuggie Bain’ evokes the essence of addiction, parenthood, courage and love. Celebrated American linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, historian, social critic and political activist Noam Chomsky will also talk about his latest book ‘Requiem for the American Dream: The 10 Principles of Concentration of Wealth & Power’. Covering the ongoing pandemic, doctors and co-authors Randeep Guleria, Chandrakant Lahariya and Gagandeep Kang will discuss their new project. During the festival award-winning Irish writer Colm Tóibín will take us through the rhythm and roots of his writing process and celebrated career. Marina Wheeler, a Queen’s Counsel in England, will discuss India-Pakistan Partition while author and historian Camilla Townsend’s Cundill History Prize-winning ‘Fifth Sun: A New History of the Aztecs’ will bring to light a complex and riveting history of the Aztecs based entirely on direct translations of the annals written in the neglected Nahuatl language. Sanjoy K. Roy, managing director of Teamwork Arts, producer of the Jaipur Literature Festival, said, “A year after the world was felled by the pandemic, we have persevered and shown that human endurance can and will prevail, fuelled by knowledge and information, empathy and the right to justice.” Journalist and writer Meenakshi Ahamed will discuss her latest book ‘A Matter Of Trust’, that charts the complex relationship between India and the United States from the years following Indian Independence to today’s evolving politics. These, along with many others will be part of JLF. Past speakers have ranged from Nobel Laureates, Man Booker Prize winners and Sahitya Akademi winners. An annual event, the festival has also hosted Amartya Sen, Amitabh Bachchan, the late APJ Abdul Kalam, His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, Oprah Winfrey, Stephen Fry, Thomas Piketty and former president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-day-online-jlf-begins-on-feb-19/articleshow/80657290.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||5 police lines to be upgraded, 3rd battalion of IRB to come up at Gairsain: CM||Dehradun: In his inaugural address at the two-day “Police Officers Conference” organised at the police headquarters in Dehradun on Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced that five police lines of hill districts - Pauri Garhwal, Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Almora and Pithoragarh - will be upgraded and equipped with modern facilities. The CM also announced the setting up of the third battalion of India Reserve Battalion (IRB-III) at Gairsain, the summer capital of Uttarakhand. “The government is committed towards modernisation of the police department,” CM Rawat said at the conference, organised with an aim to discuss and come up with solutions to problems of policing in the state. The CM also gave an in-principal approval for the establishment of four traffic police lines - two in Udham Singh Nagar, one each in Dehradun and Haridwar district. He also announced an anti-drug policy in the state, along with an increased push on enforcement of existing laws and awareness drives. Under the student police cadet scheme, students will be provided uniforms and police personnel will now receive a uniform allowance instead of uniforms. Apart from these, the CM added that in Balawala, Dehadun, a cyber forensic lab will be established to help the police department work out crime cases and the police department will be allowed to use choppers during emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-police-lines-to-be-upgraded-3rd-battalion-of-irb-to-come-up-at-gairsain-cm/articleshow/80637344.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 3, 2021||Meerut||Bike bot scam: Fugitive accused’s Lucknow house sealed by EOW||Meerut: The Economic Offences’ Wing (EOW) of Uttar Pradesh Police has sealed the house of Badrinath Tiwari, one of the accused in Rs 3500-crore bike bot scam. The Lucknow house of the absconding accused in the posh Gomti Nagar area was sealed following a court order in a joint operation by EOW and Lucknow police, EOW SP Ramsuresh Yadav confirmed. Tiwari has been accused of laundering the scam money from Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited in several of his companies. “He (Badrinath Tiwari) and his son have laundered hundreds of crores of scam money into his companies,” an EOW official said. Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited, a Noida-registered company, had in 2018 come out with a multi-level marketing scheme, called ‘bike bot’, and lured investors with the promise of double returns in a year. They sought Rs 62,100 each in investment for a motorcycle taxi and assured monthly returns besides doubling the investment amount in just one year but failed to deliver on the promise.The firm has duped around 2.25 lakh investors to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore across UP, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, the probe agency claimed.As of now, the EOW’s Meerut wing is probing 68 FIRs registered in the case and a total of 20 accused have been arrested. Nine of these arrested accused – five of them carrying rewards of Rs 50,000 each – were arrested in the last 2-3 months.In July, the Enforcement Directorate had also registered a case and attached moveable assets worth over Rs 103 crore of the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bike-bot-scam-fugitive-accuseds-lucknow-house-sealed-by-eow/articleshow/80654978.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Registration of 10 housing co-op societies scrapped due to graft||JAIPUR: Registrar (cooperatives) Muktanand Agarwal on Tuesday said registration of 10 housing cooperative societies in Jaipur district had been cancelled because of non-audit, non-availability of records and other irregularities. Aggarwal said in the context of complaints of fraud being made by the housing cooperative societies with the public, principal secretary Kunjilal Meena had directed to act against such societies. The registration of the cancelled hosing cooperative societies are Renwal Adarsh housing cooperative society, Banethi cooperative housing society, Jamwaramgarh Navbharat housing society, Sirsali housing society, Lakher housing society, Devdani Griha Nirman housing society, Achrol housing society, Govindgarh housing cooperative society, Bobadi housing cooperative society and Roopvas model housing cooperative society. He advised people not to buy leases of their new schemes from these committees. Aggarwal said people should get information from the office of the deputy registrar, cooperative societies, before taking the lease of land from the society concerned. The registrar advised that it had also been found that some people were selling illegal land/land with similar names of the committees whereas the committees do not have any statutory existence. So, the leases issued in their name are only forgery and fraud and such leases do not provide ownership, the registrar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/registration-of-10-housing-co-op-societies-scrapped-due-to-graft/articleshow/80657283.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Surat||Clarify if height of buildings is obstacle: High court to DGCA||Surat: Gujarat high court has asked the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to clarify whether the buildings falling in the approach funnel of Surat airport runway are obstacles or not. While hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed with regards to the building height being the obstacle in flight patch, the HC on Monday stated that the displacement of Surat airport runway by 615 metres on the Vesu side was not acceptable. However, the DGCA has to submit whether the buildings were obstacles or not and the decision taken on the displacement of the runway. In the live streaming of the court proceedings, the HC rapped DGCA and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for passing the buck and not allowing the proceedings to conclude. The court has given two days time to the AAI for submitting the list of obstacles on record. In December 2019, the HC had ordered the Centre, the AAI and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on the unauthorised construction obstructing the flight path at the Surat airport, during a hearing on the PIL. Various builders and residents of 48 projects consisting of 198 buildings had approached the HC in this regard.The clearance of obstacles in the approach at Vesu side will pave the way for clearing the displacement of 615 metres imposed by DGCA. This means that the aircraft landing from Vesu side will be able to use the full runway of 2,905 meter, instead of the current 2,290 metre.Sources said the survey of buildings obstructing the flight path within 6.6 km of the approach funnel of the runway at Vesu ended in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/clarify-if-height-of-buildings-is-obstacle-high-court-to-dgca/articleshow/80655026.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Ministers don’t have to justify official foreign tours: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Ministers no longer have to justify their official foreign tours. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has relaxed the foreign visit norms for ministers, but tightened the rules for state officials—the secretary of the respective departments have been entrusted with the task of justifying and permitting state officials to travel abroad. On Monday, Thackeray scrapped the circular issued by general administrative department (GAD) in 2016, when Devendra Fadnavis-led government was in power, which stated ministers, MLAs and MLCs have to fulfil criteria like those followed by state officials if they want to visit a foreign country and the proposal should be submitted to three-member committee before seeking final approval. Times ViewThe same norms that apply to officials must be applicable to ministers as well, as their visits entail the use of taxpayers' money. The relaxation in rules must be withdrawn immediately. At a time when the pandemic has made virtual meetings and conferences a universal reality, such leeway is hard to justify.Thackeray, who heads the state GAD, issued a revised circular stating that officials have to justify foreign study tour, international workshop, commerce- or industry-related visit, conferences to encourage tourism, exchange programmes and fulfil all the criteria before submitting the official proposal of the tour. The circular also put the onus on the department secretary about proposing officials for a tour abroad. It added Centre has to clear the proposal after CM’s approval. For travel abroad, CM and ministers will have to obtain ‘political clearance’ from ministry of external affairs through an e-political clearance system, the new circular said. When contacted, Dattatray Bharane, minister of state for GAD, told TOI he will get details of the circular and revert, but he didn’t. However, a GAD official said content of both circulars is same and in fact, Monday’s circular has been compiled based on earlier notifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ministers-dont-have-to-justify-official-foreign-tours-cm/articleshow/80658701.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Schools create app to help students build portfolios||Coimbatore: Realizing that the most arts colleges in the country and abroad look for more than just academics during admissions, many schools in the city are coming up with innovative ways to help students build their portfolios of extracurricular activities and achievements.Most schools have either created their own apps or opted for an existing website cum app for the students to upload and store their achievements, be it winning a debate competition, qualifying for the finals of an intra-school sprint or trying out a cool experiment. Teachers and parents could also upload the same onto the app. Shwetha Krishnamurthy, of Rak’s Pallikkoodam, says, “A portfolio includes pictures of a student actually playing the sport, receiving a medal or certificate, a closeup of the certificate and a letter of appreciation from a coach or interning organization. This helps validate their achievements.” While Rak’s Pallikkoodam has come up with an app called Rak’s Digital for the purpose, CS Academy at Kuniamuthur has opted for a private website called Lumhaa for the same. “This is especially important during college admissions abroad,” says B Akhila, IT head of the school. “The website lets every student have a profile, and put up all their pictures, important events, activities, projects and achievements during their time in the school. Most students don’t know the importance of storing memories and collating them in one place, until a college asks them for a portfolio.” Vadavalli-based Vriksha Patashala has also opted for Lumhaa to chronicle every student’s achievements, starting from LKG. “Documenting their school activities helps us keep parents in the loop. During the pandemic, it helped parents keep us in the loop of what their wards were up to at home,” says Mythili Padmanabhan, founder of the school. “Today, schools also look beyond academics during admissions.” Rak’s Pallikoodam also trains students to create portfolios of their activities, especially in English, science and mathematics, from Class VI. “Regarding extra-curricular activities, we advise them on how to effectively place a picture of them interning at a company or NGO, how a mix of photographs, samples of their writing and certificates should be placed in a portfolio, statement of purpose or statement of reference, among others. We believe these could become deal makers or breakers during admissions,” says Shwetha.Aishwarya Rao, director, Vivekalaya Group of Institutions, says they encourage their Class XI and XII students to write a letter highlighting their achievements and talents, while applying for admissions. “Teachers go through them to help the students present their case best, make it more colourful and appealing, and include some personality strengths which they haven’t recognized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/schools-create-app-to-help-students-build-portfolios/articleshow/80657300.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Leopard not sighted for past four days: Forest dept||NEW DELHI: An adult leopard which had strayed into the Najafgarh area has not been sighted since Saturday and forest officials said the animal might have returned to the place from where it came. Officials said though no fresh pug marks have been found, their teams will continue to patrol the area for the next few days. Deputy conservator of forests (west) Navneet Srivastava said, “The leopard has not been sighted in the past four days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/leopard-not-sighted-for-past-four-days-forest-dept/articleshow/80657307.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||Not practical to follow SOPs if schools reopen for classes IX, XI, say teachers||Coimbatore: In the wake of the state announcing the plans to reopen schools for Class IX and XI students, teachers have urged the government to consider conducting classes on a rotational basis. Citing insufficient infrastructure and teaching faculty in many schools, they said it was not possible to ensure smooth functioning of schools with 25 students per class. S Arunan, state president, Tamil Nadu Government Employees Teachers’ Welfare Federation, said the government had strictly directed the schools to accommodate only 25 students in a class to ensure social distancing when schools were reopened for Class X and XII students in January. “The government has now announced that Class IX and XI students could also visit schools from February 8. Many schools, especially the government ones, do not have sufficient classrooms to accommodate all the students as per the standard operating procedure.” Pointing out that the situation would be unmanageable in higher secondary schools, he said the government should allow the schools to conduct classes either on alternative days or in two (morning and evening) sessions a day. T Arulanantham, state treasurer, Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers’ Association, said the workload of teachers would also go up. “When schools were functioning normally, a teacher used to engage about 28 periods five days a week. Now that only 25 students are allowed to sit in a class, each class is considered a different section and timetable is prepared accordingly. Just for Class X, a teacher is taking about 30 to 33 classes a week now.” If classes were to begin for Class IX and XI students, he said, the situation would become unmanageable for teachers, who are already handling more than a subject in some schools. “Many teacher posts are yet to be filled as the school education department has not conducted counselling this year.” Arulanantham also suggested conducting classes on a rotational basis. “But this might also push 25% of students, who had no access to any electronic gadgets and could not study during the lockdown, to a difficult situation as they have only limited time to prepare for board examinations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/not-practical-to-follow-sops-if-schools-reopen-for-classes-ix-xi-say-teachers/articleshow/80657310.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 3, 2021||Surat||Textile traders claim Rs 2,000 cr loss in 75 days||Surat: The ongoing farmers’ agitation over the three new farm laws in northern India has resulted in Rs 2,000 crore loss to the Surat’s textile trade, claimed industry players in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub. According to the market sources, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are the biggest consumers of dress material, dupatta and kurtis manufactured in Surat but the supply worth Rs 10 crore per day has been hit. Moreover, the festive and marriage season sales during December and January including the Lohri , Makar Sankranti etc, which gives over Rs 500 crore business to Surat traders, was severely hit due to the agitation. Narendra Saboo, president of Surat Mercantile Association (SMA) told TOI, “Traders supplying saris, dress material, dupatta and kurtis in the northern states are at the receiving end. We only hope that the agitation ends early.” Saboo said the textile mandis in Muzaffarnagar, Gaziabad, Sarangpur, Mainpuri, Narnol, Bhiwan and Ludhiana purchase polyester fabrics from Delhi. Due to the agitation, the Delhi traders have stopped purchasing fresh goods from Surat. Lalit Sharma, president of Japan Textile Market on Ring Road told TOI, “There are over 500 villages around Delhi and Noida from where the small traders purchase saris, dress material, dupatta and kurtis and sell it locally in their villages. Due to the farmers’ agitation, the small traders are not visiting Delhi or Noida.” A textile trader supplying dress material to Punjab and Haryana, Rajnish Lilha, told TOI, “In the last two months, I have hardly sold goods worth Rs 30,000. Traders in Punjab and Haryana are not placing orders as they are unsure when the farmers’ agitation would end.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-traders-claim-rs-2000-cr-loss-in-75-days/articleshow/80655048.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Doctor asked to pay Rs 15 lakh for negligence leading to a patient’s death||JAIPUR: The state consumer disputes redressal commission has asked doctor B K Chaudhary of Chaudhary Hospital and Research Centre in Churu to pay a compensation of Rs 15 lakh to the kin of patient who died due to his medical negligence. The circuit bench of Bikaner gave the order on an appeal by the wife of the deceased challenging the order of Churu district consumer forum. The patient, who had cancer in gall bladder, was operated by the doctor saying it was a case of gall bladder stone and removed the cyst that was cancerous. The appeal by Barji Devi said her husband Shobaks, a resident of Chadsar in Churu district, approached Dr Chaudhary on February 15, 2010 complaining of stomach pain. The doctor after some tests diagnosed that pain was due to stone in gall bladder. The doctor suggested an operation to remove the stones. He charged Rs 16,000 as his fees and Rs 34,000 for medicines. The patient was discharged after a week of admission in his hospital. However, the patient returned to the hospital complaining of the same problem. On May 21, the doctor told the patient that a biopsy at Jaipur confirmed that he was suffering from cancer in the gall bladder (Moderately Differentiated Adenocarcinoma). The petitioner said the patient was then taken to SMS Hospital in Jaipur. The doctors at SMS Hospital confirmed that Dr Chaudhary had removed the cyst from gall bladder thinking it to be a stone, but it was a cancerous cyst. The operation led to the cancer spreading to his whole body and ultimately to his death on June 23, 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doc-asked-to-pay-rs-15l-for-negligence-leading-to-a-patients-death/articleshow/80657312.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Youth missing for past few days found hanging from tree||Dehradun: A youth — missing for the past few days — was found hanging from a tree near Umedpur village in district’s Basant Vihar area on Tuesday. While the police, on basis of initial findings, suspect it to be a case of suicide, the family members have not ruled out the possibility of murder. Forensic teams, a dog squad, and experts were rushed to the spot to collect evidence. The deceased was identified as 19-year-old Sumit Kashyap, a resident of Nathuwala area of Dehradun. Sumit had gone missing from his residence on January 30 and a day after, his family had reported the matter with the Basant Vihar police. According to a police communication, the prima facie evidences hint that the youth hanged himself but “the matter is being probed from different angles”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-missing-for-past-few-days-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/80655023.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Cash-strapped NMC wants smart city cell to return Rs 100cr||Nashik: With the civic body reeling under severe financial crisis, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to take back Rs 100 crore of the total Rs 200 crore that it had given to the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) to carry out various smart-city projects. In the last four years, the NMSCDCL has received total Rs 494 crore —Rs 196 crore from the Central government, Rs 98 crore from the state government and the remaining Rs 200 crore from the NMC. So far, the smart city development corporation has spent Rs 128 crore. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said he was going to take up the issue at the next board meeting of the NMSCDCL and request the board to return Rs 100 crore to the civic body, which he assured would be given back once the financial condition of the NMC improved. “The revenue collection of the civic body has been affected in the current financial year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. We are planning to introduce the 7th pay commission for civic officials and employees from April. This will put an additional burden of Rs 150 crore on the civic body,” said Jadhav.“Hence, we are planning to take back Rs 100 crore from the smart city cell as they do not require those funds immediately. This is a temporary adjustment. We will return the amount to the NMSCDCL as per its requirement. To get back the funds, we will have to get a resolution passed in the meeting of the board of directors of the smart city development corporation,” saidJadhav. Prakash Thavil, CEO of NMSCDCL, said for the fund transfer to happen, permission would have to be sought from the board of directors of the smart city cell as well as the Central government as all the smart-city related projects in a city are planned and decided by the Central ministry. “So far, we have spent Rs 128 crore. Various smart city works worth Rs 512 crore are in progress. We will need to spend some funds in the coming financial year,” said another smart city official on the condition of anonymity.Of the Rs 1,000 crore-corpus promised to the smart city development corporation, 50% will be borne by the Centre while the state government and the NMC will bear 25% each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cash-strapped-nmc-wants-smart-city-cell-to-return-rs-100cr/articleshow/80655028.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Yoga festival at Rishikesh from March 1, tourism dept to rope in top teachers||Dehradun: With a significant decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases, the state tourism department has gone ahead with its plan to host a week-long Yoga festival at Rishikesh. The week-long festival would witness the participation of top yoga teachers, folk artists, and singers. Sharing the information, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI, “Each year, we witness a high participation of visitors. After reviewing the present Covid-19 scenario, we have decided to host the key event from March 1.” He pointed out that instructions have been issued to invite top yoga teachers for the event. “Rishikesh is also known as a yoga capital and a high number of people look forward to this programme. The department has received several queries,” said the minister. He added that the required precautions and social distancing norms would be followed during the week-long event. “Special teams would be deployed to ensure that social distancing is maintained and the visitors wear masks,” said the minister. Besides, the platform would also be used to highlight the traditional and cultural values of Uttarakhand. “Artists and performers would showcase their talent to serve information about our rich tradition to people coming from different parts of the country,” Maharaj added. Uttarakhand is known for its herbs and the occasion would be used to promote immunity boosters. “We have decided to hold a special session on immunity boosters for the visitors and it has become especially important during the Covid-19 phase,” he said. Meanwhile, the tourism department is also arranging foot massagers for the visitors. “We also intend to have foot massage machines at Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines, where devotees have to take a trek route,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yoga-festival-at-rishikesh-from-march-1-tourism-dept-to-rope-in-top-teachers/articleshow/80655039.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 3, 2021||Rajkot||Thieves kill 55-year-old woman||Rajkot: Police successfully cracked the murder case of a 55-year-old woman in Kalyanpur town of Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Tuesday within 24 hours and also arrested the two assailants connected with the case.Police arrested Sonu Rajput (23) and Malo alias Michael Rathod (22), both residents of Kalyanpur town for the murder of Jayaben Bhogayata, who was found killed in an abandoned house opposite to her residence on Monday evening in Kalyanpur town. Her nephew had lodged a complaint against unidentified persons for the murder.Police received a tip off that the abandoned house was frequented by some miscreants who utilized the space for drinking and zeroed in on some suspects. Acting on a tip off, police detained Sonu Rajput, Malo Rathod and Firoz.“During interrogation, Sonu and Malo confessed to their crime and said that Sonu had taken Rs 10,000 as a hand loan from Jayaben a few days ago. On Monday afternoon, Sonu, Firoz and Malo had planned to carry out theft at a house neighbouring Jayaben’s. However, when they were trying to enter the house, Jayaben saw them and they had to abandon the plan. Jayaben had also created a ruckus the same evening when the trio came to the abandoned house to booze and she had threatened them of informing the police,” police said.After the failed theft attempt, Sonu and Malo decided to steal money from Jayaben's house on Monday in her absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/thieves-kill-55-year-old-woman/articleshow/80655051.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Sariska tigress ST-14 is mother of triplets||JAIPUR: With one more cub of tigress ST-14 captured in trap camera, the forest administration at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) confirmed that the big cat has given birth to triplets. The department spotted all three cubs one after another on different dates. On December 1, the tigress was first captured on trap camera with one cub near Dabli village. Two weeks later on December 15, trap cameras installed for intense monitoring captured the tigress with two cubs. On Monday night, the tigress sprang a surprise after she was spotted with the triplets. Field director of Sariska Tiger Reserve RN Meena said, “ST-14 tigress has given birth to three cubs, which are currently three months old. The picture was captured in the trap camera.” With this, the number of big cats has increased to 23 at STR. There are eight females, three males, five sub-adults and seven cubs. The six -year-old tigress ST-14 gave birth to a cub for the second time after she was born to tigress ST-2 at (STR) in 2014. ST-2 was the first tigress to join the reserve in Alwar district after she was flown by an Indian Air Force helicopter from Ranthambore on July 4, 2008. The forest administration, which was waiting for tiger population to grow at STR, was elated after ST-14 gave birth to triplets. Officials said the tigress gave birth in the region from where village Dabali was recently relocated. STR, infamous for poaching, has finally scripted a remarkable success story in tiger conservation as seven cubs were born inside the park in recent times. On May 30, tigress ST-12 was spotted with triplets for the second time. A forest staff said, “ST-14 tigress is mother of four cubs born in different litters in two years. The highest number of cubs, six are born to ST-12. Tigress ST-14 has the second highest record of four surviving cubs in STR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sariska-tigress-st-14-is-mother-of-triplets/articleshow/80657315.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Bldg collapse victims’ kin protest for relief||Madurai: Family members and relatives of three construction labourers, who died in a building collapse on Monday, staged a protest on Tuesday in front of Government Rajaji Hospital demanding compensation and arrest of three people including the building owner. They gathered at the hospital, where the bodies have been kept and resorted to road block protest on Tuesday afternoon in the Panagal Road. They demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation for family members of each victim, a government job and arrest of the people responsible for the incident. Chandran, Raman and Jayaraman died when the building in which they were working in West Vadampokki Street crumbled and fell on them on Monday. The Thideer Nagar police registered a case under various IPC sections based on the complaint from another injured A Muniyasamy. The owner of the building Vasudevan, building contractor Karupaiah and site engineer Iyyanar have been booked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bldg-collapse-victims-kin-protest-for-relief/articleshow/80658774.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Unhappy with dismal allocation for MSP in Union Budget 2020-21: Terai farmers||Rudrapur: The farmers of the Terai region of Uttarakhand have slammed the Union Budget 2020-21 — presented by the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 — saying that the allocation for providing minimum support price to the farmers is ‘dismal’. “The budget doesn’t address concerns of the agriculture sector even as the farmers’ protests are ongoing. The budget only pays a lip service to the MSP promise and the fund allocation for it is far from encouraging,” said Vikramjeet Singh, leader of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha. “Market Intervention Scheme and Price Support Scheme (MIS-PSS) and Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Yojna (PM-AASHA) — the two schemes that ensure the implementation of MSP — have seen continuous reduction in the last two years. The allocation under MIS-PSS fell 25 per cent from this year and under PM-AASHA it came down to a mere Rs 400 crore in the budget from Rs 1,500 crore earlier,” said Karm Singh Padda, state president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The farmer leaders also pointed out that no major announcement was made regarding flagship schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) or the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. “Samman Nidhi scheme being one of the major direct cash transfer schemes, there were also expectations that this amount of Rs 6,000 could be increased this year, owing to rural distress and farmers’ apprehensions that the government was gradually withdrawing its support from agriculture. But it saw no change,” said Jawahar Lal, a farmer from village Jafarpur. “The Budget is an eyewash for the agriculture sector. The Central government is trying to mollify the protesting farmers by conveying that it is not against APMCs. But the question is, how are they going to address these issues without putting in place a mechanism that would facilitate higher remuneration to farmers,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee, Ghazipur Meanwhile, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, Tejender Singh Virk, while talking to TOI over phone from Ghazipur border, said, “Our only goal right now is to see the three laws repealed. Union budget is not of immediate concern to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unhappy-with-dismal-allocation-for-msp-in-union-budget-2020-21-terai-farmers/articleshow/80655066.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Weeks to go for Maha Kumbh, sanitation workers in Haridwar on strike for two days now; mounds of garbage and stench in holy city||Sanitation workers sit on strike at the premises of Haridwar Municipal CorporationHaridwar: Residents of the city complained that with garbage collection not taking place for two days, trash has piled up in the city, leading to a strong stench. After BJP councillor Shubham Mandola allegedly used abusive language against deputy commissioner of Haridwar Municipal Corporation (HMC) Vinod Kumar Arya at a board meeting on January 30, HMC employees and sanitation workers have been on a strike. This is weeks before the Maha Kumbh, scheduled to commence on February 27 in Haridwar. Adheer Kaushik, a resident, said, “The entire city is strewn with garbage. Neither politicians nor officers appear to care enough to sort the matter out. We are bearing the brunt of it.” Based on Arya’s complaint, a case has been registered against Mandola. Meanwhile, BJP councillors also organised a “protest” march on Monday, demanding stern action against Arya. A senior BJP member and councillor Sunil Kumar told TOI, “Arya is the nodal officer for sanitation works in the city, which has been a failure because of his negligence. At the board meeting, he answered a query raised by councillor Mandola very rudely. Such behaviour cannot be tolerated from a representative. We demand the deputy commissioner is suspended and transferred, for the sake of the city.” Sanitation workers and other employees of the HMC who sat on a strike at the civic body’s premises demanded Mandola apologize. Suresh Teshwar, who was heading the protest, said, “Political leaders often misuse their power and target officers who have limited resources to complete their work. Mandola must apologize openly for this strike to end.” Haridwar mayor Anita Sharma said that both sides had to reach a compromise for the sake of the city’s sanitation. “I have apologised to the protesting sanitation workers on behalf of the councillors, but they haven’t accepted it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/weeks-to-go-for-maha-kumbh-sanitation-workers-in-haridwar-on-strike-for-two-days-now-mounds-of-garbage-and-stench-in-holy-city/articleshow/80655053.cms||MS Nawaz
February 3, 2021||Delhi||4 constructed wetlands in S Delhi park to get functional||New Delhi: Four constructed wetlands, which will naturally purify 200-250 million litres per day (MLD) of raw sewage before the water enters the Yamuna, will become functional from this month. Officials at South Delhi Biodiversity Park and a team of Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem have jointly created these constructed wetlands. Wetlands are spread over 160 acres in the park and they receive 1,500-2,000 MLD of untreated sewage from drains. Due to discharge of raw sewage, the wetlands have water hyacinth. For treating 1,500-2,000 MLD of raw sewage, officials here had decided to create 11 constructed wetlands. Of these, two, which naturally purify 21 MLD of untreated sewage, are currently functional. Professor CR Babu, head, Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, said, “Four created wetlands will become functional in the next 15-20 days while the work on remaining is under way. No additional space has been used for making the wetlands as they have come up at the adjoining point of a wetland and drain.” Officials said they were also planning to regularly monitor the quality of water cleaned through the wetlands. The constructed wetlands comprise 25 plant species, which naturally purify water through microbes. “The clean water passes through a filtration zone, which has gabions and ridges that create turbulence. Higher turbulence means better oxygen saturation and greater water quality,” Babu told TOI during the celebration of World Wetlands Day at Yamuna Biodiversity Park on Tuesday. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist incharge at the park, said the economic growth without an improvement in the air quality was not much of value and wetlands could play a vital role in ensuring supply of fresh potable water and regulating local weather patterns, thus, abating the effects of pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-constructed-wetlands-in-s-delhi-park-to-get-functional/articleshow/80657319.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 3, 2021||Nashik||State okays funds for 4 festivals in Nashik divn||Nashik: The state government’s tourism department has approved funds for four festivals in Nashik division — the grape harvesting festival and the Nandur Madhyameshwar festival in Nashik district, the fireflies festival in Bhandardara in Ahmednagar district and the Laling fort festival in Dhule district. The state has approved Rs 5 lakh for each of the four festivals. A circular by the state tourism department has issued in this regard. According to the circular, the money is to come from the funds of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (earmarked for ‘publicity’ in 2018-19) that have remained unspent. Members of the All-India Wine Producers’ Association said they are planning a grape-harvesting festival at the Grape Park resort near Gangapur dam in the first week of March. The dates are to be finalised in a day or two. “We usually organise this festival in February. But this year, we will have it in the first week of March,” said Jagdish Holkar, the president of AIWPA. “We will require around a month for preparations. Moreover, the funds approved for the festival are inadequate. We will soon approach the state government and will urge it to provide more funds,” added Holkar. “The India grape harvesting festival is to be inaugurated by state minister for tourism Aditya Thackeray. This year, we are planning to target tourists from Mumbai, Pune and Surat,” he said. The festival marks the grape crushing season by the wineries across the country. Usually, the grape harvest season begins in January and gathers momentum in February and continues till mid-April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-okays-funds-for-4-festivals-in-nashik-divn/articleshow/80655049.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 3, 2021||India||NSUI, Left and Congress netas join mandir drive||ALAPPUZHA: Congress and CPM units in Kerala faced a piquant situation after their top functionaries took part in an RSS fund collection drive for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The DCC sought an explanation from its vice-president TG Reghunatha Pillai after he inaugurated the fund collection in Pallippuram. “In temple affairs, there is no role for politics. I cleared my stand with party leaders,” Pillai said. Also, DCC president M Liju alleged that the CPM branch secretary L Thankammal donated money for construction of the Ram temple. Meanwhile, Congress’ students-wing NSUI launched a campaign in Jaipur to collect money from students for the construction of Ram temple, claiming that BJP and ABVP have been “looting” people in the name of raising fund for the temple, reported PTI. Congress national treasurer Pawan Bansal, however, said he wasn’t aware of such a move by NSUI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nsui-left-and-congress-netas-join-mandir-drive/articleshow/80660197.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nashik||2 held with three bags of sandalwood stems||Nashik: The crime branch of the city police has arrested two people and recovered three bags of sandalwood stems. A car that was used to transport the stolen sandalwood trees has also been seized. The suspects have been identified as Vijay Laxman Murge (55) and Bhagchand Tandale (39), both residents of Newasa in Ahmednagar district. Ajay Shinde, inspector of the crime branch, had got information about some people coming to sell stolen sandalwood in the Bangali Baba area of Nashik Road area. Subsequently, the police laid a trap and arrested the suspects with the three gunny bags. During interrogation, the suspects confessed to have stolen three sandalwood trees from the Upnagar area. Police said the total evaluation of the seized good, including the car, is around Rs 5.5 lakh. The crime branch team made the arrest under the guidance of commissioner of police Deepak Pandey, DCP (crime) Sangramsinh Nishandar and ACP(crime) Mohan Thakur. Cases of sandalwood thefts are common all across the city. Given the huge price that sandalwood commands, there have been cases where in people entered guarded government establishments to steal sandalwood trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-held-with-three-bags-of-sandalwood-stems/articleshow/80655069.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Kapil Wadhawan’s name added in Mirchi case||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) submitted a supplementary chargesheet in a money-laundering case against drug smuggler, the late Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi, before a special court on Monday, in which it named Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) promoter Kapil Wadhawan as an accused. The court is yet to take cognizance of it. ED had arrested Wadhawan in January last year and he is in jail with his brother Dheeraj aka Baba Dewan, in the case. The new chargesheet mentioned Mirchi’s underworld activities, proximity to Dawood Ibrahim and drug business based on statements and documents. It is learnt that ED summoned witnesses from abroad to record statements. ED mentioned business deals of Mirchi in India and abroad. In December 2019, ED filed the first chargesheet, naming Mirchi, his wife Hajra, their sons Asif and Junaid, and others. ED also named DHFL promoter Dheeraj. They did not name Kapil in the first chargesheet as his role was not clear then. ED investigated Kapil’s role and learnt he helped Dheeraj negotiate for Mirchi’s three buildings in Worli. Mirchi was running the drug business in India and fled after the 1993 Mumbai blast executed by Pakistan-based Dawood Ibrahim. Mirchi was operating his drug business from Dubai and then shifted to London, where he died in 2013. Mirchi allegedly owned Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge and Sea View (now demolished) on the seashore behind Samudra Mahal in Worli. The building belonged to Sir Mohammad Yusuf Trust, from whom Mirchi purchased it in 1990. But the trust agreed to remain proxy owner of properties as Mirchi was facing criminal cases in India. The buildings were attached by Indian agencies during investigations against Mirchi. The trust came forward claiming the properties belonged to it and properties got unattached in 2005.  Dheeraj allegedly negotiated a deal to purchase Mirchi’s buildings in 2010, through their front company, Sunblink, in which their relative Sunny Bhatija was a director. Dheeraj transferred Rs 154 crore from his Dubai company’s account to Mirchi’s group company, Imperial Suites Hotel. For the remaining Rs 71 crore, DHFL showed it as a loan to Sunblink and then transferred the money to Mirchi through fictitious transactions. Kapil was allegedly involved in the deal. ED’s probe focused on establishing the Rs 225-crore money trail involving payments by Wadhawan to Mirchi for the Worli properties. —Vijay V Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kapil-wadhawans-name-added-in-mirchi-case/articleshow/80656503.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Tiger that killed 3 people to be shifted from Ranthambore enclosure||JAIPUR: Tiger T-104, which was captured in September 2019 and declared ‘dangerous to human life’ because it killed three people, will finally be shifted from Ranthambore National Park. At present, the young tiger is caged in an enclosure in Bheed, the core area of Ranthambore Tiger Reserve. The forest department is contemplating either to shift the big cat to Sajjangarh Biological Park in Udaipur or Aamli area in Sawai Madhopur, considered buffer zone of Ranthambore National Park. A senior forest official said, “Both the locations are being considered to shift the big cat. Final decision will be taken by the senior authorities. Since rescued tiger cannot be put on display as per norms, it will be sent to rescue centre or biological park. It was discussed that the department already has the infrastructure at Sajjangarh, while it has to develop it in Aamli in Tonk district.” The demand to shift the tiger from the core area was long-pending as captivation of the aggressive male had confronted with other big cats moving in the territory. Sources said the enclosure is constructed at a faulty location as it is situated between the natural corridor of Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary and RTR. Moreover, it is considered as junction of many tiger territories. “There were cases of wild tigers including tiger T-66 sparring with the caged T-104. Both external and caged tigers show aggression. In the process, they could have got injured because of cage’s iron bars,” said a source. He added, “The act also makes tiger outside the cage aggressive and it chases vehicles or forest staff.” Green activists also criticised the move of captivating the tiger in the core area for a prolonged period. Ajay Dubey, a green activist said, “A tiger which has been captured cannot be kept in an enclosure in the core area for the rest of its life. Enclosures are meant for holding the animal captive for a short period including soft release. The department should soon shift the tiger as per the protocol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-that-killed-3-people-to-be-shifted-from-rbore-enclosure/articleshow/80657322.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Will the Budget pave way to pick discom?||NEW DELHI: Nearly two decades after power distribution in the capital was privatised, Delhiites might be able to choose between different service providers. While Delhi already has ‘open-access’ rules allowing choice of a discom, it is primarily aimed at industrial and commercial users with a minimum requirement of 1MW, which is power enough for an entire residential area. In Monday’s Budget speech, Union finance minister NIrmala Sitharaman said that across the country, the discoms were monopolies, either government- or private-run. She said there was a need to provide a choice to consumers by promoting competition. A framework will be put in place to give consumers alternatives to choose from, the minister said. The government had plans to lower the minimum required load below 1MW so households could benefit, but that is easier said than done. Sources said that 1MW is enough to provide electricity to a residential colony and it is not practical for the entire area to band together and switch to another service provider. To make choice possible, each household has to be made independent enough to change its discom and not be tied down with area constraints, sources said. According to sources, while industrial and commercial users such as shopping malls can source their power from any discom under the Electricity Act 2003, more changes are required to make such a choice possible for the domestic user. Discoms earn 55-60% of their revenue from the industrial and commercial sectors. Giving the example of the telecom industry, sources said that in the earlier days, each telecom service provider had individual mobile towers catering to their customers and many areas had multiple towers as the number of service providers grew. Currently, however, the private entity that operates the tower is independent and all telecom service providers use the same infrastructure to provide mobile connectivity to their customers. A similar framework might be worked out by the government for different discoms to share the infrastructure, though sources said this would likely require a change in the 2003 Act. Sitharaman also said in the Budget speech that the viability of discoms was a serious concern and a revamped reforms-based, result-linked power distribution sector scheme would be launched to provide assistance to discoms for infrastructure creation, including prepaid smart metering and feeder separation, upgradation of systems, etc., all tied to financial improvements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-the-budget-pave-way-to-pick-discom/articleshow/80657346.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||21,274 frontline workers register for vaccination||Coimbatore: Vaccination of frontline workers against Covid-19 will begin on Wednesday. Already, 21,274 workers have registered to receive the shot and they could choose any of the 22 vaccination sites in the district. While 12 sites are within the city corporation limits, the remaining 10 are spread across rural parts of the district. All the beneficiaries have to produce three identity cards - Aadhar card, government employee id card and pan card or driving licence or voter id. Of the 21,274, workers, 10,421 are from urban and housing affairs, 9,849 from home affairs and 1,004 from the revenue department. “We first invite police, revenue, local body, panchayat and ICDS department staff to get vaccinated,” said Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health. While police constitute majority of the 9,849 home affairs staff, 6,600 city corporation staff have also registered for vaccination. Among the vaccination centres are four government hospitals - CMCH, ESI Hospital, Pollachi GH and Mettupalayam GH. The remaining 18 are primary health centres, including SLM Home, CTM Home and MM Home, and those at Somanur, Nallatipalayam, Kanjampatti, Negamum, Periyapodhu, V Chandrapuram, Karamadai, Pogalur, Dhaliyur, Pooluvapatti, Arisipalayam, S S Kulam, RK Bai, Singanallur and Thudiyalur. Meanwhile, vaccination continued at a moderate pace in private hospitals on the day. While 387 healthcare workers got vaccinated in government centres, another 386 got the jab from five private hospitals. Among the private hospitals, 135 staff were vaccinated at KG Hospital, 123 at Royal Care Hospital, 70 at KMCH, 40 at Ganga Hospital and 18 at Kongunadu. “Private hospitals are ensuring they get groups of 10 before opening a vial to minimize wastage. That is the reason behind the relatively slow figures,” said an official. A total of 20,000 private hospital staff had registered for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/21274-frontline-workers-register-for-vaccination/articleshow/80657325.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Passport applications down 54%||Ahmedabad: The coronavirus pandemic, subsequent travel restrictions as well as restriction on number of applicants led to a 54% drop in the number of passport applications received by the Regional Passport Office in Ahmedabad in a year. The Ahmedabad RPO issued 3.19 lakh passports in 2020 against 6.97 lakh in 2019, revealed passport officials. The RPO received only 18 applications during the two months of complete lockdown. However, officials used this time to process 7,200 applications that were pending. The drop in applications also led to a decline in the number of police verification. The officials said that those planning to go for vacation in May and June usually apply for passport in April and May. “The office receives a high number of applications during these months,” said officials, adding that even after lockdown was eased, the number of applicants in a day reduced to 50 per cent due to social distancing norms. This kept the number of applications low compared to 2019. The officials said, “In 2020, January and February saw an increase in the number of applications and issuance of passports. However, between April and August, only 59 passports were issued. Against this, 3.14 lakh passports were issued during this period in 2019." The officials added that the situation improved in the last quarter of 2020. “We issued 85,000 passports as compared to 1.65 lakh passports issued during this period in 2019. Once the situation eases further, we expect to see an increase in the number of applications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/passport-applications-down-54/articleshow/80657321.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Surat||Higher edu institutes cold to jobs creation||Surat: Entrepreneurs and business representatives scorched authorities of higher education institutes for cold-shouldering their offers to employ talented students and an indifferent attitude towards research and development projects. The burning issues were brought to fore in the first-of-its-kind meeting between the state education department and industry representatives organized at Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) on Monday. The meeting was called to discuss issues related to employment generation and promoting start-ups. Principal secretary, education, Anju Sharma, vice-chancellor of Gujarat University, Himanshu Pandya and other top officials of the department were pounded with concerns by business representatives who slammed the education institutes for their cold approach. The event titled ‘Industry-Academia Collaboration for Atmanirbhar Bharat' began with the customary speeches of officials and vice-president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry Ashish Gujarati. But as soon as the forum was thrown open for interaction, at least 30 people raised their hands when asked how many were looking for the right candidates for recruitment. There was a scramble by participants, to voice grievances. “We have been called here today, but nobody contacts us throughout the year even when we are proactively looking for employees. We need skilled people but we never get support from educational institutes,” said a human resource (HR) manager of a real estate company. Soon an IT entrepreneur raised a different issue. “Forget about the job, when I approached some educational institutes to get some R&D project done by students, the teachers outrightly rejected my request.” An HR officer of a leading corporate having operations in Hazira expressed concerns over the quality of graduates and gender inequality when they go to search for the right candidate in institutes. He said there were not enough girls in some core engineering faculties. Sharma pointed at officials of i-Hub to look into the complaints.. While Sharma assured them of finding a way out, Pandya, said, “In the present circumstances, candidates want jobs near to their home, five-day working, good salary and no stress. Employers want efficient people, but in meagre salary.” The event was a joint effort of i-Hub, a state government set-up to facilitate start-ups. GU vice-chancellor Pandya is currently CEO of i-Hub. Along with promoting i-Hub, the event was also focused to create a bridge to help students provide employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/higher-edu-institutes-cold-to-jobs-creation/articleshow/80655074.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Smuggling can be an act of terror: Rajasthan HC||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court in a first-of-its-kind order said a gold smuggler prosecuted under customs Act could also be prosecuted under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act treating it as terror. The single bench of Justice Satish Sharma gave the order on a petition by Mohammad Aslam seeking to quash the FIR against him. He was caught along with nine others by customs department at Jaipur airport for smuggling gold worth around Rs 9 crore from Dubai. He and others were prosecuted under customs Act, but NIA also initiated a case under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) covering him as terrorist. He challenged the FIR of NIA saying for same offence, two prosecutions could not be initiated. Additional Solicitor General Rajdeepak Rastogi appearing for NIA argued that this offence also comes under terrorist Act under UAPA as it amounted to destablising economy of the country. He argued that these offences are distinct and separate from offences under customs or any other Act and prosecution could go simultaneously under two different Acts. He also argued that the matter was still at investigation stage and it was a settled view that investigation could not be interfered at this stage. The court said, “It is true that every act of smuggling may not be covered under the definition of terrorist Act and only such smuggling of any material can be termed as terrorist Act which is done with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the economic security and to cause damage to the monetary stability of the country. In this case, the petitioner has been found to be smuggler of huge quantity of gold as well as facilitator to other fellow smugglers. Therefore, it cannot be said that this FIR is a discriminatory act towards him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/smuggling-can-be-an-act-of-terror-hc/articleshow/80657340.cms||Joychen Joseph
February 3, 2021||Surat||67% of VNSGU graduates have degrees, but no jobs||Surat: It’s a dismal scene of unemployment with nearly 67% of graduates from Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) last year still not finding suitable jobs and are sitting idle. Only 12,199 of total 36,798 students from various disciplines of the varsity could find employment or have opted for higher studies. Of these, 9,912 have opted for higher studies.The remaining 24,599 students are still grappling with harsh reality even as they prepare to get their degree certificates in the annual convocation of the university which will be held online on February 26. This shocking detail was revealed when VNSGU collected data of students’ employment status while accepting forms for the award of degrees. University officials, however, claimed that they are yet to examine the data in detail and compare it with previous year’s figures. Going by the data, 2,287 students have claimed that they are employed, of whom 1,660 are doing jobs, 427 involved in family businesses, while 200 have become self-employed. “University starts collecting the data for analysis of the status of the students after they complete their education here. We will submit this data to the government for further analysis,” said a VNSGU official. “I did not examine the data yet but university and government have started organising employment fair and attempts are also being made to generate new employment opportunities,” said Hemali Desai, in-charge vice-chancellor, VNSGU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/67-of-vnsgu-graduates-have-degrees-but-no-jobs/articleshow/80655087.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Ruby flyover design change poses hurdle for Garia Metro at Avishikta||Kolkata: A change in the design of the Ruby flyover has spelled a last-minute trouble for the airport-New Garia Metro at the Avishikta crossing, which has cast a shadow on phase 1 or the 5km Kavi Subhas-Ruby crossing section.By January 31, KMDA had promised to provide RVNL the written ‘no-objection’ to retain the contentious Pier 112. The pillar in the middle of the Avishikta crossing overlaps with the alignment of KMDA’s proposed Ruby flyover. But last week, KMDA’s infrastructure advisory committee recommended a change in the flyover’s design, thus throwing a spanner in the works on the priority section between Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station) and the terminal Kavi Subhas station.RVNL, desperately trying to meet the December-2021 deadline of phase 1, was eagerly waiting for the NOC, which would have included the Ruby flyover’s alignment. After that, RVNL could have started construction of the 30m viaduct linking pier 112 with the Kavi Sukanta station. The flyover’s arm is supposed to run above the viaduct.TOI on August 3 reported that the Rs 600-crore Ruby flyover had emerged as a major hurdle for the priority section of the city’s longest Metro corridor. While designing the north-south overpass on either side of the Metro viaduct, consultant RITES found that the arm of the flyover turning right towards Anwar Shah Road was overlapping with the pillar. KMDA had initially insisted on the pier to be razed. However, it later agreed to RVNL’s solution of reducing the length of Kavi Sukanta Metro station. RVNL has agreed to pull down two smaller pillars that are part of the station instead.“Last week, we wrote a reminder to KMDA for the NOC and the flyover’s alignment so that the gap between the pillar and the station could be filled immediately,” an RVNL official said. The current traffic block, he said, would allow construction of two other piers — 110 and 111. But the main issue, concerning Pier 112, remains unresolved. A KMDA engineer said, “The NOC has been deferred because our infrastructure panel has suggested some modification in the flyover’s design. A meeting will be held soon to resolve the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ruby-flyover-design-change-poses-hurdle-for-garia-metro-at-avishikta/articleshow/80656217.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Work on desilting stretch of Godavari river starts||Nashik: The smart city development corporation has started the work of removing silt from the 3.2km stretch of the Godavari river, between Ahilyabai Holkar bridge and forest nursery, on Tuesday. The desilting project is being undertaken by the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL) at a cost of Rs 9 crore. The NMSCDCL has given the contract of the project to a private agency based in Ahmednagar, which has already started the works. According to NMSCDCL CEO Prakash Thavil, desilting will increase the depth as well as the carrying capacity of Godavari river. Moreover, it will increase the velocity of the river water and reduce the intensity of flood levels during monsoon. “We will remove silt in the said stretch of the river with a depth of around 0.75m or more as per the condition. We are expecting the desilting work to be completed in the next three to four months,” said Thavil. The contractor will have to transport the silt from the river and deposit them in the three to four locations identified by the smart cty development corporation, which are not more than 5km from the river. The NMSCDCL has also appealed to farmers to carry the silt to enrich their fields and increase their agricultural produce. The silt will be given to the farmers free of cost. The smart city cell has already started de-concretising Godavari from Dutondya Maruti to Gadge Maharaj bridge. Around 500m stretch of the river has been deconcretised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/work-on-desilting-stretch-of-godavari-river-starts/articleshow/80655089.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Omkar group raid: Two in judicial custody||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Tuesday sent Omkar Group promoters, Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, to judicial custody till February 15. They were held by the ED last month after it searched the premises of the realty group in a money-laundering case related to a Slum Rehabilitation Authority scheme in Wadala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/omkar-group-raid-2-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/80657317.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: New zones, 24×7 helpline to check parking extortion in Sector V||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar City Police and Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) — custodians of the IT hub in Sector V — have decided on a slew of measures to tackle the menace of illegal parking and alleged extortion by parking agents in the area. Among these will be fresh demarcation of free parking zones and stipulation of fees, urgent tender call to engage new parking agents, boards with parking rate charts under CCTV surveillance to prevent tampering and a dedicated helpline to report extortion by parking agents. TOI on Monday reported how hundreds of techies, officegoers and others in Sector V had complained of being fleeced by parking agents after offices gradually opened and more vehicles started plying in the IT hub following various stages of Unlock. NDITA — that engages parking contractors in Sector V — had said, none of the licences had been renewed since the Covid-induced lockdown and, hence, all collections of parking fee have been illegal. “NDITA will call fresh tenders for new parking agents and there will be safeguard clauses to ensure that motorists are not harassed. Till the time the new contractors are engaged, the current agencies’ contract period will be extended. However, we have already warned them to not to engage in any illegal activities and will hold a fresh meeting with them on Thursday,” said a senior NDITA official. To check parking chaos , it was also decided that fresh stipulation of fee and demarcation of free and no-parking zones will come up in Sector V. “We will hold an online meeting with IT building representatives before making a final list. We will ask motorists not to park on the places which will be demarcated as no-parking zones,” said Debasis Sen, chairman NDITA. (With inputs from Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-zones-247-helpline-to-check-parking-extortion-in-sec-v/articleshow/80656224.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 3, 2021||Coimbatore||13th and 17th century hero stones found||Coimbatore: A team of archaeological enthusiasts from Tirupur have found two 13th century and one 17th century hero stones at Vinnamppallai village near Pujaippulliyampatti-Sathiyamangalam highways in Erode district. The exploration was done by a team comprising S Ravikumar, K saravanakumar, C M Rameshkumar and K Ponnusamy, all members of Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre in Tirupur. The team found the hero stones on December 2 and they were installed at the same location for public worship on January 25 after obtaining permission from various authorities, including the village administrative office and panchayat president. Ravikumar, director of the research centre, said two of the hero stones were unique. “While most of the hero stones that have so far found in the state depict fight between a warrior and tiger, one of the stones that we have found depicts a fighting scene between two tigers and a warrior. While the hero attacks a tiger with a sword in his right hand, his left hand is pointed to another tiger that is attacking him from behind. Two of his dogs were seen fighting the tiger behind him.” According to him, the stone is 170cm high and 105cm wide. Based on the sculpture design, dressing style and hair style of the hero, he said, the hero stone was estimated to be at least 800 years old. “In another hero stone, which is 205cm high and 95cm wide, the hero is seen holding a tiger by its neck with his left hand and attacking it with a sickle in the right hand. Apart from a sword in his hip, a gun is also seen near his legs. The stone is estimated to be from the 17th century, because guns were introduced in the region only after 15th century,” Ravikumar said. According to him, on the northern boundary of Vinnamppalli is a village called Pulivettiasathanur, which if translated verbatim means “tiger massacred sathnur”. “The third stone, which is 190cm high and 95cm wide, depicts a fight between four people. While a hero is seen fighting his enemy, another hero is seen behind him with an opponent lying on the ground. As similar hero stones found in Karur and Selakarachal belonged to the 13th century, this one is also believed to be from the same period,” he said. Ravikumar said the hero stones were found buried amidst bushes near a stream. “They were surrounded by stones. And it implies they were maintained and worshiped by the public once upon a time. The stones were carved and installed in the memories of the warriors who sacrificed their lives fighting wild animals or enemies to safeguard or rescue cattle, which were considered real wealth in the region since Neolithic age.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/13th-and-17th-century-hero-stones-found/articleshow/80657351.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Businessman attacked in Sola||Ahmedabad: A 35-year-old man from Sola on Monday filed a complaint against four men alleging that they chased him when he was driving his car and attacked with sticks over a dispute concerning money lent to his brother. In his FIR with Sola police, Jaydeep Thakkar, 35, a businessman and resident of Sola, stated that Bhavesh Rabari, Vipul Rabari and Devu Rabari had lent some money to his younger brother, which Thakkar did not know about. The three had come to Thakkar’s office in Prahladnagar on January 29 and threatened him while demanding money as his brother had gone incommunicado. After this incident, Thakkar filed a complaint of criminal intimidation with Anandnagar police on Monday. After filing the complaint, he went to his office, collected his laptops and other belongings and headed towards his home in his SUV. When he was driving towards Science City from the Sola overbridge, he found that the three accused were chasing him in their car, which did not have number plates, and were trying to stop his car. They overtook his car and forced him to stop. They got down from their car with sticks and a baseball bat, with which they broke his SUV’s windshield. They then pulled him out of his car and began beating him. As people gathered, the three fled from there. Bhavesh then pointed a knife at him and threatened him, saying he should withdraw his complaint from Anandnagar police station. Locals called up the police and an ambulance. Thakkar was taken to a private hospital where he filed a medico-legal case. Later, Sola police registered a complaint of assault and criminal intimidation against the accused persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/businessman-attacked-in-sola/articleshow/80657347.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||2 held for assaulting brothers, snatching their land||Aurangabad: After the intervention of Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta, Jinsi police swung in to action and not only registered an offence against four suspects, but also arrested two of them for assaulting two brothers and forcefully making them sign bond papers mentioning that they have sold their prime plot to the suspects. The alleged incident took place about a month back. Abdul Salaam of Samee Colony was tired of running from pillar to post for getting the offence registered, but no one paid heed to his request. Later, he reached out to Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta with CCTV footage, following which police took the action. The arrested suspects have been identified as Ganesh Jadhav (30) of Mayur Park and Abdul Rashid Builder (52) of the Kat Kat Gate area. The duo was produced before the court on Tuesdayand have been remanded to custody. As per the complaint lodged by the Salaam, the alleged incident took place on January 6 between 5 pm and 8 pm. The two suspects, who are currently on the run, allegedly waylaid Salaam and took him to the office of a former corporator situated in the vicinity of the Kat Kat Gate area and made him call his brother Abdul Razzak to the spot. The four suspects allegedly assaulted the two brothers and threatened them of dire consequences while demanding them to sign the bond papers for transferring their Phulambri road-based prime plot sizing 3,000 square feet on Jadhav’s name. The victims bent down to the pressure and threatening by the accused, following which they were forcefully taken to a shop in the vicinity of Aurangabad Bench of Bombay High Court premises and were made to sign bond papers declaring that they have sold their plot to Jadhav. Following the incident, poor brothers obtained CCTV footages of different spots, including the corporator’s office, the Kat Kat Gate area and other places and reached out to Jinsi police with their complaint, but in vain. After their plea fell on deaf ears for almost a month, they reached out to the commissioner who immediately referred the case to deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Deepak Girhe and asked him to look into it. Soon after, an offence was finally registered by Jinsi police on late Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-held-for-assaulting-brothers-snatching-their-land/articleshow/80656223.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 3, 2021||Kolhapur||Sena MLA ups ante ahead ofKMC polls, demands 30 seats||done Kolhapur: Shiv Sena will not compromise on seats if it forms an alliance with Congress and NCP for the Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) polls, two-time Kolhapur MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar said on Tuesday. “We will be focusing on 30 seats and ensure that all our candidates win the elections. The mayor will be from our party, irrespective of the final numbers,” he said. Kshirsagar, executive president of state planning commission, called the local satraps interested in contesting on Sena tickets to discuss the election strategy. Kshirsagar said his son Ruturaj will make foray into politics by contesting the election from the Bajar Gate ward of the KMC. Around 20 aspirants attended the meeting. The MLA has taken lead in mobilising the supporters for the election. Much will depend on the likely alliance between three parties who are in alliance at the state level. The gathering of the prospective candidates is seen as an attempt to have a big share in the 81 seats of the KMC if the three parties form an alliance. Sena, which had won just four seats in the last election, fears it may get fewer seats. “If our leaders decide to form an alliance, we are ready. However, we will demand 30 seats at least where we have strong candidates with bright prospects. We will not compromise on that. If it requires convincing our leaders, we will do that ,” he said. Kshirsagar said he has kept party chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray posted about the developments and will meet him for seeking funds for development works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sena-mla-ups-ante-ahead-ofkmc-polls-demands-30-seats/articleshow/80656247.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Nashik||Police mull taking legal help before coming out with order||Nashik: The Nashik city police has decided to take legal advice before coming out with a notification on making the Dwarka pedestrian subway mandatory for pedestrians to cross to the other side of the road. A couple of months ago, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey had visited the Dwarka junction to inspect what was causing traffic snarls. After finding out that a large number of pedestrians were crossing the junction through the busy vehicular traffic instead of taking the subway, Pandey had decided to come out with a notification to make the use of the pedestrian subway compulsory. Deputy commissioner of police (HQ and traffic) Pournima Chaugule said the notification for making the use of pedestrian subway compulsory was ready. “Before coming out with a notification, it is necessary that we take into account the safety of the pedestrians who use the subway. There could be cases of robbery and other untoward incidents in the subway in the absence of proper precautionary measures,” said Chaugule.The NHAI has deployed security guards at the subway. However, the response from pedestrians is still not on the expected lines. As a result, the subway is deserted most of the times and pedestrians refuse to take the subway and instead cross the junction. Last month, a pedestrian had died while crossing the junction after he was knocked by a speeding motorist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-mull-taking-legal-help-before-coming-out-with-order/articleshow/80655104.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||17 NCP councillors join BJP in Rajasthan's Tonk||JAIPUR: The Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) newly elected 17 councillors in Niwai (Tonk) joined the BJP on Monday to form the governing board in the local body. The local body has 35 seats of which 10 were won by the BJP. Most of the 17 NCP councillors are Congress rebels who have given their supporting letters to senior BJP leaders. Confirming the development, BJP state president Satish Poonia said all the 17 councillors of NCP have joined the BJP after being motivated by the social welfare schemes of PM Narendra Modi. “This shows that the ruling Congress is divided from the top to bottom. BJP is a big party which can accommodate persons holding diverse viewpoints unlike Congress whose beliefs begins and end with a family,” said Poonia. The newly elected councillors led by former Congressman Dilip Asrani joined NCP barely 20 days ago. They quit Congress due to differences with MLA Niwai Prashant Bairwa. “I am a born Congressman but the Bairwa style of functioning forced me and many others to quit the party. We all have joined BJP aiming all round development of Niwai,” said Dilip Asrani, who was rewarded by nominating the chairperson candidate by the BJP. The NCP fielded 29 candidates. NCP Rajasthan chief Ummed Singh said all the 17 councillors have betrayed the faith reposed by the party on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-ncp-councillors-join-bjp-in-tonk/articleshow/80657364.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Schools open, but colleges remain shut in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: Even if schools and junior colleges from Class V to Class XII have reopened across Maharashtra in a phased manner, colleges imparting higher education are still closed. This blanket closure is observed despite the Centre allowing reopening of higher education institutions in phases after October 15, depending on the local situation. Accusing the state government of suffering from policy paralysis, student union Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Tuesday staged vigorous protests for reopening of colleges too. “The state government has no concern about the field of higher education in Maharashtra and lakhs of students pursuing their studies. While the outbreak of Covid-19 has already taken a toll on higher education, the poor functioning of state government will soon spell doom for students,” he said. In order to press for its demand, ABVP staged a gate-protest at a prominent college in the city amid huge response from students. When contacted, principal of Deogiri College Shivaji Thore said that the decision on reopening of colleges will be taken soon. “The meeting of vice-chancellors of the state universities in Maharashtra is scheduled to be held shortly during which formal decision on resuming colleges is expected,” he said. Aurangabad: Even if the schools and junior colleges are reopened across Maharashtra from Class V upto Class XII in phased manner during the current pandemic situation, colleges imparting higher education are still closed. This blanket closure is observed despite the Centre had permitted reopening of higher education institutions in phases after October 15, depending on the local situation. Accusing the state government of suffering from policy paralysis, student union Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Tuesday staged vigorous protests for reopening of colleges also. “The state government has no concern about the field of higher education in Maharashtra and lakhs of students pursuing their studies. While the outbreak of Covid 19 has already take a toll on higher education, the poor functioning of the state government will soon spell doom for students,” he said. In order to press for its demand, ABVP staged gate-protests at prominent college in the city amid huge response from students. When contacted, principal of Deogiri College, Shivaji Thore said the policy decision on reopening of colleges is likely soon. “The meeting of all the Vice Chancellors of the state universities in Maharashtra is scheduled to get held shortly, during which formal decision on resuming colleges is expected,” he said. Notably, BAMU has recently issued a circular asking its 400 plus affiliated colleges to remain closed for academic activities, barring online education, till February 28 unless any formal announcement is made on behalf of the state government. Principal of SB Arts and Commerce College, Makrand Paithankar, said the online activities are on during the current pandemic despite campuses are closed for students. “The syllabus of most of the semesters is nearing completion and we are preparing students for university examination, which is likely to get held in March,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/schools-open-but-colleges-remain-shut-in-state/articleshow/80656226.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man marries another woman, wife files complaint||AHMEDABAD: A 53-year-old woman from Khanpur filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband after he allegedly married another woman and threatened to kick her as well as her sons out of their transport business. The woman, who runs a transport business in Bareja, filed the complaint with Shahpur police on Monday. The FIR stated, “She married the accused in 1992, but he began harassing her since 2007." She alleged that her husband began a relationship with another woman and used to pick up fights with her over frivolous issues so that she would leave him. She told police that her husband began thrashing her and often told her that he wanted to divorce her. Police states, “In August 2019, he married another woman and began staying with her. The complainant found out about this after a month. When she raised an objection, he told her to leave the house. When she reminded him that she had been running the business on her own and they were staying at her father’s home, her husband went to live with his second wife.” The complainant then began living with her two sons. She told police that when she asked her husband for some money ahead of her daughter-in-law’s delivery in November 2020, he refused and threatened to remove her and her sons from the business. Following this, she approached Shahpur police and filed a complaint of domestic violence against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-marries-another-woman-wife-files-complaint/articleshow/80657358.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Surat||Man rapes old friend several times, booked||Surat: Police booked a 30-year-old man in Katargam police station on Tuesday for allegedly raping wife of a stockbroker multiple times since 2019. The accused Dakshesh Mistry, was a friend of the 28-year-old woman before she got married. The woman and Mistry came in touch again a few years after her marriage. Police said that Mistry allegedly raped the woman after making her unconscious. He had also clicked her pictures and recorded her video, using which, he had started blackmailing her. Police have launched a search for Mistry who is currently on the run. He was booked for rape and under Information Technology Act. The woman alleged in her complaint that she knew Mistry before marriage as he was her brother’s friend. She used to meet Mistry often.Meanwhile, the woman got married in 2014 and gave birth to two daughters. She met Mistry accidentally at a restaurant in 2019. They exchanged contact numbers and the woman asked Mistry’s help to get a driving license. In September 2019 the accused asked the woman to come to the regional transport office (RTO) with her documents. From there the accused took her to a hotel in Dumas, the complainant alleged. At the hotel, the woman alleged, that Mistry spiked her drink. After she fell unconscious the accused raped her. The accused blackmailed her using her photos and videos and raped her number of times, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-rapes-old-friend-several-times-booked/articleshow/80655098.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Ratangarh police seize jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore||JAIPUR: A team of Ratangarh police on Monday arrested three persons for illegally possessing jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore. Police have also seized around Rs 10.47 lakh from their possession. In the investigations so far police have not ruled out the involvement of Hawala traders in the racket. Police stated that during night patrolling persons inside a vehicle with a Delhi registration number gave different answers to their questions. “Usually during night patrolling we stop vehicles on the highways and ask them a few general questions like where are they coming from and where are they going? However, all the persons in the vehicle gave different reply to our queries. That’s when we got suspicious and checked the vehicle,” said Balraj Singh Maan, circle inspector, Ratangarh. He added during checking they found gold jewellery concealed in the special compartment made in the vehicle. “It had gold jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore. All the three persons failed to give any convincing reply on the source from where they got the jewellery.” Police also found currency notes in denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500. “We have found 170 currency notes of Rs 2,000 which is Rs 3.4 lakh and 1,414 currency notes of Rs 500 which is 7.07 lakh. In total cash recovery of Rs 10.47 lakh was found from their possession,” Maan added. The accused were identified as Sushant Maaji, Prashant Samanta and Dinesh Mandal. “All of them are natives of Medinipur, West Bengal. All the seizures was made under section 104 of CrPC as none of them were able to give any reply on the source of jewellery and cash that was found from their car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ratangarh-police-seize-jewellery-worth-rs-1-5-crore/articleshow/80657360.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Azam, son brought to Moradabad court for hearing in 12-year-old case||Bareilly: Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan and his MLA son, Abdullah Azam, were produced before a special court in Moradabad on Tuesday, in connection with a non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued against them in 2008. The father-son duo is facing multiple cases. They were brought to Moradabad from Sitapur jail, where they are currently lodged, amidst tight police security. Counsel for UP’s former minister, Shahnawaz Sibtain, said the court framed the charges against the father-son duo on Tuesday. The case relating to rioting was registered at Chajlet police station way back in 2008. Later, NBWs were issued against Azam Khan and his son after they had failed to appear before the court. Now, the court has fixed February 4 for hearing the rioting case and February 8, for hearing the non-appearance case filed against them. The duo was sent back to Sitapur jail after the hearing. An FIR was registered against Azam Khan and his son, Abdullah Azam, at Moradabad’s Chajlet police station in 2008 for rioting and using criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty during a Samajwadi Party rally that was held outside the police station. A chargesheet was filed against eight people in the case. Later, the court had issued NBWs against Azam and Abdullah after they had failed to appear before it. Their non-appearance led to registration of another FIR against them under section 174-A of IPC (non-appearance in response to a proclamation under section 82 of Act 2 of 1947).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-son-brought-to-moradabad-court-for-hearing-in-12-year-old-case/articleshow/80654276.cms||Maria Khan
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Fisher’s dad moves HC for honouring relief cheque||Madurai: The father of a Rameswaram fisherman, who along with three others was killed in an attack by Sri Lankan navy recently, moved Madras high court on Tuesday demanding that bank authorities honour the Rs 10lakh cheque issued as compensation to the family by the state government. Petitioner N Anthony Raj, a resident of Thangachimadam in Ramanathapuram district, stated that his son A Mesiya, 28, was killed when a Sri Lankan navy vessel sunk the boat on which his son was fishing on January 18. Following the incident, the state government gave a compensation of Rs 10lakh by way of cheque on January 21 and his son’s body was handed over on January 23. However, Anthony Raj said when he went to the bank with the cheque, the manager of SBI at Ramanathapuram informed him that it could not be honoured due to mismatch between the name in the cheque and in the bank passbook. He said his son was the only breadwinner of the family and not honouring the cheque would put him to agony. Justice V Parthiban directed the petitioner to visit the bank on February 3 when the bank authorities shall verify and ascertain the facts about the petitioner's claim. The case was adjourned to February 4 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishers-dad-moves-hc-for-honouring-relief-cheque/articleshow/80658888.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Recoveries top infections in Pune Metropolitan Region, five more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 351 Covid cases as against 511 recoveries on Tuesday, taking its infections and discharges above 3.85 lakh and 3.72 lakh, respectively. Death of five more coronavirus-infected patients in the last 24 hours, pushed the region’s toll to 9,069. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal areas added 176, followed by the rural areas (87) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (61). Areas in councils and cantonments added 22 and 5 cases, respectively. When it comes to recoveries, the PMC areas added maximum discharges at 247 on Tuesday, followed by the rural areas (196) and the PCMC limits (34). The recoveries in councils stood at 30, while those in the cantonment areas at four. As on Tuesday, the active positive patients included 1,849 in hospital and 3,122 at home isolation. As per PMC data, the municipal areas had 211 patients on oxygen support. The number of critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas stood at 155 till Tuesday evening, the report added. Out of the five deaths that PMR reported on Tuesday, the PMC and rural areas recorded two deaths each, while the PCMC areas recorded one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-top-infections-in-pmr-five-more-dead/articleshow/80657363.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Plan to replace vilayati kikar okayed||NEW DELHI: Over three years after it was announced, the process of getting rid of the vilayati kikar (prosopis juliflora) in the Central Ridge may finally start with the Delhi cabinet approving replacement of the “invasive” Mexican trees with native species at a cost of Rs 12.6 crore. The forest and wildlife department said work on the forested patch along Sardar Patel Marg and Vande Mataram Marg could begin as soon as an MoU was signed with Delhi University’s Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem (CEMDE). In his 2017 budget speech, deputy CM Manish Sisodia had for the first time set aside Rs 50 lakh for removal of vilayati kikar and said the step was needed to prevent habitat degradation and groundwater depletion in the ridge. While a plan was formulated for a 100-hectare patch, the file had been lying with the cabinet since 2019. A senior forest official said all clearances had been received. “There were delays, including the lockdown, but the project can start now. In the first phase, 100 hectares will be transformed and gradually, over 400 hectares will be covered over five years,” added the official. Professor CR Babu, head of CEMDE, said vilayati kikar would not be removed, but replaced naturally by strangulating it using over 10 varieties of creepers, including giloi, rubber vine, sagar gota and jal jamani. Native species would be planted and the top canopy would be cleared out to provide sufficient sunlight at the bottom. “Once the native species grow to a sufficient height, the vilayati kikar can be removed. While it is not permitted to cut a vilayati kikar, in certain cases it can be allowed. However, the tree will only be removed once the other species grow to a certain height. We do not wish to reduce the green cover in Delhi, but replace it,” added Babu. The plan for restoration also includes creating a number of “natural” attractions, including forest trails, waterbodies, cycle paths and a recreational park. The Central Ridge covers around 864 hectares, but it is highly fragmented and consists of a variety of urban infrastructure in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plan-to-replace-vilayati-kikar-okayed/articleshow/80657367.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 3, 2021||Pune||UK variant won’t be in all infected Britain returnees: NIV||PUNE: Scientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), who analysed samples of five Covid-positive UK returnees for a study, said four had all the hallmarks of the mutated UK variant — also known as Variant of Concern or (VOC) 202012/01. Dr Pragya D Yadav, head of the NIV’s Maximum Containment Facility, said lab studies were able to pick up all the 17 signature mutations of the variant. “However, we cannot rule out the possibility of more mutations in this variant, due to its continuous passage in human hosts,” Dr Yadav said. The NIV scientists said analysis of the fifth sample, revealed not the UK variant, but another SARS-CoV-2 strain predominant in various parts of the world. “This means that all positive UK returnees may not have the UK mutant in their samples. In the same country, people can be infected with different variants of the virus and they can transport them to other countries via travel,” said Dr Yadav. She added that there are many SARS-CoV-2 clades — or branches — circulating in several parts of the world, including India, and they could be undergoing more mutations. The scientist, however, added that not every mutation is worrisome. Dr Yadav said that after molecular characterization of a mutant, studies can be performed — including monoclonal antibody evaluation — to determine the threat from these changes. “Such efforts can help us know if lab-designed monoclonal antibodies can neutralize these new variants. A strengthened surveillance system is needed to catch more cases and curb local transmission of the UK mutant,” she said. So far, India has detected 165 cases with the more infectious UK variant. Also called, B117, scientists have estimated it is at least 50% more transmissible. It was picked up late December in the United States, where experts have warned that it could become the dominant Covid strain. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) epidemiology and communicable diseases division, said, “Structural changes viruses undergo are referred to as mutations. Small changes in them are referred to as antigenic drifts and the big ones as antigenic shifts. These changes need to be tracked to determine transmissibility and virulence levels.”  He addedthat analysis of the changes in the pathogen can help test defensive measures such as vaccines. “Scientists can perform experiments with these variants at their disposal — such as checking the efficacy of a vaccine or a drug against them,” Dr Panda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niv-uk-variant-wont-be-in-all-infected-britain-returnees/articleshow/80657356.cms||Neha Madaan
February 3, 2021||India||Congress plans 5 lakh-strong army of web warriors||NEW DELHI: Anxious to expand its digital footprint to take on an entrenched BJP, Congress is set to recruit an army of five lakh web warriors with the idea of amplifying its message across social media platforms. Sources said Congress will soon launch a campaign “join Congress social media” across India in what would be a large recruitment drive. The party will interview respondents out of which it’ll pick five lakh people as volunteers. Of them, the party’s social media department will appoint 50,000 office bearers at district, state and national level, while the other 4.5 lakh persons would form the network of Congress workers who will help push the party message with “coherence and in one voice”. Congress appears to have woken up to the importance of social media after the corona pandemic and the ensuing lockdown forced the party indoors and to carry out its activities through YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp. The 10-month-long experience has left the party leadership somewhat relieved that despite its weak social media presence as compared to the ruling BJP, it managed to regularly convey its message to people through “speak up “ campaigns. Now, it wants to build on that experience with an eye on future. “We have realised that this is the best way to beef up our social media team nationally with penetration down to district level. There is a big section of population that wants to fight for Congress values and we are just tapping into that segment,” a Congress office-bearer said. These web warriors would also be given training in booth management and grassroots activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-plans-5-lakh-strong-army-of-web-warriors/articleshow/80660204.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
February 3, 2021||Kolhapur||SEC asks civic bodies to update voters’ list||Kolhapur: The state election commission has directed the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation as well as the city administrations of Navi Mumbai and Vasai Virar to update their respective voters’ lists. The commission has also asked 25 municipal corporations to update the electoral roll for the 25 wards where byelections are to be conducted. The elections for the three civic bodies had been deferred due to Covid. The civic bodies have the electoral rolls, with a cut-off date of January 1, 2020. Now, the new cut-off date for addition or deletion of voters’ names has been set at January 15, 2021. The cut-off date is the last day till the applications are made by voters to either add or delete their names from the list. As per the new schedule, the draft electoral lists have to be published by February 16 and suggestions and objections have to be called by February 23. The final voters’ lists for every ward must be published by March 12. As per election rules, the code of conduct and subsequently the date of voting are announced after finalisation of the voters’ list. Therefore, it is expected that the election for the three civic bodies and byelection the in 16 civic bodies will be held in the first week of April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sec-asks-civic-bodies-to-update-voters-list/articleshow/80656268.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Rural sites report higher vax wastage than urban centres||PUNE: Vaccination sites in Pune rural have reported more Covid-19 vaccine wastage than urban centres, data has revealed. An analysis of the first 10 days of the region’s Covid inoculation drive showed that as many as 822 doses went to waste across Pune rural. Centres in Pune Municipal Corporation limits recorded 461 wasted doses while sites in Pimpri Chinchwad had 325 discarded doses. All these centres are administering the Covishield shot. Ten beneficiaries can be vaccinated with one Covishield vial and once opened, a vial has to be used within four hours. As for Covaxin, one vial contains as many as 20 doses — meaning 20 beneficiaries can be inoculated with one vial. But officials said that also meant higher chances of wastage as a site will need to have enough beneficiaries present before opening a vial. The Aundh Chest Hospital is currently the only centre administering Covaxin in the district. So far, it has managed to fully avoid wastage on three days out of 10. Ashok Nandapurkar, district civil surgeon, said vaccinators at Aundh only open a vial when there are at least 15 beneficiaries present. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said most wasted doses were from the last vial of the day. “Sites open a vial only when there are more than 5-6 beneficiaries present. Wastage could have been negligible if the Open Vial Policy was allowed. It means if doses are unused, a vial can be kept back in the fridge overnight and used the next day. But it is not allowed. So if the doses remained unused, they go to waste,” he said. Officials said high wastage in rural areas could be because of the higher number of sites in these parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-sites-report-higher-vax-wastage-than-urban-centres/articleshow/80657373.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 3, 2021||Kolhapur||‘Won’t snap power of domestic consumers’||KOLHAPUR: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has assured that power supply of domestic consumers will not be cut due to power bill dues. Over 5 lakh consumers from the district have pending dues of over Rs 336 crore since March last year. While the state power distribution company had threatened to snap connections of those who do not clear their pending dues, activists and leaders from the district have expressed displeasure over the same. The leaders, especially Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana president Raju Shetti, has warned of steering public agitation if the MSEDCL adopts any coercive measures to recover pending dues. Executive engineer of MSEDCL, Kolhapur, Prabhakar Nirmale said, “There is a huge demand to waive the bills for power consumed during lockdown period. The decision has to be taken by the state. The leaders, activists demand no action to be taken till government makes a decision. We will convey the demand to the government. Till then no action to snap power supply will be carried out from our side.” Meanwhile, Shetti demanded that the government should make financial provision in the upcoming state budget to waive power bills of consumers. “During three months of lockdown, most people were jobless. Even now, most of them do not have money to clear the bills.” Kolhapur: Officials of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has assured that power supply of none of the domestic consumers will be cut for the power bill dues. The activists and leaders are angry over the consumers threatened to snap the power supply if the power dues are not paid. Over 5 lakh consumers from the district have dues over Rs 336 crore since March last year. The leaders, especially Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana president Raju Shetti has warned to steer public agitations if the MSEDCL adopts any coercive measures to recover the dues. Prabhakar Nirmale, executive engineer of MSEDCL, Kolhapur said, “There is demand to waive the power bills for power consumed during lockdown period. The decision has to be taken by the state. The leaders, activists demand no action to be taken till government takes some decision. We will convey the demand to the government. Till then no action to snap power supply will be carried out from our side.” Meanwhile Raju Shetti demanded that the government should make financial provision in the upcoming state budget to waive the power bills. “During three months of lockdown, most of the people were jobless. None had any income source. They do not have money even now to pay the bills. We were expecting the government to take some decision by now, which it has not taken yet. We expect the government makes budgetary provision to waive the power bills of domestic consumers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/wont-snap-power-of-domestic-consumers/articleshow/80656283.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Over 4,000 from Doon get licence to keep pet dogs||Dehradun: Over 4,000 people have got their pet dogs registered with the civic body in Dehradun in the last two months. Officials of Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) said that this is the highest among any other municipal corporation and council in the state. DMC had recently made the license mandatory for pet owners in the city. Dr DC Tiwari, veterinary officer, told TOI “Since the registrations for keeping a pet at home was made mandatory, over 4,000 registrations have taken place so far. The registrations are important in cases where a pet dog bites its owners and others in the neighborhood. The registrations will help us know if the pet is vaccinated for rabies or not.” Officials also said a valid vaccination card of the pet has to be presented at the time of registration. A team from the Municipal Corporation is moving twice during the day in different localities motivating people to register their pets. “I have received several calls where a pet dog had turned violent and attacked the owner. In most cases, it has been found that the dog was not vaccinated for rabies. Such pets are not only dangerous for the family but also for people living around in the locality,” the veterinary officer said. Sonia Jaiswal, a pet owner in Mothrowala, said, “The pet owners will not mind paying a fee of Rs 200 and getting a pet license made. It is in the interest of everyone. I also got my pet dog registered with DMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-4000-from-doon-get-licence-to-keep-pet-dogs/articleshow/80655131.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 3, 2021||Kozhikode||Karipur flight crash report to be ready by March 12||Kozhikode: The investigation into the Air India Express flight crash at the Calicut International Airport on August 7 will be completed by March 12, Union civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said in a letter to MP K Muraleedharan. The civil aviation secretary has made it clear that the payment of compensation to the passengers of the ill-fated flight and the family members of the deceased passengers is not linked to the completion of the investigation. Muraleedharan had written to the civil aviation secretary, highlighting the issue of delay in payment of final compensation to the injured and families of the deceased. The civil aviation secretary said that the Air India Express has completed the disbursement of interim compensation to all the injured passengers who sustained minor and grievous injuries. “So far as payment of compensation is concerned, disbursement of compensation to the passengers and the family members of the deceased passengers is not linked to the completion of the investigation,” the letter said. “An interim compensation of Rs 1.7 crore to the 19 deceased, Rs 1.8 crore to the 92 grievously injured and Rs 36.5 lakh to 73 passengers with minor injuries has been disbursed by Air India Express,” the letter said, adding that the process of determining the final compensation was being undertaken by the insurance companies and that the Airline is expeditiously following up the matter. The Union civil aviation ministry had earlier extended the tenure of the committee constituted to inquire into the flight crash by two months citing delay in getting test reports of components due to Covid pandemic as the reason for the extension. Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) had on August 13 constituted a five-member panel to investigate and determine the probable causes and contributory factors leading to the accident and make recommendations to avoid such accidents in the future and the panel was to submit its report preferably within five months which had ended on January 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/karipur-flight-crash-report-to-be-ready-by-march-12/articleshow/80656316.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||‘Allow Shyam Mela in Sikar’||Jaipur: Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor on Sunday shot a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot drawing his attention towards Sikar district administration’s decision to not allow the annual Fagun Shyam Mela from March 18 to 26.“The decision to hold the mela should have been taken in the first week of March,” read the letter. Kapoor said the decision led to brewing of resentment in the hearts of Shri Shyam Baba devotees.The letter brought to the knowledge of the CM that major Lord Krishna temples in Mathura-Vrindavan in UP, Jagannath Dham in Odisha & Dwarka in Gujarat are allowing devotees while Khatudham in Rajasthan have restricted darshans. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/allow-shyam-mela-in-sikar/articleshow/80657369.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Central team in Maharashtra to bring down caseload||PUNE: The Centre has sent two high-level teams each to Maharashtra and Kerala to help local authorities bring down their high numbers of active Covid-19 cases. The states account for more than two-thirds of all active cases in the country.  Kerala has reported 71,000 active cases; Maharashtra has over 43,000. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Strict Covid-appropriate behaviour along with increased vaccination is the only way forward. Active cases are at 43,701, but daily cases being reported have been less than 5,000 for a one month now.” He said the team assigned Maharashtra has arrived in the state. Officials here said the central team has been asked to work closely with the state’s health department to assess the ground situation and prescribe public health interventions. State task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said there has been a slight uptick in the number of cases. “There is a need to further drive in the message of precautions and vaccinations, before things go out of hand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-team-in-maha-to-bring-down-caseload/articleshow/80657368.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Man booked for attempting to rape relative||Pilibhit: A 26-year-old man was booked by Pilibhit police for allegedly barging into the house of a relative living in a village under Barkhera police station at midnight on Sunday and attempting to rape her. The woman, 30, was alone at home as her family was away. The survivor told police that the accused entered her house by scaling the courtyard wall. She was rescued by neighbours who rushed to her aid on hearing her screams. The accused fled but not before threatening to kill her if she disclosed anything. She informed her husband about her ordeal on his return on Monday. Viresh Kumar, SHO, said the accused was booked under IPC section 457 (lurking house trespass at night), 354 (applying force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-attempting-to-rape-relative/articleshow/80655125.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Frontliners to start getting shots only at end of week||PUNE/MUMBAI: A glitch in the CoWIN app will delay the start of vaccinations for frontline workers to the end of this week, state officials said on Tuesday. In Mumbai, though, the BMC has decided to carry out a dry run on Wednesday at SevenHills Hospital, Marol, where a limited number of frontline beneficiaries have been asked to attend. Frontline workers, including members of police and civic bodies, were to start receiving their shots along with healthcare workers as part of the simultaneous vaccine drive from Monday. However, the CoWIN app has not been generating “separate sessions” for frontliners, officials said. They added that the simultaneous drive cannot start until the issue is fixed. Dr D N Patil, state immunization officer, said that the Centre has now told all states to await further instructions. “The Centre has to activate the ‘session live’ option for frontline workers on CoWIN. Essentially, we are unable to start Phase 2 of the immunisation programme because the second phase has not been activated on the app,” Patil said. Principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas said the registration of frontline workers would now continue until February 7; the earlier deadline was January 31. Mumbai, meanwhile, saw an 80% turnout in the vaccination drive held on Tuesday. The city and few other regions such as Pimpri Chinchwad held the drive, while the rest of the state had a break. Of the intended 8,000 healthcare workers, 6,387 took the vaccine in Mumbai. Overall, 53,784 health workers of the registered 1.77 lakh in the city have been vaccinated till Tuesday, the 12th day. AMC Suresh Kakani said vaccination centres would be scaled up from 12 to 15 by Thursday. “The booths would be increased from 80 to 112,” he said. The feasibility of starting vaccination in mid-level hospitals such as Maa Hospital in Chembur is being reviewed. Some Central agencies have also urged the BMC to allow them to start centres in their premises. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said that BARC, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Memorial Central Railway Hospital in Byculla, may be allowed to start centres but it was still under discussion. However, she said no decision has been reached on allowing private hospitals to open centres immediately as there were adequate civic centres. “We are looking at starting seven more centres in the days to come to make vaccination of frontliners easy,” Gomare said. Nearly 5.8 lakh frontline workers have signed up for vaccinations. But the number could increase as the revenue department has not finished uploading details. In Mumbai, registration of almost 1.9 lakh is said to have been done. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said Pune district has registered 84,218 frontline workers from the revenue, home and urban development departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/frontliners-to-start-getting-shots-only-at-end-of-week/articleshow/80657388.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Ajay Maken to attend PCC meet on February 3||JAIPUR: AICC general secretary incharge of the state Ajay Maken reached the city on Tuesday evening. His visit assumes importance as the much-awaited political appointments are being delayed as the party is trying to reconcile the claims of various factions. Maken is scheduled to meet chief minister Ashok Gehlot at 11am on Wednesday at his residence followed by a meeting of the PCC executive before he returns to Delhi in the evening. Maken had earlier announced a deadline of January 31 for completing the political appointments as the MLAs and leaders of the former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot faction has been waiting patiently for their ‘accommodation’ in the party and government after the return of the ‘prodigal’ to the party. It is being said that Gehlot has reservations on the names of the leaders to be inducted from the Pilot faction in government and various bodies which is the reason for the delay. Though the party announced a small executive, the expansion of the party executive is also on the cards. Leaders expressed hope that the things would settled at the earliest to end the waiting game and uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maken-to-attend-pcc-meet-today/articleshow/80657374.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cops break through web to catch conman||NEW DELHI: The Dwarka police was sent on a sustained chase when investigating the transactions of a bank fraud. While tracking the recipient of the money siphoned from an area resident’s account, the cops encountered a multi-layered web of bank accounts and online wallets used by crooks to hide their tracks. The cops persevered and managed to reach the last link, which led to the arrest of a notorious conman from Jharkhand. The suspect, identified as 21-year-old Uday Kumar, belongs to Sahibganj in Jharkhand. DCP Santosh Meena said that police had retrieved six debit cards of different banks, passbooks, cheque books and a mobile handset from the possession of Kumar. Other members of the group are being tracked. The fraud had taken place in November 2019. The police started tracking the gang members after a man named Alok Verma lodged an FIR after being duped of Rs 1.37 lakh by men who had called him posing as representatives of his bank. They told Verma that his saving account had been suspended due to the KYC process being incomplete and sent him a link to complete the details and to reactivate the account. DCP Meena said, “The complainant filled all the details in that link, but realised after some time that Rs 1,37,000 had been deducted from his account. An FIR was subsequently registered and an investigation initiated.” The analysis of the account statement showed that the money was transferred from the complainant’s SBI account to an IDFC Bank account. When the cops checked the recipient account, they found that the money had been further transferred to Allahabad Bank and then to a Kotak Mahindra bank account. To hide their tracks further, the crooks wired the money to different Paytm accounts. The investigation went on and police kept seeking details of recipients and analysing them. The examination of transactions in the recipient wallets showed that the conmen didn’t stop there. “From Paytm accounts, a partial fraud amount was transferred to three Bank of Baroda accounts, while the remaining amount was withdrawn through an ATM,” said Meena. The cops collected clues from the bank accounts and wallets and mounted a technical surveillance. Based on the available leads, raids were conducted in different places in Jamtara, Dhanbad, Giridih and Sahibganj area, all in Jharkhand. Kumar was nabbed after a long pursuit. During interrogation, the conman disclosed that he, with his brother Vijay Kumar and other co-accused, had conceived of this plan to cheat people through phone and online fraud. They opened bank accounts and loaned some more accounts to receive the stolen cash. Kumar’s brother is in jail for possession of illegal arms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-break-through-web-to-catch-conman/articleshow/80657386.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||11 kids hit by food poisoning at wedding in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Eleven tribal children, aged five to 10, suffered from food poisoning after a wedding on Monday. They are being treated at Kasa government hospital and are stable. They were part of a wedding party at Kirat village in Dahanu. As the ceremony was on till late night, the children were served dinner. After consuming food, they returned to the ceremony. Some complained of nausea, vomiting and stomach ache, which led to chaos in the hall. Dahanu taluka health officers reached the venue and rushed the children to the hospital. The adults had not eaten the food as the ceremony was in progress. A few children who also consumed the food did not show any symptoms of food poisoning. They too were taken to the hospital and kept under observation. The food, including a brinjal gravy and juice, have been sent for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11-kids-hit-by-food-poisoning-at-wedding/articleshow/80656507.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||Sriganganagar police bust gang involved in extortion||JAIPUR: Sriganganagar police on Tuesday arrested eight persons involved in extortion of businessmen from Bikaner, Churu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh. Police found that they were also getting commands from their bosses based in countries like the United Kingdom (UK), Canada and Hong Kong. Till now 17 persons have been arrested, out of these eight were arrested on Tuesday. Before these arrests Sriganganagar police had arrested some members of the Lawrance Bishnoi gang. “One of our local businessmen Leeldhar Mittal was getting ransom calls for Rs 1 crore. When he did not pay attention, his son-in-law was shot at by unknown assailants on November 8, 2020. We lodged a case and started a massive hunt to nab the assailants,” said Rajan Dushyant, superintendent of police, Sriganganagar. “During our course of investigation, we found that after the murder of a gangster called Jordan, a gang was involved in giving extortion and ransom calls to local businessmen. We then arrested three persons identified as Mohan Lal, Saurav Patwa and Bhanwar Lal who are currently in judicial custody. Thereafter, at Raisinghnagar one complainant Rakesh Kumar was attacked by two bike-borne assailants,” he added. Since these incidents continued police in plain clothes was deployed and local informers activated. “We also took help of cyber experts to trace some of the internet calls that were made from various countries to the victims,” he added. Gradually police made arrests in both the firing cases. “So far we have arrested 17 persons including eight on Tuesday. It was found that gangs of Haryana and Punjab were luring the local youth to help them in these crimes,” he added. The arrested accused include sharp shooters, those who have provided weapons and shelter to them. “Our investigation is still on. We will arrest more such people to curb activities of extortion,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sriganganagar-police-bust-gang-involved-in-extortion/articleshow/80657366.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||15 lotus shrubs from Vidarbha to add to aesthetic appeal of Salim Ali Lake||Aurangabad: A group of citizens, led by historian Shaikh Ramzan, has put 15 lotus shrubs at Salim Ali Lake for the purpose of beautification and maintaining ecological balance. Besides, a similar plantation drive has been undertaken at Harsul Lake on the outskirts of the city. In the past, lotus plants found floating in Salim Ali lake died due to high-level of pollution in the waterbody. Ramzan said another such attempt was essential to restore the glory of the historic lake. “The special variety of lotus shrubs were brought all the way from Ramala Lake in Chandrapur in Vidarbha region. Many people confuse lotus with water lilies which is found at several places. Lotus flowers are bigger in size and has more ecological significance,” he said. Ramzan said now if the new shrubs of the lotuses die, it will be a clear indication that the lake is still polluted and that the civic body is not doing enough to curb the menace. “We will bring the matter to the attention of the court,” he said. During July last year, many fishes were found dead in the lake with nature lovers and environmentalists blaming water pollution for such an unnatural phenomenon. Build during the rule of Malik Ambar around 400 year ago, the Salim Ali lake falls under the list of local heritage sites and is known to be a rich biodiversity hotspot. As per studies done in the past, the lake was found to be home to over 80 varieties of birds, 16 tree species, 11 shrubs, eight climbers, 32 terrestrial herbaceous plants, 10 varieties of algae, 12 aquatic herbs, 16 aquatic insects, molluscs and crustaceans, nine varieties of fish, 15 species of reptiles, seven types of rodents and mammals and 102 types of insects, among other creatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/15-lotus-shrubs-from-vidarbha-to-add-to-aesthetic-appeal-of-salim-ali-lake/articleshow/80655142.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Man arrested with 26g smack worth Rs 1.1L||Roorkee: Laksar Police arrested a man in connection with smuggling of narcotics and seized 26g smack worth Rs 1.10 lakh from his possession on Tuesday. The man was identified as 25-year-old Arshad Faiyyaz, a resident of Garhi Sangipur village in Laksar. Police have booked him under relevant sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, Act. “We caught him late on Monday evening during our routine patrolling. He was coming from Landaura on his bike,” said Nitesh Sharma, senior sub-inspector at Laksar police station. Police said illegal trade of narcotics and drugs had been thriving in and around Landhaura town near Roorkee for some time and it was arranged from Bareilly. Police on Monday also recovered a huge stock of prohibited medicines like Dizepam, Tramadol, Pentazocine, Phenargan, Buprenorphine and Triprolidine from a Landaura-based medical store. As many as 6,948 injections, 6,47,650 tablets and 2389 vials worth over Rs 40 lakh were seized. "The accused medical store owner Naushad had been illegally selling these prohibited drugs for eight years," said SP (rural) Pramendra Dobal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-arrested-with-26g-smack-worth-rs-1-1l/articleshow/80655157.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 3, 2021||Jaipur||2.39 lakh Rajasthan frontline workers to be vaccinated in phase-2||JAIPUR: Scaling up Covid vaccination drive, the state government is gearing up to launch its second phase from this week, claiming to have completed preparation of vaccinating 2,39,118 frontline workers. Rajasthan is the second fastest in the country to vaccinate 60% registered healthcare workers. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the results of the first phase of vaccination drive was very encouraging. In the second phase, the health department is targeting to vaccinate 22,520 revenue department employees, 55,362 employees of local self governance bodies, 1,61,236 police and armed forces. In all, 2,39,118 frontline workers have been registered on CoWin App for vaccination in the second phase. Chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma said, “We are preparing to launch the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive in which frontline workers will be covered from February 4.” In the first phase, 3,39,218 healthworkers received the jab till Tuesday against the target of 4,87,875. The health department has clarified that those healthcare workers who did not get the jab in the first phase due to certain reasons will get the vaccine alongwith frontline workers. The health department officials in districts have appealed to the healthcare workers to get the vaccine on Wednesday, if they have not received it yet as vaccination sites will be held in increased numbers to cover the left out healthcare workers. The health department officials said that among those who are covered under frontline workers are BSF, CISF personnel and other armed forces, employees of revenue department, local bodies, panchayati raj and police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-39l-raj-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-phase-2/articleshow/80657382.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Jodhpur||2.39 lakh Rajasthan frontline workers to be vaccinated in phase-2||JAIPUR: Scaling up Covid vaccination drive, the state government is gearing up to launch its second phase from this week, claiming to have completed preparation of vaccinating 2,39,118 frontline workers. Rajasthan is the second fastest in the country to vaccinate 60% registered healthcare workers. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the results of the first phase of vaccination drive was very encouraging. In the second phase, the health department is targeting to vaccinate 22,520 revenue department employees, 55,362 employees of local self governance bodies, 1,61,236 police and armed forces. In all, 2,39,118 frontline workers have been registered on CoWin App for vaccination in the second phase. Chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma said, “We are preparing to launch the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive in which frontline workers will be covered from February 4.” In the first phase, 3,39,218 healthworkers received the jab till Tuesday against the target of 4,87,875. The health department has clarified that those healthcare workers who did not get the jab in the first phase due to certain reasons will get the vaccine alongwith frontline workers. The health department officials in districts have appealed to the healthcare workers to get the vaccine on Wednesday, if they have not received it yet as vaccination sites will be held in increased numbers to cover the left out healthcare workers. The health department officials said that among those who are covered under frontline workers are BSF, CISF personnel and other armed forces, employees of revenue department, local bodies, panchayati raj and police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-39l-raj-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-phase-2/articleshow/80661584.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kolhapur||KMC needs to recover Rs 204 crore to achieve revenue target||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has a humongous task to recover of Rs 204 crore in the next two months in order to achieve it’s annual budgetary revenue target of Rs 439 crore. In the next two months, the KMC has to recover around Rs 3.4 crore on an avergae every day to achieve the target. Also, the KMC has never been able to achieve 100% of the revenue target. At this time of every year, the KMC manages to achieve around 80% of the revenue target and by the end of financial year on March 31, the figure reaches between 90 and 95%. Sanjay Sarnaik, chief accountant of the KMC, said, “So far, we have achieved 52% of the revenue target. Due to the pandemic, there was no recovery and therefore the dues have mounted. We have launched concession schemes for both property and water taxes. It is showing effect as since the last three days, we recovered over Rs 2.5 crore.” The scheme offers concession up to 50% in the late charges imposed on the dues if the actual due amount is paid in single installment. The KMC expects to recover over Rs 70 crore if all the defaulters of property and water taxes avail the concession scheme. The poor tax collection will hamper the development works to be planned for next financial year. The KMC has sought ideas of development from citizens to be included in the budget with budgetary allocation. If the revenue target is not achieved, the KMC will struggle to carry out development goals. “We are getting large number of suggestions from citizens. We will try to accomodate all the suggestions in the budget,” Sarnaik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-needs-to-recover-rs-204cr-to-achieve-revenue-target/articleshow/80656286.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Pune||New CoWIN glitch delays start of vaccinations among frontline force||PUNE: A glitch in the CoWin app will push the start of vaccinations for frontline workers to the end of this week, state officials have said. Frontline workers — including members of police and civic bodies — were to start receiving their shots along with medical staff as part of the simultaneous vaccine drive from Monday. But the CoWIN app has not been generating “separate sessions” for frontliners, officials said. They added that the simultaneous drive cannot start until the issue is fixed. State immunization officer, DN Patil said the Centre has now asked all states to await further instructions. “The Centre has to activate the ‘session live’ option for frontline workers on CoWIN. Essentially, we are unable to start phase 2 of the immunisation drive because the second phase has not been activated on the app,” Patil said. Nearly 5.8 lakh frontline workers have signed up for vaccinations. But the number could increase further as the state revenue department has not finished uploading details of employees. State principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas said frontline registrations would now continue until February 7 — the earlier deadline was January 31. Officials said the final number of frontline workers is expected to be much higher than that of the healthcare force. “We may have to increase the number of vaccination sites to accommodate the frontline units,” one official said. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said Pune district has so far registered 84,218 frontline workers from the revenue, home and urban development departments. Solapur is second with 15,044 people and Satara has 11,862. “The revenue department needs to update its data. The process is on to generate fresh sites and it’s likely to be over by the end of this week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-cowin-glitch-delays-start-of-vaccinations-among-frontline-force/articleshow/80657377.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman thrashed by husband, girlfriend||AHMEDABAD: Catching her husband with his girlfriend proved painful, quite literally, for a Sabarmati resident when the duo thrashed her and left her injured. Geeta Makwana, a 25-year-old resident of Rajivnagar, lodged a complaint with Sabarmati police in this regard. Police said, “The Makwanas have two sons, one aged 6 years and the other who is six months old. On Tuesday morning, Geet took the younger son to the doctor as he was feeling unwell. She then went to a medical store to buy medicines. There, she spotted her husband Hitendra and his girlfriend Priya.”  The FIR states, “Enraged, Geeta began screaming at them. Upset that she was shouting at them on a public road, Hitendra and Priya approached Geeta and began abusing her. Then, they tried to leave but Geeta held on to her husband. In this scuffle, Priya began hitting Geeta. Hitendra tried to zoom away on his motorcycle. The jerk caused Geeta to fall on the road with her kid. She suffered injuries." Geeta alleged that her husband threatened to kill her if she went to the cops. However, she filed a complaint about causing hurt and criminal intimidation against Hitendra and Priya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-thrashed-by-husband-girlfriend/articleshow/80657389.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Dehradun||Victory Flame up at Pavilion Ground on Feb 8||Roorkee: The Victory Flame, which was handed over to Indian Army by PM Narendra Modi on December 16 to commemorate 50 years of the 1971 war's victory over Pakistan, has reached Bengal Engineer Group (BEG) and Centre Roorkee, headquarters of prominent engineering leg of Indian Army, on Monday. BEG commandant Brig Raju Singh with the presence of officials of local administration received the flame with military ceremonial welcome. The Flame reached Roorkee after completing a journey from Badrinath shrine and will be kept here till February 9. The BEG has made an arrangement at Pavilion Ground for the public for viewing the flame on February 8. It will reach Lucknow by February 10. “On December 16, 1971, the Indian Armed Forces achieved a stellar and historic victory over Pakistan Army which led to the creation of Bangladesh and the largest military surrender in conventional war after World War-II. Year 2021 is being celebrated as Swarnim Vijay Varsh (golden victory year). It is a proud moment for us that we are part of the victory celebrations,” said the commandant. Local legislator Pradeep Batra and joint magistrate Namami Bansal were also present at BEG headquarters to celebrate the reception of the flame. “Through such events, an effort is made to recognize and honour the valour, bravery and sacrifices made by our great soldiers in the 1971 war,” said Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/victory-flame-up-at-pavilion-ground-on-feb-8/articleshow/80655146.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 3, 2021||Rajkot||Four die in two road accidents||Rajkot: Four persons killed and one injured in two separate road accidents in Saurashtra on Monday night and Tuesday afternoon. In Jetpur taluka’s Amarnagar village, two youth identified as Kushal Dobariya (19) and Keval Radadiya (20) died and their friend Priyan Nasit was severely injured after their car turned turtle on Tuesday afternoon. Police said that the youth were driving the car at a high speed and at a curve on the road the driver lost control over the vehicle due to which the car turned turtle. Dobariya and Radadiya died on the spot. Nasit was taken to a hospital in Jetpur from where he was referred to Rajkot for further treatment. On Monday night, two truck drivers died after one of them rammed into a parked truck at Makansar village in Morbi district. Jitendra Roy rammed his mini truck as he did not see other truck parked on roadside. The other driver Nabheram Adroja (55) got crushed as he was mending the parked truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-die-in-two-road-accidents/articleshow/80655101.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Azam, son brought to Moradabad court for hearing in 12-year-old case||Bareilly: Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan and his MLA son, Abdullah Azam, were produced before a special court in Moradabad on Tuesday, in connection with a non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued against them in 2008. The father-son duo is facing multiple cases. They were brought to Moradabad from Sitapur jail, where they are currently lodged, amidst tight police security. Counsel for UP’s former minister, Shahnawaz Sibtain, said the court framed the charges against the father-son duo on Tuesday. The case relating to rioting was registered at Chajlet police station way back in 2008. Later, NBWs were issued against Azam Khan and his son after they had failed to appear before the court. Now, the court has fixed February 4 for hearing the rioting case and February 8, for hearing the non-appearance case filed against them. The duo was sent back to Sitapur jail after the hearing. An FIR was registered against Azam Khan and his son, Abdullah Azam, at Moradabad’s Chajlet police station in 2008 for rioting and using criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty during a Samajwadi Party rally that was held outside the police station. A chargesheet was filed against eight people in the case. Later, the court had issued NBWs against Azam and Abdullah after they had failed to appear before it. Their non-appearance led to registration of another FIR against them under section 174-A of IPC (non-appearance in response to a proclamation under section 82 of Act 2 of 1947).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-son-brought-to-moradabad-court-for-hearing-in-12-year-old-case/articleshow/80654300.cms||Maria Khan
February 3, 2021||Ahmedabad||11-year-old girl molested||Ahmedabad: An 11-year-old girl was molested by a 25-year-old man, who was living in the same locality in Narol, at a garden on Tuesday, states an FIR filed with Narol police, the accused has been held. According to a complaint filed by victim’s father, the accused identified as Shivaji Salunke, 25, who was acquainted to the girl’s family, took her to a garden near on Tuesday morning. Salunke had allegedly molested the girl in the garden and later dropped her to her home after which she told her mother about the incident. The victim’s family approached Narol police and filed a complaint of molestation along with charges of POCSO Act. Police have detained the accused and sent him for Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-year-old-girl-molested/articleshow/80657378.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ajmer||2.39 lakh Rajasthan frontline workers to be vaccinated in phase-2||JAIPUR: Scaling up Covid vaccination drive, the state government is gearing up to launch its second phase from this week, claiming to have completed preparation of vaccinating 2,39,118 frontline workers. Rajasthan is the second fastest in the country to vaccinate 60% registered healthcare workers. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the results of the first phase of vaccination drive was very encouraging. In the second phase, the health department is targeting to vaccinate 22,520 revenue department employees, 55,362 employees of local self governance bodies, 1,61,236 police and armed forces. In all, 2,39,118 frontline workers have been registered on CoWin App for vaccination in the second phase. Chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma said, “We are preparing to launch the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive in which frontline workers will be covered from February 4.” In the first phase, 3,39,218 healthworkers received the jab till Tuesday against the target of 4,87,875. The health department has clarified that those healthcare workers who did not get the jab in the first phase due to certain reasons will get the vaccine alongwith frontline workers. The health department officials in districts have appealed to the healthcare workers to get the vaccine on Wednesday, if they have not received it yet as vaccination sites will be held in increased numbers to cover the left out healthcare workers. The health department officials said that among those who are covered under frontline workers are BSF, CISF personnel and other armed forces, employees of revenue department, local bodies, panchayati raj and police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2-39l-raj-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-phase-2/articleshow/80661585.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Udaipur||2.39 lakh Rajasthan frontline workers to be vaccinated in phase-2||JAIPUR: Scaling up Covid vaccination drive, the state government is gearing up to launch its second phase from this week, claiming to have completed preparation of vaccinating 2,39,118 frontline workers. Rajasthan is the second fastest in the country to vaccinate 60% registered healthcare workers. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the results of the first phase of vaccination drive was very encouraging. In the second phase, the health department is targeting to vaccinate 22,520 revenue department employees, 55,362 employees of local self governance bodies, 1,61,236 police and armed forces. In all, 2,39,118 frontline workers have been registered on CoWin App for vaccination in the second phase. Chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma said, “We are preparing to launch the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive in which frontline workers will be covered from February 4.” In the first phase, 3,39,218 healthworkers received the jab till Tuesday against the target of 4,87,875. The health department has clarified that those healthcare workers who did not get the jab in the first phase due to certain reasons will get the vaccine alongwith frontline workers. The health department officials in districts have appealed to the healthcare workers to get the vaccine on Wednesday, if they have not received it yet as vaccination sites will be held in increased numbers to cover the left out healthcare workers. The health department officials said that among those who are covered under frontline workers are BSF, CISF personnel and other armed forces, employees of revenue department, local bodies, panchayati raj and police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/2-39l-raj-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-phase-2/articleshow/80661583.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Lt Col Prasad Purohit insists he was on official duty||MUMBAI: Accused in 2008 Malegaon blast case, Lt Col Prasad Purohit, on Tuesday before Bombay high court sought quashing of a terror case against him, arguing he was on official duty, so sans prior sanction, cognizance of the case stands vitiated. His counsel, Shrikant Shivade, said section 197(2) of CrPc prevents court from taking cognizance in absence of valid sanction if act is done by a member of armed forces in due or purported discharge of official duty, as Purohit “was and is’’. He read from a military officer’s document to say, “There is no record to suggest Purohit was not operating as he was expected and trained to, and in the line of duty as every other military intelligence... would do.’’ “The officer has infiltrated... underground outfits through his capabilities and go-getter attitude.,” said another document. Shivade also said IPS officer, the late Himanshu Roy, had written that Purohit “shared vital and sensitive of information with police which proved of help”. He added that NIA, in its chargesheet, had “doubts’ on “recovery of RDX’’ and said “recovery itself becomes suspect as ATS (Mumbai) may have planted RDX traces to implicate him and other accused”. The hearing will continue on February 9 before a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lt-col-purohit-insists-he-was-on-official-duty/articleshow/80656509.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Bareilly||Man sets himself afire after owner of second-hand tractor he had bought refuses to give him registration papers even after two years||Bareilly: Fed up with dilly-dallying by the owner of a second-hand tractor agency in providing the registration documents of the vehicle he had bought two years ago, a farmer allegedly set himself afire in full public view in Lakhimpur city on Sunday. Mohammad Wasim, 45, is battling for his life at a higher medical facility in Lucknow. Police had impounded Wasim’s tractor, and he was unable to get his vehicle back in the absence of documents for over a month. A case is yet to be registered in this connection, even as a video of the victim making a statement in the public is being circulated widely. Police said they were waiting for a written complaint in this connection while adding that Wasim’s wife had given them in writing that she would lodge a complaint after her husband’s treatment. Police, however, failed to produce the letter.According to police sources, Wasim had bought a second-hand tractor for Rs 3.5 lakh from the agency in February 2018. Isanagar police, however, seized the tractor on January 7 as Wasim failed to produce the complete documents. Since then, Wasim has been requesting the agency owner to provide him with the registration papers to get his impounded vehicle back, but in vain, said sources. In the video purportedly of his public statement, Wasim could be heard saying that he was “extremely upset and would commit suicide”. Police said they were yet to get the CCTV footage of the incident from the agency owner, who had reportedly removed several tractors "without papers" from the showroom. Sadar kotwali SHO Suneel Singh told TOI, “In the absence of the password, we cannot take out the CCTV footage. Besides, we have not received any complaint from the victim’s family, so far.”Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull told TOI, “Police know where the agency owner has parked the tractors. We cannot take any legal action against the agency owner in the absence of a written complaint. But, we have issued a notice to him, seeking his explanation in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-sets-himself-afire-after-owner-of-second-hand-tractor-he-had-bought-refuses-to-give-him-registration-papers-even-after-two-years/articleshow/80653709.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 3, 2021||Madurai||Health officials deny Covid vaccine led to death of worker||Madurai: After a 40-year-old sanitation worker from Tuticorin suddenly died on Sunday at Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district, family members carried out a protest on Monday claiming that his death could be due to the Covid-19 vaccine he received on January 21. However, district health officials said the man was a chronic alcoholic and denied it had anything to do with the vaccine, which he had taken 10 days ago.Manoharan vomited blood and fell unconscious at Aruppukottai New Bus Stand while he was on his way to Madurai. Though he was rushed to the GH, he was declared brought dead. His wife Ambika and family members protested on Monday at the GH claiming the death was due to the Covid-19 vaccine, and demanded post mortem. She told Aruppukottai Town police that her husband received the vaccine at Pudur PHC in Tuticorin where he worked and that he suffered from fever, fatigue and vomiting in the past week. She also claimed that he was forced to take the vaccine by superiors. Police subsequently registered a case of unnatural death under Section 174 CrPc and are investigating.“The man was known to be a chronic alcoholic and since vomiting of blood was observed, a probable complication due to it is suspected to be the reason behind the death,” said a health official. Ambika submitted a petition to the police demanding a thorough investigation into her husband’s death. As he was the sole breadwinner of the family and with two children left behind, she demanded adequate compensation and a government job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/health-officials-deny-covid-vaccine-led-to-death-of-worker/articleshow/80658923.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 3, 2021||Pune||593 vaccinated in Pimpri Chinchwad||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A total of 593 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits on Tuesday, with Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital leading the response (199), followed by the Pimple Nilakh site (169). Health department officials said they were planning to cover maximum healthcare workers in the next few days, before starting with the frontline workers. YCM hospital dean Rajendra Wabale said the vaccination drive had covered most of the staffers from the hospital. The PCMC health department would not conduct the vaccination drive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/593-vaccinated-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/80657380.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Kochi||Kerala health department report tries to justify antigen test strategy||KOCHI: Less than a week of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s assurance that 70% Covid tests will now be RT-PCR, the health department has come out with a technical paper on “Covid-19 Testing Strategy - Antigen Test or RT-PCR Test”, justifying its strategy in the state where 70% of tests are antigen tests. In the report, the department analyzes the test data (not in-depth though) in the state and scientific evidence regarding rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR-based tests available globally. It claims that the infection is not caused because of the present testing strategy, but “because people are complacent to the need for absolute follow-up of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Because infection transmission is seen even after RT-PCR-test done positives not following the protocol will end up spreading infection”. Till January 31, state has done 96.3 lakh tests, of which 63.9 lakh tests are antigen tests. While RT-PCR-based tests (Open/NAAT) have an overall TPR of 10.9%, rapid antigen tests have a positivity rate of 9.1%. “Kerala has devised a testing strategy which proved to be successful in saving the lives of individuals and containment of infections. This testing strategy has helped the state to achieve low case-fatality rate and stagnant test positivity rates over weeks,” the report said. However, health experts who have been demanding that Kerala increase its testing numbers and move fully to RT-PCR tests are not impressed. “This report is more of whitewash. There is immense scientific evidence to show that RT-PCR is better than antigen tests and not vice-versa. It is time for Kerala to shift RT-PCR or be prepared to bear the consequences for being in the plateau phase for a long time,” said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India. The report said that the health department has deployed antigen tests “with good sensitivity in picking up infectious cases with minimal cost, minimal turnaround time and also requires minimal skill sets” to prevent transmission efficiently. On the other hand, RT-PCR-based tests are being done for individuals with high pre-test probability of having Covid. This testing strategy also reduces unnecessary burden to the people and the system, it added. “Then why is Kerala not seeing the results and why is the caseload increasing? Tamil Nadu and Karnataka shifted from antigen testing to the more reliable RT-PCR tests and their positive cases reduced. But in Kerala, we continue with antigen tests and the numbers keep on spiking. Only positive is low CFR here,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, president, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-report-tries-to-justify-antigen-test-strategy/articleshow/80655163.cms||Preetu Nair
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt scheme to provide aid to startups for registering of patents||MUMBAI: To boost startups and generate employment, the state will provide financial assistance to startups for registering of patents and certification. Financial assistance of up to Rs 10 lakh will be given for startups to get patents, and up to Rs 2 lakh for quality testing and certification. The scheme was inaugurated by CM Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday. The Maharashtra State Innovation Society will provide Rs 2 lakh for domestic patents or up to 80%of total cost, and Rs 10 lakh for international patents or up to 80% of the total cost under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-govt-scheme-to-provide-aid-to-startups-for-registering-of-patents/articleshow/80657371.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Nashik||2 boys with learning difficulties go missing from residential school, 1 found after 3 days||NASHIK: Two brothers, aged 10 years and 12 years, went missing from a private residential school for children with learning difficulties on January 30 and one of them was found on Tuesday evening. The manager of the school, Vishwas Ahire, found Gorakh Rajendra Apsunde (12) and Gopi (10) missing at 10.30am and approached the Mhasrool police, who registered a case of abduction under IPC Section 363 as the boys are minor. The brothers are residents of Pada in Dindori taluka. Vishwas Ahire said that Gopi was traced on Tuesday evening on information provided by a restaurant owner in the city where have gone for food. Senior police inspector Pandharinath Dhokane said, “We are continuing with the search of the other child. They are trying for information from Gopi on why and how he left the school along with his brother and what all places he visited in the last three days, Assistant police inspector S B Ahire, who is investigating the case, said the school is located on the outskirts of Nashik city. “Most of the children have been sent home due to the Covid-19 pandemic and there are only five to six children staying at the facility.” The officer said that when he visited the school for enquiry, he did not find any security guard or CCTV camera and that only three employees were on duty. School manager Ahire said that the facility has a strength of 40 children who are from poor financial background. They are kept in the school till they turn 18 and are taught till std VIII, he added. The boy found after three days is surprisingly in good health and there is nothing much to worry about, said the school authorities, adding that they are worried about the boy who has not yet been found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-boys-with-learning-difficulties-go-missing-from-residential-school-1-found-after-3-days/articleshow/80655167.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 3, 2021||Aurangabad||Three Aurangabad jail inmates forge bail orders, caught||AURANGABAD: Three inmates of the Aurangabad Central Prison in the Harsul area of the city recently forged bail orders and two of them even managed to post them in the official mail box of the jail. The well-planned conspiracy of the undertrials came to the fore after a prison official got suspicious upon noticing something fishy in the order by two of the inmates. The other suspect was caught with the fake bail order during frisking while he was being taken for a court hearing. All the three accused are behind bars since 2019. Uddhav alias Udya Majlya Bhosale and Asab Shaikh have been slapped with MCOCA by the Beed district police while Vishal Milind Pardhe is a rape accused and also faces charges under Pocso registered with the Cidco police station of Aurangabad city. The Harsul police have initiated the process of taking them into custody for investigation. The three have been booked on charges including forgery, forging the record of court and cheating, following a complaint by Jailer (Group-II) Irshad Syed. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that Uddhav complained about some health issues and was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital. One his acquaintances, on the pretext of visiting him, handed over three blank ‘bail order’ copies to him,” senior inspector Sachin Ingole told TOI. The officer said that after discharge from the hospital, the three accused reached the prison and, along with the two other undertrials, filled up details such as name, case number, area police station in the order form in the required format. “The inmates in the prison are allowed to keep a copy of the charge sheet filed against them. The accused neatly cut the stamps from their charge sheets and pasted them on the forged bail order copies,” said PSI Atul Thokal. Uddhav and Asab got the fake bail orders posted in the prison’s mail box through the undertrials who were taken out of the prison for court hearings. Police said that on January 25, one of the jail officials found a portion of the stamp that was pasted on the bail order thicker. The official found it fake after cross-checking it. The other bail order too was checked and found to be fake. Vishal was caught with the fake bail order during frisking and revealed the entire conspiracy, added police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-aurangabad-jail-inmates-forge-bail-orders-caught/articleshow/80656320.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests Sushant’s friend for ganja supply||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, on Tuesday arrested Rajput’s friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar for supplying him ganja. Pawar is the 30th accused to be arrested in the probe into two cases of prevalence of abuse of drugs in Bollywood and supply of drugs to Rajput. Pawar was picked up early on Tuesday and taken to NCB office. He will be produced in court on Wednesday. Last week, NCB opposed his bail application before Bombay high court as there was “strong digital evidence”. Last month, sessions court rejected his anticipatory bail plea. “Pawar was never absconding, as claimed by NCB. He was Rajput’s employee. NCB is trying to give a different colour to media,’’ said advocate Rameez Imitaz. Sources said Pawar supplied ganja to Rajput through his cook, Deepesh Sawant. NCB seized Pawar’s mobile and laptop and claimed it found evidence like WhatsApp chats between Sawant and Pawar, and other accused. Meanwhile, NCB (Mumbai) on Tuesday arrested Mohammed Bilal and Shaikh Gulam Ghous near Mahim railway station and recovered 136gm of mephedrone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-arrests-sushants-friend-for-ganja-supply/articleshow/80656510.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 3, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver gets bail as victim’s body lost, ‘found’ during Covid||MUMBAI: A 21-year-old driver, among those booked for the murder of a man whose body was lost and subsequently “found” decomposed few days later in the corner of the morgue during the peak of Covid-19 in June, was granted bail by sessions court recently. “Though DNA test was conducted, no report was produced to confirm it was that person’s body,” the court said. Granting bail to Govandi resident Wasim Shaikh, the court referred to the post-mortem report and said the inconclusive opinion did not lead to infer the stab injury caused the death. “This being so, and as the investigation is over and the charge-sheet is filed, it would be futile to keep the accused detained further.” The court said the autopsy was conducted on June 13, 2020, and the doctor found an injury on his back. “But he could not give a firm opinion on cause of death as the body was totally decomposed. Even, according to eyewitnesses, a single blow of the chopper on the back was given by the accused. In the circumstances and particularly for want of candid opinion on cause of death, it cannot be inferred that the death was only due to the injury,” the court said. The 24-year-old victim was allegedly stabbed to death on the night of June 3, 2020, by some men, including relatives, over a quarrel. He was immediately taken to Rajawadi Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The deceased was found Covid positive. Pointing to “glaring facts”, the court’s order said later the body went missing along with that of another person. The order said after a body was found, relatives of the other person were called. They said it was not the corpse of their kin. The court said this seems to have made police believe it was the body of the victim in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-gets-bail-as-victims-body-lost-found-during-covid/articleshow/80656518.cms||---
February 3, 2021||Ranchi||Firm building Koderma medical college seeks NOC, security after ‘threats’ by locals for jobs||Koderma: With barely 6% work finished till date, the 300-bed medical college and hospital in Koderma missed its January 7, 2022 deadline. The construction agency has blamed the delay on issues like lack of NOCs and threats from locals for jobs and sought protection from the administration and police. Sanjeev Tudu, AGM of Simplex, said one of the main reasons behind the delay is lack of timely granting of no objection certificates from competent authorities for beginning the work. “For example, 39 old buildings were present at the spot where we are building the medical college and they had to be demolished. We needed clearance from the forest for chopping the trees. After a lot of delay, we got NOC in this site only in June 2019. There were also problems of availability of sand for which we had put several requests to the district administration, besides routine problems by locals. At the sadar hospital in Koderma, which is at a distance of 4km from Karma, we have to come up with a 300-bedded hospital, which is a part of the entire project, for which we still haven't got an NOC,” he said. On August 2, 2019, Simplex Infrastructures Limited had taken up the task to finish the project, but the locals allegedly started demanding work and began threatening the company’s staff and officials, the firm said. In a letter to the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police, the company has recently sought protection for the staff and said they are unable to work at the desired pace because of fear. Speaking to TOI, Koderma SP Ehresham Waquarib said, “The deputy superintendent has been asked to visit the site for a detailed inquiry. Construction work will not be hampered due to security reasons. Police will ensure safety and security at the site.” The Jharkhand State Building Construction Corporation Limited (JSBCCL), which is monitoring the project, acknowledged that the local issues delayed the medical college work. Amit Kumar, the executive engineer of JSBCCL, said, “The slow progress of the work is due to some local issues which will be sorted out soon. We are trying to speed up the work.” The medical college, the foundation for which was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018, is being built at an estimated cost of Rs 319 crore in Karma area of the district. The college, spread over 69.85 acres, will have 100 MBBS seats. The first phase of the project will see the construction of the medical college in Karma and upgrade of the sadar hospital into a 300-bed hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/firm-building-koderma-medical-college-seeks-noc-security-after-threats-by-locals-for-jobs/articleshow/80656383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
