February 6, 2021||Hubballi||Covid-19: Kannada litfest’s new date to be announced after March 9||HAVERI: The 86th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, scheduled to be held from February 26 to 28 in Haveri, has been postponed due to Covid-19 restrictions. Kannada and culture minister Aravind Limbavali said the fresh schedule will be announced after March 9. “Since the central government has extended Covid-19 restrictions till February 28, the government thought it prudent to postpone the event which attracts lakhs of people.,” the minister said. KSP electionsElections to the posts of Kannada Sahitya Parishat office-bearers will be announced on Saturday. The tenure of the incumbent committee ends on March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannada-litfests-new-date-to-be-announced-after-march-9/articleshow/80713388.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Farmers to block highways in Karnataka for 3 hours||BENGALURU: Various farmer organisations in Karnataka have decided to block state and national highways from 12 noon to 3pm on Saturday to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the agricultural laws in Delhi. Karnataka Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar said all major highways leading into and out of Bengaluru will be blocked in response to a call given by Samyukt Kisan Morcha. The protest will also be held across the state, he added.  He said farmers were ready to court arrest, but will not drop the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ryots-to-block-highways-in-ktaka-for-3hrs/articleshow/80713592.cms||---
February 6, 2021||World||Pakistan offers dialogue to India||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan offered dialogue on Friday to India while making restoration of Article 370, which grants Jammu and Kashmir special status, a condition for talks. He was addressing a public gathering in Kotli district of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir to observe “solidarity” with the people of Kashmir. Pakistan has been observing “Kashmir Day” on February 5 every year since 1991. India had said on Thursday that the onus of creating the right conditions by acting against cross-border terrorism lay on Pakistan. “Come resolve this Kashmir dispute with us. And for that, the first thing you must do is to restore Article 370. And then speak to us. And then, as per the United Nations Resolution, give the Kashmiris their due right,” Khan said. “We are ready to speak to you again. I’m still asking Modi to resolve the Kashmir issue through talks, but do not mistake our hand of friendship for weakness,” he said. “I invited Indian PM Narendra Modi several times to come to the table of dialogue as it was the only viable solution,” Khan said. Khan said that following the Pulwama incident he realised that the Indian authorities didn’t want peace or friendly ties, and intended to use the issue for political gains. He asked India to shun the “fascist” ideology of the RSS. “Such fascist ideologies do the most damage. They ended up damaging their own nation,” he said. “The country (India) is divided. The Muslims are suffering, the farmers are suffering. The minorities are all fearful,” Khan claimed, adding that “such an ideology… may win you the election, but this fascist ideology destroys the fabric of society”. Khan said Pakistan wanted Kashmiris “to decide their own future”. “The issue of Kashmir has been lingering since 1948 and it could be resolved along the lines of resolution of other international disputes, such as East Timor,” PM Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-offers-dialogue-to-india/articleshow/80714409.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 6, 2021||India||R-Day riots in mind, 50,000 forces in Delhi for 'chakka jam' today||NEW DELHI: It’s a chakka jam by the farmers today – 12 noon to 3 pm – with many riders. The protesters have said it will happen only on national and state highways and nothing will take place inside Delhi; emergency and essential services are exempted; and it will be totally peaceful and non-violent. Delhi Police, however, is not taking the promises at face value and gearing up for a law and order challenge in order to avoid a repeat of the violence on Republic Day. Over 50,000 personnel, drawn from Delhi Police, reserve police forces and paramilitary, will be deployed at various points, including the border. Several companies of ITBP, CRPF and RAF will be out for maintaining law and order. Special Cell’s SWAT teams and NSG have been kept on standby to be moved at a short notice in case of an emergency. Bomb and dog squads have been stationed at multiple places in the capital as well. Extra vigil will be maintained at markets and places of religious and historic significance with focus on places like Red Fort, India Gate and the routes leading to Parliament. Kaccha roads which provide easy access to the city will be under watch as well. Thousands of CCTV cameras will be monitored from the central C4i control room and other sub-control rooms formed at the four borders and at other strategic places. The police are officially maintaining that use of force will be minimal and resorted to only in extreme circumstances, but if violence breaks out, they will prevent escalation at all costs. Intelligence inputs suggest that anti-social elements may try to disrupt law and order and the police are taking this seriously. The protest sites at the borders are already fortified with layers of barricades, concrete barriers, tyre slashers and nets to stop stone-pelting. The challenge for the police while dealing with rallies by farmers is that the gathering virtually turns leaderless. "Once on the ground, they make their own sub-groups with peers and start to operate on their own, leaving little scope for negotiations. So, they have to be handled as per the situation," an official explained. Extra barricading has been installed at critical points like Kalindi Kunj, Akshardham, Naraina and Narela due to which traffic jams were being reported on Friday. The cops fear that the sympathisers and supporters of the farmers may try to enforce the chakka jam within the city. A traffic police official said that night QRTs deployed in all the traffic circles have been briefed in this regard and are ready for immediate deployment at the border points in case of any emerging situation. The Kalindi Kunj border (Delhi-Noida route) will remain closed for traffic movement and traffic restrictions will be enforced elsewhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/r-day-riots-in-mind-50000-forces-in-delhi-for-chakka-jam-today/articleshow/80714569.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||After 18 months, 4G internet services restored in J&K||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR: Highspeed 4G internet services were restored in entire Jammu and Kashmir on Friday in view of the “overall security situation” in the Union Territory, nearly one-and-a-half years after they were snapped in view of concerns arising out of nullification of Article 370. Internet services across J&K were shut on August 5, 2019, and subsequently restored at 2G speed. The 4G services resumed in two districts — Ganderbal and Udhampur — in August last year on a trial basis, while the other 18 districts continued to work with 2G with the now-fortnightly orders extending the 4G ban citing security concerns. Government sources drew attention to the Jammu & Kashmir home department’s order, which cited the “advice of the special committee (constituted on advice of the Supreme Court)” and “a careful review of the overall security scenario” to “revoke the restrictions on mobile data services and fixed line internet connectivity... except to the extent that pre-paid SIM card holders shall be provided access to internet connectivity only after verification as per norms applicable for postpaid connections.” The order was issued after the special committee took note of inputs and apprehensions of security agencies as also the assessment of opening of high speed mobile internet connectivity in Ganderbal and Udhampur. Jammu & Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha, who since taking over in the Union Territory in August last year had ensured consistent review of the ban by the special committee, put his stamp of approval to restore 4G services. Watch 4G internet services restored in 18 districts of Jammu & Kashmir||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-18-months-4g-internet-services-restored-in-jk/articleshow/80715681.cms||Bharti Jain
February 6, 2021||India||SC gives bail to Munawar Faruqui in 1 minute, stays UP warrant||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui who has been behind bars for more than a month since his arrest on January 2 in a case lodged against him in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai also stayed the warrant issued against him for a similar case lodged in Uttar Pradesh. The bench noted the plea of senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal who alleged that police did not follow the procedure as per Section 41 of Criminal Procedure Code (which refers to powers of police to arrest without warrant). The court hardly took a minute to pass the order in favour of Faruqui who was denied bail by the lower court as well as Madhya Pradesh high court. "The learned counsel has pointed out to us that quite apart from the fact that the allegations made in the FIR are vague that the procedure contained in Section 41 CrPC as adumbrated by our judgment in Arnesh Kumar Vs State of Bihar, has not been followed before arresting the petitioner. This being the case, we issue notice in both the petitions, and stay the judgment of the high court. The petitioner is released on ad-interim bail on conditions to the satisfaction of the trial court. In the meantime, there shall be stay on the production warrants as well," the bench said. The Supreme Court, while framing guidelines to prevent misuse of Section 41, had said, “We are of the opinion that if the provisions of Section 41, Criminal Procedure Code which authorises the police officer to arrest an accused without an order from a magistrate and without a warrant are scrupulously enforced, the wrong committed by the police officers intentionally or unwittingly would be reversed and the number of cases which come to the court for grant of anticipatory bail will substantially reduce. We would like to emphasise that the practice of mechanically reproducing in the case diary all or most of the reasons contained in the section for effecting arrest be discouraged and discontinued.” It had directed all state governments to instruct police officers not to automatically arrest and take such steps only according to the parameters laid down in Section 41. According to Section 41A, when a person “complies and continues to comply with the notice issued by police for personal appearance, he shall not be arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-gives-bail-to-munawar-faruqui-in-1-minute-stays-up-warrant/articleshow/80715863.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||Lok Sabha blockade reflects strong Oppn convergence on farm stir||NEW DELHI: The successful blockade of Lok Sabha that Congress failed to execute in six years of BJP rule because of its thin numbers indicates a strong opposition convergence on farm agitation, even as its stands in contrast to the same set of parties agreeing to a discussion in the upper House. The main opposition parties had, in fact, agreed to a discussion in the lower House during talks with Speaker Om Birla but the decision was junked as Congress struck a more militant stance, apparently at the instance of Rahul Gandhi, with other parties following suit. All eyes are on whether the lower House will function in the second week starting Monday. When the MPs who disrupted proceedings were asked by other members of their plans for next week, some said the decision would be taken on Monday. The dichotomy between the two Houses is, however, striking and a few Congress MPs feel a debate will serve the opposition cause better now that proceedings have been disrupted. At a meeting of Congress MPs on Friday, Manish Tewari (Punjab), Shashi Tharoor (Kerala) and Karti Chidambaram (TN) suggested that joining the discussion would help the opposition put forth its view on farmers issues – pointing to Rajya Sabha where the discussion was being held. However, others are said to have pointed to the “pitfalls” of the strategy as the government led by the PM will have the final say in the reply on the “Motion of Thanks”. It is understood that the Kerala contingent has had its reservations. In contrast, it was underlined that a separate discussion will help focus on just the farm issue and underline its salience. As the LS failed to transact business with strong protests from the opposition camp, sources said the resolution will be possible if either the government agrees to a separate discussion on farmers’ issues or if there is division in the anti-BJP ranks. Sources said the meeting called by Rahul Gandhi with like-minded parties in the Congress parliamentary party office on Thursday saw a strong push for continuing with protests. The opposition is demanding a separate discussion on farmers’ issues while the government is pressing that the duration of debate on the “Motion of Thanks” can be extended to allow the opposition to raise the farmers’ issues – which is the reason behind the deadlock. Sources said the party also pointed to the “strong pressure” from other opposition parties against relenting on the stand taken, arguing that Congress could not become the reason for breaking the unity. What, however, stood out in the first week of the budget session was that while the opposition joined the debate on the “Motion of Thanks” in the upper House, a diametrically contrary stance was adopted in the LS. Making it more curious was the fact that virtually the same parties constitute the anti-BJP ranks in the two Houses – DMK, TMC, the Left, NCP, Shiv Sena, SP and BSP, among others. It has widely been seen as a case of disjointed functioning by Congress which is the largest opposition party in the two Houses. However, a senior Congress Rajya Sabha member, pointing to the thin party strength in LS and RS, argued, “Now, Congress does not have the numbers in either of the Houses to decide the opposition stand on its own.” Another member wondered if the opposition parties as also Congress were playing “good cop, bad cop”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lok-sabha-blockade-reflects-strong-oppn-convergence-on-stir/articleshow/80715991.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||Rs 200cr Mamata package to claim Netaji's legacy||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, while presenting the state budget on Friday, proposed to allocate Rs 200 crore - Rs 100 crore each to build an Azad Hind Monument in New Town and for setting up Jai Hind Bhabans in all districts - in honour of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th anniversary. She also proposed to set aside Rs 5 crore for the Netaji State Planning Commission and another Rs 10 crore to raise a Netaji battalion in Kolkata Armed Police. A tussle has been brewing between Trinamool and BJP over the legacy of the patriot, often leading to direct showdowns between the two sides. On January 23, during a Centre-organised official function at Victoria Memorial in Netaji's honour - where both Banerjee and PM Modi were present - a section of the crowd chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans just as Banerjee was about to speak, prompting her to cancel her speech. "Netaji was the first to give the idea of a National Planning Commission. Unfortunately, the present central government abolished the Planning Commission. In memory of Netaji's contribution, Bengal will form the 'Netaji State Planning Commission'," Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-200cr-mamata-package-to-claim-netajis-legacy/articleshow/80716102.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||Gujarat shelves anti-'love jihad’ bill for now||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government has decided not to enact the 'anti-love jihad' law for the time being. The decision was made after legal experts, including the advocate general, opined that the new law might not be legally sustainable. Highly placed government sources said that following the adverse opinion, the government, in most likelihood, will not introduce the bill in the budget session of the assembly which begins from March 1. After BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh enacted the laws to curb 'love jihad,' the Gujarat government had expressed its resolve to introduce the law, too. This, despite the fact that the Gujarat government already has an anti-conversion law which prohibits conversion from one religion to another by the use of force or allurement or by fraudulent means. The state government had earlier directed concerned departments - home, law, and legislative and parliamentary affairs - to legally vet the law enacted by the UP and MP state governments. They were asked to view the new law vis-a-vis the anti-conversion law and recommend if there is a need to implement a new law or amend the existing one. "The state government's internal experts and the advocate general opined neither a new law nor an amendment might be legally sustainable. Legality of similar acts passed by other states have been challenged in the SC. Except for political calculations, there is very little possibility that the bill will be introduced in the budget session," sources told TOI. Recently, deputy CM Nitin Patel had said that states like UP and MP have enacted laws to curb 'love jihad' and ensure there is no friction between communities. "The Gujarat government has received many representations from different organizations and people. We are studying the effectiveness, long-term effects, and legal standing of the laws made by UP and MP. The Gujarat government will take a decision at an appropriate time regarding such a law," Patel had said. Gujarat's existing law has provision to penalize a person involved in forced conversion under the pretext of love or marriage. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 mandates that a citizen obtain prior approval from the district authority for conversion. Under the existing law, any person found guilty of indulging in forced conversion can face imprisonment up to three years and a fine of up to Rs 50,000. If the person who has been forced to convert is a minor, a woman or a person belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe, the maximum imprisonment has been fixed at four years and a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-shelves-anti-love-jihad-bill-for-now/articleshow/80716209.cms||Kapil Dave
February 6, 2021||India||Can’t browbeat court with bench preference, says SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday frowned upon the recent trend of litigants seeking recusal of judges to get a bench of their choice and termed this as "browbeating of the court". Rejecting a woman petitioner's demand for recusal of Justice DY Chandrachud, who had headed a bench earlier to decline her relief, a bench of Justices Chandrachud and MR Shah said, "We see no valid and good ground for recusal by one of us. Merely because the order might not be in favour of the applicant earlier cannot be a ground for recusal. A litigant cannot be permitted to browbeat the court by seeking a bench of its choice." This judgment by Justice Shah was given on a petition filed by Neelam Manmohan Attavar who had sought recall of an order of September 30 last year by a bench of Justices Chandrachud and K M Joseph. The SC had then ruled that her writ petition challenging a Karnataka High Court single judge bench order was not maintainable in a case under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. Attavar had sought right to residence in the property of a married man, with whom she claimed to have been in a live-in relationship. On September 30, the bench of Justices Chandrachud and Joseph had said, "While we have come to the conclusion that the writ petition is not maintainable for assailing the judgment of the single judge of the high court dated July 31, 2018, we expressly leave open the rights and remedies available to the petitioner, including by way of a special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution to assail the judgment of the single judge of the high court of Karnataka in proceedings before this court." Writing the judgment, Justice Shah said when it was pointed out to the petitioner that as another application filed by her for the very same relief was dismissed by the SC earlier, the second application was not maintainable, she submitted that Justice Chandrachud should recuse from hearing the present application. While dismissing Attavar's plea, the bench directed the SC registry not to accept any further application from her on the subject matter of orders passed on September 3, 2020, and October 29, 2020, or in the present order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-browbeat-court-with-bench-preference-says-sc/articleshow/80716258.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||Cruelty to animals may soon attract Rs 75,000 fine, 5-year jail||NEW DELHI: Anyone injuring or killing animals may no longer get away by paying a penalty of Rs 50. The government has prepared a draft to amend the 60-year-old Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, proposing penalty up to Rs 75,000 or three times the cost of the animal with jail term up to five years or both if an act of an individual or an organisation leads to an animal's death. The draft has proposed offences in three categories - minor injury, major injury leading to permanent disability, and death to an animal due to cruel practice - and prescribed different penalties ranging from Rs 750 to Rs 75,000 and jail term up to five years for different crimes. The existing law stipulates a penalty between Rs 10 and Rs 50 for any act of cruelty such as beating, kicking, torturing, starving, overloading, overriding and mutilating an animal. It doesn't have different categories of offences for cruelty. Animal in the Act is defined as any living creature other than a human being. In a written response to a Parliament question in Rajya Sabha on Friday, minister of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying Giriraj Singh said, "The need for amending the PCA, 1960, by introducing more stringent penalties has been recognised by the government. The draft amendment worked out includes increasing monetary penalties and punishment provisions." The minister, however, did not give details, including monetary penalties and quantum of punishment. The question was asked by Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar while referring to a case in Kerala where an elephant was suspected to have consumed a pineapple filled with powerful firecrackers which exploded in its mouth, leading to death, in the Silent Valley forest last year. Sources said the draft amendment also provides for making offences of cruelty against animals cognisable and making state animal welfare board a statutory body. "It's a work in progress. The draft will be put out in the public domain, seeking comments from stakeholders, including the general public and experts. It will be finalised only after analysing the comments," an official said. In response to a different Parliament question, the government told the upper House that 316 cases relating to cruelty to animals were pending in various courts across the country. Sixty-four such cases were pending in the Supreme Court while 38 were pending in Delhi high court. Among states/UTs, the highest number of cases was in Tamil Nadu (52) followed by Maharashtra (43), Kerala (15), Karnataka (14), Telangana (13) and Rajasthan (12). A total of 199 out of the 316 cases relating to cruelty to animals were pending for more than five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cruelty-to-animals-may-soon-attract-rs-75000-fine-5-year-jail/articleshow/80716285.cms||Vishwa Mohan
February 6, 2021||India||UPSC aspirants to get one more chance due to pandemic: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it was agreeable to grant one more chance to those civil services aspirants who took the exam last year during the pandemic and exhausted their number of attempts but said it would not grant another chance to those hit by the age bar. The Centre's response was filed in view of a clutch of petitions filed by students seeking one more chance to appear for examination on the ground that they could not prepare for the test due to the pandemic and were "forced" to appear as the government turned down their plea to defer the exam. There were 3863 candidates who had exhausted their number of attempts while taking the test last year. Of these, 555 qualified the preliminary test and the government's decision would benefit 3308 candidates. There were 2236 students who are affected by the age bar and they needed relaxation of one year. But the government told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar that it was not in favour of giving relaxation to students hit by the age bar. "Relaxation, only to the extent of providing one extra attempt for Civil Service Examination (CSE), may be granted to only those candidates who appeared for CSE-2020 as their last permissible attempt and are otherwise not age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021," said the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/upsc-aspirants-to-get-one-more-chance-due-to-pandemic-govt/articleshow/80716347.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Business||RBI holds rates, forecasts 10.5% GDP growth for FY22||Mumbai/New Delhi: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept interest rates on hold but promised to retain the policy stance as accommodative to support growth as long as it was required to aid recovery. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also announced that the cash reserve ratio (CRR) — share of deposits that banks must hold with the central bank — would be restored to pre-Covid level by May 22, a move which will drain Rs 1.4 lakh crore from the banking system. “Consumer confidence is reviving, and business expectations of manufacturing, services and infrastructure remain upbeat. The movement of goods and people and domestic trading activity is growing at a robust pace. Electricity and energy demand reflect a broader normalisation of economic activity than in December, even as fears of second wave abate,” said Das. He said the Union Budget 2021-22 has provided a strong impetus for revival of sectors such as health and well-being, infrastructure, innovation and research, among others. This will have a cascading multiplier effect going forward, particularly in improving the investment climate and reinvigorating domestic demand, income and employment. “The investment-oriented stimulus under AatmaNirbhar 2.0 and 3.0 (given during the peak of the pandemic) has started working its way through and is improving the spending momentum along with the quality of public investment. Both will facilitate regaining India’s growth potential over the medium term. The projected increase in capital expenditure augurs well for capacity creation and crowding in private investment, thereby improving the prospects for growth and building credibility around the quality of expenditure,” said Das. Budget Gives Impetus To Revive Several Sectors, Says GuvBankers saw the CRR restoration as a sign that the RBI was seeing the recovery as durable and part of the return to normalcy. In its policy statement the central bank forecast growth of 10.5% for FY22, marginally lower than the government’s 11% expectation, but a sharp bounce back from the 7.7% contraction in FY21. Inflation was forecast to be in 5-5.2% range during the first half of the next fiscal year and 5.2% in the fourth quarter, well within the 6% tolerance level “The need of the hour is to continue to support growth, assuage the impact of Covid-19 and return the economy to a higher growth trajectory,” said Das announcing the MPC decision. The governor said higher fresh arrivals and active supply side interventions contributed to softening of vegetable prices. “It is expected that vegetable prices will remain soft in the near term, while pressures may continue to persist in certain key food items. The outlook for core inflation is influenced by the escalation in cost-push pressures seen in recent months,” said Das “Petroleum product prices have reached historic highs as international crude prices surged in recent months and the high indirect taxes remain, both in the Centre and states. These, along with the sharp increase in industrial raw material prices have resulted in a broad-based increase in prices of services and manufacturing products in recent months. Going forward, concerted policy action by both Centre and States, is critical to ensure that the ongoing cost build-up does not escalate further,” the governor said, highlighting the risks to the inflation situation. Das also announced refinance through long-term repos to banks that lend to NBFCs and exemption from cash reserve requirements for deposits used to fund small businesses up to Rs 25 lakh. Pointing out that RBI has managed the government’s borrowing programme, raising funds at the lowest rates in 15 years in the midst of the pandemic, Das said that it will do the same in FY22. “We are confident that going forward, in 2021-22 also, we will be able to implement the government borrowing programme in the most non-disruptive manner. Let there not be any doubt about this,” he said. While there were some concerns about the CRR restoration draining liquidity, deputy governor Michael Patra assured that the CRR, which was a temporary measure, would be replaced with more durable liquidity infusing measures that are market-friendly. He added that allowing banks to keep bonds in a held to maturity portfolio would give them more headroom to invest. “Every normalisation you have to cross the river by feeling the pebbles. We will calibrate it according to how the market responds, how market sentiments pan out. It will not be a programmed and a ‘cold turkey’ method,” said Patra. Besides the monetary measures, the governor also announced a relaxation in the deadline for complying with new capital norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-holds-rates-forecasts-10-5-gdp-growth-for-fy22/articleshow/80715240.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Allahabad||HC: Post of pharmacist falls within purview of UPSSSC||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has held that the post of pharmacist falls within the purview of the Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC) and it is competent to start the process of selection and recruitment on this post. Dismissing a writ petition filed by Bharat Jee and 16 others, Justice Sunita Agarwal observed, “The petitioners cannot be permitted to challenge the process of selection initiated by the respondent through the UP Subordinate Services Selection Commission, which is competent to make recruitment, on the plea that in the earlier rounds of litigation other similarly situated pharmacists had been given some relief.” By means of the present petition, the petitioners had sought quashing of the direction issued by the deputy secretary (health), Uttar Pradesh dated December 7, 2020 to the director general, medical health and services, UP, Lucknow for filling up the vacant posts of pharmacists through the UPSSSC. Appearing on behalf of the state government, standing counsel Jagdish Singh Bundela contended that UPSSSC is competent to start the process of selection and recruitment on the post of pharmacist as the post of pharmacist falls within its purview. The court gave this decision on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-post-of-pharmacist-falls-within-purview-of-upsssc/articleshow/80724522.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 6, 2021||Patna||Phase 2 jabs from today, 2 lakh workers targeted||PATNA: The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar for frontline workers, including police, administrative and civic body staff, is slated to commence from Saturday. According to sources, more than 2 lakh frontline workers have registered for the second phase of the vaccination so far. Patna civil surgeon Dr Bibha Kumari Singh said apart from the SSB, state police, NDRF, SDRF, officials and staff from different departments of the state government, including revenue and home among others, will be given the shots. “Around 74,000 frontline workers have been registered for the second phase of vaccination in Patna alone. The second phase of vaccination is likely to conclude around February 14,” Singh said. As of now, altogether 3,53,458 healthcare workers have been given the first dose under the inoculation drive in Bihar, which commenced along with the entire country on January 16. As per a bulletin issued by the health department on Friday evening, 40,950 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine in the last 24 hours. Out of the 40,950 shots administered to the registered beneficiaries on Friday, 39,788 beneficiaries were administered Covishield, while 1,1624 beneficiaries were given Covaxin. Also, of all those vaccinated so far, 84 have complained of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) so far, such as pain, mild swelling, mild fever or nausea. The Covid vaccination drive has been held at 6,038 centres across the state as on date, including 669 sites on Friday. Meanwhile, a mere 90 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the corresponding tally to 2,61,157. The daily death count has come down to less than five per day as only two deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities to 1,514. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the nodal officer at AIIMS-Patna said no death was reported due to Covid in the hospital on Friday. “Samples from six districts and Mahavir Cancer Institute, Patna are tested at AIIMS-P. Four new Covid patients were admitted here on Friday, while three patients recovered in the past 24 hours and got discharged,” he said, adding the total number of patients admitted at the hospital is 45. The statewide Covid recovery figure also stood at an impressive 99.08% as on Friday evening. Altogether 201 persons recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the tally for cured persons in the state to 2,58,757. Altogether 23 out of total 38 districts have less than 10 active cases as on date. One day extension for phase 1: Patna civil surgeon Dr Bibha Kumari Singh said the conclusion of the first phase of vaccination, primarily for healthcare workers, has been extended by a day across the state and it will now conclude on Saturday. The overall vaccination coverage as on Friday stood at 47.5%. “The private medical hospitals in Patna have witnessed a comparatively lower turnout of beneficiaries. All registered persons, who are still to be vaccinated, should turn up on Saturday and get the jab,” Dr Bibha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/phase-2-jabs-from-today-2l-workers-targeted/articleshow/80712790.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 6, 2021||Patna||Character certificate must even for sub-contractors, says Subhani||PATNA: Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani on Friday said that a character certificate will now be mandatory even for sub-contractors of government tenders and their employees, who would interact with the common people at public places. Subhani said the step is aimed at keeping criminal elements, history sheeters or law breakers from getting any government contracts. “DGP SK Singhal’s recent order on character verification is aimed to only strengthen the system of character certificate issuance by police so that no criminal element can get a government tender at any cost,” Subhani said. He said the DGP’s order is subsequent to home department’s direction issued on January 25 in which new conditions were explained. He said now a condition has been included that if any government contract results in public contact like tender of bus stand, haat-market, parking spot, then not only the contractor getting the tender but also his staffers dealing with the public would require a character certificate from police. The senior bureaucrat said the contractor concerned would also have to ensure issuance of identity card to such staffers who would issue tickets or collect money from people. Subhani said the condition for seeking character certificate from police for government tender in public works department was already in existence but it has been expanded and strengthened by inserting new riders. Subhani was addressing a joint press conference with DGP Singhal and ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar to elaborate on the recent order on the age-old practice of character verification by police. The senior IAS officer, while elaborating the order, clarified that personal liberty and civil rights hold a very important place in democracy and government along with public servants work in such a fashion that such liberty and rights are not violated. “Under these, there is freedom of expression, freedom to raise one’s voice peacefully and even protest, take out procession and stage dharna peacefully by following law for which government also grants permission,” he said, adding none of the rules formed violate any fundamental right, personal or democratic liberty nor government has any such intention to do so. DGP Singhal said his letter is only to make things clear and elaborate on minute issues for all police officers concerned for issuance of character certificates as per law and Supreme court guidelines. ADG Kumar said the DGP’s order is aimed at providing character certificates in a time-bound manner and to get it done strictly as per law in view of the new conditions for government tendering. “Even in 1985, letter for police character verification was issued. This has been only strengthened and updated with time,” he said, adding the DGP’s order on character certificate is aimed to address all these issues. He said the general administration department had issued a letter in 2006 and then in 2020 making character certificate by police mandatory for government jobs. He said GAD had even issued a letter making character verification mandatory before joining as per Supreme Court guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/character-certificate-must-even-for-sub-contractors-says-subhani/articleshow/80712700.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 6, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Farm groups, police set for ‘chakka jam’||BATHINDA: Various farm organisations are going all out to ensure that the three-hour ‘chakka jam’ called on February 6 to put pressure on the central government for repealing farm laws is a success. The representatives of 32 farm organisations from Punjab and other states are mobilising activists and farmers to participate in the blockade and have identified points on various national and state highways for disrupting road traffic from noon to 3pm. The ‘chakka jam’ will conclude with one-minute continuous honking. Police forces in Punjab and Haryana are on their toes to ensure that nothing untoward happens and traffic flow is maintained. Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Friday issued advisories for a peaceful ‘chakka jam’ and issued appeals asking the public to cooperate. The SKM said that only national and state highways across the country will be blocked from 12 noon to 3 pm and no one will stop emergency and essential services like ambulance, school buses . Protesters have been asked not to indulge in any conflict with any government official or ordinary citizens. Farmer leader Darshan Pal urged the public to honk at 3pm to express their support and solidarity with “annadatas”. BKU Ekta Ughrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said the activists are gearing up for the road blockade at various places across 14 districts. “The activists in large numbers are ready to raise their voice against the central government for enacting three contentious laws and for fortifying the Delhi borders to cage protesting farmers as if they were citizens of some other country,” he said. BKU Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said farmers will reach various highways to show their annoyance against the attitude of the central government. In the meanwhile, the district administrations in Punjab have made alternative arrangements for traffic flow by planning diversions. Elaborate security arrangements too are being made for regulating the vehicular traffic, said a government spokesman. With focus on seven districts, Haryana police claimed to have made adequate arrangements to deal with the “chakka jam” call. Besides Sonipat and Jhajjar districts, which are considered most sensitive, additional deployment will be done in Rewari, Palwal, Jind, Ambala and Kaithal. Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava said this has been done to ensure that law and order situation remains under control and farmers also stay safe during the agitation. A troupe of 45 companies of Central forces will be deployed with Haryana Police personnel at all points across the state where farmers’ unions have decided to block roads. Haryana police has already ordered deployment of cops on non essential duties in the field. This is in addition to deployment of Haryana Armed Police reserves. “Special measures have been taken to ensure that those on agitation remain protected and no anti-social element creates any disturbance. Farmer unions have already assured a peaceful protest,” said Yadava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farm-groups-police-set-for-chakka-jam/articleshow/80714661.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Govt: Piped water scheme to employ 1.14L rural youths||PATNA: The maintenance policy of the Mukhyamantri Gramin Peyjal Nischay Yojana, which was discussed and approved before CM Nitish Kumar here on Friday, will not only ensure proper upkeep and timely maintenance of piped water supply system in the gram panchayats across the state, but also provide sustainable employment to more than 1.14 lakh rural youths. State’s panchayati raj department’s additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena said as per the provisions laid down under the policy, a sum of Rs 48,000 per annum per ward would be provided to the ward implementation and management committee for proper upkeep and maintenance of the piped water supply scheme under the Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal Nischay Yojana. Thus, a rural ward will receive Rs 4,000 per month for maintenance of the water supply system. There are 13 to 14 wards in each gram panchayat in the state and each ward has around 200 households. There are 114,691 wards in 8,386 gram panchayats across the state, he said. A boy or woman from the same village would be appointed as ‘maintainer’ by the gram panchayats. Each ward will have one maintainer. As per the policy, the ward committee will pay Rs 2,000 per month to the maintainer from the Rs 48,000 it would receive from the funds of the 15th Finance Commission. Besides this, the maintainer will collect a sum of Rs 30 per month per family as user charge. Thus, he/she will collect around Rs 6,000 per month from around 200 households in his/her ward. Of these Rs 6,000 collected from the users, 50% amount (Rs 3,000) will be paid to the maintainer as incentive. Thus, a maintainer will get Rs 5,000 per month. The rest of user charge will be given to the ward committee. “This will ensure a sustainable employment to more than 1.14 lakh rural boys or girls in the state,” Meena told TOI. While reviewing the draft policy, the CM asked the officials of panchayti raj department, public health and engineering department (PHED) and urban development and housing department (UDHD) to ensure that the piped drinking water supplied under the Nischay Yojana is not misused for other purposes. The CM also asked the officials to supply water only during the scheduled period to avoid overuse of electricity. Nitish also asked the officials to set up integrated call centres to solve the problems and complaints related to drinking water supply. Meena assured the CM that an effective system would be developed to resolve the consumers’ complaint. “There will be a system to disconnect the water supply connection if the user does not pay the nominal charge of Rs 30 per month within stipulated period,” Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-piped-water-scheme-to-employ-1-14l-rural-youths/articleshow/80712710.cms||Madan Kumar
February 6, 2021||Business||M&M takes Rs 1,210 crore impairment for Ssangyong||Chennai: Mahindra & Mahindra has taken an impairment of Rs 1,210 crore in the third quarter on account of its bankrupt South Korean subsidiary Ssangyong Motor. “Ssangyong had filed for bankruptcy in December and had applied for Autonomous Restructuring Support (ARS),” said Anish Shah, deputy MD & group CFO, Mahindra Group. “We were in negotiations with a buyer but they were not comfortable with some aspects of the deal. Ssangyong will likely go for the prepackaged bankruptcy plan. The buyer is still interested and we will work with them to close the deal,” he added. M&M and its arm Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturing saw a 40% increase in Q3 net profit at Rs 531 crore, up from Rs 380 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue increased 16% to Rs 14,057 crore, up from Rs 12,120 crore last Q3. The results were lower than analyst estimates. “As in the previous quarter large impairment hit on long term investments yet again constrained profitability at the PAT level,” said ICICI Securities. M&M is lining up Rs 9,000 crore capex for the FY22-24 period with investments in foreign subsidiaries like Peugeot two wheelers, US tractor arm Magna among others, farm implements companies Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery and Sampo Rosenlew. The group is also looking at listing a number of its businesses including Classic Legends (maker of Jawa motorcycles), the retail brand Firstcry, used vehicle business Mahindra First Choice Wheels and steel company Mahindra Accelo. “There are opportunities for listing three or four of these companies in the next 3-5 years,” added Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mm-takes-rs-1210-crore-impairment-for-ssangyong/articleshow/80713999.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||ECR GM honours staff, officials for hard work||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) observed its 65th Railway Week at a function here on Friday. The function is observed every year in April to mark the beginning of Indian Railways in the country on April 16, 1853. However, the Covid-19 pandemic forced the railways to organize it after nine months of its scheduled time to felicitate the officials and staff for their hard work during 2019-20 fiscal. Altogether 137 railway officials and employees from five divisions of the ECR received awards for their outstanding services. Speaking on the occasion, ECR GM L C Trivedi praised the officials and employees for contributing to the development of railways in the zone. “The Covid-19 pandemic was a great challenge for railways to deal with the situation and provide best care to the Covid-19 patients and bring back thousands of migrant workers to Bihar,” he said. According to Trivedi, the ECR had loaded 149.49 million tonnes of freight during 2019-20 fiscal, which was nearly 8.93% more than in 2018-19. “The ECR not only achieved the target set by the Railway Board, but also exceeded it by 3.10% ,” he said.. Trivedi said ECR made a record earning of Rs2755.18 crore in the passenger segment alone while it transported about 23.88 crore passengers during the 2019-20 fiscal, yielding an impressive revenue for railways. “Punctuality of mail and express trains improved much and ECR introduced nine pairs of passenger trains and extended services of at least eight pairs of passenger trains to cope with the increasing number of passengers on different routes,” the GM said. Trivedi handed over shields, awards and commendation certificates to the railway officials and employees. While Dhanbad division bagged the GM’s overall efficiency champion shield, Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya division was declared the runner-up. Danapur lifted the shields in the punctuality efficiency, track and bridge maintenance, best illumination and energy efficiency, best scrap disposal efficiency and telecom efficiency categories. Railways’ central superspeciality hospital in Patna was awarded the best family welfare shield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gm-honours-staff-officials-for-hard-work/articleshow/80712879.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Business||Sundaram Finance Q3 net up 45%||Chennai: Truck lender Sundaram Finance saw Q3 net profit rise by 45% for the quarter ended December, 2020 at Rs 242 crore, as compared to Rs 167 crore registered in the corresponding period last year, driven by pick up sales of passenger cars, tractors, construction equipment vehicles, light commercial vehicles and used commercial vehicles have led to the revival, and except mid and heavy commercial vehicles. Its MD TT Srinivasaraghavan said, “Compared to the scenario in the first two quarters of the year, Q3 saw a revival in most of our business segments, except Mid and heavy commercial vehicles. Passenger Cars, Tractors and Construction Equipment segments did particularly well in Q3.” Disbursements for the third quarter rose 8.5% to Rs 4,307 crore YoY. Net Income increau 7% YoY, and assets under Management stood at Rs 31,226 crore in December 2020, as compared to Rs 30,502 crore in December, 2019. Net NPA (Stage III) stood at 1.59% (2.79%) in this quarter. Deposit base grew by 10% YoY at Rs 4,112 crore. Rajeev Lochan, MD designate said, “Any adaptation will bring challenges, there will be continuity by the way we have built this platform. In the markets we operate and the asset class we have and the vibrancy will continue for the next several years. Our ethics will continue for the next few years.” Its deputy MD Harsha Viji added “The long-term story is very positive, however, for the next six months the watchword is caution. There is a need to maintain caution till the portfolio quality comes up.” Its board of directors have declared an interim dividend of Rs 12 per share FY 2020-21. Shares of Sundaram Finance ended up 0.5% at Rs 1,889 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sundaram-finance-q3-net-up-45/articleshow/80714040.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Rajkot||‘Love affair’ led to 42-yr-old woman sarpanch’s murder||Rajkot: A 27-year-old man was arrested in connection with the murder of 42-year-old female village sarpanch Nanduben Rathod, a resident of Bodva village in Kodinar taluka of Gir-Somnath district.According to the police, Rathod, sarpanch of Bodva village, was found murdered on Wednesday from the village's outskirts after she went missing on Tuesday evening. Her family members searched for her and her son received a text message on his mobile from his mother stating, ‘save me’.Villagers found her body in a farm lying in a pool of blood after she was stabbed to death by the accused.“We received information about the Rathod’s relation with accused Deepak Sosa, who is also a resident of Bodva village and called him for questioning. He confessed to killing the sarpanch,” police said.“Deepak is unmarried and the duo had been in an affair since 2014. He claimed that Rathod used to demand money from him regularly for their relationship and on Tuesday too, asked for more money. Accused called her to a farm owned by Bhupat Solanki in the village and stabbed her to death there,”' police added.Deepak, who was addicted to crime serials, pre-planned her murder. He did not escape from the village after the murder and in order to divert investigation, sent the text message from deceased's mobile number to her son, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/love-affair-led-to-42-yr-old-woman-sarpanchs-murder/articleshow/80712456.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Efforts on to rescue Khagaria man: DGP||PATNA: Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani on Friday said high-level talks were going on with the officials in Arunachal Pradesh to rescue Khagaria man Ram Kumar, who had been kidnapped from an oil drilling site in Changlang district on December 21 last year. ULFA-I and NSCN-IM insurgents allegedly kidnapped Kumar along with Assam man Pranab Kumar Gogoi demanding Rs20 crore ransom from the private firm in which the duo worked. Kumar hails from Bahadurpur village under Alauli police station area in Khagaria. The insurgents had recently threatened to kill Kumar if their demands were not met by February 16. Kumar’s wife Bina Kumari and their 8-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son live in Khagaria. As per Bina, their son is suffering from blood cancer and they are dependent on Kumar and his earning for his treatment going on in Patna. When asked if the insurgents’ motive was to pressurise the central government by releasing videos of the hostages addressed to the respective CMs, Subhani said they were inquiring into the video addressed to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. DGP SK Singhal said he talked to his counterparts in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam to know about the rescue efforts. “Security agencies there are working together. They are using choppers and drones having night vision cameras to search and rescue the kidnapped persons,” he said. On January 20, the insurgents had released an alleged video of Kumar requesting Bihar CM to talk to his Assam counterpart for making arrangements for his release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/efforts-on-to-rescue-khagaria-man-dgp/articleshow/80712565.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Surat||Two cops caught taking Rs 4.5 lakh bribe||Surat: Two cops and their aide were booked for accepting a bribe of Rs 4.5 lakh by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Thursday from Pipodara GIDC in Surat district. While Mahadev Kishan Sevaikar, ASI in range operation group (ROG) of Surat IGP office and his aide, oil trader Vipul Ashok Balar was nabbed from the spot, the third accused — Dipesh Hasmukh Maisuriya, a police head constable (HC) in LCB — was not found. The accused cops had accused the oil trader of running illegal business and demanded the bribe so as not to take action against him, said officials. The accused were caught in Balar’s office in Pipodara GIDC where they accepted the bribe from the complainant after a trap was laid by S M Patni, police inspector, Ahmedabad rural, ACB under supervision of assistant director, ACB Surat, N P Gohil. Of the total bribe amount, Sevaikar and Maisuriya were to get Rs 2 lakh each, while Balar was to get Rs 50,000, said an ACB official. Apart from bribe money ACB recovered Rs 2 lakh cash from Balar’s office and seized Sevaikar’s Scorpio SUV, in which he went there to collect the bribe money. This fresh arrest follows the earlier arrest of Prakashsinh Raol, an ASI of Ahmedabad range IGP office, who was caught accepting bribe of Rs 50 lakh near Anand in the first week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-cops-caught-taking-rs-4-5-lakh-bribe/articleshow/80712219.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Schools asked to follow Covid safety protocols||PATNA: The state education department on Friday issued detailed standard operating procedures (SoPs) for resumption of academic activities for students of classes VI to VIII from February 8 in all government and private schools. The schools have been asked to allow only 50% of students and hold classes for each batch on alternate days. The SOPs include regular cleaning and sanitisation of school premises, compulsory use of masks and hand sanitisers and social distancing. Schools have been asked to form a supervisory team to ensure that all the protocols are followed. Co-curricular events like sports day, annual day and morning assemblies should be avoided unless necessary. Although the students will be at 50% capacity, the teachers and staff members can operate in full strength. Availability of medical examiner, counsellor, doctor or nurse in or around the school campus will have to be ensured. Principal secretary of education department Sanjay Kumar said it’s completely safe for students of junior classes to go to their schools. “It has been a month since the senior secondary students started attending offline classes and very few adverse cases have been reported. While the Munger case was false, the Covid outbreak happened in Gaya school because its principal himself was tested positive for the virus,” he said. “This is a major step by the government towards resuming normal life after a difficult year. Once students start attending offline classes, their parents, teachers and people around them will also observe regularity in their routines,” Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said. The SOPs have been welcomed by school authorities. Abhishek Patrick, assistant director of Jesus and Mary Academy, said, “We will follow all the protocols prescribed by the government. The Covid preventive measures were already in place for senior students and the same will be applied for the junior students as well.” Sharat Kumar Singh, principal of Litera Valley School, said, “The first two days will be crucial as the initial hesitation and apprehension of the students and their parents will be high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-asked-to-follow-covid-safety-protocols/articleshow/80712823.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Business||Sensex sees best B-week in 10 yrs with 4.4k pt rise||Mumbai: The Budget rally on Dalal Street continued for the fifth consecutive session on Friday, taking the sensex past the 51k mark for the first time ever, but it closed below that level. With SBI, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank leading, the sensex touched an all-time high of 51,073 points, before ending 117 points up at 50,732 — its highest ever closing level. On the NSE, the Nifty too crossed the 15k mark for the first time, but closed below that level at 14,924 with a 29-point gain. Since February 1, the sensex has added 4,446 points, or 9.6%. This is the highest gains in terms of both points and percentage for the index in one week after the Budget over the last 10 years. In terms of percentage gains, the 26% over one week after Manmohan Singh’s 1992 Budget tops the charts (see graphic). The day’s gains in the sensex, however, overshadowed the selling in small and midcap stocks. BSE data showed while the midcap index lost 0.9%, the smallcap one lost a marginal 0.3%. As a result, despite the sensex closing with a slight gain of 0.2%, investors were left poorer by about Rs 14,000 crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 200.1 lakh crore. The RBI’s decision to maintain status quo on rates also did not have any impact on the market, brokers and dealers said. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, the advance-decline ratio again ended in the negative, reflecting some profit-taking in midcaps, as the attention has shifted to largecaps lately. BSE data showed that compared to 1,289 stocks which closed higher, 1,688 stocks closed lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-sees-best-b-week-in-10-yrs-with-4-4k-pt-rise/articleshow/80715118.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Premises being used for illicit liquor trade to be confiscated||PATNA: Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal has asked all the district magistrates and superintendents of police under his jurisdiction to confiscate the buildings and warehouses which were being used for storage of illicit liquor in violation of the prohibition laws. The divisional commissioner issued the directive during a review meeting with senior administrative and police officers on Thursday. IG, Patna range, Sanjay Singh was also present at the meeting. The meeting assumed significance in the wake of seizure of huge quantity of liquor from a godown under the Bypass police station area on the outskirts of the state capital. Agarwal told the officers that using any premise for drinking, storing and transporting liquor is illegal in the state under the provisions of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act 2016. “The seized properties will be auctioned after completing the necessary legal proceedings,” the divisional commissioner said. He also asked the officials concerned to intensify raids against liquor smugglers and initiate stringent action to check bootlegging. The officers were also told to intensify night patrolling and keep a close vigil on those involved in transportation of the banned commodity. During the review meeting, it came to light that the vehicles seized under the prohibition laws were being auctioned. The station house officers (SHOs) were asked to ensure that the provisions of the prohibition laws are enforced effectively. The SPs were told to expedite the cases related to violation of the prohibition laws. In addition, instructions were issued for surprise inspection of police stations as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/premises-being-used-for-illicit-liquor-trade-to-be-confiscated/articleshow/80712546.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||People with disabilities to get a unique identity card||BHAGALPUR: District magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen has directed the officials of health department, Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC), Nagar Parishad and blocks to organize special camps for health check-up, authentication and completion of the application procedures of people with disabilities to issue them unique disability identity (UDID) cards. The special camps have been organized in the 16 blocks from Friday to to March 17. A roster of 90 health personnel, including doctors, has been assigned in the blocks for the purpose. Sources said the objective is to track the physical and financial progress of the UDID cardholders at all levels of implementation. The persons with disabilities will not require to carry multiple documents as the UDID card has all the necessary details, which can be decoded with the help of a reader. The special camps have been scheduled at primary health centre (PHC) in Sahkund block on February 5-6, referral hospital in Sultanganj block (February 8-9), referral hospital in Nathnagar block (February 10-11), PHCs in Sabour (February 12-13), Jagdishpur (February 15-17), Goradih (February 18-19), Narayanpur (February 20-22), Bihpur (February 23-24) and Kharik blocks (February 25-26), sub-divisional hospital in Naugachia block (March 1-2), PHCs in Gopalpur (March 3-4), Rangra (March 5-6), Ismailpur (March 8-9) and Sanhoula (March 10-12) blocks, sub-divisional hospital in Kahalgaon (March 13-15) and referral hospital in Pirpainty block (March 16-17). Additional SDM (Sadar) and assistant director social security (ADSS) Annu Kumari told this newspaper that the procedure for check-up of persons with disabilities, their authentication and subsequently issuing them UDID cards has started at Sahkund block PHC on Friday. “We are trying to provide a disability certificate and UDID card to the beneficiaries the same day,” she said. The UDID card for person with disabilities, a project of the Centre’s Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, is being implemented with a view to creating a national database for persons with disabilities (PwDs) as well as issuing them UDID cards to encourage transparency and ease of delivering the government benefits to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-with-disabilities-to-get-a-unique-identity-card/articleshow/80712593.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 6, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Centre trying to isolate Punjab, project it as disturbed area’||JALANDHAR: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Friday alleged that Centre was trying to segregate Punjab through a propaganda campaign to project it as a disturbed area. “The government is saying that opposition parties are using farmers to target it (government), but actually the Union government is using them (farmers) to kill democracy and the spirit of Constitution in the country. They wish to push through their plan for fascist authoritarian rule and targeting and vilification of the farmers’ movement is manifestation of that mindset and plan,” he said here. “It is no more a hidden agenda. This can be the last people’s movement in free India. States are passing orders to criminalise even participation in protests. These are clear signs of what is in store,” he said. The PPCC president added, “Punjab is being segregated through a vilification campaign by the government. It depends upon the people of the country... if the nails on the ground near protest sites become nails in the coffin of this government or the democracy in the country.” He alleged that BJP was trying to sow seeds of divisions in Punjab and that their “Tiranga yatras are actually aimed at danga (riots)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/centre-trying-to-isolate-pb-project-it-as-disturbed-area/articleshow/80714673.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Expansion of PMCH: CM to lay foundation on February 8||PATNAL Chief minister Nitish Kumar will lay foundation for the expansion of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on February 8. The CM will also lay foundation for construction of an elevated road leading to the hospital the same day, principal secretary of state health department Pratyaya Amrit said on Friday. Situated on the bank of the Ganga and established in 1925, the PMCH will be developed as a world-class hospital with 5500 beds and other modern facilities. Amrit said the elevated road from the Kargil Chowk near Gandhi Maidan to the National Institute of Technology Mor would ease traffic. “The PMCH will become the largest medical college of the country with the latest medical technologies,” he added. Amrit and other officials earlier visited the PMCH campus and discussed preparations with superintendent Dr I S Thakur. “We will invite PMCH alumni, former principals and superintendents and others to attend the foundation-laying ceremony,” Dr Thakur added. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary said all necessary arrangements have been made for the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expansion-of-pmch-cm-to-lay-foundation-on-february-8/articleshow/80712771.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Business||RBI does not accept Rs 22k cr G-Secs’ sale||Mumbai: In the tug of war between the RBI, which wants to keep gilt yields lower, and traders who want to push up the yields, the central bank on Friday didn’t accept government securities (G-Secs) worth Rs 22,000 crore — the highest such amount ever — in the weekly auction. There was also a devolvement of nearly Rs 9,000 crore in the same auction. Of the Rs 31,000 crore on offer, gilts worth only Rs 185 crore were accepted, RBI data showed. In the bond market, the benchmark yield on G-secs hardened (prices fell) despite an RBI assurance that it would manage the government’s borrowing programme in a non-disruptive manner. During the day, the 10-year yield rose by about 10 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to a recent high of 6.17%, which some bankers said was an aberration. Central bankers also said that they have specific plans to keep the yield within check. The benchmark yield is one of the main determinants of the rate of interest in the economy. As result, a rising yield could impact businesses and the economy negatively. Market players said that an announcement of an open market operation (OMO) by the central bank could have kept yields under check. “Lack of specific market intervention measures to ensure smooth absorption of the enhanced market borrowings remains the key disappointment from the fixed income market perspective,” a fund manager said. Central bankers on the other hand indicated that OMOs were forthcoming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-does-not-accept-rs-22k-cr-g-secs-sale/articleshow/80715203.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Fish traders get vehicles in Katihar||KATIHAR: The district administration on Friday handed over four-wheelers, three-wheelers and two-wheelers with ice box facility to at least 16 beneficiaries under the chief minister’s fisheries distribution scheme. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj, who handed over the vehicles to 16 beneficiaries, said the move was aimed at promoting pisciculture and fish trade in the district. Several officials from the fisheries and other departments were present at the function. District fisheries officer Shambhu Prasad Nayak said 90% subsidy was provided to the beneficiaries by the state’s fisheries directorate for availing the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fish-traders-get-vehicles-in-katihar/articleshow/80712630.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Four schools fined, three told to refund fees to 6,500 students||VADODARA: Four prominent schools in the city will have to cough up over Rs one crore in fees refund and fine after the Fee Regulation Committee (FRC) in Vadodara ruled against them on complaints of overcharging fees and taking charges or fees under heads that were not included in their approved fee structure. The orders were issued by the FRC after it received complaints from a section of parents against Podar World School, Podar International School, Delhi Public School (DPS) at Harni and DPS at Kalali. The excess fees was charged for academic year 2019-20. The committee passed an order asking Podar World School to pay Rs two lakh as fine as it came to light that it was charging late fees from students. The school used to charge Rs 300 per week for delay in paying the fees. A fine of Rs one lakh was imposed on the Podar International which has been directed to refund fees of around 1,500 students. It was revealed that the school had charged more money than the fees fixed. Member of the FRC Keyur Rokadia said that the refund would amount to around Rs 27 lakh. Around 2,900 students of DPS, Kalali, will benefit with the FRC ruling that the school had charged higher fees including term fees that were not allowed. Rokadia said that the refund ordered by the committee to the students of the school would amount to around Rs 52 lakh including both term and tuition fees. In the case of about 2,100 students from the DPS, Harni, the school has been asked to refund the excess fees charged. This would amount to around Rs 28lakh, said Rokadia. The schools can appeal against the decision of the FRC in the revision committee or the court. Recently, the committee had taken similar action against St Kabir School and Global Discovery Academy. Rokadia tendered his resignation on Friday morning itself as he had been granted a ticket by the BJP for the ensuing civic polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-schools-fined-3-told-to-refund-fees-to-6500-students/articleshow/80712724.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court puts AAP MLA on trial for rape, criminal intimidation||NEW DELHI: Stating that one can’t lose sight of the fact that a survivor fears for her reputation in sexual assault cases, a city court has put sitting AAP MLA Mohinder Goyal on trial after finding prima facie a case of rape and criminal intimidation against him. Special judge Geetanjli Goel also framed charges under Information Technology Act against the MLA’s brother, Ishwar Chand Goyal, for allegedly sending sexually explicit and obscene clips to the complainant. “The veracity of the statement of the prosecutrix and witnesses can be tested only during trial,” the court held. The accused had pleaded not guilty and argued that the incident alleged by the woman took place two years before the complaint was filed. The woman had alleged rape by the MLA when she went to see him over a pension issue. She further claimed that the MLA and his brother pressured her into establishing physical relations and sent her explicit clips. The MLA forcibly assaulted her on multiple occasions and owing to the fear of losing her reputation she accepted his apology in December 2018. However, on February 5, 2019, she received a message with obscene videos from the MLA’s brother. “Ishwar Chand also used to call her many times and put pressure on her to establish physical relations with him,” it was alleged. From the record placed before the judge, it was seen that the legislator allegedly threatened to defame the survivor. The counsel for the accused, advocate RK Upadhyay, cited the two-and-a-half-year gap between the alleged incident and the date of complaint. He argued there was no evidence to indicate that the woman complained to anyone when she went out of the house. Though the allegations stated that the MLA had assaulted the woman repeatedly, there was no time and date given. The lawyer said neither was any evidence collected from the accused’s house nor did police record statements of any of the witnesses from his office. “He was staying in a flat in a respectable society. Neither any CCTV footage was collected, nor was there any register entry to show who visited on the said date. Regarding the incident in the office, many people coming and going could have been witnesses, but no statement of any employee was recorded,” he added. The woman’s complaint had “specific allegations” of Mohinder Goyal having forcibly established physical relations with her on two occasions and also threatening her. “IPC sections 376(2)(n) (committing rape repeatedly), 509 (insulting woman’s modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) are prima facie made out against the accused,” the court held. The MLA’s brother, however, has been put on trial for offences under sections 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) and 67A (publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc) of IT Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-puts-aap-mla-on-trial-for-rape-criminal-intimidation/articleshow/80715844.cms||Aamir Khan
February 6, 2021||Business||24/7 helpline for e-payment by September this year||MUMBAI: In a move to improve confidence in digital payment transactions, the RBI has announced a 24X7 helpline for information on grievance redressals. “The major payment system operators would be required to facilitate setting-up of a centralised industry-wide 24x7 helpline for addressing customer queries in respect of various digital payment products and give information on available grievance redress mechanisms by September 2021. Going forward, the facility of registering and resolving the customer complaints through the helpline shall be considered,” the RBI said in its monetary policy statement. Read AlsoRBI makes it easy for you to invest in govt bondsThe RBI said on Friday that retail investors would very soon be able to directly buy and sell government securities (G-Secs). A difficult proposition now, once it is allowed, it could open up another avenue for retail investors to look at government-guaranteed, low-risk products for long-termThe governor pointed out that the RBI has taken many measures for safety and redressal of grievances for enhanced digital payment experience. Incidentally, setting up a helpline for customer queries on digital products was part of the vision document on payment systems. Given the increase in cyberfrauds in the country, enforcement authorities have been asking the banking industry to set up a nodal point for reporting frauds. The RBI has so far asked banks to provide customers an alert for each electronic transaction with an option to communicate and report if the transaction is fraudulent. Read AlsoRBI holds rates, forecasts 10.5% GDP growth for FY22The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept interest rates on hold but promised to retain the policy stance as accommodative to support growth as long as it was required to aid recovery.The central bank has also introduced the concept of ‘zero liability’ of customer if the fraud has been undertaken without customer negligence and if the fraud is reported in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/24/7-helpline-for-e-payment-by-sept-this-yr/articleshow/80715149.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Chirag Paswan doubts police claim in Rupesh case||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan raised questions over the police investigation into IndiGo station manager Rupesh Singh murder case. “It’s a unique example of a road rage in which a man pumped six bullets into the body of another to eliminate him after 40 days of the ‘altercation’ on the road. There is hardly any takers of the police theory. This is perhaps the first example of its kind in the nether world of crime,” Chirag tweeted on Friday. Chirag’s statement on the sensational murder coincided with that of the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who descried the probe as worse than a grade C film. “Akhir police né bakra khoj hin liya (after all the police found a scapegoat in the case),” Tejashwi tweeted. Rupesh, considered to be close to several politicians and bureaucrats, was gunned down near his apartment at Punaichak in Patna on January 12. On Wednesday, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma claimed to have cracked the case by arresting shooter Rituraj Singh. Sharma said Rituraj killed Rupesh to take revenge of a road rage incident near the airport in November last year. However, the SSP turned poetic to substantiate the police findings in the case and cited a few lines of a poem of noted Hindi poet Shivmangal Singh ‘Suman’ on his Facebook wall on Thursday: ‘Kya haar mein, kya jeet mein, kinchit nahi bhaybheet mai; kartavya path par jo mila, yah bhi sahi, wah bhi sahi. Wardan nahi mangunga, ho kuchh haar nahi manunga.” The SSP further wrote, “I am proud of my team, which cracked the sensational murder case with full sincerity and tiring efforts. Kudos to them.” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar didn’t lag behind in encouraging the probe team. He said the team members would be suitably rewarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-doubts-police-claim-in-rupesh-case/articleshow/80712851.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Business||This isn’t just pent-up demand: RBI governor Das||NEW DELHI: Ten months after his post-lockdown press conference, which was the RBI’s biggest firefighting exercise after the global financial crisis, governor Shaktikanta Das was a picture of confidence on Friday. Emboldened by the economic and financial market revival, Das has initiated the process of normalising liquidity while, at the same time, promising that bond yields would be treated as a “public good” and not allowed to run amok. Excerpts from the press conference:On recovery being in place or it being pent-up demand: We have been tracking a list of high-speed indicators. In almost all segments, we are seeing a growth of demand. It has now moved from pent-up demand and, as the lockdown gets lifted, the demand curve is expected to be sustained. On treating the management of yields as public good: G-sec yields are the benchmark on which corporate bonds are priced and bank lending is influenced. Eventually, G-sec yields impact a wider section of the financial market. On plans to allow retail investment in government bonds: It has been the endeavour of the RBI and the government to make G-secs directly accessible to retail investors. So far, investors have been able to invest through aggregators. Now, they will be able to open an account directly in the RBI system. There are very few countries where investors can directly purchase government bonds. The US and Brazil have done that. We are the first in Asia. On government bonds crowding out other saving instruments: As the GDP grows and the economy comes back to a higher growth trajectory, the volume of savings will expand. Banks have many services to render, so it will not undermine the flow of deposits. Even today, small savings offer a higher return than banks, notwithstanding that bank deposits have grown 11.3% this year. On market expectations of higher bond purchases by RBI: Sometimes, the market takes a little more time to understand our communication. We have said that open market operations (OMOs) will be enhanced, but the situation is evolving, and we have a mix between the operation twist (simultaneous purchase and sale of long- & short-term bonds) and OMO purchase. The decision (on size) was based on market feedback as the system was flush with liquidity. On asset quality review as suggested in Economic Survey: We are doing exactly what an AQR needs to do as part of our supervision of banks and NBFCs. We are making a deep dive into the books of banks and NBFCs and with regard to the state of bad loans, and making our own assessment. On the ability to manage the oversized borrowing programme: We are confident of managing it in a very non-disruptive manner. We did it in 2021 with the lowest borrowing cost in 15 years. The average maturity of the borrowing has got elongated and in 2021-22 too we will be able to manage government borrowing in a non-disruptive manner. On the revival of PMC Bank: Three bids have been received for PMC Bank. The cooperative bank is evaluating the offers which were received on February 1. After evaluation, they will approach the RBI and it will require some regulatory clearances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/this-isnt-just-pent-up-demand-das/articleshow/80715254.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Allahabad||Gifts add to richness of AU library||Prayagraj: The departmental library of the department of Hindi, Allahabad University have been donated with a rare collection of around 1,000 books by the family members of the former head of department (HOD), and professor Ramswaroop Chaturvedi. Likewise, the central library of AU received around 1,500 books in the last two years, many of which are now out of print. These wide-ranging books that have been donated by family members and faculty members of AU. A known critic and former head of the department, professor Ramswaroop Chaturvedi's library consisted of rare books and magazines. The books will now adorn the departmental library as his family decided to donate the valuable reading material to the department of Hindi, AU. Acknowledged in the world of Hindi literature as a critic par excellence, professor Chaturvedi was the head of the department from 1986 to 1991. Born on May 6, 1931, the eminent scholar had breathed his last on July 24, 2003. The collection includes about a thousand important books, most of which are not easily available for sale in the markets. Some titles are difficult to find even in most libraries. The present head of the department, professor Kripa Shankar Pandey thanked the family of Chaturvedi for their invaluable contribution and said that "teachers, research scholars and students of the department would greatly benefit from his legacy and books." Significantly, the central library of AU has also been receiving the donation of books, from various publications, government agencies, authors, former and present teachers etc. “The former teachers of AU and their family members have been kind enough to donate the books to our library, of which some of the collections are quite rare and hard to find in the market. This has immensely contributed in making this library's literary value richer as some of the donated books are out of print and very rare”, said librarian of AU’s central library, Dr BK Singh. Detailing on some of the important gifts that the central library has received in the past two years, Singh informed that the collection of books belonging to the former faculty member of the department of English, Krishna Chandra, was also gifted by his family members. This includes around 300 books, most of which are in good condition. Likewise, Prof D Mandal, a former faculty member of the Department of Ancient History of AU, donated 82 books. The central library also received the personal collection of K N Mukherjee who gifted 396 books. Similarly, the present Dean Arts, Prof Heramb Chaturvedi has gifted 130 books, the Gayatri Parivar 158 books, former officiating vice-chancellor and former HoD of Education department, Prof K S Mishra gifted 26 books, Prof Anita Gopesh, a former faculty member of the department of Zoology has donated 225 books to the central library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gifts-add-to-richness-of-au-library/articleshow/80724503.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||New navigation aid at airport soon for safer landings||PATNA: Flight operations from the city airport will get safer as a new navigational aid is likely to be installed by March 31. Work on replacing ageing equipment in the existing Instrument landing System (ILS) will commence within a few months. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said in a statement issued on Friday that new Doppler Very High-Frequency Omni Range (DVOR) will be operational by March. “The state government has recently given working permission to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to start work on 16.5 acres of land located outside the southern side of the airport boundary wall, which has been identified for installation of the DVOR as well as an isolation bay,” Negi said. He added, “We have targeted to install the new DVOR by March 31, following which its calibration will get done. The final date for commissioning of the new DVOR will be announced accordingly.” On the DVOR, the airport director said, “The DVOR equipment guides the pilots to approach an airport by radiating navigational signals up to approximately 600kms. Additionally, the DVOR also helps the pilots during the landing process.” The cost of the DVOR equipment is Rs3cr and the total expenditure for the electrical and civil engineering work for its installation is expected to be Rs2.36 crore. The airport director claimed that the work on the ILS is likely to start in a few months. The ILS consists of a localiser and a glide path, which help pilots identify the position of the runway at the time of landing. The current ILS at the Patna airport is Category 1, which is known as CAT-I ILS and the director claimed that it will remain in the same category. “We are just going to change the equipment- localiser and glide path,” Negi said. He further said, “The cost of the ILS equipment is approximately Rs 4crore. The total cost involved in electrical and civil engineering related works of ILS is estimated to be around Rs 4.36crores.” The airport director also claimed that work for construction of an isolation bay, which is used for parking of aircraft under bomb threat and other emergency scenarios, will be taken up this year. “AAI is also planning to take up the work for re-surfacing of runway and aircraft parking areas during this year to improve the surface quality,” Negi said. Revised winter schedule: AAI released a revised winter schedule for operation of flights from Patna airport from Saturday. The airport’s deputy general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar said 47 flights have been scheduled to operate to and from the airport under the revised schedule. As of now, 46 flights were operating from the city airport. The additional flight is IndiGo’s 6E 792/793, which flies to Bengaluru. “Night operations will resume in the summer season,” Santosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-navigation-aid-at-airport-soon-for-safer-landings/articleshow/80712726.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 6, 2021||Patna||‘Train from Jainagar to Kurtha soon’||PATNA: Railway minister Piyush Goyal said in Rajya Sabha on Friday that the standard operating procedure (SOP) has been prepared by Indian Railways and Nepal government to commission direct passenger train services between Jainagar in Madhubani and Kurtha in Nepal soon. “The new lines and gauge conversion work on the route has been completed with an expenditure of Rs 548 crore,” he said . The railway minister disclosed this while replying to a question raised by newly-elected Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi. In reply to another question of Modi, the railway minister said the gauge conversion work on the Jogbani-Biratnagar route, which was sanctioned way back in 2010-11 fiscal, was completed with an expenditure of Rs 286 crore. “In the second phase, gauge conversion work from Bathnaha to Biratnagar was also completed,” he added. Goyal said the Nepal government recently got two sets of 1600hp diesel electric multiple unit DEMU rakes from the Konkan Railway Nigam Limited to start passenger train services between Jaianagar and Kurtha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/train-from-jainagar-to-kurtha-soon/articleshow/80712552.cms||Kumod Verma
February 6, 2021||Amritsar||Bathinda: AAP begins civic body poll campaign||BATHINDA: The AAP on Friday kickstarted its state-level campaign for the February 14 municipal elections in Bathinda on Friday. The party gave a slogan ‘Saareyan nu azmaya, saareyan ne ditta dhokha, hun jhadoo waleyan nu devangey mauka (tested every party, everyone cheated, now opportunity will be provide to broom)’. Opposition leader Harpal Singh Cheema claimed that nomination papers of many candidates have been rejected under pressure from the ruling party and “we have already met the state election commissioner and demanded security for all the candidates”. He said corruption in the municipal corporations and municipal councils by the Akalis and Congress would be cleaned with the broom. The SAD-BJP and Congress had worked to fill their houses, he said. Cheema was accompanied by MLAs Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, Budh Ram, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer and Baldev Singh Jaito and party candidates for Bathinda Municipal Corporation during the launch of the party campaign. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal has been spearheading the election campaign of Congress at Bathinda for the last many days. He has been visiting wards to campaign for the party nominees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/aap-begins-civic-body-poll-campaign/articleshow/80714702.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||2,000 cops, frontline workers get the jab, drive in Kolkata may start on Monday||KOLKATA: Close to 2,000 cops and other frontline workers were vaccinated in the state on Friday, the second day since the vaccination drive for frontline workers apart from healthcare workers began in Bengal on Thursday. Officers of Howrah police, including commissioner Kunal Aggarwal and DC (headquarters) Dyutiman Bhattacharya, featured among the maximum number of recipients on Friday. “We reported to the hospital around 11.30am and were administered the first dose of Covishield. Neither me nor any officer in my knowledge experienced any discomfort. The process was seamless and I am glad to be among the early batch of officers in our state to have received the vaccine,” Bhattacharya said. In Howrah, two hospitals were earmarked as primary vaccination booths — Howrah General Hospital for the urban area and Uluberia Subdivisional Hospital for the rural zone. At Howrah General Hospital, 55 frontline workers — 50 of them cops — got the jab, said hospital superintendent Narayan Chatterjee. Among other recipients were officers-in-charge of a number of police stations along with a few civil defence personnel. “I am fine. There has been no pain or dizziness and I even walked six kilometres in the evening as part of my daily exercise routine,” said a Howrah officer. A senior city cop told TOI vaccination of officers in Kolkata was likely to begin on Monday. “We have sent mails to every police station asking them to be prepared and are also appointing division-wise nodal officers to keep a note of the number of cops being vaccinated per day and check if any of them develop discomfort after the vaccination,” said an officer. An official at SSKM Hospital said they have been asked to keep their vaccination sites ready for healthcare and frontline workers simultaneously from Monday. “At least half of healthcare workers in our hospital are yet to take the vaccine,” the official said. Altogether, 23,677 people were inoculated on Friday at 507 sites across the state with one reported case of serious AEFI. So far, 3,43,701 recipients have got their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state. (With inputs from Rupak Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2k-cops-frontline-workers-get-the-jab-city-drive-may-start-on-monday/articleshow/80714706.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Slow & Steady: XI & XII Students Back||NEW DELHI: When government schools reopened for classes IX and XI on Friday, attendance was fairly high. The private schools, on their part, have decided to either take their time with the resumption or have decided to not go ahead at all. Many schools are also yet to receive the consent form from parents. Since classes IX and XI students do not have the pressure of board exams, their parents are not keen on sending them to school when online classes are working well for them. At Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Sector 8, Rohini, 55% of Class IX students and 60% of Class XI students resumed physical classes on Friday. “We had staggered timings for the classes,” explained a happy principal, A K Jha. “Students of classes X and XII were in school till 12 noon and those from classes IX and XI after that.” The turnout at Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Ghitorni, was higher than when school restarted classes X and XII on January 18. “Of the 250 students in Class IX, 143 came, while 59 of 84 in Class XI were present,” disclosed English teacher Sunil Kumar, adding, “Parents are confident now that the schools are equipped to deal with the pandemic situation.” No classes were held in physical form in private schools on Friday. “We will call our students after a few days. We have sent the parents the consent forms,” said Tania Joshi, principal of Indian School. The Ahlcon Group of Schools will also summon the students from February 7. Director Ashok Pandey revealed that the institution had, as yet, received only 50% of the consent forms signed by parents. On why parents did not appear keen about the resumption of classes, Pandey surmised, “There is no board exam pressure on students. Besides, online classes are proceeding properly.” A few schools have opted to avoid physical classes altogether, Bluebells International School being one of them. Its director, Suman Kumar, said that very few parents had consented to send their wards to school, “so we decided to postpone the physical reopening for classes IX and XI and continue classes online.” She added, “The parents feel apprehensive about the situation and while all protocols to prevent the spread of Covid infection are in place, we still cannot force our students to attend classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/slow-steady-xi-xii-students-back/articleshow/80713154.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: SAD-Congress showdown after papers of two Akalis rejected||BATHINDA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress had a showdown at Gidderbaha town of Muktsar on Friday over rejection of nomination papers of two Akali candidates. After Jalalabad, where his vehicle was attacked, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal staged sit-in at Gidderbaha levelling charges against Congress’s local MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring of misusing the official machinery. Sukhbir also “warned” the administrative and police officials to not to side with the ruling party or they will have to face the music when SAD gained power. Countering the allegations, Warring, held a small election rally and asked officials not fear “the hollow threats of SAD president and discharge their duty with honesty”. Warring dared Sukhbir to contest the assembly elections against him from Gidderbaha. On Tuesday, Sukhbir was attacked at Jalalabad SDM office when he was accompanying a party candidate filing nomination papers for municipal council elections. Sukhbir had accused Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Awla and his son of orchestrating the attack. On Friday, Sukhbir alleged: “Raja Warring has misused the official machinery to get the nomination papers of two Akali candidates rejected. The officials who are dancing to his tunes will have to face music once SAD comes to power. The officials should not side with ruling party but stay neutral.” Warring retorted saying SAD chief had been misusing official machinery during its 10 years rule and thought the Congress would do the same but he must not level false allegations and threaten officials. As the Congress was winning the council elections, Akali Dal was shedding crocodile tears and finding excuses for its imminent defeat, he added. The Akali Dal also held similar protest at Muktsar. Likewise, Aam Aadmi Party held protest at Sunam accusing the Congress of abducting one of its leaders. MLA Aman Arora spent the night outside Sunam SDM office. Meanwhile, some protesters agitated during the election office inauguration of BJP candidate at Mansa’s ward number 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sad-cong-showdown-after-papers-of-2-akalis-rejected/articleshow/80714692.cms||Neel Kamal
February 6, 2021||Kolhapur||500-yr-old cannon balls found at fort||Kolhapur: Around 400 cannon balls, said to be around 500 year old, were found on Thursday by a group of local youths at Pawangad, a fort in Kolhapur district. The youths, part of Team Pawangad, came across the buried cannon balls when they were digging holes to the install signboard. The fort — situated near Panhala fort — is famous for Battle of Pawankhind in July 1660 when Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj broke the siege of Siddi Johar and reached Vishalgad. Pawangad and Panhala forts are separated by a deep forest and ravine. Maruti Patil, a member of Team Pawangad, said the cannonball weighs between 100 and 700 grams. “They (cannon balls) were found around three feet below the ground level and in a systematic manner. We cannot rule out the possibility of getting more cannon balls”, he said. The work of digging holes has been in progress for almost a week. Members of Team Pawangad and forest department started digging systematically when they found the first batch of cannonballs. The team has deposited 406 cannon balls with the archaeology department that is currently looking after the fort. A team of experts is expected to visit the site to carry out scientific survey and excavation. The forest department has sealed the area where cannon balls were found. Historian Indrajit Sawant observed that the cannonballs were most likely from the 17th century. “They are found in many forts in Sahyadri, but they have been found in such a large number for the first time”, he said. Sawant also said that cannon balls, made of stone, are round in shape, which is an indicator of the advanced technology of the that time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/500-yr-old-cannon-balls-found-at-fort/articleshow/80712346.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 16L robbery: Cams in 50km radius help nab 2 of five||MUMBAI: After scanning footage from CCTV cameras in a 50-km radius of the city, the MIDC police managed to arrest two of the five men involved in robbing a real estate broker and his wife at ‘gunpoint’. The gun was found to be a toy gun. The five had robbed the couple of Rs 16.2L in gold ornaments and cash on January 17. The case was detected in 10 days, after the police team found out that the robbers did not use any phones or gadgets in order to avoid getting caught. The robbers’ tied Mahesh Chaudhari and his wife with tape in their sixth-floor flat at Rustomjee Cooperative Housing Society in Andheri (east) before robbing them. During the probe, the police learnt that the mastermind, who is acquaunted with the victim, planned the offence after they had a rift over flat sales. The robbery was executed in 20 minutes after the key accused informed his accomplices that Chaudhari has a large sum of money in his safe from selling drugs. “After stealing the valuables, they removed the digital video recording (DCR) of the CCTV cameras. The building did not have a security guard. The couple freed themselves and called the police,” said an officer. In the complaint, Chaudhari said, “The robbers entered my house on the pretext of getting details of a room on rent.” The two arrested accused will be produced before court on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-16l-robbery-cams-in-50km-radius-help-nab-2-of-five/articleshow/80714712.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 6, 2021||Nashik||Process to give govt job to Raut is on: Chhagan Bhujbal||NASHIK: Senior NCP leader and district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Friday said that the process of giving a government job to Kavita Raut, an athlete from Nashik who is known internationally, was already in process and the formalities would be completed soon.  “The state government had offered a job to Raut, but since she wanted a post higher than that, some formalities had to be completed. It took time,” said Bhujbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/process-to-give-govt-job-to-raut-is-on-bhujbal/articleshow/80715850.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Bhagat Singh’s Pakistan house to be made a memorial||FEROZEPUR: With the continuous persuasion of a Pakistan-based foundation, freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s existing ancestral house in Pakistan will be converted into a memorial. The ancestral house in Banga village, now Bhagatpura in Faisalabad district in Pakistan, is in possession of Jammat Ali Nambardar, who reportedly agreed to hand over the house to covert the same into a memorial, claimed advocate Imtiaz Rasheed Qureshi, chairman of Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation, Lahore. He said Pakistan government had declared the house as heritage in 2013 and it was opened to public in 2015 and Rs 5 crore was given for its renovation by the then-district coordinator officer Nural Ameen Mengal. Qureshi said the process for converting the house into a memorial had been going on for the last many years. Every year, on the day of Bhagat Singh’s martyrdom on March 23, a fair is also organised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bhagats-pak-house-to-be-made-a-memorial/articleshow/80714675.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rally in Sachin Pilot’s bastion passes resolution against farm laws||JAIPUR: A kisan mahapanchayat, which was addressed by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in Dausa on Friday, passed a three-point resolution asking the Centre to withdraw its three controversial farm laws. Apart from this it also asked the Centre to compensate the kin of farmers who died during the protest and withdraw police cases against the protestors. Pilot condemned the violence of January 26 at Red Fort but urged the Centre not to pitch ‘kisan’ and ‘jawan’ against each other. He said the kind of fortification being done against the protesting farmers on the Delhi borders was not done even on the Indo-Pak border. The Congress leader said 24 political parties were united in support of the farmers and would continue to protest peacefully until the three laws were withdrawn. The mahapanchayat was organised by Congress legislator from Dausa, Murari Lal Meena and was attended by six more MLAs, other than Pilot. The event drew a huge gathering of rural men and women from Dausa and nearby districts. The region has been a stronghold of the Pilot family since the days of late Rajesh Pilot. The former deputy chief minister would be addressing more farmer rallies in the state in the coming days. In Dausa, Pilot attacked the Centre saying it had pushed the entire farming community’s future into darkness just to please a handful of industrialists. Pilot said 80% farmers in the country were marginal, but the three laws passed by the Centre have no provision to protect their interests. “The Centre invited farmers 11 times for talks but what is holding it from withdrawing the laws that are being opposed all over the country?” Pilot asked, addressing the mahapanchayat. He also questioned the Rajasthan governor holding on to the three amendment bills passed by the state assembly to neutralise the Union farm laws. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have united 24 political parties against these laws. We will make the Centre accept our demands,” Pilot said. The Congress leader said the three Union laws were aimed at ending the crop mandis and did not guarantee minimum support price for the farmers’ produce. “These laws have ended stock limits. We have a food security Act that ensures meals for the poor, but if the industrialists purchase all the crops and the government stops buying from farmers, how will the poor be fed?” Pilot said. “Forget about doubling the farmers’ income as was promised, the Centre has ended even the bonus that was given on crops. Pilot said the Centre should stop labelling farmers as ‘terrorists’ and ‘separatists’.” People at the mahapanchayat joined Pilot in shouting ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ slogans and raised their hands in support of the three-point resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rally-in-pilots-bastion-passes-resolution-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80714729.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar DC suspends sarpanch on embezzlement charge||YAMUNANAGAR: Deputy commissioner (DC) Mukul Kumar has suspended a sarpanch for alleged embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh from A grant received for construction of a community centre in the village. The DC suspended Harvinder Singh from the post of sarpanch of Karkouli village of Yamunanagar district under Section 51 (suspension and removal of a sarpanch) of Haryana Panchayati Raj Act 1994 on January 29, 2021. According to the suspension order, Kakrouli gram panchayat received Rs 6 lakh for construction of a general chaupal on August 30, 2017. Later, the gram panchyat got another Rs 6 lakh for completion of the community centre in the village on May 9, 2018. Harbans Singh, a resident of Kakrouli village, lodged a complaint with block development and panchayat officer (BDPO), Pratapnagar, alleging that the sarpanch of his village misappropriated the grant issued for completion of the community centre and other development projects. When the BDPO got records of these works verified, no letter of approval of the government, estimate letter, measurement book and bills of the amount shown to be spent on completion of the community centre were shown. After getting the report from the BDPO, Yamunanagar DC, on January 6, 2021, issued a show-cause notice to the sarpanch, seeking his reply on the alleged embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh in the grant amount. The sarpanch was to file a reply in seven days. In his reply, the sarpanch said he spent Rs 9,42,920 on construction of a general chaupal and Rs 2,57,080 on construction of BC (backward class) chaupal. “The gram panchayat got Rs 6 lakh for the completion of the community centre, but sarpanch Harvinder Singh spent the amount on work of the general and BC chaupals. As per rule, it is wrong. The sarpanch has intentionally committed embezzlement of Rs 6 lakh, violating rule and regulations; therefore he is suspended from the post of sarpanch,” reads the order of the Yamunanagar DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/yamunanagar-dc-suspends-sarpanch-on-embezzlement-charge/articleshow/80714700.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Amritsar||17 candidates elected unopposed in Zira||BATHINDA: All 17 candidates have been declared elected unopposed in the Zira municipal council as violence marred elections in Ferozepur and Fazilka districts. After withdrawal of nominations, only 17 candidates were left in 17 wards, one each in every ward. They were all declared elected unopposed late on Friday afternoon. In all, 42 candidates filed nomination papers and nomination papers of 12 were rejected on Thursday. Of the 30 candidates left, 13 withdrew nominations on Friday. With this, Zira became the only municipal council in Punjab where all candidates have been elected unopposed. Shiromani Akali Dal objected and termed it as “murder of democracy.” Zira sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ranjit Singh told TOI that as only 17 candidates were left in the fray after papers of 12 were rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/17-candidates-elected-unopposed-in-zira/articleshow/80714703.cms||Neel Kamal
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Before House nod, corporation adds charge on building plans||NEW DELHI: Desperate to generate more revenue, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued a circular to levy an additional compensatory regulatory charge at the time of sanctioning plans for new buildings as well as any addition/alteration. The highest slab of Rs 15,480 per square metre — for agricultural/low-density residential area (LDRA) land in A category — will now translate into an additional Rs 15.4-lakh charge for a 100 square metre plot over and above the building plan fees. After clearing the proposal through the standing committee last November, the cash-strapped civic body has taken the “anticipatory approval route” through the mayor before getting it passed in its House. “The mayor has accorded in-anticipation approval vide her orders on January 14, 2021,” reads the circular issued by the office of the additional commissioner (engineering). The new charge is required to keep development work going as Delhi government has drained the corporations of grants and allocations, claimed officials. To take up effective development work in the national capital, the charges have been approved for fresh sanction and alteration/addition of building plans, the order states. The one-time fee varies from 0.1% to 2% of the circle rates for various categories like residential, commercial, LDRA, and agricultural land. The charge will be calculated at the rate of 0.2% of the circle rates for plots measuring more than 50 square metre and 0.1% for plots less than 50 square metre. In residential areas, the charge may vary from Rs 1,548 per square metre in A category to Rs 491 in B category and Rs 319 C category colonies. The circle rates in Delhi vary according to the category of a colony. The circular states the charges will be adjusted with any change in the circle rates. The impact of the new charge will be double on industrial units and triple for consumers applying for a building plan for commercial units. In the last couple of months, the cash-strapped municipal corporations in Delhi have tried various routes, such as new taxes, user charges, increase in licensing fees and desealing fees, to augment revenue. A proposal to utilise parks for commercial purposes has even kicked up a controversy. The compensatory fee proposal from the municipal commissioner had stated that such a development fee was already being levied in cities like Mumbai, Kolkata, Nagpur and Pune by the name of development cess or even drainage development charges. “While sanctioning a building plan, various charges are taken, but the corporation also has to take care of unauthorised areas, special areas, villages, etc almost for free,” said a senior official. The proposal had argued that following the master plan 2021, the densification of areas has gone up due to the notification of 2,500 commercial and mixed land-use streets and multi-fold increase in dwelling units, leading to more demand for services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/before-house-nod-corpn-adds-charge-on-bldg-plans/articleshow/80713174.cms||Paras Singh
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Delivery boy steals items from firm, arrested||MUMBAI: A delivery boy employed with an e-commerce company was arrested by the Malad police for cheating his employer by pocketing products returned by customers and replacing them with duplicates. The accused Nakul Dikshit (20) had teamed up with his friend Aavesh Ansari (21), for the crime. Ansari is unemployed. According to the police, after swapping the original product for a duplicate, Dikshit would return the parcel to the company’s office. The company suspected something amiss when around half a dozen parcels were found with duplicate items. Expensive watches, headphones and gadgets were missing. The company approached the police with a complaint on February 3. The police found that all these parcels had been handled by Dikshit. He was questioned and confessed to the crime. Police said the accused had also made a few fake bookings on the e-commerce portal with a bogus address. Dikshit would pretend he had gone to the customer’s address but the customer returned the product. He would replace the original product with a duplicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delivery-boy-steals-items-from-firm-arrested/articleshow/80714766.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Ride and earn: Poverty elimination drive a hit among women in Narayanpet||HYDERABAD: Among the long list of poverty elimination programmes in rural areas, one of the most popular among women in Narayanpet district is learning how to ride a two-wheeler. After assessing the livelihood opportunities it provides, women in dozens have been thronging the training centres each week. Some 101 women from Narayanpet have got a learning license for two wheelers after having enrolled for the free driving classes organised by the office of collector & district magistrate. About 35 women have already learnt driving in the first batch and more women are being trained in the second batch. “For decades I wanted to learn how to ride a two-wheeler. Unlike the urban crowd, we don’t have easy access to driving schools,” said one of the beneficiaries not wanting to be identified. “I was able to learn it this year. I also got a driving licence from Mahabubnagar Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office. I thank the government and MoWo (Moving Women) Social Initiatives for teaching us how to ride,” she said. Women from villages are being encouraged to learn two-wheeler riding under Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP), a programme by department of rural development.  “All the training is imparted following Covid-19 protocols and within a safe environment,” said Hari Chandana Dasari, Narayanpet district collector. “Mobility not only imparts confidence among women, but also increases their potential to pick up better livelihood opportunities.” The SERP is a sensitive supportive structure to facilitate social mobilisation of rural poor women. It works by building and nurturing self help groups of women and their federations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ride-and-earn-poverty-elimination-drive-a-hit-among-women-in-narayanpet/articleshow/80714734.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Pay up ITC its money, HC tells Andhra Pradesh and Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has directed Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments to repay ITC Ltd within four weeks the money it had paid in 2007 for expansion of its Bhadrachalam paper plant. The court also slapped Rs 10,000 fine each on both states and asked them to pay it to the multinational conglomerate. After hearing the company’s petition, a bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud found fault with Telangana and AP for sitting on Rs 4.5 crore money belonging to ITC and for resorting to blame game on who should return it, 13 years after taking the money from the company. The court told both states to refund the money in the ratio of 48:52 with 12 per cent interest to be calculated from May 2007. It all began in 2015 when ITC sought land for expansion of its Bhadrachalam paper plant. AP, which was a unified state then, gave the company 1,100 acres of reserve forest land at Kistasagar in Palvancha division of Khammam district. The state put a rider that apart from paying the agreed amount for the land, the company should take up compensatory afforestation in 1,500 acres in Anantapur district. AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC), which was the nodal agency, sought Rs 4.5 crore from ITC. The company paid the amount on May 31, 2007, through a cheque, which was encashed by the APIIC. But, the Union ministry of environment and forest rejected the idea of handing over reserve forest land to ITC. Later, AP was bifurcated. When ITC wanted its money back, both Telugu states were trying to pass the buck. AP said since the forest land falls in Khammam, Telangana should refund the money. Telangana, however, retorted that since the proposed afforestation was to be taken up in AP and that it was united AP which took the money, AP should only refund it. The bench reminded both the states that since the Centre had rejected the proposal to transfer the reserve forest land in December 2012, the APIIC should have returned the money in the same year itself. “Since APIIC of composite AP, post-bifurcation under part II of the AP Reorganistion Act of 2014, became an inter-state government undertaking, it would attract section 53(1) of the Act,” the bench said. The bench further said: “Since ITC had made the payment of Rs 4.5 crore to the head office in Hyderabad on May 31, 2007, the liability to refund the money to the company would have to be apportioned between both the successor undertakings — APIIC as well as TSIIC — based on the population ratio of 58:42 under clause (b) of the proviso to section 53(1) of the Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-up-itc-its-money-hc-tells-ap-and-t/articleshow/80715851.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
February 6, 2021||Goa||Varsity opens admissions for Portuguese certificate course||Panaji: Goa University’s department of Portuguese and Lusophone Studies will be offering a Portuguese certificate course for beginners with an intake of 25 students from mid-February. Any student who has completed Class XII can apply for the course, which will begin from February 15. The course will be of a duration of 100 hours with classes conducted three times a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, from 6pm to 8pm. While students of Goa Board or Goa University will be charged a subsidised fee of Rs 4,800 for the course, those from other boards or universities will have to pay Rs 7,700 for the same. To be able to qualify for the certificate at the end of the programme, students have to score a minimum of 50% marks. Students wanting to join the course will have to apply online by February 12, the department said. Goa University’s department of Portuguese and Lusophone Studies is the only one offering the master’s programme in Portuguese in the country and therefore attracts students from different states of India. The certificate course of the department has grown popular among students since its introduction in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/varsity-opens-admissions-for-portuguese-certificate-course/articleshow/80715861.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RLP organises tractor rally in support of agitating farmers||JAIPUR: Hundreds of farmers participated in the tractor parade organised at the district headquarters on Friday on the call of RLP in support of the ongoing farmer movement in the country. By parading hundreds of tractors on the streets of Jaipur, the RLP demanded the return of farmer bills as well as a memorandum to the district officials. RLP convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said that his party is standing in support of the movement of farmers democratically and peacefully. He said the country’s food producers are agitated against the anti-farmer bill and over 100 farmers have sacrificed their life in the agitation. He said in such a situation, the Centre needs to leave its prestige aside and take back the agricultural bills. He said the tractor rally was organised to send out a message to the Prime Minister who is not yet ready to listen to the demands of the farmers. He said the party will not compromise on its demand for withdrawal of the three farm bills and total implementation of the Swaminathan Committee recommendations. He said the RLP supports the ‘chaka jam’ call by the farmer leaders on Saturday. He strongly condemned the police action of preventing the MPs who went to the border to meet the farmer leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rlp-organises-tractor-rally-in-support-of-agitating-farmers/articleshow/80714755.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Act on erring schools: SFI||Hyderabad: Members of the Student Federation of India on Friday demanded that the state initiates action against school managements who are conducting physical classes for students below class 9. They said that schools are violating Covid-19 guidelines by conducting physical classes for younger kids and claimed that the managements are forcing parents to send their wards to schools to collect fees. “Schools are conducting physical classes for all students to collect the entire academic year fee. The state should direct officials to conduct inspections and initiate action,” said RL Murthy, state president, SFI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/act-on-erring-schools-sfi/articleshow/80714769.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Rajkot||20-year-old school dropout booked for raping minor||Rajkot: A 20-year-old school dropout from Bhogat village in Kalyanpur taluka of Devbhoomi Dwarka district was booked for raping a minor girl and getting her pregnant. He was also charged under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act after the father of a 17-year-old lodged a complaint with the local police.The incident came to light after body of a newborn baby was found on the outskirts of Bhogat village on Wednesday. Police had initially lodged a complaint against an unknown woman for abandoning her baby and started an investigation.During the investigation, police received information that a minor girl who was pregnant had abandoned her newborn child as it born out of wedlock. “When we questioned the minor girl she revealed that she was in a relationship with the accused Bhavesh Davdhra (20) from the same village,” said police. Police said that Davdhra had promised to marry the girl and allegedly raped her on number of occasions following which she got pregnant. After the girl’s revelation, Davdhra, who is a school dropout and unemployed, was booked for rape. A search was on to nab the accused, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-year-old-school-dropout-booked-for-raping-minor/articleshow/80712342.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia drops by, calls for schools to take all Covid-19 precautions||NEW DELHI: As students of classes IX and XI returned to schools on Friday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia interacted with them and expressed happiness that life was slowly coming back on track after the Covid-19 pandemic. Sisodia visited Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Gandhi Nagar and instructed the school authorities to take all necessary Covid-19 precautions. “Gradual opening of schools is a sign of return to normalcy. We cannot wait for ‘zero Covid case day’ as it is necessary for us to adapt to our new lives in this pandemic. Students of classes X and XII were able to strictly follow Covid-19 instructions given to them due to which we are confident to reopen classes IX and XI as well. We are starting on a positive note that all our students will follow Covid-19 precautions and start to get back to their normal life,” said Sisodia. Optimistic reactions from parents on reopening of classes X and XII helped the government take a call on resuming classes IX and XI, he added. “Our lives have slowly begun to get back on track. With reopening of the schools, we are hopeful that we will be able to face all the uncertain challenges ahead of us. The aim of Delhi government is to prepare our students to face adversities in life. We want them to be ready to overcome all obstacles in their lives. Today, the lost glory of our schools has returned. I am happy and excited to see our students perform their lab practicals and meet their friends and teachers maintaining all Covid-19 protocols,” said the Delhi’s education minister. Sisodia also opposed passing of the GNCTD Amendment Bill. “The Kejriwal government has broken the old traditions and established world-class schools. But the Centre stealthily approved a Bill, which aims to give more power to the LG. It will directly hamper working of the elected government in Delhi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-drops-by-calls-for-schools-to-take-all-covid-19-precautions/articleshow/80713218.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nashik||Masses for feast of Infant Jesus shrine to be online||Nashik: The annual feast of Shrine of Infant Jesus will not take place this year due to Covid-19 but the shrine will be open for devotees to pray. The feast is usually held on the second Saturday of February. This year, it was to be held on February 13-14. Fr Trevor Miranda, chaplain of the shrine, said nearly five lakh devotees from across the country come for the feast. Online masses will be held for devotees on February 13 in English, Marathi, Konkani and Tamil. Online novenas will continue till the feast days. —Santosh Sonawane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/masses-for-feast-of-infant-jesus-shrine-to-be-online/articleshow/80715868.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC cancels four provisional admissions to NRIs by JBIMS||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday canceled four provisional admissions granted to NRI candidates by Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) in supernumerary seats of Master of Management Studies course for 2020-21. “We find there is something seriously wrong. It leaves a bad taste. Its like playing with students’ future,’’ said a bench of Justices Suresh Gupte and Surendra Tavade. They quashed and set aside the NRI merit list partly and directed these seats must go to four waitlisted candidates of Children of Indians Working in Gulf Countries (CWIGC) category, including Suresh Bhoite and Gaurav Thakur, who moved HC, saying the college illegally created a separate NRI category. Supernumerary seats are maximum 15% of and over and above the sanctioned intake of 120 seats. Of these 18 seats, one-third (six) seats are reserved for CIWGC and two-third (12) for OCI/PIO/foreign students, or as prescribed by All-India Council for Technical Education. The information brochure states that if seats are vacant they shall be filled from either category. Six seats were filled in CIWGC category and the petitioners were waitlisted at serial 9 and 10. Only two seats were filled in OCI/PIO category. The petitioner’s advocate, Atal Dubey, had argued that JBMIS split this category into two and published a separate list for NRI candidates. It granted provisional admissions to six NRI candidates and showed admissions from 7-10 as against OCI/PIO category. JBIMS’s advocate P M Palshikar initially said if seats were vacant they can accommodate NRIs, but conceded there is no NRI category. The judges said a proviso to admission rules mandate AICTE approval to give seats to NRIs. In their order, they noted, “The petitioners’ grievance seems to be legitimate. There is no justification for declaring a merit list of NRI students despite there being candidates available from CWIGC and, that too, without seeking approval from AICTE for NRI seats.” Further, only when vacant OCI/PIO seats are allotted to four waitlisted CWIGC candidates, JBIMS could fill further vacant seats from NRI subject to AICTE’s approval. Told that admissions not finalised in any category, the judges canceled NRI admissions from 7-10. They said the waitlisted petitioners are entitled to be allotted seats, as also candidates at serial 7 and 8. If the latter do not accept the seats, they may go to NRI candidates subject to AICTE approval. Even the first six NRI admissions need AICTE’s nod, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-cancels-four-provisional-admissions-to-nris-by-jbims/articleshow/80714826.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Amid KT Rama Rao as CM clamour, all eyes on TRS executive meet||HYDERABAD: The TRS state executive is meeting here on Sunday amid a growing buzz that TRS working president KT Rama Rao could soon be elevated to chief minister. The meeting, to be attended by leaders and elected representatives from the district to state levels, will be chaired by TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. This will be the first meeting of the party executive after TRS’ reverses in the Dubbak and GHMC elections. KCR is likely to provided clarity on many issues, especially on TRS-BJP relations, in the wake of confusion over the party’s stand on the central farm laws. “The party leadership is not happy with the election results, which went in favour of BJP in Dubbak and the GHMC polls. Our leader will boost the morale of the cadre at this meeting,” a senior leader said. “The executive will deliberate on how to deal with BJP in Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations, the MLC elections and the Nagarjunasagar assembly bypoll,” the leader added. KCR will also take a call on the party plenary, generally held every year on April 27, the party foundation day. The party could not hold its plenary in 2019 due to the Lok Sabha elections and in 2020 due to the pandemic and lockdown. “If the party wants to hold the plenary, the venue will be decided at Sunday’s meeting,” a TRS office-bearer said. Sources said the TRS has about 60 lakh members in the state and wants the numbers to go up to 80 lakh. A leader said KCR will also offer clarity on nominated posts, party committees and opening of TRS offices in the districts. The meeting will be attended by state executive committee members, ministers, MLAs, MPs, MLCs, zilla parishad chairpersons, corporation chairmen, mayors and municipal chairpersons, and cooperative bodies’ chairpersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-ktr-as-cm-clamour-all-eyes-on-trs-exec-meet/articleshow/80715865.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Driver blacks out, conductor drives bus to hospital as sergeant creates green corridor||KOLKATA: A traffic sergeant on a bike followed a bus that was moving erratically along Bypass on Friday, before hopping on only to find that the driver was unconscious and had slumped over the steering wheel. Luckily, he had planted his foot on the brake before passing out and the bus hobbled to a halt in the middle of the road. Sensing that the driver needed immediate medical attention, sergeant Md Shadab pulled him away from the seat and asked the conductor to drive to a private hospital. He himself rode ahead, instructing traffic cops to provide a green channel for the bus. By the time driver Prasenjit Sen regained consciousness, he was in the emergency department. Doctors said the blackout had been caused by low blood sugar and sodium-potassium imbalance. Sen was advised hospitalization for more diagnosis but his family members got him discharged to treat him at a place closer to their home in Belur. “There was something very unusual about the way the bus was moving and how it stopped in the middle of the road. I thought the driver had possibly lost control of the vehicle. When I went closer to speak to the driver, I found he had passed out. I quickly hopped on to the bus and removed him from the driver’s seat to avert an accident involving the bus. But the driver seemed critical and so I asked the conductor to drive the bus to a hospital as I guided it from the front,” said Shadab, 30, who is with the Ultadanga police station. When sergeant Shadab noticed the Dankuni-Garia private bus around 10.20am, near Gautams eatery on Bypass, it was heading towa-rds Chingrighata. “The bus was packed with passengers and seeing the driver pass out, they started panicking. But the driver had fortunately managed to place his foot on the brake pedal to stop the bus before he completely lost his senses. Otherwise, a major accident could have happened,” Shadab said. While the conductor, Bappa Gain, sat at the wheel, the sergeant switched on his hooter and worked as a pilot vehicle to ensure the bus reached the hospital as quickly as possible. “Doctors at the hospital said the driver was out of danger but needed further monitoring. We have passed on the message to his family members, as well as to the owner of the bus whom we had called to the hospital. The owner had also sent two other drivers to drive the bus away,” said a senior officer of Ultadanga Traffic Guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/driver-blacks-out-conductor-drives-bus-to-hospital-as-sergeant-creates-green-corridor/articleshow/80714856.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to offer science scholarship of Rs 5,000 to Class IX students||NEW DELHI: The Class IX students who have secured more than 60% in their Class VIII final test can now sit for an examination to get a science scholarship worth Rs 5,000. On Friday, the Delhi cabinet approved Mukhyamantri Vigyan Pratibha Pariksha, which will be given to 1,000 students. The cabinet has also decided to digitise the education department. “The scholarship will provide a boost to science education in secondary classes. It is a crucial step for our government to promote excellent and talented students. These students are the future of our country, they will become future scientists, engineers, doctors and architects and will make our nation proud,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Education minister Manish Sisodia said it was an effort to promote scientific temper among children. Students belonging to scheduled caste, scheduled tribe, physically handicapped and other backward class categories will be given a relaxation of up to 5%. For digitisation, close to 1,200 computers, multi-functional printers and backups for uninterrupted power supply will be bought for all schools, and branch and district offices under the education department. “Digitisation plays a crucial role in easing the workload at office. A lot of reporting work gets streamlined, and teachers, principals and officers can focus their energy on quality education,” said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-offer-science-scholarship-of-rs-5000-to-class-ix-students/articleshow/80713237.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||North Western Railway outlines plans for budget allocation||JAIPUR: In the Union Budget 2021-22, Rs 4,672 crore has been allocated for the capital outlay of the North Western Railway (NWR). The budget provision has been made while focusing on physical and financial capital and infrastructure. While the allocation is expected to bring inclusive growth, it would also promote innovation, research and development. Major thrust has been given on new lines and a provision of Rs 462.58 crore has been made for passenger amenities. Provision of Rs 334 crore has been made for rail over bridge and rail under bridges and Rs 500 crore kept for rail track renewal. In addition, the budget contains provisions for construction works like new rail lines, gauge conversion works which are in progress to help provide them the required momentum. “For strengthening of the basic rail infrastructure, a provision of Rs 316 crore has been made in the budget for new line. Meanwhile, Rs 80 crore provision has been kept for gauge conversion and Rs 225 crore for doubling of rail lines,” said Anand Prakash, GM, NWR. Among the other key expenditures included in the provision are Rs 33 crore for bridge works, Rs 93.59 crore for signalling works, Rs 24.87 for rolling stick, Rs 65.99 crore for traffic facilities, Rs 40.53 for factory works, Rs 29.24 crore for employee welfare and Rs 4.11 crore for training work. The breakup of the budget provisions reflects that under new works Rs 24.86 crore have been kept for the elevation of overhead electric equipment on dedicated freight corridor feeder route of Rewari-Bhiwani-Hisar railway line. A Rs 160 crore provision has been kept for a 92.67-km new line on Dausa-Gangapurcity and Rs 100 crore for testing tracks. For gauge conversion Rs 50 crore have been reserved for Mavli-Badi Sadri route of 81-km and Rs 240 crore for 208-km Ahmedabad-Himmatnagar route. For track doubling Rs 32 crore provision has been made for Phulera-Degana route of 108-km, Rs 100 crore for Degana-Rani ka Bagh route of 145-km, Rs 40 crore for Bagadgram-Gudiya Pech doubling FOR 47-km and Rs 25 crore for Ajmer-Bagadgram route of 48.43-km. The other budget provisions include Rs 1,062 for railway electrification works of North Western Railway, Rs 3.19 crore for escalators at Gandhinagar in Jaipur, Bhagat ki Kothi-Jodhpur, Rs 9.98 crore for Rewari-Sadulpur bypass line and Rs 50 crore for development of new terminal facility as satellite station at Khatipura, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/north-western-rly-outlines-plans-for-budget-allocation/articleshow/80714832.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Five held after live porn video-making racket busted at Madh villa||MUMBAI: City crime branch on Thursday busted a live porn video-making racket after raiding a bungalow at Madh island in Malad and rescued a woman. The property cell arrested five persons of a production house, including two women (a photographer and graphic designer) who were recording porn at Green Park bungalow at old Ferry Marg. Sources said it could be the tip of the iceberg as most private bungalows and shacks indulge in prostitution and shoot porn films under the guise of film-shooting. What baffled police is that two women were part of the gang exploiting young girls under the pretext of giving them a break in the film industry. Police rescued a 25-year-old victim and sent her for rehabilitation. The five were arrested under IPC sections for cheating, indulging in obscene acts in public places and publicly exhibiting or circulating obscene books or literature, and under Information Technology Act. A bank account of the production house, which had a balance of Rs 36.5 lakh, generated from subscriptions of porn apps where the accused uploaded the videos, was frozen, , said deputy commissioner of police Prakash Jadhav. “We got information that a gang was issuing advertisements for fresh faces and under the pretext of giving roles in movies they used to take them to the bungalows, make them do odd scenes, lure them with bigger amounts, make them sign agreements and force them to act in porn movies,’’ said senior inspector (property cell) Kedari Pawar. Investigating officer Laxmikant Salunke said the accused would pay Rs5,000-15,000. Going through WhatsApp chats and bank transactions it appears the gang has been doing this for one and a half years, said inspector Dheeraj Kohli. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-held-after-live-porn-video-making-racket-busted-at-madh-villa/articleshow/80714829.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 6, 2021||Allahabad||UPRTOU exam in offline mode from Feb 9||Prayagraj: The exam for the December session of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) would be held from February 9. An unanimously decision to conduct the exam in an offline mode was taken at a meeting chaired by vice-chancellor of the lone open university of the state, Prof Kameshwar Nath Singh. The university has set up 111 examination centres across the state. where 37,000 students would be appearing in the final exams. The exams would commence from February 9 and conclude on March 24. According to controller of examinations (CoE), Devendra Pratap Singh, the exam will be conducted in compliance with the Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uprtou-exam-in-offline-mode-from-feb-9/articleshow/80724491.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Arguing cases from parks, on road: ‘Casual’ attitude of lawyers irks HC||NEW DELHI: Casual attitude by some lawyers attending virtual hearings from roads or parks has left Delhi High Court annoyed. A bench on Thursday found it “simply shocking” that lawyers argue or attend court proceedings via videoconferencing while being on “roads, sitting in parks and even running up stairs”, making it difficult for the court to conduct proceedings as are not audible properly. The court expressed its displeasure and re-iterated that according to the videoconferencing rules, the lawyers and parties are supposed to join the proceedings from a quiet place from where they are at least properly audible, even if not visible. Justice Prathiba M Singh made known her unhappiness with the regular disturbance caused in the virtual hearing due to poor internet connection and lawyers’ arguing their matters from such places from where they were not audible properly. “It is very difficult to conduct proceedings like this. For the last 45 minutes, I have managed to hear only one matter because the counsel was inaudible and because half of the time goes in answering the lawyer who says ‘Am I audible’ for 20 times,” she said. The judge further said she may have to issue a note that advocates who are not in a place from where they are properly audible, will not be allowed to attend the virtual proceedings. According to the Delhi High Court Videoconferencing Rules, the participants should be situated in a quiet location, properly secured and have sufficient internet coverage. Any unwarranted disturbance caused during videoconferencing may — if the presiding judge so directs — render the proceedings non-est, the rules stated, adding that all participants’ cell phones should remain switched off or in aeroplane mode during the proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arguing-cases-from-parks-on-road-casual-attitude-of-lawyers-irks-hc/articleshow/80713248.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Town planning officer held for taking Rs 20L bribe||KOLHAPUR: The assistant director of town planning department was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) while accepting Rs 20 lakh for determining the valuation of a land parcel. The suspect, identified as Ganesh Mane, was arrested from a tea stall outside the administrative building in Kasba Bawda area. The ACB sleuths also seized the cash in denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,00. The complaint against Mane was filed by the chairman of a cooperative cotton mill in Kolhapur district that which is in liquidation. The office-bearers of the mill were in process to complete the procedure of the liquidation when they were asked to complete the valuation of all the property owned by the mill. The office-bearers approached Mane to initiate procedure of land valuation for which he demanded Rs 45 lakh. However, the amount was settled on Rs 20 lakh. The ACB cross checked the complaint twice before initiating the action. On Friday noon, the office-bearers met Mane at his office following which they were asked to meet near the tea stall. Soon after Mane accepted the cash, the ACB officials swung into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/town-planning-officer-held-for-taking-rs-20l-bribe/articleshow/80714857.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: RPF personnel save disabled man from falling on tracks||NAVI MUMBAI: Two Panvel RPF personnel spotted and saved a 33-year-old physically challenged commuter from falling in the gap between the platform and train at Panvel station. The commuter, Prahlad Patil, a Roha resident, lost his balance while attempting to board the handicap coach of the running Roha EMU on Friday afternoon. He was spotted by RPF sub-inspector Renu Patel, who alerted head constable Haresh Mahalle. Mahalle immediately pulled Patil to safety. The cops will be recommended for reward, said Panvel RPF inspector Jasbir Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/rpf-personnel-save-disabled-man-from-falling-on-tracks/articleshow/80715967.cms||George Mendonca
February 6, 2021||Delhi||No bail to riot accused, Delhi court says may threaten witnesses||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has denied bail to two men in a northeast Delhi riots case, observing that if released on bail they could threaten or intimidate the witnesses. The men sought bail on the ground that they hadn’t been named by police in the FIR. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav considered the material on record, gravity of offence, categorical identification of applicants by the complainant and two other independent eye witnesses. “And the fact that applicants are residents of the same locality and if released on bail at this stage, they can threaten or intimidate the witnesses, I am not inclined to admit the aforesaid applicants on bail,” the court said. Shahnawaz and Parvez had sought bail on the ground of delay in the identification by the complainant and witnesses. “The applicants are neither named in the FIR nor have any specific role been alleged against them in the matter. No recovery of any sort has been made... There is no electronic evidence available against the applicants either in the form of CCTV footage or their CDR location on record,” argued their counsel. The court observed that though both men hadn’t been named in the FIR and there was no CCTV footage of the incident on record, it couldn’t “lose sight” of the fact that there was overwhelming evidence – identification of both the applicants by public witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-bail-to-riot-accused-court-says-may-threaten-witnesses/articleshow/80713272.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Roll back VAT and subsidise fuel rates, Congress demands||Panaji: Criticising the chief minister Pramod Sawant for increasing fuel prices, Congress demanded that the government rollback the VAT and reduce prices of petrol and diesel. Pointing out that the poor face the biggest brunt of the hike, the party said that the BJP government should provide people relief by subsidising fuel prices. Sawant’s move to increase taxes on fuel only strengthens Congress’ claims that the BJP government is anti-people, insensitive and pro-capitalist. “The people of Goa are actually expecting relief from the government as the pandemic has severely affected each and every household budget. The government should have given subsidies on fuel prices, but instead the insensitive government has hiked the VAT leading to a steep hike in fuel prices,” state Congress party vice president, Sankalp Amonkar, said. Amonkar said that the increase in fuel prices will have a ripple effect leading to an increase in essential commodities and thus strain household budgets of the poor. Congress also reminded the BJP that former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had promised to never let the price of petrol breach the Rs 60 per litre mark. Amonkar also pointed out that BJP had kept fuel prices high even when international crude oil prices were sharply down. He said that under the UPA government, taxes levied on fuel were lower than what the Narendra Modi government is levying presently. “The Union Budget did not give any relief either. In fact, the finance minister has levied an agriculture infrastructure and development cess of Rs 2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs 4 per litre on diesel,” said Amonkar. “This government has brought the farmers on roads, but has no shame in collecting revenue in the name of farmers and agriculture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/roll-back-vat-and-subsidise-fuel-rates-congress-demands/articleshow/80715947.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Met spies rain tonight||Kolkata: A low-pressure trough over central India is set to trigger light rain across south Bengal, including Kolkata, on Saturday night. The drizzles could continue on Sunday morning and the cloud cover could pull the mercury up to 16°C-17°C. But it will tumble on Monday as the clouds recede, the Met office said. “A wind discontinuity will lead to a trough between MP and Vidarbha on Saturday. It will start moving towards Gangetic Bengal and should reach by night. While Kolkata may get light rain, some of the districts adjoining Jharkhand could receive thunderstorms and heavy showers. Once the clouds recede on Monday, the minimum temperature will drop below 15°C. It could slide below 13°C since the northwesterly will revive,” said RMC director G K Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/met-spies-rain-tonight/articleshow/80714935.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Teen’s Instagram blackmailer turns out to be a 13-year-old boy||MUMBAI: A 14-year-old schoolgirl thought she was playing a harmless game of truth or dare with a “youth” she had befriended on social media until he shot her obscene video and began to blackmail her. After she lodged a police complaint, it turned out the “youth” was, in fact, a 13-year-old boy from her school. Given his age, the boy has been served a notice by the police. The girl, who lives with her family in a western suburb, had an Instagram account. During the lockdown, she accepted a friendship request from an unknown user. The two began to chat and gradually became friends. She did not know him personally. According to the police, the two began to play a game of truth or dare during the lockdown. The game involves choosing between telling the truth or performing a difficult task. Using the video calling feature on the app, the boy asked her to strip as a “dare”. Unknown to her, he filmed her using a screen-recording option on his handset. “The feature comes in select handsets. The boy owned a high-end phone and was well-versed with its features,” an investigating officer said. In the next conversation that the duo had, the boy sent across to her the obscene video that he had recorded. “The girl was stunned. He then began to threaten to circulate the video on social media if she refused to give in to his demands,” the officer said. Thereafter, he forced her to strip on a few more occasions. Traumatised, the girl eventually blocked him on Instagram. He then sent her video to a friend of hers. This friend too blocked him but alerted the girl who finally approached the police. The investigators tracked down the boy’s IP address and found that he lived in the same suburb and was from the same school as the girl. Given that this was his first offence and he was 13, he was served a notice to be present before the children’s court at the time of filing of the chargesheet. “The boy comes from a well-off family and his parents are well-educated professionals. His parents were shocked as they had no idea what he had been up to on his mobile. He would spend a lot of time in his room during the lockdown. We wish to appeal to all parents to monitor their children’s activities online. Find out whom your child is chatting with and the content of the conversations,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teens-instagram-blackmailer-turns-out-to-be-a-13-yr-old-boy/articleshow/80712400.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 6, 2021||Trichy||Burglar encounter: CB-CID to probe case||Trichy: The case of a burglar being shot dead by the police, after a gang comprising him murdered a mother and son for gain in Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai district, is all ready to be transferred to the crime branch - criminal investigation department (CB-CID). Police sources said that the files with regard to transfer were prepared and sent for approval to DGP JK Tripathy. The formal hand over will take place shortly. The four member gang had broke into the house of jeweller S Dhanaraj Chowdhrym at Thadalam South Street on Railway road in Sirkazhi, and murdered his wife D Asha and son D Akhil in the early hours of January 27. The gang then decamped with 12kg of gold ornaments and Rs 6.8 lakh in cash from the house. The accused were identified as J Ramesh Patil, 20, of Rajasthan, working at a two-wheeler spare parts shop in Kumbakonam, R Manish, 23, of Rajasthan working as a labourer at a plywood agency in Jeyankondam in Ariyalur district, Mahipal Singh, 25, working at a shoe mart in Kumbakonam, and Karan Ram, 38, who owns a shoe mart in Kumbakonam. Manish and Karan Ram had known Chowdhry as they visited his house several times. As they were aware Dhanraj’s wealth, they hatched a plan to rob the jeweller. The gang fled the scene with Akil’s car along with the valuables and cash. The Sirkazhi police rounded up Ramesh, Manish and Mahipal near a Casuarina grove near Erukkur. The police had stated that Mahipal tried to take a gun and attack the police and in self-defence inspector P Selvam fired at Mahipal. Karan Ram was also arrested later. All the three were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/burglar-encounter-cb-cid-to-probe-case/articleshow/80714890.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Trichy||Children of sanitary workers, rag pickers given skill training in Trichy||TRICHY: The city-wide inclusive sanitation (CWIS) project, involving multiple stakeholders, for which Trichy city was selected as one of the four cities/towns across India has trained 41 children of sanitary workers, rag pickers and desludging operators in various professional streams. The training programme was given by city-based People’s Development Initiatives (PDI) in the last six months to prevent children of sanitary workers to continue the occupation of their parents citing a lack of access to other employment opportunities. The candidates were trained in mobile phone servicing, beautician, tailoring and car driving fields under sanitary workers’ support programme. “The main objective is to provide opportunities for the family members of sanitary workers to explore other fields including self-employment. When they do not get job opportunities, they are likely to take up their parents’ occupation,” said I Ambalavanan, PDI project director. The cost of the training programme and tool-kits ranging from Rs 3,500 to Rs 8,000 were sponsored by CWIS, and only for the professional driving programme the candidates were asked to pay 50% of the course fee. The programme also helped candidates who underwent beautician training to find jobs in beauty parlours in the city. Out of the 41 candidates, 29 were women. Apart from tailoring and beautician training, the women were interested in learning driving. During the lockdown, all the candidates found eligible to take up the programmes completed the course and were awarded certificates recently. “For now, the candidates who completed mobile phone servicing have established shops in their houses. They will be encouraged and supported to open their own service centres,” Ambalavanan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/children-of-sanitary-workers-rag-pickers-given-skill-training/articleshow/80714928.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Trichy||Central team inspects crop damage in Nagai, Mayiladuthurai districts||TRICHY: The three-member central team, which is on a visit to assess crop loss in the delta districts, has estimated that the untimely rain in January this year damaged crops in 82,330 hectares in Nagappattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. On the second day of the inspection, the team comprising fisheries development commissioner Paul Pandian, assistant director of central electricity authority Shubham Garg and regional officer, ministry of road transport and highways, Rananjay Singh visited Vellapallam of Thalaignayiru union and Palaiyur in Nagappattinam union on Friday. Nagappattinam collector Praveeen P Nair and the officials from the agricultural department accompanied the team. In a statement issued by the Nagappattinam district administration, the team calculated that crops including paddy and groundnut in 82,330 hectares were lost in Nagapatttinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. The statement also said that the crop loss in 33% of the areas was assessed village-wise and the report was sent to the central government through the commissioner of the revenue administration of Tamil Nadu. The team interacted with farmers, who conveyed their grievances to the team. The farmers also said that the visit was too late as the stagnant water in the field has drained out. The farmers also demanded the team to get them compensation to the tune of Rs 30,000 per acre for paddy and Rs 25,000 per acre for groundnut. On completion of the visit, the team left for Cuddalore in the afternoon. On Thursday, the team inspected fields in Kavalipatti, Nambivayal and Thippiyakudi in Thanjavur district and visited paddy fields in Kalamavur, maize crops in Melur and tapioca fields in Aadhanakottai village. The extent of the damage estimated in Thanjavur district was 1,01000 hectares of paddy and 3,700 hectares of groundnut and 880 hectares of black gram. In Pudukottai, 43,976 hectares of crops were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-team-inspects-crop-damage-in-nagai-mayiladuthurai-dists/articleshow/80714911.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Rajkot||Absconding ‘killer’ held after 5 years||Rajkot: A 38-year-old man, who is accused of killing a driver in 2015 and has been on the run ever since was finally arrested after five years from Rajkot’s Jetpur town by the sleuths of the local crime branch of Devbhoomi Dwarka. According to police, they kept a atch after receiving a tip off that accused Dinesh Chavda, has come to his native Jetpur town. “We arrested him from his house and handed him over to Dwarka town police for further probe,” said police official. As per the case, Chavda had allegedly killed bus driver Chanabhai Bambhaniya on December 30, 2015 over parking issues in Dwarka. A school near Talala had organised a tour for its students and hired two buses for Dwarka. After the students got down from the buses, Chanabhai had a ruckus with Dinesh, cleaner of another bus, over parking. Dinesh got angry and stabbed him to death before escaping from the spot and remained missing ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/absconding-killer-held-after-5-years/articleshow/80712427.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Buffalo death sparks black magic suspicion, boy of 6 murdered||Aurangabad: The Beed police have arrested a couple, who they suspect had a role in the killing of a six-year-old son of their relative. Investigation revealed that the couple believed that the boy’s family had killed their buffalo using black magic and they held a grudge over it. Beed superintendent of police R Raja told TOI, “The couple allegedly murdered the boy by strangulating him to death on Wednesday. They were arrested on Thursday following investigation.” A case of murder has been registered with the Neknoor police station. Assistant inspector Laxman Kendre of the police station said, “The suspects have confessed that held a grudge against deceased’s family. They felt that the family had used black magic to kill their buffalo.” Police said the arrested woman had a heated argument with the victim’s family about a fortnight back and accused them of using black magic. The deceased, Shubham Sapkal, had stepped out of his home to play on Wednesday morning. The suspects and victim’s family reside in the same locality and both are farmers. Police said that around Wednesday noon, the child was found in an unconscious state in the vicinity of a school situated on the village outskirts. On learning about it, his parents rushed him to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Family members found strangulation marks on his neck and brought it to the notice of Neknoor police station. An autopsy was performed at Swami Ramanand Teerth Rural Medical College and Hospital in Ambajogai, where the medicos concluded that the boy was strangulated to death. On the basis of the findings, police recorded statements of the victim’s family and others from the village. On Thursday morning, the police rounded up some people for questioning. By evening, one of the suspects broke down and confessed to committing the crime with the help of his wife. Police arrested the couple, Rohidas Sapkal and his wife Devaibai, and produced before the court on Friday. They have been remanded to police custody till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/buffalo-death-sparks-black-magic-suspicion-boy-of-6-murdered/articleshow/80714887.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Trichy||Thanjavur: Ex-servicemen canteen staff bid adieu to pet dog||THANJAVUR: The last rites of the nine-year-old country breed dog, Morpheus, died on Thursday, was performed on Friday by members of the ex-servicemen canteen on Nanjikottai Road in Thanjavur on Friday. Morpheus had become an integral part of the canteen ever since its inception in 2012. Morpheus passed away on Thursday and the burial was conducted on the canteen premises on Friday. Morpheus’ death left many members anguished, who also raised a banner in his memory while terming him as their village deity. L Ramesh, 55, who was instrumental in raising the canteen in 2012, recalled how Morpheus came there as a one-month old puppy with wounds and how the canteen staff extended a helping hand and since then the canteen became home for him. “The same year Morpheus brandy was introduced in military canteens which was a big hit among ex-servicemen. Therefore, we decided to christen him with the same name,” he said. Saying that Morpheus was like another staff in the canteen, a staff said the he would not let strangers in and kept the premises free from snakes and other insects. “Morpheus developed breathlessness in the morning on Thursday and had a peaceful death by evening,” said Ramesh. “It was like a member of our own family therefore, we decided to give him a traditional send off by wrapping him in a white dhoti, applying turmeric and sandal paste. A pit was dug on the canteen premises and he was buried,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ex-servicemen-canteen-staff-bid-adieu-to-pet-dog/articleshow/80714940.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 6, 2021||Trichy||More teachers for Classes IX and XI in Trichy||TRICHY: Teachers from Classes VI to VIII will be roped in to meet the demand for more teachers as schools are set to reopen for students of Classes IX and XI from February 8. The decision comes as there will be an additional requirement for teachers as the classes are to be held in split classroom system. A total 38,960 students of Class IX and 35,536 from Class XI will be coming to schools from February 8 in Trichy district. The addition of another 74,000 students across the 506 schools in the district may result in shortage of classrooms as not more than 25 students are allowed in each classroom. In such cases, schools have been asked to utilize the libraries and multipurpose halls. If they are also not adequate, they have been asked to conduct classes on alternate days for students of Classes IX and XI. They can also consider conducting classes in morning and evening shifts. “There are 25 schools out of 506 which will have a shortage of classrooms. A meeting will be conducted for these schools on Saturday to identify their issues and find a solution to it,” said Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan. On shortage of teachers, he said that since schools are yet to reopen for students of Classes VI, VII and VIII, teachers of these classes can be utilized for Classes IX and XI. Meanwhile, classes are already being conducted for students of Classes X and XII after schools reopened for them from January 19 and nearly 80% have been attending. The headmistress of a government school in Trichy said few students from Classes X and XII were not convinced to come to school after the reopening. But most of those who started coming after reopening continue to attend classes and there is no decline in numbers. “We may not afford to have classes on alternate days as it may lead to students becoming lazy. Therefore, roping in teachers from lower classes will help ensure that students come to school regularly,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-teachers-for-classes-ix-and-xi/articleshow/80714969.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 6, 2021||Trichy||Smart makeover for Marakkadai water tank, commercial complex||TRICHY: The 37-year-old Marakkadai overhead water tank and commercial complex on West Boulevard Road will be demolished and redeveloped by the Trichy Corporation under the smart cities mission programme. Unlike the existing arrangement, the ageing commercial complex that houses the passport office underneath the water tank will be replaced with a commercial complex with office space and an overhead water tank as two separate entities. The 15,000sqft complex abutting Vellamandi Road and West Boulevard Road has a two-floor commercial space. As the overhead tank constructed in 1983 is ageing, the civic body has decided to demolish it and construct a new water tank with 30 lakh litre capacity utilising Rs 7.5 core from the smart cities mission fund. Until then, potable water will be supplied from the Kambarasanpettai pumping station to five corporation wards that depend on the tank for drinking water. In the new plan, the civic body has proposed to keep the tank as a separate entity. While the space below it will be used as a parking lot, the commercial complex will be established on the campus bordering West Boulevard Road. “The shops at the Marakkadai commercial complex will be moved to the commercial complex under construction on Madurai Road,” a corporation official said. The civic body identified a contractor on February 2 to execute the project. Officials said the demolition work will begin after the shops and offices are vacated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/smart-makeover-for-marakkadai-water-tank-commercial-complex/articleshow/80714954.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Park Street motorists refused slots ‘reserved’ for bikes||KOLKATA: Attendants at a prime parking lot on Park Street have adopted an innovative strategy to block motorists from using the facility so as to rake in several times the amount that they can legally collect by reserving the lot for two-wheelers. Businessman Ankit Agarwal, who was at Park Street on Friday afternoon, was denied a spot despite there being ample space in the lot to park at least four cars. He tried to make the parking attendant see reason, but was rudely rebuffed. “The lot is reserved for 40 two-wheelers. They pay a monthly fee to park their vehicles. So look for a space to park elsewhere,” the attendant told Agarwal even though only 10 bikes were parked 2 metres apart to occupy a 25m space. While there used to be a 10m-15m parking lot for two-wheelers on this 100m section, the current car parking agency that has the contract for the lot has reserved nearly 70m of the stretch between Middleton Row and Russel Street. This means, only six to seven cars can be parked on this stretch now with the rest reserved for bikes and scooters. KMC car parking department officials admitted to getting complaints from motorists on the parking issue. “As two-wheeler usage has gone up significantly since the unlock started, a section of the car-parking agencies have started reserving a lion’s share of space in parking lots for two-wheelers. This is a breach of contract and we will look into this serious matter,” an official said. Debasis Kumar, a member of the KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) in charge of the car parking department, assured that the civic body would take action against errant agencies. “We want citizens to send in complaints. We will start an inquiry at the earliest,” Kumar said. Restaurateurs said the parking attendants had adopted the strategy after a string of complaints to KMC between October and December. Restaurateurs and their customers had raised the issue of motorists being forced to pay Rs 40-Rs 50 per hour instead of the legal fee of Rs 10 per hour. “The attendants have reserved the lot for two-wheelers because in the space occupied by one car parked horizontal to the kerb, five-seven bikes can be parked vertical to the kerb. Though the official parking free for two-wheelers is Rs 5 per hour, the riders don’t mind paying Rs 10 an hour. That means, by reserving the lot for bikes, the attendants are collecting six-seven times the amount they would have otherwise collected from cars,” said the owner of a shop on Park Street. Sources said motorists who agree to pay Rs 50-Rs 60 an hour are eventually provided space by the attendants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/park-st-motorists-refused-slots-reserved-for-bikes/articleshow/80715011.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 6, 2021||Aurangabad||CM reviews ongoing development works||Aurangabad: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday paid a visit to the city and reviewed the ongoing development works that were announced by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) —the tripartite alliance of the Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress —in January 2020. During the meeting, the CM said, “We have fulfilled the promise of regularising gunthewari areas. Soon we will ensure that the state’s largest water pipeline project worth Rs 1,680 crore also gets successfully implemented.” After landing in the city, Thackeray immediately headed to Lonar Lake in Buldhana district and returned back in the afternoon to hold a review meeting. Divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar raised the issue about scarcity of medicines and necessary infrastructure at the Government Medical College and Hospital. He proposed the requirement of Rs 13 crore for medicines and Rs 27 crore for equipments, taking the total of Rs 40 crore. Authorities said the CM has assured of providing the needed funds for GMCH. Adminstrator of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation Astik Kumar Pandey gave a statistical presentation of the works worth Rs 438 crore being undertaken under his supervision. In addition to this, district collector Sunil Chavan gave a presentation on cropping pattern in the district and presented pro-farmer initiatives being effectively implemented in the district. Following the meeting, Shiva Sena MLC Ambadas Danve told TOI, “In the meeting headed by the CM in January 2020, directions were issued to comply with 43 developmental works in Aurangabad. These works were reviewed. As on date, only eight of these works are awaiting compliance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cm-reviews-ongoing-development-works/articleshow/80714934.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 6, 2021||Delhi||High court allows plea for early hearing of Jamia student’s case||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday allowed a plea for early hearing of bail petition by Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and A J Bhambhani advanced the date of hearing Tanha’s petition from March 12 to February 25, noting that the prosecution fairly did not oppose the plea. Tahna had sought an early hearing of the petition on the ground that he is a student and has already undergone detention for 263 days. He has challenged a trial court’s October 26, 2020 order by which his bail application was dismissed on the ground that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy and that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against him were prima facie true. The student was arrested in the case in May last year for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots. The high court, while allowing the early hearing application, directed the parties to complete the pleading before the next date, that is, February 25 and sought response from Delhi Police on Tanha’s bail plea. The trial court, in its October 26, last year order, had said that since there were reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against Tanha were prima facie true, hence, the embargo created by Section 43D of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) applied for grant of bail to the accused and the bail application was dismissed. Under section 43 D of UAPA, an accused should not be released on bail or on his own bond if the court was of the opinion that the accusation against such person was prima facie true. Tanha’s counsel had claimed before the trial court that he was not present in Delhi during the riots and did not visit any of the protest sites where rioting and violence occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-court-allows-plea-for-early-hearing-of-jamia-students-case/articleshow/80713337.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Trichy||Metal utensils unearthed from temple basement in Karur district||TRICHY: An underground chamber has been discovered in the more than a 100-year-old Mahabaleswar temple near Aravakurichi in Karur district. A few metal items were also recovered from the spot. The Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department is carrying out renovation work at a cost of Rs 2.60 lakh at Mahabaleswar temple, which is a sub-temple under the Kalyana Pasupatheeswarar temple in Karur town. When the workers were digging the ground on Wednesday in the temple to build a subsurface tank, they stumbled upon a underground passage leading to a chamber. Officials from the revenue department were alerted by the temple staff who came to the spot. They recovered the materials from the chamber. “We could recover a total of nine items from a small basement chamber on the temple premises. This includes a bronze pot, metal plates and utensils used for puja,” said R Shankar, executive officer of the temple. The revenue officials handed over the materials to the temple staff as no idols were found in the chamber. “Since we don’t have a locker in the temple, we shifted the materials to the Kalyana Pasupatheeswarar temple, said Shankar. While there is no clarity on why the utensils were buried in the underground chamber, temple officials said that they will inform the archaeology department on the findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/metal-utensils-unearthed-from-temple-basement/articleshow/80714931.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Case against CPM leader for plagiarising book on Bhagat Singh||CHENNAI: The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Cell (IPREC) of Tamil Nadu police has filed a charge sheet with Madurai judicial magistrate - II against communist leader G Ramakrishnan and 10 others in connection with a plagiarism complaint. According to the charge sheet, contents of a book on Bhagat Singh, which was authored by complainant T Sivakumar, was lifted by Bharathi Puthakalayam, a publication house operated by a trust named Toiling Mass. CPM politburo member Ramakrishnan runs this trust. A case has been filed under sections 63(a), 63(b) and 69 of Copyright Act, sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. While Ramakrishnan was unavailable for comment, publisher K Nagarajan from Bharathi Puthakalayam said, “We have already paid compensation to the complainant. He was bringing up the issue again with political intentions to put Ramakrishnan in bad light ahead of the state election.” In response, complainant Sivakumar said the compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh was made in 2014 for books published till that year. The Madurai district court back then had restrained Bharathi Puthakalayam by a permanent injunction from reproducing, publishing, printing, selling and possessing the book titled ‘Viduthalai Pathaiyil Bhagat Singh’ which infringes upon copyright of Sivakumar’s book titled ‘Seivigal Ketkattum’. However, three years later, Bharathi Puthakalayam published the second edition of ‘Viduthalai Pathaiyil Bhagat Singh’ and sold it for Rs 250 per copy in the market. Sivakumar’s book ‘Seivigal Ketkattum’ is currently sold at Rs 150 per copy. “Some of the spelling mistakes in my book were repeated in both the editions,” Sivakumar told TOI. So Sivakumar once again filed a criminal case against the publishers. After investigation, IPREC has now filed the charge sheet for the case which is scheduled for hearing at Madurai JM-II court in February fourth week. Publisher Nagarajan, however, rejected copyright charges and said the English version of the book was authored by a writer from their publication and they translated the same to release it in 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cpm-leader-charged-for-plagiarising-book-on-bhagat-singh/articleshow/80713342.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 6, 2021||Madurai||HM takes the puppetry route to create awareness on sexual abuse||Madurai: Armed with colourful puppets and songs, a primary school headmaster in Madurai is creating awareness on child sexual abuse and its prevention among children across the city.“Child sexual abuse is still not talked about openly enough in society or at home by parents. Children must be educated about good touch and bad touch and how they can protect themselves and report abuse. So, by use of puppets, we are trying to communicate to children in a way that they may understand,” said K Saravanan, headmaster, Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School. The headmaster said that especially with the lockdown and schools being shut, children have had to spend a lot of time at home, where abuse may happen and children being unable to even confide in friends or teachers.“Child sexual abuse is something that can happen at home with even a close relative and to boys as well. We need to create a safe environment for the child wherein they must not hesitate to seek help from adults like a parent or teacher if they face abuse. With children now having easy access to phones, we also highlighted use of 1098 helpline to report any abuse,” said Sarvanan. The headmaster performed puppet plays enacting scenes of what a child should do when abused.The children were also educated about the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and prevention of child marriages. Now, with many girl children attaining puberty even by the time they study Class IV or V, the students were also educated on menstruation and the safe and hygienic practices to follow during periods. Around 50 children and parents in the area took part in each of the puppet shows organised in localities like Kalmedu and Melamadai. Apart from the show, teachers of the school and Saravanan also had an open discussion with children and parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hm-takes-the-puppetry-route-to-create-awareness-on-sexual-abuse/articleshow/80715005.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature to hover around 6°C for next three days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After the passage of a western disturbance, the minimum temperature in Delhi sharply dipped from 12.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday to 6.8 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature was recorded at 23 degrees Celsius. Met officials said the minimum temperature was likely to hover around 6 degrees Celsius for the next three days. “However, it may not dip further below 6 degrees Celsius and there is no prediction of cold wave conditions in the next few days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. According to IMD, 2.1mm rainfall was recorded in the last 24 hours under the influence of a western disturbance. Delhi’s air quality improved from “very poor” to “moderate” category on Friday due to rain and rise in wind speed. air quality index (AQI) of the national capital was 133 on Friday as against 326 on Thursday. Srivastava said, “As Delhi received rain on Thursday, it helped in bringing down the pollutants. Besides, the wind speed picked up during the day time on Friday, which helped in cleaning air of the national capital. Average wind speed recorded during daytime was 12kmph but it even rose to 16 kmph for sometime.” System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, a forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said, “Isolated rain observed under the influence of western disturbance and high winds contributed to the improvement in AQI. The air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate but remain in the ‘moderate to poor’ category on Saturday. The improved AQI is likely to stay for a couple of days. It is predicted to remain in ‘poor’ to the lower end of ‘very poor’ on February 7 and 8.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minimum-temperature-to-hover-around-6c-for-next-three-days/articleshow/80713363.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Aurangabad||BJP, MNS workers detained in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police on Friday detained members of the BJP and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) for allegedly trying to stage a protest during CM Uddhav Thackeray’s visit to the city. The MNS members, led by district president Suhas Dashrathe, was released only after the CM left the city. District president of BJP Sanjay Kenekar alleged the city police lathi-charged the BJP workers who were part of the delegation which had come to meet the CM. The city police refuted the allegations citing that some workers were allegedly trying to waylaid the CM’s convoy and so had to be detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-mns-workers-detained-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80714997.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 6, 2021||Madurai||Madras high court waives off rent for shop for lockdown period||MADURAI: Referring to lockdown during Covid-19 pandemic as a ‘force majeure’ in a contractual agreement between a licensee and licensor, the Madras high court has waived the rent amount to a shopkeeper who had licensed a shop at Vadasery Christopher bus stand in Kanyakumari district. ‘Force majeure’ is defined as an event outside the control of the parties and which prevents one or both of the parties from performing their contractual obligations, the court said. The court was hearing a petition filed by R Narayanan, who sought to forbear the Nagercoil Corporation authorities from demanding licence fee for the period from March 24, 2020 to September 6, 2020 for the shop which was licensed by him. On account of lockdown, the bus stand and the shop were closed for the above mentioned period. Considering the hardships of the licensees, a GO was passed by the municipal administration and water supply department to waive the rental amount for April and May 2020. Justice G R Swaminathan observed that the relationship between the parties is contractual in nature and the rights of the parties will have to be determined in terms of the contract. Citing that there was no force majeure clause in the agreement between the parties, the judge said that in the tender notification, there is a stipulation that the licensee will not be excused from his payment obligation under any circumstance. The judge observed that the court would be justified in treating the lockdown as a force majeure event. The judge said that the GO was issued waiving the rental amount for two months based on the letter sent by the commissioner of municipal administration in June 2020. No one would have anticipated that the lockdown would continue for several more months. “This is how bureaucracy functions. The secretary to government did not deem it necessary to go beyond the terms of the request made by the commissioner of municipal administration. But a constitutional court cannot have a blinkered vision. It must take into account the position that prevails on the date when the list is adjudicated,” observed the judge. The judge said that if the local body had directed the licensee to close down the shop, it cannot demand fee from the licensee for the period when the shop is shut down. Hence, the judge said that he has no difficulty in coming to the conclusion that the petitioner stands relieved of his obligation to pay the licence fee during the period from March 24 to August 31, 2020, when there was complete lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-comes-to-shopkeepers-relief-waives-off-rent-during-lockdown/articleshow/80715049.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 6, 2021||Delhi||North corporation to hire 600 workers on contract for parks’ upkeep||NEW DELHI: Struggling to maintain its parks and green areas due to shortage of horticulture staff, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to hire 600 workers on a contract basis. The proposal was approved in a standing committee meeting on Friday and it would now be placed before the House for final approval. In north corporation, there are 3,224 posts for maalis but almost half of them are vacant. To fill the gap, a proposal for hiring 1,281 multitasking staff was prepared in February 2020. “But due to elections, coronavirus pandemic and crisis of funds, things couldn’t progress much. However, it was certain that the condition of parks would not improve unless we engaged more staff, which is why the proposal was prepared again. We passed the preamble in a standing committee meeting on Friday and expect these maalis to join work in a month’s time,” said Chhail Bihari Goswami, the standing committee chairman. The civic body has planned to hire the workforce in three phases. In phase-I, 600 staff will be hired and the remaining in phases II and III, depending upon the corporation’s financial condition. In the north corporation’s jurisdiction, there are 6,095 parks, which are spread over 2,200 acres of area. The civic body has recently also started a drive to convert vacant land in the middle of residential neighbourhoods into mini-forests. “We have developed three such mini-forests at Keshavpuram, Shankar Road and Azadpur Mandi. The plan is to do dense plantation at five more sites, including Rohini and Naraina, by the end of March. We would be able to do our job diligently after sufficient staff are available,” said the official. Officials added that the staff would need to have at least one year of experience in horticulture services and if required, training would also be imparted to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-to-hire-600-workers-on-contract-for-parks-upkeep/articleshow/80713377.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 6, 2021||Nashik||Sena, BJP take on each other||Nashik/Kolhapur: The BJP and Shiv Sena workers on Friday carried out protests in Nashik and Kolhapur to protest against the state and central governments, respectively. The Sena workers agitated against the rising fuel prices, while the BJP protested against the inflated power bills issued by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) for the lockdown period. In Nashik, Sena workers — led by leaders Vinayak Pandey, Datta Gaikwad, Vasant Gite, city unit president Sudhakar Badgujar — agitated outside the collectorate claiming that the restlessness among the people was growing because of the rise in fuel prices. The Sena workers also protested in Malegaon outside the office of additional district collector as well as Niphad, Yeola, Kalwan, Baglan, Dindori and other talukas. Similarly, the BJP carried out agitation in Niphad, Kalwan and Satana talukas condemning the issuance of notices for disconnecting power supply. BJP workers detained Meanwhile, Kolhapur city police detained Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers while trying to enter the premises of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) office located at Tarabai Park while protesting against the power bills issued during the lockdown. Shiv Sena workers also held a bicycle rally from Central Bus Stand to Dabholkar Corner protesting against the fuel price hike by the central government. They blocked the traffic for some time, but dispersed after the traffic police requested them to clear the roads. BJP’s protest was led by district president Rahul Chikode. The BJP workers first tried to lock the gates of the MSEDCL and then tried to enter the office, but were pushed back by the security guards. The police detained the BJP workers as they were reluctant to heed to the appeal made, asking them to conduct the protest peacefully. “We are being detained illegally. We are demanding waiver of the power bills issued during the lockdown and stopping the action started by the electricity department to snap the power supply to recover dues,” Chikode said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sena-bjp-take-on-each-other/articleshow/80715024.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Active cases in Gujarat now 1% of total cases||AHMEDABAD: On Friday, Gujarat had 2,641 active cases of Covid-19, which was a bit more than 1% of 2,62,948 total cases of Covid-19 recorded in the state. India on February 5 had 1.4% of total Covid-19 cases reported as active. Two districts in Gujarat had zero active cases on Friday, whereas nine others had 10 or less active cases. Four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot – accounted for 77% of the active cases, according to the state Covid-19 dashboard. Ahmedabad district alone had 1,121 or 42% of the active cases. “The drop in daily cases – from 1,514 on December 5 to 655 on January 5 to 267 on February 5 – could be attributed to a slew of measures taken. While night curfew did play a role in ensuring prevention of unnecessary meetings, there was stringent watch on the violators of social distancing and wearing of mask rules,” said a senior state health department official. “More importantly, the mortality rate got reduced drastically.” But the experts caution that it’s not the time to let the guards down. “We are at a crucial juncture of fight against Covid-19. We will reap the benefits of reduced cases if we ensure lower daily cases. But a few other cases did record rise after the fall in cases. Stringent watch is now required in the districts with zero or very less cases to ensure that the new cases are not added up,” said a city-based epidemiologist, adding that along with vaccination, public awareness will play a major role in containing the pandemic. The experts are keeping a close watch on the upcoming elections and opening of the educational institutes along with other establishments to see the impact of ‘new normal.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-in-gujarat-now-1-of-total-cases/articleshow/80713373.cms||Parth Shastri
February 6, 2021||Varanasi||‘Malviya helped 200 Chauri Chaura freedom fighters’||Varanasi: Felicitating freedom fighters on the occasion of Chauri Chaura centenary year celebrations which began here on Thursday, UP urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon recalled how Bharat Ratna Pt Madan Mohan Malviya had ensured acquittal of 200 freedom fighters out of 222 who were made accused in setting police station on fire in which 19 were killed on February 4, 1922. Tandon was addressing a function organized at Shaheed Park after viewing the inauguration of Chauri Chaura centenary year celebrations by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing on Thursday. After garlanding the monument of martyrs and honouring the freedom fighters, Tandon recalled how the atrocities of the British on leaders and people participating in Non-Cooperation Movement had made a larger section reactionary and they set police station in Chauri Chaura on fire killing 19 persons. He said that though 19 freedom fighters were hanged by the British government, 200 were saved by Pt Malviya by contesting their case in court. Before his address, schoolchildren staged colourful cultural events and poetry recital. Important among others, mayor Mridula Jaiswal, BJP Kashi regional unit president Mahesh Chand Srivastava, district chief Hansraj Vishwakarma and city president Vidyasagar Rai were also present at the function. The centenary year programmes commenced with ‘prabhatferis’ (morning processions). To mark the occasion, tribute ceremonies and many other activities were also organized at 30 public parks including Azad Pak Lahurabir, Shahid Udham Singh Park Girjaghar crossing, Bhagwandas Park, Smapurnanand Park Subhash Chandra Bose Park in Sigra and Sardar Patel crossing at Maldahiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/malviya-helped-200-chauri-chaura-freedom-fighters/articleshow/80709775.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||School dropouts form vulnerable part of the society, says Madras high court||MADURAI: Children who dropout of schools form a vulnerable part of the society, the Madras high court has observed and sought a response from the state government on the steps taken to prevent them from dropping out from schools in the state. The court on Friday was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Muthuselvam, a resident of Madurai, who sought the government to carry out proper identification of dropout students from six to 18 years of age in the state and also to prevent them from dropping out of schools. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the petitioner has raised an issue of importance with regard to children dropping out of schools. The judges said that the petitioner had contended that there is a huge difference in the statistics about the dropout students given by the central and state governments. Unless proper statistics are available, then the steps taken to prevent such dropouts cannot be given effect, the judges observed and added that steps should be taken to find out the reasons for dropout followed by remedial measures. Hence, the judges directed the principal secretary of the school education department to submit a report on the details of the dropout students and the measures taken so far. The case was adjourned to March 5 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/school-dropouts-form-vulnerable-part-of-the-society-says-high-court/articleshow/80715051.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Amended MV Act only after repair of roads, says Godinho||Panaji: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Friday said that once the roads are repaired, the amended Motor Vehicle Act with high penalties will be enforced. “We are very conscious that the roads are not as good as they should be. When the roads are good we will implement the act as soon as possible,” the minister said. He said that the issue of bad roads was discussed during the cabinet and that repair works have started. Godinho said that Union road transport and highway minister Nitin Gadkari said that people should learn to follow road discipline to reduce accidents. That is the exact reason this act has been introduced with huge penalties — to bring about discipline on roads by dissuading people from indulging in violations, he said. Reacting to the lashback faced over the increased VAT on the already high fuel prices, Godinho said that it is not an ideal time to increase fuel prices, but the measure was a temporary one aimed at revenue collection. Once the economy picks up, fuel prices will be reduced, he said after the cabinet meeting. Godinho said that when there is no alternative, money has to come from somewhere. If the government stops spending then also there will be criticism, he said. The state government on Thursday hiked the VAT on petrol to 27% and on diesel to 23%. This made petrol dearer by Rs 1.3 per litre and diesel by 60 paise per litre. The price of petrol in North Goa currently hovers around Rs 83.13 per litre, while diesel costs around Rs 80.13 per litre, depending on the distance from the oil marketing company’s tanks Godinho said that these are pandemic times and a lot of schemes have been given to the people by the central government. “The hike was necessitated as a consequence of that, money has to come from somewhere to fund the infrastructure, schemes for the people as well as various other expenditures of the government,” he said. When asked about the failure to compensate families of those who have died in road accidents, the transport minister said that the scheme has an income limit and is only for those families that do not have any support. Referring to the GST collection in January, Godinho said that there is a clear indication that things are looking up and that in due course collections will improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amended-mv-act-only-after-repair-of-roads-says-godinho/articleshow/80715981.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Aurangabad||At HC instance, case filed against temple trustees||Aurangabad: The Ahmednagar police on Friday evening registered a case against the then district judge-2 and chairman of the Jagdamba Devi Sarvajanik Trust in Pathardi, the then chief executive officer and other trustees. The trust manages the famous Mohota devi temple. Namdev Garad, a former trustee, had filed a petition in the HC alleging misappropriation of 2kg of gold in the name of burial of `Suvarna Yantras’ (pendants) for rejuvenating temple and deity” and ceremonies for the same between 2011 and 2016. The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court had issued a directive that a case be registered. A case under sections 406 and 409 (both related to criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of The Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013, has been registered. Ahmednagar S P Manoj Patil told TOI, “We have registered the FIR on the basis of the high court directives and I will personally monitor the investigation to be done by an officer of the rank of deputy superintendent of police.” Complainant in this case and executive president of Maharashtra Andhshradha Nirmulan Samiti, Avinash Patil, told TOI, “This case is an example of state and religious representatives coming together and exploiting the funds collected from commoners and believers. The HC has passed a landmark order upholding the constitution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/at-hc-instance-case-filed-against-temple-trustees/articleshow/80715058.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Man gets one-year jail for harassing college student he befriended on Facebook||A magistrate court this week convicted and sentenced a 21-year-old man to one-year imprisonment for following and harassing a college-going woman he met on Facebook. She said in 2017 when she was on her way to college, the accused caught her hand and said he would not let her go to college for her exam. He has been found guilty of outraging her modesty. The incident took place at Prabhadevi station. The defence refuted the claim. “True that the witnesses were present on the spot and no one out of those is examined by the prosecution. But non-examination of independent witnesses is not fatal to the prosecution. The argument that other independent witnesses are not examined is also without any force, since I do not see any reason to implicate the accused in a false case,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gets-one-year-jail-for-harassing-college-student-he-befriended-on-fb/articleshow/80712486.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||Declare cairn circle areas as protected: Plea||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Friday directed the ASI and state archaeology department to inspect and submit a report on a plea which sought to declare the areas where cairn circles are situated at Sivaganga and Karur districts, as protected sites. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the report while hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Ramesh Kumar, an advocate and a resident of Sivaganga district. The petitioner stated that he came across a news report in the Times of India about cairn circles which are more that 2,500 years old dating back to 5th century BC at Thoppamadai village at Kulithalai in Karur district. He stated that the news report also stated that 10 cairn circles were found intact at the village. He also came across another news report about 3,000 years old cairn circles found at Keelasevalpatti village near Thirupathur in Sivaganga district. He stated that according to archaeologists, cairn circles are an ancient form of megalithic burial sites and such sites are of importance and should be preserved. Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to declare these sites as protected sites and also sought to carry out archeological excavations at these sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-declare-cairn-circle-areas-as-protected/articleshow/80715090.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lower courts in four cities to open in March||AHMEDABAD: Looking at the reducing number of Covid-19 cases and demands from the bar associations, Gujarat high court on Friday permitted lower courts in the four major cities to resume work physically from March 1. After Covid-19 struck, courtrooms across the state were shut on March 23. Court proceedings were shifted online. Trials were stalled and only urgent hearings were conducted. Recently, members of various Bar associations threatened a symbolic protest by storming into courtrooms, which have been closed for more than 10 months now. On November 4, the high court permitted all lower courts across the state to open courtrooms except in the four cities of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. HC laid down a standard operating procedure for the subordinate courts to follow. Last month, HC permitted all lower courts except in the four cities to resume functioning during regular office hours. On Friday, the HC circular said that considering "the latest state pertaining to coronavirus cases in various districts of Gujarat available on Covid Tracker website" and "various representations received from Bar Associations on different court establishments" in the cities, the HC decided to issue directions for resumption of physical functioning of lower courts from next month. It said, "All subordinate courts (except those in micro-containment zones, if any) at district headquarters of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot shall start functioning physically with regular court working hours of 10.45 am to 6.10 pm." The HC has said that all guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government must be followed once the courtrooms are open. Meanwhile, the high court has continued to function virtually, though the judges have started working from their respective chambers at the Sola campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lower-courts-in-four-cities-to-open-in-march/articleshow/80713405.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nashik||Dhule tops vax chart in state with 53% inoculated||Nashik: Dhule district, which has witnessed a large number of registered vaccine beneficiaries taking the jab from day 1 of the drive, has topped the list of maximum number of beneficiaries vaccinated across the state. Dhule has 11,441 healthcare workers (HCW), who are registered beneficiaries, and so far 6,088 beneficiaries have been given the vaccine, which is 53.21% and is the highest in the state. The district administration and health officials have been at the forefront of spreading awareness about the vaccination and appealing to the people to get the benefit from the vaccination program. “The work done by the various teams of the government and health officials has resulted in a better turn out of the beneficiaries in the district. The maturity demonstrated by the health teams and the professionalism put forth is noteworthy,” said Vishal Patil, the nodal officer for Covid in Dhule “The vaccination began with the top-level officers taking the vaccines on the first day and then the other senior officials took the vaccines on the following days. So each day, the officials taking vaccines were seen by the subordinates and they came forth to take the jabs,” Dr Patil said. None of the beneficiaries would refuse the vaccination though they were sceptical about its safety and effectiveness. “Since our senior officials led from the front , the others voluntarily joined the momentum, so in the next few days the turnout of beneficiaries was above 97%,” Dr Patil said. Dr Patil also said while spreading awareness about the vaccination, the beneficiaries were told about all the Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) and the measures that could help in overcoming the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-tops-vax-chart-in-state-with-53-inoculated/articleshow/80715134.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi air worse this January than last year||NEW DELHI: The capital’s air was more polluted this January than in the same month last year, Central Pollution Control Board data shows. The average air quality index (AQI) for January this year was 324 as compared to 286 during the same period in 2020. Track the pollution level in your cityThis January, Delhi saw six “severe” air days as against two in 2020. However, the average AQI in January 2021 was marginally better than 2019 and 2018. Experts said the region saw only one western disturbance this January while the count was six last time. More western disturbances led to high wind speed, low temperature and more number of rainy days. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Under the influence of a western disturbance, the region receives rain, which helps in bringing down the pollutants. Delhi received rain from January 3 to 6 in 2021, but there were more rainy days in 2020.” The wind speed also picks up when a western disturbance passes a region, he added. Besides, the mean minimum temperature in January 2021 was 7 degrees Celsius, which was lower than the average recorded during the same month in 2020. With seven cold wave days this January, the low temperature trapped pollutants closer to the surface. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment, said a combination of factors made January 2021 more polluted than 2020. Besides the meteorological factors, “the economy that was hit by Covid-19 pandemic also bounced back”, Roy Chowdhury pointed out. “The January smog happens without stubble burning. It is purely because of pollutants due to local emissions getting trapped. It shows that how much stronger our action needs to be. We need much higher level of ambition, scale and speed to implement the cleaner action plan,” she added. Though Delhi’s air was more polluted this January, it was better than 2019 and 2018. The average AQI recorded in both January 2019 and 2018 was 328 as against 324 this year. With seven “severe” air days in 2019, the number was higher than this January. However, only two “severe” air days were recorded in 2018. The number of monitoring stations was 38 each in 2021 and 2020, 35 in 2019 and 17 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-air-worse-this-january-than-last-yr/articleshow/80713479.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Wanted fugitive, three others shot dead in Churu gang war||JAIPUR: Four people, including a fugitive wanted in a murder case, were killed in an alleged gang war at ‘dhani’ (hamlet) Mauji under Hameerwas police station area in Churu district. Two other villagers were injured in the firing at the village. At least six armed assailants, who the police believe are a part of the notorious Sampat Nehra gang, opened fire indiscriminately in which a history-sheeter and fugitive in a murder case was killed. Two local residents and one of the assailants from the group also were killed in the incident. Sampat Nehra is a key member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. Bishnoi, a former national decathlon player, was allegedly having a rivalry with one Pradeep Swamy. “Pradeep is a history-sheeter and is wanted in a murder case for a long time and was on the run,” said a senior police officer. Following the incident, DGP M L Lathar ordered a special operation group (SOG) team to visit the spot. “A team led by DIG Randhir Singh and other officers, including SP Rajesh Singh, have been asked to visit the spot. I will also go to Hameerwas on Saturday,” said ADG Ashok Rathore, SOG and ATS, to TOI. According to police, Pradeep was playing cards with two others, identified as Hoshiyar Singh (62), a retired teacher, and Eshwar Singh (45), in the courtyard of a house in the village. At 4pm, at least six armed assailants, who are believed to be a part of the Sampat Nehra gang, reached the spot and started indiscriminate firing. “In the firing, Pradeep, Hoshiyar Singh and Eshwar Singh were killed. Also, one person, who is yet to be identified and was among the assailants, was also killed by his own group before leaving,” said IG Prafful Kumar, Bikaner range, to TOI. Police stated that miscreants escaped after the firing. “In order to ensure their identity is not revealed the assailant group had actually fired one of the shooters of their group,” said a villager who claimed to be an eyewitness to the case. When the police arrived at the spot, the protesting villagers did not allow them to take the bodies for the post-mortem. Following the tension, senior officers, including Churu SP Narayan Lal Togas, and others arrived at the spot. Two villagers, Dwarka Prasad Goswami and Sanjay Poonia, were injured in the firing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wanted-fugitive-three-othersshot-dead-in-churu-gang-war/articleshow/80715163.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Odisha men arrested for murder||Coimbatore: The Odisha police have arrested two men, who were wanted in a murder case in that state, in Tirupur with the help of local police. The two have been hiding in Tirupur for the past 15 days.Police identified the accused as Bijay Kumar, 20, and Manas Malik, 26, both natives of Odisha. “They were working at a spinning mill at Vellakovil for the past 15 days. Police officers from Khantapada station in Odisha came down to Vellakovil on Thursday and nabbed the duo, who were then taken back to their home state,” a police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/odisha-men-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/80715112.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||44 new cases in south Tamil Nadu, 61 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 44 fresh Covid-19 cases and zero deaths on Friday. Meanwhile, fresh cases jumped to 61 on Friday after registering a sharp decline on Thursday in the central region. The sudden increase of cases in Thanjavur and Trichy district pushed the tally to 76,187, which include 414 active cases. The toll touched 946 with Thanjavur registering the death of a 68-year old woman. For the first time in more than eight months all the districts in the region recorded less than 10 cases each. Madurai, Dindigul and Virudhunagar with nine cases each has the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by six each in Theni and Tirunelveli districts. Sivagangai zero cases, followed by one case each in Tenkasi, Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari (2). After nearly nine months, all the districts in the region have recorded less than 100 active cases each. Kanyakumari is the last district to come below the mark from 102 on Thursday to 90 on Friday. Madurai (92) has the highest number of active cases, whereas Dindigul (64) and Tirunelveli (62) are the other districts having more than 50 active cases. Districts with less than 50 active cases in the region are Ramanathapuram (7), Tuticorin (14), Sivagangai (23), Tenkasi (25), Virudhunagar (26) and Theni (27). Thanjavur, which had three fresh cases on Thursday, recorded 20 fresh cases on Friday. Trichy district, which registered 11 fresh cases on Thursday, reported 20 fresh cases on Friday. Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam district recorded eight cases each. Ariyalur registered three fresh cases, while Karur and Pudukottai recorded one fresh case each and Perambalur zero cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/44-new-cases-in-south-tn-61-in-central-dists/articleshow/80715148.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Trichy||44 new cases in south Tamil Nadu, 61 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 44 fresh Covid-19 cases and zero deaths on Friday. Meanwhile, fresh cases jumped to 61 on Friday after registering a sharp decline on Thursday in the central region. The sudden increase of cases in Thanjavur and Trichy district pushed the tally to 76,187, which include 414 active cases. The toll touched 946 with Thanjavur registering the death of a 68-year old woman. For the first time in more than eight months all the districts in the region recorded less than 10 cases each. Madurai, Dindigul and Virudhunagar with nine cases each has the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by six each in Theni and Tirunelveli districts. Sivagangai zero cases, followed by one case each in Tenkasi, Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari (2). After nearly nine months, all the districts in the region have recorded less than 100 active cases each. Kanyakumari is the last district to come below the mark from 102 on Thursday to 90 on Friday. Madurai (92) has the highest number of active cases, whereas Dindigul (64) and Tirunelveli (62) are the other districts having more than 50 active cases. Districts with less than 50 active cases in the region are Ramanathapuram (7), Tuticorin (14), Sivagangai (23), Tenkasi (25), Virudhunagar (26) and Theni (27). Thanjavur, which had three fresh cases on Thursday, recorded 20 fresh cases on Friday. Trichy district, which registered 11 fresh cases on Thursday, reported 20 fresh cases on Friday. Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam district recorded eight cases each. Ariyalur registered three fresh cases, while Karur and Pudukottai recorded one fresh case each and Perambalur zero cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/44-new-cases-in-south-tn-61-in-central-dists/articleshow/80718040.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Four booked for killing Rathinapuri resident||COIMBATORE: The Mettupalayam police are on the lookout for a four-member gang that kidnapped a 23-year-old Rathinapuri resident and thrashed him, leading to his death. The deceased was identified as R Manikandan of Nallampalayam Road at Rathinapuri. He was an electrician and used to peddle ganja, a police officer said. The gang had knocked on Manikandan’s door around 11.30am on January 25. When his mother R Meena opened the door, the gang members introduced themselves as cops from the Thudiyalur police station, barged into the house and took Manikandan with them. Meena approached the Thudiyalur police the next day, but the cops told her that they had not secured Manikandan. On January 27, the Mettupalayam police received information from the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) that Manikandan was admitted there with injuries. He was discharged on January 28. When cops contacted the injured Manikandan, he told them that he didn’t want to file a complaint. Manikandan was admitted to a private hospital with chest pain on January 29. He passed away on Thursday. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that Manikandan was in love with a Rathinapuri-based woman. A few months ago, when he was jailed for peddling ganja, she married another man. After getting bail, Manikandan met her husband Suresh and asked him to divorce her. He also threatened Suresh with dire consequences if he refused to do so. Suresh kidnapped Manikandan with the help of his friends, took him to Mettupalayam and beat him up before releasing him,” the officer said The Mettupalayam police have registered a murder case against Suresh and his three friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-booked-for-killing-rathinapuri-resident/articleshow/80715097.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||Why is govt shielding Arnab, asks Sena MP||NEW DELHI: In a scathing attack on the government, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday raised the issue of the purported WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami in Rajya Sabha, alleging that while protesting farmers were being labelled "anti-national", the BJP-led NDA should be ashamed of protecting Goswami, who allegedly violated the Official Secrets Act by leaking details about the Balakot strike. Participating in the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha, Raut hit out at the Centre over its handling of the farmers' protest and objected to sedition charges being slapped against many prominent politicians and journalists seen to be critical of the government. "The atmosphere in the country today is such that anyone speaking or writing the truth is dubbed as traitor and anti-national," he alleged. "Cases of sedition are slapped on anyone asking questions of the government," Raut said, citing examples of MPs like Sanjay Singh and Shashi Tharoor and also giving examples of journalists like Rajdeep Sardesai. "...And who are the 'desh premis' (nationalists)? They include people like Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami and actress Kangana Ranaut..." Raut said. "You should be ashamed of protecting him," Raut said addressing the treasury benches. Raut said everyone was ashamed by the incidents of violence that took place on the Republic Day and asked why those behind the incidents of disrespecting the national flag have not been nabbed so far. "Why is Deep Sidhu, responsible for disrespecting the national flag, not been caught yet. At whose behest he is acting? Over 200 farmers are lodged in jail after being booked for sedition but not Sidhu. Over 100 youth are missing and whether they have been killed in encounters," he asked. "Defaming the farmers' agitation is not a good thing for the country, for farmers and for all," he said. Raut said while they respect PM Narendra Modi, it is important to understand that even though the BJP-led government has a majority, there is no place for arrogance in governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-is-govt-shielding-arnab-asks-sena-mp/articleshow/80716412.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nishwarth gets entry into World Book of Records, UK||AHMEDABAD: The Nishwarth Seva Sangathan and Charitable trust has made an entry into the World Book Of Records, United Kingdom, for ‘Rituals of farewell ceremony of Covid-19 dead bodies’. The president of the trust, Nitin Thakore, said that the group had sent the report and recordings and the trust was surprised when they got the message that their entry was accepted by the World Book Of Records. Thakore said that the corona funeral protocol puts limit on the number of mourners and rituals, but the trust, an NGO based at Palanpur organized a mass send-off which they focused on the comprehensive rites for those who have already been cremated. The group said that corona victims from Banaskantha, Ahmedabad, and other parts of the state were remembered, and their final rituals performed. Thakore said that the group wanted to ensure dignity for the dead. “Even priests are not willing to oversee funerals because of the corona fear,” he said. “Hindu texts allow funeral rituals for a large group of people if their last rites have not been performed,” Thakore added. It was on November 8, that the rituals such as pind daan, tarpan, and Narayan Bali were performed with the help of 10 priests in Palanpur town, he said. During the lockdown, the bodies are taken directly to crematoriums and families are not allowed to touch the bodies, let alone perform the last rites. The group, apart from the rituals, has been taking care of the elderly in an old age home in the district for long. Thakore said that much before the first case of corona was reported in the state on March 17, the group had started distributing masks in the district and had urged people to always wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nishwarth-gets-entry-into-world-book-of-records-uk/articleshow/80713465.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP MLA Pratap Lal Bheel booked for ‘raping’ Madhya Pradesh woman||UDAIPUR: A 35-year-old woman from Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh has levelled rape charges against BJP MLA from Gogunda, Pratap Lal Bheel, who had a relationship with her after promising marriage. The woman, who had given a written complaint at the Gogunda police station earlier, met IG Satyaveer SIngh on Thursday when the case was not registered. The IG directed SP Rajiv Pachar to file the complaint. The FIR has been registered at Gogunda station and the complainant’s medical examination was held on Thursday. Since the charges are against a legislator, the investigation has been referred to CID-CB, the SP said. The MLA was not available for a comment. In the complaint, the rape survivor said she met the accused legislator at a social gathering three-four years ago and became friendly as they were from the same community. The woman told the legislator that she had an unhappy marriage and was separated from her husband. The legislator also told the woman that he wasn’t happy with his marriage and that he had separated from the wife as per community customs. Believing his words, she agreed to his marriage proposal and the MLA said that he would take her to meet his family and marry her after getting their approval. Once the MLA brought her to Udaipur and instead of going to Gogunda, he took her to a flat in Sukher area where they stayed for a night and had ‘physical relations’, the woman said. However, he did not take her to his home or introduce her to his family. On several other occasions, Bheel raped her, the woman said. She permitted the ‘intimacy’, believing that he would marry her, but after some time, the legislator started becoming reluctant. She also said that Bheel’s wife abused her on the phone when she tried to reach him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gogunda-mla-bookedfor-raping-mp-woman/articleshow/80718511.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Doctor, tout held for sex test||JAIPUR: The state PCPNDT Cell on Friday arrested a Jaipur-based doctor and a middleman from Jaipur for alleged involvement in sex determination through a decoy operation. The cell has also seized the sonography machine used in this and sonography records. Naresh Thakral, National Health Mission (NHM) director said that they had specific inputs about a doctor’s involvement in sex determination at Superior Diagnostic Centre in Adarsh Nagar. “After verifying the information, we constituted a decoy team. The decoy pregnant woman was sent to the diagnostic centre as suggested by the doctor.” The accused, identified as Dr Naresh Sharma, had demanded Rs 35,000 from the woman through his middleman identified as Pawan Jain for sex determination of the foetus. “After he clearly told the woman about the sex of the foetus our team arrested Dr Sharma and Jain from the spot and recovered the amount. We have also seized the sonography machine used to conduct sex determination and the record found on the spot. The investigation is on. PCPNDT project director and additional SP Shalini Saxena said that any person can inform the department about sex determination on toll free numbers 104/108 or register on WhatsApp number at 9799997795.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doctor-tout-held-for-sex-test/articleshow/80715188.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan BJP MLA Pratap Lal Bheel booked for ‘raping’ Madhya Pradesh woman||UDAIPUR: A 35-year-old woman from Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh has levelled rape charges against BJP MLA from Gogunda, Pratap Lal Bheel, who had a relationship with her after promising marriage. The woman, who had given a written complaint at the Gogunda police station earlier, met IG Satyaveer SIngh on Thursday when the case was not registered. The IG directed SP Rajiv Pachar to file the complaint. The FIR has been registered at Gogunda station and the complainant’s medical examination was held on Thursday. Since the charges are against a legislator, the investigation has been referred to CID-CB, the SP said. The MLA was not available for a comment. In the complaint, the rape survivor said she met the accused legislator at a social gathering three-four years ago and became friendly as they were from the same community. The woman told the legislator that she had an unhappy marriage and was separated from her husband. The legislator also told the woman that he wasn’t happy with his marriage and that he had separated from the wife as per community customs. Believing his words, she agreed to his marriage proposal and the MLA said that he would take her to meet his family and marry her after getting their approval. Once the MLA brought her to Udaipur and instead of going to Gogunda, he took her to a flat in Sukher area where they stayed for a night and had ‘physical relations’, the woman said. However, he did not take her to his home or introduce her to his family. On several other occasions, Bheel raped her, the woman said. She permitted the ‘intimacy’, believing that he would marry her, but after some time, the legislator started becoming reluctant. She also said that Bheel’s wife abused her on the phone when she tried to reach him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gogunda-mla-bookedfor-raping-mp-woman/articleshow/80715212.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Woman duped of Rs 7L on pretext of FCI job, case registered||Dehradun: A local resident was allegedly duped of Rs 7 lakh by a gang on the pretext of providing a government job in the Food Corporation of India (FCI). On her complaint, the Uttarakhand special task force registered a case under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forging a document) and 120-b (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 66 (d) of the IT Act. According to Ajay Singh, SSP STF, the woman complained that she was even given an appointment letter and an ID of the FCI to make it look like an authentic employment. “STF have already arrested one member of the gang on February 4 and efforts are on to arrest other gang members,” said SSP STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-duped-of-rs-7l-on-pretext-of-fci-job-case-registered/articleshow/80712496.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Frontline staff hesitant too, says vaccine drive chief||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 11,396 people – 8,894 healthcare providers and 2,502 frontline workers – on Friday. This takes the recipient tally in the state to 1,57,046 after nearly 20 days of vaccination. The state, which aggressively pushed the Covid-19 curve, is struggling with the plateauing vaccination graph. Three days ago, when the state started vaccinating frontline workers from the revenue, home and local administration departments along with the health department, it added more vaccine centres and opened more sessions expecting a jump in recipients. The state had the capacity to vaccinate 70,986 frontline workers but has vaccinated 6,818, an average of 2,200 people a day for the past three days. In the past 20 days, the state has vaccinated 1.5 lakh healthcare providers against its capacity to inoculate 5.13 lakh. “We see vaccine hesitancy among frontline workers too,” said joint director immunisation Dr K Vinay Kumar. On Wednesday, health officials met senior police officials and urged them to explain and encourage more police personnel to come forward to take the vaccine, while the health secretary visited Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital to talk to doctors, nurses, paramedical and other staff. “We are seeing some improvement in vaccine acceptance even as elders and those with co-morbidities are awaiting their turn,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “We will offer the vaccine to the elderly and people with co-morbidities as soon as we get the nod from the Centre,” he said. The state had enlisted 5.62 lakh healthcare providers and more than four lakh frontline workers. The public health department added seven more vaccination centres on Friday, taking the total number of centres in the state to 571 and has opened 565 sessions. With this, the state could have vaccinated 69,650 people but only 11,396 took the vaccine. Meanwhile, Puducherry has vaccinated 3,168 people in the past 11 days and phase-2 began on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/frontline-staff-hesitant-too-vaccine-drive-chief/articleshow/80713499.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Frontline staff hesitant too, says vaccine drive chief||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 11,396 people – 8,894 healthcare providers and 2,502 frontline workers – on Friday. This takes the recipient tally in the state to 1,57,046 after nearly 20 days of vaccination. The state, which aggressively pushed the Covid-19 curve, is struggling with the plateauing vaccination graph. Three days ago, when the state started vaccinating frontline workers from the revenue, home and local administration departments along with the health department, it added more vaccine centres and opened more sessions expecting a jump in recipients. The state had the capacity to vaccinate 70,986 frontline workers but has vaccinated 6,818, an average of 2,200 people a day for the past three days. In the past 20 days, the state has vaccinated 1.5 lakh healthcare providers against its capacity to inoculate 5.13 lakh. “We see vaccine hesitancy among frontline workers too,” said joint director immunisation Dr K Vinay Kumar. On Wednesday, health officials met senior police officials and urged them to explain and encourage more police personnel to come forward to take the vaccine, while the health secretary visited Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital to talk to doctors, nurses, paramedical and other staff. “We are seeing some improvement in vaccine acceptance even as elders and those with co-morbidities are awaiting their turn,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “We will offer the vaccine to the elderly and people with co-morbidities as soon as we get the nod from the Centre,” he said. The state had enlisted 5.62 lakh healthcare providers and more than four lakh frontline workers. The public health department added seven more vaccination centres on Friday, taking the total number of centres in the state to 571 and has opened 565 sessions. With this, the state could have vaccinated 69,650 people but only 11,396 took the vaccine. Meanwhile, Puducherry has vaccinated 3,168 people in the past 11 days and phase-2 began on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/frontline-staff-hesitant-too-vaccine-drive-chief/articleshow/80717854.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Filmed after being given date-rape drug, Class XII girl blackmailed for months||NEW DELHI: The worst nightmare of a Class XII student from Dwarka came true when she became friends with a youth on Instagram. Her ordeals started fast. When they first met in July last year, she was given a date-rape drug. The suspect clicked her in the nude and used the photos later to trap the girl into a web of blackmail over the next few months. The youth asked her to transfer money through Paytm every now and then, leaving her broke. The threats of making her nude photos public forced the girl to even steal money from home. However, the blackmail didn’t stop. The girl finally decided to put her foot down when the youth fixed a deal with his friend and asked her to sleep with him. She told her parents, who went to Dwarka police station and narrated the ordeal. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Meena said the suspect, Himanshu, from Karnal in Haryana was nabbed with the help of technical surveillance. “He was using the alias of Hemant. We have seized his two iPhones. The accused deleted his Instagram and WhatsApp data two days ago. Assistance is being taken from a cyber expert to retrieve the deleted data,” he added. Himanshu had done a course in hotel management from a school in Singapore after passing Class XII. Since the lockdown, he had been at home and decided to trap and blackmail the girl to make money. In her complaint, the girl narrated how she was trapped on the pretext of friendship and exploited physically and mentally. She alleged that the youth would initially ask for money citing family problems. The demands soon became frequent. When she didn’t send money on time, he threatened to make her nude photos viral. A few months ago, Himanshu forced her to transfer a large sum due to which she had to steal her mother’s gold and diamond jewellery. Of late, she was being pressured to take to prostitution, she alleged. Police said the girl was counselled and an FIR under IPC sections of extortion, intimidation and outraging modesty, apart from Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act had been filed. The Paytm details of the girl and the accused were being analysed. Police will also go through their call records to gather evidence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/filmed-after-being-given-date-rape-drug-class-xii-girl-blackmailed-for-months/articleshow/80713535.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||ED attaches Rs 34 crore Andheri offices linked to Vasai MLA||MUMBAI: ED attached two office spaces worth Rs 34 crore in Andheri (East) on Friday in a money laundering case. Officials said these were ‘purchased’ without paying a single penny by Viva Group, which is controlled by Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur. Viva Group had made the purchases in Kaledonia building, constructed by Mack Star Marketing, which was controlled by the Wadhawans, who have been accused of money laundering in the where Rs 4,355-crore PMC Bank scam. ED is probing the reasons for Wadhawans’ largesse, but they suspect Viva Group helped the tainted HDIL promoters for money laundering. ED learnt that some more office premises in Kaledonia building have been ‘sold’ to other politically connected individuals without any payment and are inquiring about it. It is alleged that HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan, then PMC Bank chairman Waryam Singh, its managing director Joy Thomas, and others had caused a loss of Rs 4,355 crore to the bank. The Wadhawans took loans from the bank and defaulted. They had invested the money in real estate in various parts of the country to get the benefit of price appreciation; they had purchased over 2,100 acres of land in the Vasai-Palghar belt. Hitendra Thakur and his brother — former gangster Bhai Thakur — enjoy a tremendous clout in Vasai-Virar-Palghar. Hitendra’s son Kshitij is an MLA from Nallasopara. Wadhawan transferred two commercial premises in the building to Viva Group after signing separate sale agreements in2017. In the agreements, the purchase amount was shown to be paid via 37 cheques by Viva Holding (Viva Group) to Mack Star Marketing. But investigators found that these cheques were never encashed. Mack Star spent Rs 1,000 crore (Rs 900 in land cost and Rs 100 in construction cost) in 2008 to construct Kaledonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-attaches-rs-34-cr-andheri-offices-linked-to-vasai-mla/articleshow/80715669.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Footfalls at monuments surge by 58%, hotel occupancy 55% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Tourist footfalls in the state’s museums and monuments in January this year rose by 58% compared to December. A total of 4,48,000 tourists visited major attractions in the state last month compared to 2,84,000 in December. The surge in numbers has been driven by the lifting of night curfew. Mugdha Sinha, secretary, art and culture, said, “We are glad our monuments are attracting tourists and giving them a low-cost high-value quality time in these trying times.” The pick-up in visitors to monuments is also reflected in the occupancy of Jaipur hotels which rose to 55% in January, as per an industry report. A sharp recovery was witnessed in November and December last year mainly due to weddings. “The recovery is pretty much underway. Though the earlier expectations were muted for January, with the changing situation, it has shaped up nicely as demand is leading to high occupancy. We hope the month of February is going to give us good numbers. The weekends are quite busy and we witness almost a full house,” said Neeraj Maharshi, general manager of a reputed hotel chain in Kukas area of the city. With the government increasing the number of people at gatherings or weddings to 200, hoteliers said that their revenue from such events will improve drastically. “Weddings have saved the day for many hotels. Event managers should now market heritage properties away from city centres. Even though the havelis are small, they can serve as the ‘mandap’ for weddings. Tented accommodation can be arranged to meet room requirements. Such new products will further deepen the scope of the segment,” said Surendra Singh Shahpura, a hotelier, at an event organised by FICCI on Friday. Despite occupancies going up, hoteliers have not been able to raise room tariffs. As per the report, the room tariffs in January were 40% lower compared to the same month in 2020. “The current demand is entirely coming from domestic travellers who are price conscious. They want value for money. Secondly, the supply of rooms in Jaipur is higher. This has restricted the scope for increasing rates. The average room rates are still down by 40% compared to last year,” said a hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footfalls-at-monuments-surge-by-58-hotel-occupancy-55-in-state/articleshow/80715242.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 6, 2021||Madurai||Extend Madurai Tejas Exp to Tirunelveli: MP to rly board||Tirunelveli: MPs from Tirunelveli and Tenkasi constituencies met the chairman and chief executive officer of the railway board, Suneet Sharma, at his office in Delhi recently and made separate representations putting forward various railway demands for their constituencies. In his representation, Tirunelveli MP S Gnanathiraviam sought the extension of the Chennai – Madurai – Chennai Tejas Express to Tirunelveli. Gnanathiraviam also stated that there is no mainline electric multiple unit (MEMU) train to Tirunelveli and sought a train from Thiruvananthapuram to Tirunelveli through Nagercoil. This is apart from the demand to convert the Thiruvananthapuram to Nagercoil passenger (train No. 56311/56316) as MEMU train and to extend the services to Tirunelveli.Restoration of passenger train services between Tirunelveli - Tuticorin, Tirunelveli - Sengottai and Tirunelveli - Tiruchendur routes as usual were among the other demands put forward by the Tirunelveli MP.In a separate representation, Tenkasi MP Dhanush M Kumar sought the extension of the Punalur - Guruvayur - Punalur express till Madurai via Sengottai to help passengers from this stretch to get easy access to Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Guruvayur.Kumar also sought a change in the departure time of train No. 06101 from Chennai Egmore to Kollam from the existing 5pm to 6.30pm and its pairing train No. 06102 from Kollam to Chennai Egmore from the existing 12pm to 4pm to benefit more passengers. He also sought an increase in the coach capacity. The MPs also sought provision of first class AC coach on train No. 02661/02662 Pothigai Express and additional stoppages.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/extend-madurai-tejas-exp-to-tirunelveli-mp-to-rly-board/articleshow/80715211.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Tourists flock to Nainital, Mussoorie||NAINITAL/ MUSSOORIE: After a wait that lasted nearly all winter, Kumaon finally received the season’s first snowfall on Thursday night. Hill stations like Nainital, Munsyari, Mukteshwar and Binsar, which saw at least half a dozen spells of snowfall last winter, didn’t have any this season, disappointing tourists and adding to the hospitality industry’s misery, which is struggling to get back on its feet after losses incurred during the lockdown. After the snowfall over the past two days, hoteliers were a happy lot. “Even though the restrictions have been eased, the tourism sector is yet to go back to the pre-pandemic state. We hope snowfall will draw more tourists to the state,” said Ved Sah, vice-president, Nainital Hotels and Restaurants Association.  The snowfall started late on Thursday night and continued well into the next morning in Nainital. “We all woke up to tourist attractions like Cheena Peak, Kilbury, Snow View and Himalayan View completely draped in a layer of snow. Although there was no snowfall on the Mall Road, hail had turned the entire stretch white,” said Ishan Bisht, a local resident. Tourists who came to the lake town hoping to see snow were not disappointed. “We arrived on Thursday hoping to see snow but certainly didn’t expect to find the entire town covered in it. It was a pleasant surprise,” said Gautam Raj, a resident of Noida who was at Snow Point with his family.  Meanwhile in Mussoorie, the heavy snowfall that had happened on Thursday night leaving many places like Hathipaon, Landour, Camel’s Back Road etc covered in a thick white layer, saw hordes of tourists rushing to the Queen of Hills. Serpentine queues of vehicles were observed on the Mussoorie-Dehradun road. Due to snow on the road, several vehicles were stuck on the Kincraig-Picture Palace, Kincraig-Gandhi Chowk and Gandhi Chowk-Kempty Falls roads, resulting in massive traffic snarls. Tourists said the situation was especially bad in the morning on Friday, with traffic police not doing much to clear the jams. “I was stuck for over an hour,” said Mukul Prakash, a tourist. However, the situation improved in the afternoon after police personnel joined in the effort to clear the traffic and earth mover machines were used to scoop up snow from the roads. Mussoorie station officer Devendra Aswal said extra police force had been deployed to ease the jams. “Barricades were placed at Bataghat to stop tourists from going towards Dhanaulti, in order to prevent vehicles from getting stuck. The situation is under control now,” he said. Meanwhile, the Met office has predicted clear weather across the state from Saturday morning onwards till the next week. (With inputs from Gaurav Talwar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-flock-to-kumaon-to-see-seasons-1st-snowfall-traffic-jams-choke-mussoorie/articleshow/80712500.cms||Prashant Jha
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 70% healthcare workers, 23% frontline staff get jab||AHMEDABAD: As on Friday, about 70% of the 4.33 lakh registered healthcare workers in Gujarat and 23% of the 6.93 lakh registered frontline workers have got vaccinated. With 37,031 vaccinations on Friday, the total number of vaccinations in Gujarat reached 4.9 lakh. “Till February 4, 2.99 lakh healthcare workers and 1.57 lakh frontline workers had got vaccinated — which is about 66% and 34% of the total vaccinations,” said a senior state health department official. “The vaccination ratio among the healthcare workers is less where the medical colleges are not functional. The majority of healthcare workers in government-run hospitals have got the first shot of vaccine.” In Ahmedabad, 3,772 persons got the vaccination at 53 centres. With the addition of various schools, the scope of vaccinations will be expanded in the next few days, said health department officials. The officials, however, refused to divulge district-wise data and compliance (vaccination against the daily registration of beneficiaries). Sources aware of the development said the number could be close to 80%. “Against the target of 11.26 lakh vaccinations in Phases I and II, so far only 43.5% of the shots have been administered in 21 days, at the average of 23,342,” said an official. The official added that vaccinations for 1 crore beneficiaries above 50 years of age might start in the latter half of February after new stock becomes available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70-healthcare-workers-23-frontline-staff-get-jab/articleshow/80713507.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||Doubling work on Madurai to Tuticorin, Nagercoil to be completed by June 2022||MADURAI: The Madurai to Tuticorin and Madurai to Nagercoil through Maniyachi doubling projects have received the highest allotment of Rs 500 crore of the total Rs 3,855 crore allotted for the Southern Railway (SR) for 2021-22. Addressing reporters through a virtual press conference on Friday, general manager of Southern Railway said that the Rs 3,855 crore allotted is 3.59% of the Rs 1,07,300 crore allotted for Indian Railways under the gross budgetary support (GBS). He also elaborated on allotment for the region and status of ongoing projects in the states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Of the Rs 500 crore allotment for doubling, Rs 300 crore has been given for the Madurai to Tuticorin section and Rs 200 crore for the Maniyachi to Nagercoil section. The targeted date of completion for the two projects is June 2022. The Madurai – Aruppukottai – Tuticorin new line project has been targeted for completion by this June. Doubling of the Thiruvananthapuram – Kanyakumari section for which Rs 275 crore is allotted is targeted for completion by March 2024. Construction of the new Pamban bridge in the place of the century old existing railway bridge was to be completed by December 2021. There was a slight setback due to two cyclones during the northeast monsoon, he said and added that they are hopeful of completing it by February or March next year. “Though the targeted date of completion for the 17.2km Rameswaram – Dhanushkodi new line is March 2024 we are aiming at completing it by December 2022,” Thomas said. The project has been allotted Rs 75 crore out of the total allotment of Rs 95 crore for the 11 new line projects in the SR in 2021-22. The Omalur–Mettur Dam and Salem – Magnesite – Omalur doubling are targeted for completion in March 2021 and August 2022, respectively. According to the GM, the budget grant of Rs 224.57 crore towards passenger amenities is the highest ever allotment under this head. He said that this is 13.35% more than the Rs 198.11 crore allotted for the current financial year. Responding to the meagre allotment of Rs 1,000 each for nine new line projects, the GM said that additional funds can be obtained based on progress of the projects. Thomas said that the average budget grant between 2014 and 2019 to Tamil Nadu was Rs 1,979 crore and there has been a year-on-year increase over the last two years from Rs 2,410 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 2,812 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 2,972 crore in 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doubling-work-on-madurai-to-tuticorin-nagercoil-to-be-completed-by-june-2022/articleshow/80715245.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||Railway staff can now vote through postal ballots: ECI||MADURAI: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has said that the provision for postal ballot has been provided for on board staff of the Indian Railways by amending the election rules. In a representation to the ECI, divisional secretary of the SRMU, V Ram Kumar had stated that the on board staff such as loco pilots, guards, ticket checkers and others are not able to exercise their franchise in the elections as they are always on the move and hence sought the provision of postal ballots for such employees. In reply, the ECI communication, signed by the under secretary stated that the ministry of law and justice has already amended the conduct of Election rules, 1961 for making provisions for voting through postal ballot paper to the persons notified in the terms of clause C of Section 60 of the Representation of the People’s Act, 1951 including absentee voters who are employed in essential services. Kumar said that the ECI’s letter was assuring. “Till date, the railway employees were deprived of discharging this very important duty of voting for the government of their choice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rly-staff-can-now-vote-through-postal-ballots-eci/articleshow/80715234.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Surat||Surat-Vadodara, Valsad-Umbergaon Memu trains from February 9||Surat: Good news for daily commuters from Surat to Vadodara, Valsad and Umbergaon. The Western Railway (WR) will operate two Memu trains with 12 reserved coaches between Vadodara-Surat and Valsad-Umbergaon starting from February 9. Official statement issued by the WR authorities said that the Vadodara-Surat Memu train will depart Vadodara station at 5.50 am to reach Surat at 9.15 am. In the return journey, it will depart from Surat at 5.38 pm to reach Vadodara at 9.20 pm. Similarly, the Valsad-Umbergaon memu train will depart from 11.40am to reach Umberrgaon at 1pm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-vadodara-valsad-umbergaon-memu-trains-from-february-9/articleshow/80712498.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chennai||M G Ramachandran kin move court over flag pole by AMMK||CHENNAI: The kin of former chief minister M G Ramachandran (MGR), residing at his Ramapuram residence, have moved the high court seeking action against encroachment made by the AMMK near their residence, apparently to put up a flag pole. Geetha M Mohan and Radha Gopalakrishnan have also sought police protection for them, their family members and for the residence, saying they faced threats from office-bearers of the AMMK. On Friday, when a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice A A Nakkiran commenced their hearing, advocate V Elangovan requested for urgent hearing. The bench assured to take up the matter on Monday. According to the petitioners, Lucky Murugan, Tiruvallur district secretary of AMMK, constructed a cement structure and put up a flag post near the front gate of their residence. “The encroachment was removed on January 29 after our complaint. But on February 1, Murugan erected another flag post,” the petition said. They made a representation on February 2 to authorities to remove the encroachment, the petition said, adding that Murugan and his henchmen made threats. Since the authorities failed to act, they have moved the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mgr-kin-move-court-over-flag-pole-by-ammk/articleshow/80713532.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||Madurai: Muslim outfit protests remarks by BJP man||MADURAI: Hundreds of members of the Muslim Iykkiya Jamath on Friday staged demonstrations at various places in Madurai district demanding severe action against a BJP functionary who made inflammatory comments against Prophet Muhammed. The protests were organised to condemn P Kalyanaraman, a BJP state executive committee member, who has been arrested for allegedly making inflammatory comments against the prophet on January 31. “The BJP functionary must face severe action for his derogatory remarks. We are demanding for National Security Act and Goondas Act to be invoked against him,” said S A Liyagath Ali, Madurai district secretary, Muslim Iykkiya Jamath. The protests were held near Anna statue in Nelpettai, Crime branch junction, Mahaboopalayam, Therkuvasal and Uthangudi. Around 800 people had gathered for the protest in Nelpettai, which was also joined by members of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi. In some of the protest venues, the protesters engaged in road picketing and traffic was affected for a brief time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/muslim-outfit-protests-remarks-by-bjp-man/articleshow/80715248.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vaccine, dropping case count revive leisure travel||AHMEDABAD: Optimism for the Covid-19 vaccine coupled with decline in the cases has helped revive leisure travel. While people have begun moving towards domestic destinations, inquiries for international destinations have already begun pouring in. Tour operators said that as soon as two phases of vaccination would be over, and the government will open international travel, there will be a significant spike in international travel. “At present, people are inquiring for destinations such as Maldives and Dubai, as flights to these destinations have resumed. If the government allows international travel to resume with due restrictions and in a phased manner, there is a huge scope for tourism to revive,” said Manish Sharma, chairman, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) – Gujarat chapter. Ever since the New Year’s Eve weekend, people have started travelling to nearby destinations. “Widespread apprehensions over air travel continue to remain. This is evident with even domestic flights running at almost 50% capacity. Most people prefer driving down and therefore, hotels and resorts at several nearby destinations are running full,” said a city-based tour operator. Inquiries for summer holidays have shot up significantly, particularly for domestic destinations. “At present, leisure travel is available only for Dubai, Maldives and Sri Lanka has recently relaxed norms as far as international destinations are concerned. While inquiries are certainly there, people are waiting to get vaccinated first and then head for their international holidays,” said Virendra Shah, chairman, Travel Agents’ Association of India (TAAI) – Gujarat chapter. “However, there is a boom as far as inquiries for domestic destinations is concerned. People are willing to opt for long-haul destinations such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, the North Eastern States, Kerala, Goa, Pondicherry, among others. Overall the inquiries are good and people will begin planning their travel shortly, having finalised the dates,” Shah further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccine-dropping-case-count-revive-leisure-travel/articleshow/80713538.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt unearths Rs 400 crore BDA scam, suspends 22 officers||BENGALURU: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa on Friday said the government has unearthed a Rs 400-crore scam at the Bangalore Development Authority over the past two months. Replying to a debate on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address, Yediyurappa said the government has taken serious note of the scam in which 53 officials are allegedly involved in ‘hiding’ vacant sites and properties from the government purview. The CM said the government has suspended 22 BDA officials, initiated probe against 12 and issued notices to 19 others. “I have asked senior bureaucrats to initiate criminal action against whom evidence has been collected,” he said, adding the government has recovered properties worth Rs 3,500 crore. Govt will tweak policy to prevent long BDA stintsYediyurappa said the state is amending the BDA Act, 1976, to enable transfer of officers employed by the authority for decades. “As per the existing laws, no BDA official can be transferred out of the institution. This has led to many of them entrenching themselves in their posting and indulging in scams. We will soon replicate the transfer policy in other city development authorities across the state,” he said. The CM said 1,572 BDA corner sites have been sold, earning Rs 1,422 crore in revenue in the past few months. Last year, the government decided to auction the sites to tide over the financial crisis wrought by Covid-19 lockdown. “The legislature will be happy to note that some corner sites have been auctioned at over three times the base price,” he added. On scaling up infrastructure in Bengaluru, the chief minister said 32 roads have been taken up for development under Smart City project and set May as the deadline for completing the works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-govt-unearths-400cr-bda-scam-suspends-22-officers/articleshow/80716534.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Madurai||‘Reopen schools in Madurai for lower classes in phased manner’||MADURAI: As schools are set to reopen for Classes IX and XI from next week and classes already in progress for Classes X and XII since January, managements are now seeking reopening for Classes I to VIII as well in a staggered manner at least for limited hours. “It is time that schools were reopened for Classes I to VIII too since we are nearing the end of the academic year. Classes could be planned and conducted on a shift basis or alternate days. Rather than getting consent from parents, the state government should give assurance of safety. Offline classes are much-needed even though we gave textbooks and video lessons to students, they are yet to properly study their lessons,” said T Gnanasekaran, district president, Tamil Nadu primary school teachers federation (TNPTF). Teachers said that for primary and middle school students it would take quite some time to be eased back into routine schooling. “Children of this age group are playful and they think schools being shut means holidays. Parents also are lenient towards them. Even basic language skills would be difficult for them to cultivate again after such a long gap. There should be no further delay for reopening,” said the headmaster of a government middle school. Apart from the bigger schools having student strength for Classes I to XII, many primary and middle schools in the district have only limited number of students. “It would be a challenge because the maximum strength would be at primary school level. However, for Class VI to XII, there should be no issue if there are measures in place. At the same time, many other states have reopened schools for all classes. All students need at least one or two months of offline classes now so they can be eased back in before the next academic year,” said M Senthilnathan, president, private schools correspondents’ confederation. He added that schools could be allowed to extend the academic year till June this time, cut down on holidays so they can suitably adjust for the next academic year avoiding delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reopen-schools-for-lower-classes-in-phased-manner/articleshow/80715250.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC gives child’s custody to maternal grandparents||Ahmedabad: The principal district judge at Gandhinagar, a woman PSI and child protection officer oversaw the handing over of custody of a three-and-a-half year-old boy from his paternal grandparents to the maternal grandparents on Thursday afternoon upon the Gujarat high court’s order. The child’s custody was transferred so that he could join her mother waiting for him desperately in the USA after obtaining an order from a court in the state of Georgia. Being an illegal immigrant, the woman had her limitations that she could not visit India in person to get her child’s custody even after securing her rights through a US court, her lawyer said. The case involved a couple from a village of Mehsana district. They had immigrated to the US few years ago without valid immigration process. They had a son, who was sent to India for proper care because the couple was facing difficulties in raising the kid for want of their citizenship status. A year after the child was born, their relationship fell apart. The woman obtained custody rights till August 12, 2021 from a US court and wanted to enforce them, but she could not return to India to get her son’s custody. In India, the child was being raised by grandparents. He was with the maternal grandparents for nearly two years. While the custody dispute arose in the US, the child was taken by his paternal grandparents. She filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court complaining that her in-laws were not parting with the child’s custody despite a court’s order. When the court inquired with the elderly couple last week, they said that they were ready to send the child to the US, but the mother should personally come to get his custody. Two days later, the high court summoned the child’s maternal grandparents. They appeared before the court through video conferencing. They told the court that the child was with them only for most of the time ever since he came from the US. The paternal grandparents had taken him with assurance that the child would be sent to the US, but they did not follow their word. After hearing the case, the bench headed by Justice Sonia Gokani observed, “Without entering into any kind of allegations, noticing the need for the child to be sent to the mother, initially for the period of four weeks, the custody is to be given to the maternal grandparents, who shall look after the child with utmost care and caution.” The court has sought a report from the welfare officer after four weeks and posted further hearing on March 5. meanwhile, the child's passport, which was lying with the public prosecutor, has been ordered to be deposited with the HC's registrar (judicial).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-gives-childs-custody-to-maternal-grandparents/articleshow/80713559.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||23-year-old man arrested on stalking charges in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A23-year-old man was arrested on charges of stalking, assaulting and molesting a 22-year-old woman. The accused has been identified as Mohammed Shanu Ahmed, a resident of Raghuveer Nagar in west Delhi. Ahmed used to work as a carpenter in Kirti Nagar and had been stalking the woman for a long time, police said. He was sent to judicial custody in Tihar Jail. Ahmed was arrested by a team led by SHO (Rajouri Gardens) Anil Sharma after the woman filed a complaint on February 4. The woman alleged that the accused wanted to marry her. However, she had rejected the proposal as the accused belonged to another religion. Following this, Ahmed started stalking her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/23-yr-old-man-arrested-on-stalking-charges/articleshow/80713556.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Speed up construction work at Kedarnath: Devasthanam board CEO||Dehradun: With the Char Dham yatra season set to start in just about two months, the Devasthanam board reviewed the renovation work at Kedarnath and also asked the authorities concerned to speed up the remaining construction work. In a review meeting held at the office of the Garhwal Commissioner on Friday, Ravinath Raman, the commissioner and the chief executive officer (CEO) of Devasthanam Board, said that the construction of the most essential residential premises — Rawal Niwas, Pujari Niwas Bhog Mandi, Toshakhana — in Kedarnath should be undertaken on priority and asked for a DPR (detailed project report) in two weeks. Harish Gaur, public relations officer (PRO), Devasthanam board, said that Raman has also sought a construction module in one week. “The officer insisted that the construction of the office building, discourse hall, rest house, dharamshala, staff accommodation, rain shelter, and store should be completed before the commencement of the Char Dham Yatra, expected to start in April this year,” added Harish Gaur. Notably, the date for the opening of portals of Kedarnath will be decided on the occasion of Shivratri on March 11 and that of Badrinath on the occasion of Basant Panchami on February 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/speed-up-construction-work-at-kedarnath-devasthanam-board-ceo/articleshow/80712523.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||It’s official: Nana Patole is new Maharashtra Congress chief||MUMBAI: Nana Patole was appointed as the new president of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee on Friday in place of Balasaheb Thorat, who had proposed to step down in keeping with the party’s ‘one man one post’ policy. Patole had quit as Maharashtra assembly speaker on Thursday. Along with Patole, the All India Congress Committee appointed six MPCC working presidents, 10 vice-presidents and 37 members of the parliamentary board. The AICC has dropped energy minister Nitin Raut, women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur, minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam and ex-legislator Muzaffar Hussain who were working presidents in the panel headed by Thorat. Solapur legislator Praniti Shinde, former ministers Naseem Khan, Shivajirao Moghe, Chandrakant Handore, Baswaraj Patil and Kunal Patil are among the new working presidents, while Shirish Choudhary, Hussain Dalwai, Mohan Joshi, Bhai Nagrale, M M Shaikh and Sharad Aher are among vice-presidents. Patole said there was no discontent in the Maha Vikas Aghadi over his resignation from the speaker’s post. “It is the internal decision of the Congress. The Congress leadership had spoken to Sharad Pawar and CM Uddhav Thackeray before taking the decision. Even Thorat and former CM Ashok Chavan were in the loop,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-official-nana-patole-is-new-state-cong-chief/articleshow/80713610.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hubballi||Many students in North Karnataka quit private schools over fees||BELAGAVI: Under pressure from managements to pay fees and parents unable to bring that kind of money with their income reduced in the impact of Covid-19 lockdown, hundreds of children in parts of North Karnataka are shifting from private schools to ones owned by the state government, reports Shreyas HS. This trend of collecting transfer certificates to shift to a government institution is seen largely in Raichur, Yadgir, Ballari, Kalaburagi and Belagavi districts. BEO: Many cases have not come to edu dept’s noticeFor instance, in Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district, at least 25 children took transfer out of private schools in the past 15 days. Block education officer Sharanappa Vatgal confirmed to TOI that his department helped the children obtain the certificates after their parents approached him. The certificates were issued to the children so that they were free to join schools of their choice where the fee pressure is a lot less. Vatgal said more and more children were quitting private schools as their parents were unable to arrange school fees, and many cases have not come to the notice of the education department. Ballari deputy director of public instruction Ramappa C told TOI he was aware of instances when parents found it difficult to pay school fees of their children. He said cases of students opting to join government school were reported from Ballari too and such instances were on the rise. ‘Graph likely to increase’Yadgir DDPI Srinivas Reddy said 1% of students from private schools in Yadgir city have shifted to government institutions. The numbers may be less, but the graph is likely to increase in the coming days. Education expert VP Niranjanaradhya said the government must capitalise on the trend to help children migrate to public-owned schools without hassles. “Block education officers must accord priority to such cases and expedite issuance of transfer certificates so that students benefit the most. Some private school managements are harassing already-burdened parents with fee reminders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/many-students-in-n-ktaka-quit-pvt-schools-over-fees/articleshow/80716542.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||To make Delhi electric vehicle capital, govt to set up 100 public charging stations||NEW DELHI: In a step aimed at making the city the “electric vehicle (EV) capital of India”, power minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said Delhi government had issued the largest tender for public charging stations in the country so far. Jain said Delhi Transco Limited, a government agency, initiated the process for setting up 100 public charging stations on Friday and all power infrastructure costs would be borne by the government. “Under this project, Delhi government is coming up with 100 charging stations with 500 charging points and this will be ready within 12 months,” the minister said. “The majority of these sites will be at Delhi Metro stations, followed by DTC bus depots. This will ensure that you can charge your electric vehicle at any required spot across Delhi,” he added. There will be a mandate for minimum 20% slow chargers and 10% fast chargers to cater to all kinds of electric vehicles, and battery-swapping stations will also be allowed, Jain said. “Delhi government is committed to transforming Delhi to the electric vehicle capital and we are working on it relentlessly,” he added. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched the Switch Delhi campaign with the aim of turning Delhi’s EV adoption movement into a mass movement. Delhi government had launched an ambitious EV policy in August last year with the vision that by 2024, 25% of all new vehicles in the capital should be electric ones. Kejriwal had urged delivery fleets and large corporates to set targets to transition their entire fleet to EVs and set up charging points on their premises. “I appeal to all malls, restaurants and shopping complexes to plan and create public charging points in your parking lots,” he had said. An official said that apart from locations where space could be available, the government was also looking at locations people would require a charging station, such as a workplace or an educational institution. “We are also planning to extend charging facilities at all parking lots managed by different civic agencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-make-delhi-ev-capital-govt-to-set-up-100-public-charging-stations/articleshow/80713589.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Girl dies after clock falls on her||Ahmedabad: An 11-year-old girl died on January 31 due to internal injuries five days after a wall clock fell on her stomach while she was sleeping at her one-room house in the slums of Delhi Chakla, Shahpur. On January 27, Dinesh Dangi was in search of work as a casual labourer. His daughter Sejal was sleeping on the bed with her four siblings. According to Dangi, when Sejal was sleeping, the wall clock fell suddenly on her stomach. She suffered abdominal pain and when he came home on January 31 evening, she was not able to walk or speak properly. “I took my daughter to a local clinic where she was given some medicines. But she did not get better,” Dangi said. “I took her to Civil Hospital in Asarwa where her treatment began on January 28.” On January 31, her condition began deteriorating. “She breathed her last at about 6.30pm,” he said. Dangi said the clock fell after the nail on which it was hanging came loose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girl-dies-after-clock-falls-on-her/articleshow/80713587.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Court defers sarpanch polls in six districts till February 16||MUMBAI: The high court on Friday deferred till February 16 the sarpanch elections from among elected members of the village gram panchayats in six districts after hearing a clutch of petitions challenging the reservation policy. The sarpanch elections were scheduled to be held between February 8 and 11. As per rules, the elections to the office of sarpanch are required to be held within 30 days from the date of notification of the constitution of village panchayats, which were issued on January 29, noted the high court. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi passed the order while hearing a group of 31 petitions which challenged the elections to the post of sarpanch to be held in Kolhapur Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Nashik and Pune districts. The petitioners contended that the reservation to the post of sarpanch was not how Section 30 of the Maharashtra Panchayat Act and the Bombay Village Panchayats Election Rules spell out. They said their objections though filed before the tehsildar were not considered. The court then directed the district collectors of the six districts to treat the writ pleas filed by the petitioners as representations, by providing them with a personal hearing on February 9 and disposing of the same with a speaking order for every plea before February 16. The collectors shall hear the petitioners or their advocates and also the parties who are likely to be affected by the orders passed on grievances of the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-defers-sarpanch-polls-in-six-districts-till-february-16/articleshow/80715269.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Movement across India-Nepal border along U’khand resumes after 10 months as India also opens its side of suspension bridges at border||Pithoragarh: After a gap of over 10 months, the suspension bridges on the India and Nepal border adjoining Uttarakhand opened on Friday to facilitate cross-border movement. On January 28, the Nepalese government had decided to open up the border with India, specifying that only Indian and Nepalese citizens will be allowed to cross the border and citizens of no other country would be allowed. On Thursday evening, almost a week after the Nepalese government’s decision, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) also issued orders to open suspension bridges for movement between the two countries. According to Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande, the suspension bridges at Dharchula, Baluakot, Jauljibi, Dauda and Jhulaghat were opened up during the day. He added that the people crossing the border were being checked as per Covid-19 guidelines. Sources in the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) – the paramilitary force that guards the border – said that number of people crossing the border through suspension bridges on Friday was low since the decision to open the bridges was taken late on Thursday night and not many people were aware of it yet. The India-Nepal border was closed from March 23 onwards due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During this period, border check points were opened intermittently when people on either sides had to cross the border in emergency situations. It was also opened specially for Nepalese pensioners of the Indian Army to enable them to come to banks situated on the Indian side to withdraw their pension. There was growing demand in both Nepal as well as in border districts like Pithoragarh that the border should be opened for regular movement since its closure was affecting people who were involved in trading activities or had jobs in either side of the border. Welcoming the move, Prayag Datt Pangaria, a local businessmen of Jhulaghat, said, “This was a long-awaited decision. We hope that normal trading activities as well as movement between the two countries will now pick up pace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/movement-across-india-nepal-border-along-ukhand-resumes-after-10-months-as-india-also-opens-its-side-of-suspension-bridges-at-border/articleshow/80712529.cms||Prem Punetha
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Reprieve for Owaisi as HC stays criminal case on him||Hyderabad: Telangana high court on Friday stayed the criminal case registered against AIMIM president, Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi during the GHMC elections in 2016. The case was filed based on a complaint from former minister, Congress leader Mohammed Shabbir Ali who alleged Asaduddin and his men had attacked his car and inflicted injuries on him when he went to the Old City to inquire about some Congress leaders at Hussaini Alam police station. Staying the case, Justice A Rajasheker Reddy issued a notice to Shabbir asking him to respond to the contentions raised by Asaduddin in the plea. The judge also made it clear that the stay was applicable only to Asaduddin and not to others who were named in the FIR. The judge later posted the case to three weeks. Shabbir, in his complaint, said that Asaduddin was openly questioning the entry of Congress leaders into the Old City. “He (AIMIM chief) also threatened us with dire consequences if we enter the area again,” he said in his complaint. However, Asaduddin’s counsel said that there was no evidence to show that the MP had led the attack. “Nor was there any proof Asaduddin was at the site of the offence or to say that he was instrumental in carrying out the physical attack on Shabbir and Congress leaders,” the counsel argued. The alleged attack took place in Puranapul area. Following the complaint, police had registered the case and made Asaduddin as accused No. 1 and named some of his followers as accused in the FIR. A chargesheet was filed in the trial court. However, police sought time from the court to file a supplementary chargesheet. Cops later filed the supplementary chargesheet, saying that they found no evidence against Asaduddin and sought court’s permission to delete his name from the case. Trial court, however, rejected the cops’ request, the supplementary chargesheet and made it clear it would commence trial based on averments made in main chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reprieve-for-owaisi-as-hc-stays-criminal-case-on-him/articleshow/80713628.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nonagenarian freedom fighter breathes her last||Ahmedabad: Shanta Rajpriya, 95, a freedom fighter and founder of Dhingli Ghar (Doll House), breathed her last at her residence in the city on Thursday night. Her daughter and three daughters-in-law performed her last rites on Friday morning in the presence of friends and relatives. Her family remembered her participation in India’s freedom struggle at the young age of 13 years. They mentioned that her father Mathurdas was a Gandhian, and she followed in his footsteps. “She was part of the Congress meet in Ramgadh. She was entrusted with keeping a watch on Mahatma Gandhi’s tent. When Mahatma saw the little girl, he enquired why was she standing there. When she answered, he asked her to spin the yarn on charkha instead,” said a relative. As inmate of Sabarmati Ashram, she had also participated in the Quit India movement. She along with others were rounded up by police from Viramgam and taken to Sabarmati Central Jail. “Narayan Desai, Narhari Parikh, Deviben Shah, etc. were with her. They met leaders such as Vinodini Nilkanth. As she knew Sanskrit well, she was asked to sing prayers daily,” added another member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nonagenarian-freedom-fighter-breathes-her-last/articleshow/80713637.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||GTU VC on Vidyapith VC search panel||Ahmedabad: The University Grants Commission has appointed Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor of Gujarat Technological University, as the member of a search committee to appoint the new vice-chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith. The development came after UGC rejected the appointment of former registrar Rajendra Khimani as the new VC of the varsity, which was founded by Mahatma Gandhi in 1920. The commission was of the view that his appointment had been made without the presence of UGC representative in the search committee formed by Vidyapith. "The appointment was rejected as the search committee formation flouted UGC norms. The process of selecting a VC will be carried out again," said a source aware of the development. The term of outgoing VC Anamik Shah, which was supposed to end in December, has been extended till the new vice-chancellor takes charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-vc-on-vidyapith-vc-search-panel/articleshow/80713643.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Interest-free loans to be provided to 25,000 farmers today||Dehradun: In an event held in Dehradun on Saturday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated a state government initiative — Deen Dayal Upadhyay Sahkarita Kisan Kajyan Yojana — to provide interest-free loans to farmers for an amount up to Rs 3 lakh. The main event would be held at Bannu School in the Race Course area of Dehradun and be simultaneously organised at five other locations in the state. The aim of these events is to provide loans to 25,000 farmers from 95 blocks of Uttarakhand. The loans would be provided for agriculture and allied sectors. CM Rawat said, “Initially, we started the concept of providing a loan up to Rs 1 lakh to farmers at 2% interest rate. We told the farmers that if the results were positive, more assistance would be provided. The results have been encouraging and now, we are going to provide interest free loans up to Rs 3 lakh to farmers and up to Rs 5 lakh to self-help groups.” Besides, in the programme, the government would also provide hardware for computerization in 200 multi-purpose agricultural credit cooperative societies of the state. A total amount of Rs 40 crores has to be spent for computerization of multipurpose agricultural credit cooperatives, in which 25% of the money will be provided by the state government. All the cooperative societies of the state will be computerized by March 2021 and Uttarakhand will be the first state in the country where all multipurpose agricultural credit cooperatives of the state will be computerized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/interest-free-loans-to-be-provided-to-25000-farmers-today/articleshow/80712537.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 6, 2021||Delhi||North corporation mayor, AAP trade charges over ‘funds due’ from Delhi govt||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor on Friday demanded Delhi government release Rs 1,683 crore it “owes” to the civic body. Calling it “Allegation Aadmi Party”, Jai Prakash claimed that AAP is spreading confusion by making new allegations daily. “The party’s spokespersons are spreading the confusion about the release of funds to corporations. Delhi government has no achievement of its own and just wants to be in headlines by fighting with municipal corporations. It is just giving a part of the fund, which we condemn,” the mayor said. He added that the corporation is working to provide services to Delhiites even in adverse conditions. “Delhi governments Budget allocated Rs 2,090 cr to the municipal corporations. On January 14, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyender Jain had announced in a press conference that Rs 938 crore will be released to the north corporation for the salaries of employees, but we have not received even a single penny of it,” Prakash said that the government has only released the third quarter funds to the civic body. In response, AAP MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said that the government has so far given Rs 1,095 crores to the BJP-led corporation. “The corporation commissioner says that the money has been deposited in the account and bank papers prove it too. The monet have been divided within the BJP functionaries,” Pathak said, The AAP member said that in a press conference on Thursday, AAP had already shown it had paid the corporation, proving the corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-mayor-aap-trade-charges-over-funds-due-from-delhi-govt/articleshow/80713644.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||All identified health workers in Uttarakhand to be vaccinated for Covid-19 by this weekend||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand health department on Friday inoculated 7,434 healthcare workers. With this, the state managed to vaccinate 70,092 people for Covid-19. According to officials, the state will vaccinate all the identified healthcare staff by this weekend and the administration of the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine is to start from February 19. Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM), said that Covid-19 vaccination started in the state on January 16 and the second dose has to be administered to the beneficiaries four weeks after the first dose. “We will start the administration of the second round of vaccination from next weekend. Our target of administration of vaccines to around 85,000 healthcare workers will be finished by this weekend,” added Naithani. Also, with Kumbh Mela round the corner, Uttarakhand is expected to get 1.4 lakh extra Covid-19 vaccine jabs that will be administered to the task force and the other employees involved in the management of the religious fair. Meanwhile, 47 new cases of Covid-19 took the state’s tally to 96,431. On Friday, the number of active cases came down to 945 with 97 patients recovering on Friday. Also, three Covid-19 deaths were recorded in Uttarakhand in the last 24 hours. The toll of the infection shot up to 1,662.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-identified-health-workers-in-ukhand-to-be-vaccinated-for-covid-19-by-this-weekend/articleshow/80712540.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Interstate burglary gang held, property worth Rs 8 lakh seized||Hyderabad: Osmania University police arrested three members of a notorious interstate burglary gang and recovered stolen property worth Rs 8 lakh from their possession. The accused, A Durga Rao, 34, a labourer from Machilipatnam, P Umamaheshwar Rao, 41, a goldsmith from Guntur and P Kiran Babu, 30, a painter from Guntur, committed seven offences in the recent past near Osmania University, Uppal, Hayathnagar, Malkajgiri in the city as well as at Amaravathi and Pedanandipadu in Guntur. According to Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar, the accused stayed in lodges close to posh residential areas and would conduct a recee of locked houses. While Durga Rao would break into the house using the tools he carried in his backpack, his associates kept a watch on the surroundings. According to police, Durga Rao was previously involved in over 100 cases, Umameshwar Rao in 300 cases and Kiran Babu in 30 cases. Osmania University police identified the accused and arrested them near Habsiguda on Friday. Police recovered 10 tola gold, 4kg silver ornaments, Rs 11,200 cash, all worth Rs 8 lakh. The accused along with the seized property will be produced before court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/interstate-burglary-gang-held-property-worth-rs-8-lakh-seized/articleshow/80713647.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Goa: Shacks wind up business three months before season ends||CALANGUTE: In a tourist season hit by the pandemic, many shack owners in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt are planning to shut down their shacks early. John Lobo, general secretary of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS), said that most of the beach shacks in Candolim are going to shut down this month because of poor business. The shack owners are winding up more than three months before the end of the season in May. “The domestic tourist crowds are there only in Calangute and Baga, so shacks there are doing decent business. But in some wards of Calangute and in Candolim shacks are not doing even 10% of their normal business because 90% of their clients were foreign charter tourists. They had put up their shacks thinking charter tourists would come by January, but that hasn’t happened,” Lobo said. “Many shack owners in Candolim did not even put up their shacks because there would be no foreign charter tourists,” Manuel Cardozo, president of the Traditional Shack Owners Association, said. Those shack owners in Calangute, who were also largely dependent on foreign charter tourists, are also planning to shut down early, he said. Domestic tourists are not able to visit shacks in some areas in Calangute-Candolim because of no road access. There are around 200 shacks in the tourism hub. “Business is very bad. It’s just for survival. There was some business during December-January, but now it’s gone down. We are waiting to see how things are till next month. So far I have not even recovered my shack licence fee amount,” Cardozo said. “Now nobody knows how it will be next month.” According to Lobo, beach shacks can shut down early if there is no business and shack owners do not get penalised. “There is no restriction on shutting down. There is no issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shacks-wind-up-biz-three-months-before-season-ends/articleshow/80715260.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vismay Shah seeks parole, Gujarat HC issues notice||AHMEDABAD: Vismay Shah, who is serving a five-year jail term in the BMW hit-and-run case, has sought parole from the Gujarat high court to remain with his wife, who is expecting a child. According to Shah’s advocate Maunish Pathak, he has sought parole for sixty days on the ground that his wife is expecting. The court has been requested to release him particularly to attend the baby shower ceremony. He has been behind bars since August. Justice A Y Kogje issue notice to the jail authority and sought reply by February 10, when further hearing has been posted. Shah surrendered to jail in August 2020 after the Supreme Court dismissed his appeal against the punishment of five-year imprisonment. He was punished for a 2013 accident, in which two youths were killed in Vastrapur area. A trial court in 2015 handed him the punishment, which was upheld by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vismay-seeks-parole-hc-issues-notice/articleshow/80713650.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||IIM Kashipur records 100% summer placements||RUDRAPUR: The tenth batch of the flagship MBA programme and the first one of the MBA Analytics course of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in Kashipur have recorded 100% summer placements. The placement season witnessed the highest stipend of Rs 3.3 lakh for two months for MBA students, recording an increase of 4.7%. The top 25% of the batch bagged an average stipend of Rs 1.56 lakh for two months. Similarly, the top 25% students of the inaugural MBA Analytics batch received offers with an average stipend of Rs 1.58 lakh. The highest stipend package bagged by an MBA Analytics student was of Rs 3.15 lakh for two months. A total of 332 students from both the MBA and the MBA Analytics programmes received 358 internship offers from leading organisations. As many as 91 companies offered roles to the students across areas, including consulting and strategy, IT & analytics, finance, HR, marketing and sales, general management, and operations. “We are thankful to all the companies for choosing IIM Kashipur as their preferred destination for campus recruitment. We look forward to continuing our association with the corporate sector through recruitment drives and other avenues of mutual talent enhancement,” said Professor Venkataraghavan K, chairperson of placements at IIM Kashipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iim-kashipur-records-100-summer-placements/articleshow/80712544.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Board exams in May heat are like ‘death sentence’, say academics||NAGPUR: Scorching temperatures that cross 47 degrees Celsius and life threatening heat waves are some of the challenges that students in Vidarbha will have to face while appearing for board exams in May. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, board exams for SSC, HSC and CBSE will continue throughout the peak of summer this year. In a normal year, board exams wrap up by March end or at the most in early April. Vidarbha’s summer heat is legendary and that’s why academic schedule here is different from rest of Maharashtra. Schools reopen from June 26, as opposed to June 15 in Mumbai and Pune. In 2013, Nagpur district recorded a mind boggling 47.9 C while last year the city was 10th hottest place in the world. Neighbouring Chandrapur is also notorious for high temperatures, a problem accentuated due to presence of coal mines. Ashok Gavhankar, principal of a Marathi medium school and junior college, said this year’s timetable was like a ‘death sentence’ for children in this region. “May is the hottest month and from noon till 4pm is when it is the most lethal. Every year people die due to sunstroke in Vidarbha. The way the exam timing has been slotted, I fear students from poor economic background will be risking their lives,” said Gavhankar. SSC exams will be held from 10 am to 2 pm, while HSC will also have a second shift from 3 pm - 6 pm. Gavhankar, who is also general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said, “There are thousands, if not lakhs, of students in Vidarbha who reach exam centre either by foot, cycle or bus. Imagine them exiting the hall at 2pm and then commuting back in that unbearable and life threatening heat.” He added that those who appear for second shift have it worse. “Their paper will start at 3pm, which means that by 2pm they will reach the exam centre. For that they will leave their house by 1pm. Only those in Vidarbha will be able to understand what all of the above means in mid-May,” said Gavhankar. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh), said conducting exams in May was a ‘blunder’. “I have been teaching for three decades now and the heat has become unbearable over the years. I have heard that decades ago some teachers died due to sunstroke as they moved about for official work. Imagine students having to do the same,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/board-exams-in-may-heat-are-like-death-sentence-say-academics/articleshow/80711775.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 6, 2021||Goa||Locals quite capable of saving Mollem: Pramod Sawant||MOLLEM: A day after chief minister Pramod Sawant blamed “propaganda” by “external forces” over the Mollem issue going international, he said on Friday that his government was committed to conserving the biodiversity of the state and protecting Mollem. Speaking at the inaugural session of the 4th bird festival organised by the state’s forest department at Mollem on Friday, Sawant, in a veiled dig at the “external forces” driving the campaign against the three projects, said: “We are more concerned about Mollem and Goa. And Mollemkars and Goemkars are quite capable of saving Mollem and Goa.” Stressing on the need for conservation of forests “with a balanced outlook,” Sawant said, “Just as our forefathers took great care to preserve nature and regional biodiversity, this generation too is taking great care towards conserving nature. There’s a need to conserve nature and showcase the rich biodiversity to the people, so that domestic and international tourists get attracted to the state”. The CM further underscored the need to resolve issues in forest areas that often lead to conflict between local residents and forest officials. Stating that over 10,000 tribals and other forest dwellers have applied under the Forest Rights Act, Sawant said nearly 3,000 applications have been cleared during the initial phases of scrutiny. He said that the pace of processing the applications would hasten once more surveyors are recruited, which, he said, would be done soon. He said it would be his endeavor to restore to the tribals their rights on forest land and forest produce, and provide them with livelihood opportunities. Sawant further said that people residing in forest areas have been provided training by the forest department to serve as “nature guides” to tourists, and that several “van mitras” will be trained to identify and harvest various species of medicinal plants from the forests. This, he said was aimed at diverting a section of tourists to hinterland tourism, and to enable Goa to make a mark on the international tourism map. PWD minister Deepak Pauskar and principal chief conservator of forests Subhash Chandra also spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-quite-capable-of-saving-mollem-sawant/articleshow/80715271.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Ban on family visits at Colvale jail to continue as precaution||PANAJI: Since March 2020, visits by relatives of prisoners at the Colvale Central Jail have been stopped. This practice, jail authorities say, will continue till the Covid-19 pandemic is under total control. “In the absence of physical visits, the prisoners, after prior permission, are allowed a virtual meeting with their families via video conferencing,” the jail official said. While there are no active cases among jail staff and prisoners currently, the official said that this decision has been taken as a precautionary measure. The jail at Colvale houses over 400 prisoners including under trials and convicts. In August and September 2020, over 100 Covid-19 positive cases were detected on the jail premises. Some of the jail staff too tested positive. “With great difficulty we have brought down the positive cases to nil. We don’t want a repeat of the situation. Though Covid-19 infections have reduced in Goa, we don’t want to take a risk,” he said. The jail premises has provision to isolate inmates who test positive for Covid. Those who return from completing their parole are kept separately for a few days. Social distancing norms are followed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-on-family-visits-at-colvale-jail-to-continue-as-precaution/articleshow/80715264.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Goa govt inks MoU with CII for model career centre||Panaji: To address the challenge of unemployability and the skill gap among Goan youth, the state government inked an agreement with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Friday to operate the model career centre on a public-private partnership basis. CII, which has initiated a collaboration with Switzerland’s École hôtelière de Lausanne, asked the state to take advantage of the collaboration. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who was present when the Memorandum of Understanding was exchanged, said that the model career centre will not only help find youth find jobs but will also help workers to upskill. “Goa’s employment exchange is no longer the same and it has been converted into a model career centre. CII will provide counselling services to provide not just government employment but for the private sector,” said Sawant. “Those who are job seekers will be trained. Our youth need to come out of the mindset that only government jobs will do.” Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had set the wheels in motion for the model career centre in late 2018 and had begun discussions with CII to address the issue of employment and livelihood in Goa. CII has already established 39 Model Career Centres across India with the Goa facility being the 40th. “The government is striving to create and provide adequate employment to the youth. Considering CII’s expertise in this area of imparting career guidance and skills, the government of Goa aims to collaborate through this initiative and provide employment,” said minister for labour and employment Jennifer Monserrate. The model career centre will connect job seekers with private sector companies, provide career counselling and guidance, train youth and provide placement. The official signing of the MoU aims to target at least 27,000 youth and provide placement to 7,000 candidates in two years. In a short period of two weeks, the CII has already connected with 240 firms, shortlisted 100 candidates and issued offer letters to 74 candidates. Six offer letters were given in Sawant’s presence. “The objective is to create a more productive workforce for industry to attain greater competitiveness while simultaneously making a greater social impact. Build a robust skill ecosystem and provide meaningful skills to the youth of the country,” said CII Goa council chairman Blaise Costabir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-inks-mou-with-cii-for-model-career-centre/articleshow/80715262.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Online gambling: Rs 104 crore transferred to foreign firms||HYDERABAD: Chinese promoters involved in the online gambling racket transferred at least Rs 104 crore to foreign companies, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Hyderabad police have found out. The investigators stumbled upon this during their probe into the online gambling in which Chinese national Yan Hao was arrested in August last. The investigators found that out of Rs 1,100 crore collected from the gamers, Rs 104 crore was carted away to foreign shores. “The amount was illegally transferred to foreign companies. The ultimate beneficiaries of these Indian companies are Chinese nationals and their companies,’’ ED officials said in a deposition to a court a few days ago. Investigators found the accused offered online games like Flash, Rummy, Happy Rummy, Joy Rummy, Stickpool India, Quale, Gcoast, 101 gold, GGshop, and allegedly duped gamers by manipulating the game outcome. Officials are still trying to unravel if some of the e-wallet companies, which were acting as payment aggregators for illegal Chinese apps, have been indulging in international hawala activities under the garb of e-commerce and dating apps. Police found that all websites, through which the online gambling was organised, were hosted at Cloudfare, which is an American web infrastructure and website security company.  One of the accused, Deeraj Sarkar, approached the SC a few days ago, seeking transfer of the case to a competent court in Gurugram on the grounds of jurisdiction saying the companies he is associated with have registered address in Gurugram. The court dismissed his petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-gambling-rs-104crore-transferred-to-foreign-firms/articleshow/80713653.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops, RBI officials review loan apps||Hyderabad: Police officials of Cyberabad, Hyderabad and Rachakonda on Friday held a review meeting on the functioning of loan apps with officials of a working group appointed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which is devising the modalities to regulate digital money lending. Cyberabad police said it was suggested that guidelines be devised “to streamline digital lending by authorized NBFCs ( Non-Banking Financial Companies) using various platforms. The public must be able to identify genuine and legally authorized money lending agencies and their lending process should be transparent adherent to all legal provisions’’. Till now at least six persons have committed suicide due to harassment by representatives of rogue loan apps. Police officers said they informed officials of the RBI about the situation in the state due to the operation of money lending apps. “It was suggested that the banks whose accounts are being used for money transactions, by these fraudulent money lending apps, must have a stringent mechanism for KYC and also periodical review of activities to alert law enforcement agencies of suspicious transactions,’’ Cyberabad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-rbi-officials-review-loan-apps/articleshow/80713660.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Heavy snowfall in Uttarkashi disrupts traffic, electricity & water supply||UTTARKASHI: Several roads in Uttarkashi, including national highways leading to Gangotri and Yamunotri, were blocked on Friday due to heavy snowfall overnight. Power and drinking water supplies were hit at nearly two dozen villages at higher altitudes of the hill district. Authorities of the district administration said that restoration work had been started earlier in the day after the weather cleared up. District disaster management officer Devendra Patwal told TOI, “Roads and electricity supplies will be restored by Saturday morning. The departments concerned have already started their work.” According to the disaster management department, Gangotri highway was blocked at Gangnani and Yamunotri highway at Phoolchatti. Also, vehicular movement was disrupted on more than a dozen link roads including Mori-Naitwar, Arakot-Bhutanu and Kunwa- Kafnol among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-snowfall-in-uttarkashi-disrupts-traffic-electricity-water-supply/articleshow/80712568.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Pvt hospital owner doc helps 19 family members, friends get vax||Amravati: The health and district administrations were taken aback to learn that a doctor at a private superspecialty hospital at Achalpur facilitated free shots of Covid-19 vaccine for 19 members of his family and friends, by showing them as staff attached to his hospital.Though civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam and collector Shailesh Naval have ordered an inquiry into the affair, the latter told TOI that the matter was not that serious.The Covid-19 vaccination programme is currently exclusively for government and private health care workers at no cost to beneficiaries. So, private hospitals using this to give free jab to family members and friends by showing them as staffers has come as a shock.“It is not possible for the staff working at vaccination centres to verify lists submitted by private hospitals and clinics. Moreover, there were no such guidelines either,” Dr Nikam told TOI. “I have asked the head of Achalpur Sub District Hospital to investigate the matter and submit a report,” Nikam said.Collector Naval did not see anything serious in the matter. “It is not a serious thing,” he told TOI when contacted over phone.CS Nikam said the incident happened at Bhansali Superspecialty Hospital in Achalpur, run by Dr Ashish Bhansali. He allegedly submitted a list of 19 persons from his family and friends to the sub district hospital, Achalpur, showing them all as front-line health workers. They all were administered the vaccine. The sub district hospital reportedly did not verify the list. A similar incident also allegedly happened in the case of a dental clinic.Dr Bhansali told TOI on Friday, “It was an unintentional and innocent act. I was misguided by associates on who were allowed to register for the vaccine. I did not read the government directives myself. I did not exert any force on authorities to give shots to my family and friends.”He also revealed all the 19 vaccinations were done 15 days ago. He added, “We will now go by whatever the government directs. Today, I stopped my brother from getting the shot as a health associate. None of my family will take the second dose of vaccine until the government allows.”The government had issued clear instructions with regard to vaccination. Only health workers and Covid warriors from public and private hospitals and clinics were to be given the shot in the first phase. However, these instructions seem to have been thrown to the wind by some private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospital-owner-doc-helps-19-family-members-friends-get-vax/articleshow/80711785.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Chanda BJP stages Halla Bol agitation against MSEDCL||Chandrapur: The city unit of BJP on Friday staged ‘Halla Bol’ agitation before the MSEDCL zone office to flay the disconnection drive taken up by the power distribution company. BJP leaders and party workers led by city president Mangesh Gulwade shouted slogans and criticized the state government. Gulwade claimed that while people are yet to recover from the Covid pandemic, MSEDCL has suddenly started a drive to recover the pending bills. He said the company had itself stalled the billing process for several months during the peak pandemic period and later clubbed power bills of several months and sent excessive bills with high interest rates. “At times when common people are still reeling under losses due to the pandemic, MSEDCL has sent disconnection notices to 75 lakh consumers in the state,” he said. Similar agitations were staged at all the tehsil headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-bjp-stages-halla-bol-agitation-against-msedcl/articleshow/80712554.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||GCET postponed, now in mid-June||PANAJI: The Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET), scheduled to be held on May 4 and 5, 2021, will be held in mid-June, the directorate of technical education (DTE) said on Friday. “The prospectus containing details of courses, seats, eligibility and merit criteria, rules and procedures for admissions, rounds of admissions, etc, shall be notified in March,” the DTE said. Application forms for GCET 2021 will be accepted in May 2021, the directorate added. Dates and procedure for submission of application forms for GCET 2021 will be notified by May 1. For GCET 2020, as a result of the pandemic, the application process had been taken online. The DTE said that the exact date of conduct of GCET 2021 will be announced by June 1. Due to the pandemic, there has been delay in the schedule of the current academic year, and this has pushed ahead the schedule for GCET for admissions for the year 2021-22. GCET is held for admissions to engineering and pharmacy degree programme seats on offer in Goa. The test is held in physics, chemistry and maths, based on the Class XII syllabus of the Goa board of secondary and higher secondary Educatioe. Each paper consists of 75 objective-type questions carrying one mark each, with no negative marking. Each subject’s examination is two hours long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcet-postponed-now-in-mid-june/articleshow/80715276.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||GSM to project young faces at upcoming municipal polls||Panaji: Keen to make its presence felt at the upcoming 2022 assembly elections in Goa, after a no-show at the 2017 polls, Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) on Friday said younger members will play a key role now in the party. Announcing the constitution of its youth wing, the party said this wing will be led by Dattaram Zhilu Harmalkar as its president with Swaroop Naik as its vice-president. Harmalkar said that GSM will be contesting the upcoming municipal as well as assembly elections in Goa. Harmalkar said that GSM will be projecting young faces at the polls and will go to the electorate with the promise of ‘clean politics’. Harmalkar said the state government has failed miserably in addressing issues that affect the youth like inability to regularise services of those appointed by on contract basis and failure to disseminate information on government schemes available to youngsters. Harmalkar said higher education is still inaccessible for many youth. “The youth wing will give Goan politics a new and positive direction. We want to reach the last person in the state with our work. The youth wing will come out with a practical and time-bound action plan to help address the issues in the state,” said Harmalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsm-to-project-young-faces-at-upcoming-municipal-polls/articleshow/80716033.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Burglars scoot with 20tola gold||Hyderabad: Burglars gained entry into a locked house in Puppalaguda and took 20tola gold. The victim, Rahesha Sulatana, lodged a complaint with police. Three days ago, Rahesha’s family went to a relative’s house. When she returned on Friday, 20tola gold, along with some silver articles and cash, were stolen and the door lock damaged. A case was registered under section 457 and 380 of IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglars-scoot-with-20tola-gold/articleshow/80713662.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Recoveries outweigh new Covid cases in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s active tally of Covid-19 reduced to 759 on Friday with recoveries being more than new cases detected. 78 people were declared cured during the day and 56 people tested positive. Since March 2020, 52,243 people have been reported cured out of 53,773 cases. No Covid casualties were reported during the day, while the mortality count stands at 771. The day saw 37 patients admitted to hospital and 78 placed in home isolation. On Friday, Urban health centre of Panaji as well as primary health centre Porvorim reported a drop in new infections. Tally of centres at Bicholim, Pernem, Betki, Candolim, Casarvanem, Colvale, Corlim, Siolim, Mayem and Sankhali dropped below 20. In South Goa, Margao urban health centre also reported a dip and its tally reached 101. Ponda primary health centre also reported a marginal drop. Centres such as Canacona, Balli, Loutolim, Marcaim, Sanguem, Shiroda and Dharbandora have least cases and each of their caseload has fallen below the 20-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recoveries-outweigh-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80715265.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Goa govt reserves 102 wards for civic polls||PANAJI: Urban development department on Friday issued the order reserving 102 wards for women, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes in eleven councils to which elections are likely to be held in March-end. This order comes following the state government’s assurance to the high court of Bombay at Goa in December 2020 that the notification for delimitation and reservation of seats will be issued at least three weeks prior to the date of the notification of the schedule for municipal elections. Two separate petitions were heard by the high court that raised concerns over reservations. The adequate time was not maintained between notification for delimitation of constituencies and reservation of seats for municipal elections, and notifications of elections. Municipal councils of Margao, Mormugao, Mapusa, Curchorem-Cacora, Quepem, Cuncolim, Canacona, Pernem, Bicholim, Sanguem and Valpoi are due for elections. Last month, the government deferred the municipal polls in view of Covid vaccination that is under way in the state. Prior to that municipal polls were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There was a buzz that municipal polls may be held on party-lines, but Goa may have to wait longer for that to happen. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday announced that the municipal elections will not be held on party lines. His announcement comes on the heels of BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanawade’s recent request to the government not to conduct municipal elections on party lines. For the zilla panchayat polls, which were held in December last year, the BJP won 33 out of 48 seats that had gone to polls. In this backdrop, the government's decision not to conduct elections on party lines has come as a surprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-reserves-102-wards-for-civic-polls/articleshow/80715266.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Rs5,000 crore or four times the cost of IMS project: Worth of Ajni trees facing axe||Nagpur: Considering a tree with 100 years life remaining worth Rs 72 lakh would value the 7,000 trees to be felled at Ajni Van for Inter-Modal Station (IMS) at over Rs 5,040 crore, or nearly four times the Rs 1,280 crore project cost of IMS.A committee set up by CJI Sharad Bobde to evaluate the true value of a tree, taking into account all its benefits including oxygen it would emit in its lifespan, had come up with the figure of Rs 72 lakh. This was in a PIL challenging the West Bengal government decision to cut 356 trees for railway projects.In Nagpur, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) plans to develop the IMS on railway land in Ajni where at least 7,000 age-old trees are proposed to be cut, though the plan is being revised to reduce the damage.According to environmental protection NGO Swachh Nagpur, which is spearheading the agitation against the project in congested Ajni having a high density of trees, IMS project will initially involve 200 acres of land but will actually need 600-700 acres.At a conservative estimate, at least 30,000 trees will be felled in the city for all phases of the project. The value of these trees as per the apex court committee comes to a mind boggling Rs 21,600 crore.“Forget, 30,000 trees for now, even if we consider 7,000 trees to be felled for IMS at Ajni, their value comes to Rs 5,040 crore, which is more than IMS project cost. We are not taking into account the value of oxygen already produced by these trees in the past,” said Jaydeep Das, former honorary wildlife warden of the district. He added, “A young sapling of three-six months which is planted cannot compensate the oxygen levels emitted by 40 to 100-year-old trees. Therefore, pollution level will shoot up in the city after felling so many trees and change in microclimate will be inevitable.” As per detailed project report (DPR) and environmental impact assessment (EIA) by NHAI, only 1,940 trees are proposed to be felled. However, NMC garden department has proved the highways authority wrong by counting 7,000 trees to be affected in the project area.“This means the EIA of NHAI is wrong. Even as the NHAI has claimed that most of the trees will be transplanted as per advice of the forest department and experts, NHAI’s track record of planting trees is poor. Even the forest department’s plantations are a failure as revealed in their evaluation reports. There is no substitute to a natural forest,” said Ansuya Kale-Chhabrani of Swachh Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs5000-crore-or-four-times-the-cost-of-ims-project-worth-of-ajni-trees-facing-axe/articleshow/80711782.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||62-year-old electrocuted||Hyderabad: A 62-year-old farmer was electrocuted at his agricultural fields in Aakularamaram village of Kandukur mandal on Friday morning. At around 7am, the victim R Venkataiah tried to turn on the motor to pump water to paddy fields and he was electrocuted due to faulty connection, Kandukur police said. Based on the complaint of Venkataiah’s son, a case was registered under section 174 of CrPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/62-year-old-electrocuted/articleshow/80713671.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Civic polls won’t be along party lines: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that municipal elections will not be held on party lines. TOI was the first to report that the state government may not hold the municipal polls along party lines given the fewer number of electors in wards and people casting votes at a personal level. Sawant told reporters that there won’t be any change in the way the election is held. “Those who want to file their nomination on their panel would be able to do so and those who want to contest independently can also do so,” he said. The chief minister said that he was confident that BJP supported panels and candidates following BJP ideology would win the elections. “I am of the strong opinion that BJP will win,” he said Last week, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that the party has informed the chief minister not to hold the municipal elections on party lines. The state election commission (SEC) has proposed that municipal elections in the state should be held in the last week of March. A senior officer said that the final decision will be taken in consultation with the state government. Elections to 11 municipalities, except Ponda and Sakhali, and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) are now likely to be held along with by-elections to village panchayats and ZPs. Most MLAs from municipal areas have said that they have no objections to both. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate said recently that if zilla panchayat elections were fought along party lines, municipal elections should also be fought the same way. He added that conducting civic polls along party lines, as done in larger cities, will be beneficial in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/municipal-polls-will-not-be-held-on-party-lines-cm/articleshow/80715290.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Edu minister for online exams for varsities till pandemic ends||Nagpur: In a big relief for students, Maharashtra education minister Uday Samant on Friday stressed that the university examinations should be held online till the Covid-19 pandemic is over. After 99% results in Nagpur University online exams conducted through mobile app, students were demanding the same mode for solving the papers. Quoting Nagpur University vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and other Management Council members, Samant announced that NU would be conducting forthcoming winter exams in online mode only. Earlier, it was decided to conduct the papers in both online and offline mode, as reported by TOI on Thursday. Interacting with the media on sidelines of his janata darbar, the minister further declared that his ministry would be making efforts to fill up teaching and non-teaching posts in all state universities after considering its financial implications and consulting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar.“We will be filling up principals and other statutory posts, which were pending due to the pandemic. Recruitment was stopped after the government issued a resolution (GR) on May 4.”Defending the decision to delay reopening of colleges even as schools were opened about a month back, the Ratnagiri MLA said youngsters were more prone to contracting the deadly disease in comparison to schoolchildren, as per WHO report. “Many of our colleges and hostels were turned into quarantines centres when the pandemic was at peak. Even many students, who were staying in hostels, would find it difficult to return. So, we would be opening colleges in phases from February 15.”Speaking on Gondwana University (GU), the minister said he has sorted out issues of model college and Rs5 crore data centre. “GU would be provided a special status of forest and tribal university. As the GU under VC Srinivasa Varkhedi had decided to reduce the exam fees due to the pandemic, other universities could take a decision in this regard. There’s no government interference in the functioning of universities,” said Samant.BOXSamant speaks# KKSU’s 4 sub-centres in stateKavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU) would open four sub-centres at Ratnagiri, Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad. University will also make efforts for promotion of Pali language. Demand of staffers for paying salaries as per the Seventh Pay Commission approved. The Kalidas Festival to be held in Ramtek and not Mumbai.# Probe against jt dir A full-fledged inquiry would be instituted against joint director for higher education in Nagpur, Mahesh Salunkhe. Samant received many complaints in this regard during his daylong meeting with students, teachers and non-teaching staff. The probe will be conducted by an official at the rank of principal secretary within 15 days. He will not be from the Higher and Technical education Department. Nobody will be spared if allegations were found true.Other decisions* Panel under Nitin Raut to decide on NU’s centenary celebrations in 2023* All funds to be provided for purpose, efforts to be made to take NU to global level* Gondwana University to get special status of forest & tribal varsity* Recruitment process of 40% teachers posts to be restarted soon* Sukhdeo Thorat panel to submit its report soon on amending universities Act* 1,617 out of 2,272 applications disposed of in janata darbar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-minister-for-online-exams-for-varsities-till-pandemic-ends/articleshow/80711792.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 6, 2021||Kolhapur||28 KMC staffers take vaccine on Friday||Kolhapur: On the first day of vaccinating the frontline workers in Kolhapur, 28 workers of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) took the jab on Friday. Deputy municipal commissioner Nikhil More was among the top civic authorities who took the jab. More told TOI, “The vaccine is safe. I did not have any adverse effect. After half an hour of observation, I joined my regular work. We have 5,000 civic workers registered for the vaccination and most of our healthcare workers have got the vaccine.” He said, “We have adequate stock of vaccines for the second dose. We are planning to start more sessions to cover the remaining registered healthcare workers.” On Friday, 1,553 beneficiaries turned up for the vaccine as against 2,300 beneficiaries at 23 centres in Kolhapur district. No beneficiaries showed any adverse effect after taking the jab. In Sangli, district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary led by an example as he was among the first to take the vaccine. He said, “No one should fear the vaccine as there are no side effects. I appeal to all the healthcare workers, frontline staff to get vaccinated at the earliest..” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/28-kmc-staffers-take-vaccine-on-friday/articleshow/80712563.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Raut: NMC didn’t develop Gunthewari areas v/s BJP: NIT neglected outskirts||Nagpur: Guardian minister Nitin Raut was instrumental in Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government reversing the BJP government’s decision to abolish Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). He had sent a seven-page note to the government for reviving NIT in last February.Raut had claimed in the note that after Gunthewari areas were transferred to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) during the Devendra Fadnavis government, there was no development work in these layouts. He claimed that he had received a large number of complaints from citizens in this regard. NMC is currently being ruled by BJP.Meanwhile, NIT trustees of BJP Bhushan Shigane and Vijay Zalke, who is standing committee chairman of NMC, held a press conference on Friday and termed the MVA government decision on NIT as extremely unfortunate. They claimed that two planning authorities would lead to haphazard development of the city.On the other hand, heaping praise on NIT, Raut said it had developed about 60% of the city and built several infrastructure projects. “NIT has experienced and capable officers while NMC officers do not have much experience of development works. In any case, NMC has not done much for the city,” he stated.Raut claimed that NIT did a better job than NMC as it was directly under the control of state government. There were seven state government appointed trustees and only two from NMC. Hence, there was no political interference in working of NIT.Reacting to these claims, city BJP president Pravin Datke said if NIT was so capable the outer areas of the city would not have been in such a mess. “People have constructed houses on land earmarked for roads. There are houses on nullah beds. Since Raut is batting for NIT, will he take the blame for this unplanned development,” he added.Zalke countered the minister’s claims by saying that NMC had issued 2,500 release letters during Covid period with just 20 staffers. “NMC earned Rs45.67 crore by sanctioning building plans and Rs16.71 crore by issuing release letters in Gunthewari areas,” he added.On political interference, Zalke said state government was controlled by elected representatives so why it should be different at local level. “Unless there is pressure of public representatives, officers don’t work properly,” he added.In the press conference, Zalke and Shingane, exposed NIT’s problems in Gunthewari areas. “In many cases release letters for the same plot were issued to multiple persons. Builders illegally expanded the area of their layouts, encroaching upon the land of others,” said Shingane.The two claimed NIT had not done much development in Gunthewari areas despite collecting development charges from residents. “NMC had to provide basic amenities in these areas,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-nmc-didnt-develop-gunthewari-areas-v/s-bjp-nit-neglected-outskirts/articleshow/80711795.cms||Ashish Roy
February 6, 2021||Kolhapur||Poll panel finalisesward restructuring||Kolhapur: The state election commission has finalised ward restructuring for the upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) election, after hearing over 60 suggestions and objections.The commission has upheld the reservations by the KMC and has made no changes in the wards reserved during an open lottery process held in December 2020. There were 29 objections related to reservations and 31 about restructuring of wards.Six changes have been made in ward restructuring, resulting in the structuring of another six. Rajlakshmi Nagar ward has become the largest with 7,039 voters while Shahu College ward has become the smallest with 3,738 voters. The name of Mahadik Vasahat ward has been changed to Mahadik Vasahat-Patolewadi ward after the locals from Patolewadi objected to the name claiming most of the voters are from Patolewadi. In case of Kadamwadi-Bhosalewadi ward, which is now reserved, 1,133 voters have been shifted to the neighbouring Kadamwadi ward, which is for general category. The Kadamwadi-Bhosalewadi ward was represented by Tararani Aghadi’s senior corporator Satyajeet Kadam, who is now planning to contest from the Kadamwadi ward and the shifting of voters from his earlier ward is being looked at as an advantage for him.Civic officials said 10 changes are not reflection in the final ward delimitation published by the commission. “We have brought the issue to the attention of the poll panel and a separate clarification with the actual changes made in the ward restructuring will be published soon,” deputy municipal commissioner Nikhil More said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/poll-panel-finalisesward-restructuring/articleshow/80712585.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||T issues GO allowing 100% occupancy in theatres, T’wood wants sops extended||Hyderabad: With the Centre having permitted 100% occupancy in theatres from February 1 itself, the Telangana government on Friday issued a GO in line with the orders of the union ministry of home affairs. However, the Telugu film industry has sought to remind the government about the sops that were promised based on the representations that had been made earlier. Former president of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce M Vijendar Reddy said for the nine months that theatres had remained closed, the state government had promised to waive electricity bills. It was also represented to the government for reimbursement of GST and the government had assured that 9 per cent of GST would be reimbursed. The Telugu film industry had mainly been pursuing with the state government to permit the film industry to decide how many shows to screen and also the option of flexible ticket rates. Several personalities of the film industry had approached chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on these issues. Meetings were also held with cinematography minister T Srinivas Yadav on each of the points raised by the film industry. “We are expecting the state government to issue GOs as there was a positive response on the representations made earlier,” Vijendar Reddy said. Theatre managements said with the 50% occupancy that was permitted earlier, the ticket sales were not enough to take care of the salaries and maintenance of the theatres. From February 1 itself, theatre owners went by the Centre permitting 100% occupancy but the crowds in theatres did not pick up immediately. This was because there was no release of any big film that could have drawn the audience to the theatres. Some films were released on OTT platforms and some are set for release on OTT itself despite the Centre’s decision. Theatre managements said while theatres would continue to follow Covid-19 protocols and precautions, it was seen that the audiences too were keen on observing safety precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-issues-go-allowing-100-occupancy-in-theatres-twood-wants-sops-extended/articleshow/80713676.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Madras HC raps evangelist for extreme views||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has quashed criminal proceedings against an evangelist, Mohan C Lazarus, but not without disapproving of his extreme religious views that could incite hatred, violence and bloodshed. Justice N Anand Venkatesh, concurring with the submissions of senior counsel Isaac Mohanlal and accepting an unconditional apology tendered by Lazarus, said: “This court holds a strong view that individuals capable of influencing large sections of the society that is driven by its religious sentiments need to be extremely cautious and conscientious in exercising their rights, be it one of expression, religion or any other right.” The judge further said: “We, as a society, have fallen and are falling into the hands of misconceptions and extremities in the name of securing and practising our respective religious beliefs. These extremities have always known to incite hatred, violence, bloodshed and bitterness across history.” Mohan C Lazarus, founder of Jesus Redeems, faced multiple FIRs for making derogatory statements against Hinduism at an indoor gathering in Chennai on March 18, 2016. After the video went viral on social media, he approached the high court to quash the FIRs. When the plea was taken up for final hearing on Friday, senior counsel Issac Mohanlal filed an affidavit on behalf of Lazarus tendering unconditional apology. He further assured the court that such an instance will not happen anymore. Recording the undertaking, Justice Anand Venkatesh cited the Sermon on the Mount, and said: “Words of Jesus Christ clearly go on to reveal that the religion or its ideals do not intend to, under any circumstances, incite its followers to judge or demean another religion for the purpose of its own growth and propagation.” The judge further added that this court would not hesitate to say it is in fact, the fundamental duty cast upon every citizen to preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture and that such heritage and culture cannot be, at any circumstance, seen as one independent of the religious, cultural and civilizational sentiments that have been rooted, ingrained and etched in the history, soul and spirit of this nation. It cannot be at the cost of injuring the sentiments and rights of other fellow citizens who also form a constituent part of the rich culture and value system that our nation embodies, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-raps-evangelist-for-extreme-views/articleshow/80713734.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Cash-strapped NMC wants to return 51 gardens to NIT||Nagpur: After the state cabinet restored Nagpur Improvement Trust as the city’s planning authority, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation wants to return to NIT its 51 gardens in the city. According to NMC garden department officials, the civic body already reeling under acute financial crisis, is unable to maintain its 131 gardens.“If the NIT takes over possession of 51 gardens it had, NMC could save almost Rs 7 crore per annum,” said a senior garden department official.During the tenure of the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, NIT had handed over its 51 gardens to NMC. The civic administration took over these gardens without the nod from the general body and standing committee.The official said the NMC was spending Rs10 crore annually to maintain 131 gardens. Due to lack of funds, the NMC has not spent anything on NIT’s gardens in the last nine months. Maintenance of gardens includes paying electricity and water bills and deployment of security guards in three shifts, the official said.Meanwhile, various social organisations have joined Nagpur For Citizens group in opposing NMC’s move to hand over 69 gardens to private entities. If the move is implemented, the citizens visiting gardens will have to shell out Rs 5 as entry fee.Nagpur Nagarik Anyay Nivaran Sangharsh Samiti’s chief convenor Bhushan Dadwe threatened to approach the high court if the civic body did not roll back its decision to give gardens in private hands. In a memorandum to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, Dadwe stated that both central and state governments spent crores of rupees on public health. The civic body collected crores of rupees as property tax, water tax and other charges from the citizens, he said and added that the fact it could not spend Rs 10 crore for maintenance of gardens was shameful.According to Dadwe, people use the city's gardens for doing yoga, exercises, morning and evening walks for a healthy life. Now, the civic body’s decision will deprive many citizens from availing this facility, he said.Meanwhile, Nagpur Citizens Forum will celebrate Zalke’s decision of rethinking on giving gardens to private operators at Suyog Nagar garden on Saturday at 8 am. The forum has collected signatures of over 4500 citizens in their drive to oppose the decision, said forum's Abhijit Jha. BOXStanding committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Friday said he had asked the NMC’s garden department to rethink on its proposal to give 69 NMC gardens to private operators for maintenance. Allowing maintenance to private operators, the department has suggested the operators may charge entry fee of Rs 5 per person and Rs 5 to Rs 10 as parking fee.It has caused resentment among the citizens and various social organisations have launched signature campaign to oppose the move. Zalke said now the NMC will give preference to organisations willing to maintain the gardens free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cash-strapped-nmc-wants-to-return-51-gardens-to-nit/articleshow/80711802.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 6, 2021||Kolhapur||64 test positive for Covid-19 in Satara, 16 in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 64 fresh cases of Covid and two deaths since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 56,731. The death toll has now risen to 1,824. As many as 54,135 patients have recovered while 772 are being treated for Covid. Solapur city reported 11 new cases and 21 patients were discharged after recovering on Friday. A 72-year-old man succumbed to Covid. The city has 11,827 Covid cases. Solapur rural recorded 24 new cases and 31 patients were discharged. Solapur rural has reported 39,736 patients. Kolhapur district reported 16 fresh cases on Friday and six patients were discharged, taking the total number of patients to 49,989. Of them, 108 are active, 1,727 have died and 48,158 recovered. Sangli district reported 13 fresh cases on Friday. The total number of cases rose to 48,162.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/64-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-satara-16-in-kolhapur/articleshow/80712605.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||DMC starts assessment of public toilets before Swachh Survey||Dehradun: With Swachh Survey round the corner, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) is now carrying out an assessment of all the public toilets across the city. A team led by an assistant municipal commissioner, along with sanitation inspectors, is moving around the city. According to DMC officials, the assessment will help in identifying the problem areas in maintaining the toilets and ensure their timely maintenance. Talking to TOI, assistant municipal commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “The teams are moving around the city and inspecting all the public toilets with the help of sanitation inspectors in every ward. The objective is to ensure that all toilets have the basic amenities like handwash, towels with cleanliness being the most important point. We are trying to correct the public toilets on all the parameters so that we can score the best we can during the survey.” The officials also said that the public toilets located at places where maximum footfall takes place during the day are also being checked. In case any toilet is not maintained, the concerned agencies are also being fined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-starts-assessment-of-public-toilets-before-swachh-survey/articleshow/80712608.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||19-year-old held for bomb hoax||MUMBAI: A 19-year-old boy from Haryana, who allegedly tweeted a bomb blast hoax at Infinity mall and theatre, was arrested by cyber police. They arrested Banwarilal Singh under Indian Penal Code sections and under Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/19-year-old-held-for-bomb-hoax/articleshow/80713760.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||GFP opposes acquisition of additional land for Mopa airport link road||Panaji: Goa Forward Party on Friday criticised the state government, particularly Pernem MLA Manohar Agjaonkar, for bulldozing the acquisition of agricultural land despite objections from local farmers. GFP’s Jitendra Gaonkar said that the party would continue to oppose the government’s move to acquire land for the Mopa airport link road. Gaonkar claimed that the state government along with the Centre are working on three different roads linking to the airport, which the farmers have opposed. According to Gaonkar, the existing road to the airport site, which is narrow, is being widened. Additionally in 2008, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had notified acquisition of 8,84,812 sqm of land for the approach road to the airport. The government has now identified a new road alignment and in December 2020 notified the acquisition of even more land. “On one side the government wants to widen the existing road, which is narrow and which has homes on both sides. Now there is a new link road which has been declared as national highway,” Gaonkar said. Goa Police had recently arrested Gaonkar for leading a protest and supporting the farmers of Pernem. He claimed that the government had not taken local farmers into confidence while changing the alignment of the road. “The farmers of Pernem have already given up huge tracts of land in the name of development, whether it is the Mopa airport, the sports city, Ayush hospital and now the government wants to take more land. Till now farmers did not object because they wanted development, they wanted their children to get jobs but now farmers will be left with absolutely no land,” said Gaonkar. GFP also claimed that Agjaonkar has failed to meet the farmers to understand their grievances. On one side the government wants to widen the existing road, which is narrow and which has homes on both sides. Now there is a new link road which has been declared as national highway||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-opposes-acquisition-of-additional-land-for-mopa-airport-link-road/articleshow/80716086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Marina cart tender fixed, NGO complains to DVAC||CHENNAI: Non-Governmental Organisation Arappor Iyakkam on Friday filed a complaint with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) alleging irregularities in a Rs 16.5-crore tender floated by Greater Chennai Corporation for procurement of 900 pushcarts for vendors on Marina beach. The tender has been awarded to a company owned by an AIADMK office-bearer, Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam, said. Countering the allegations, senior GCC officials said they followed due process as per the Madras high court and additional advocate general (AAG)’s instructions. Arappor Iyakkam’s complaint is that the tender, which was opened on November 19, 2020, was fixed to ensure that this particular company won. “Through illegal corrigendum released on November 23, tender conditions such as average annual turnover was modified to suit this company. Earlier on November 6, a corrigendum was issued to allow proof of bidders having working capital from private financiers too,” Jayaram said. Senior GCC officials told TOI that on November 19, all three firms that participated were rejected as they were found ineligible and the corporation proceeded to re-tender. But based on AAG’s opinion and a high court order a day before, which allowed GCC to relax or modify tender conditions, the average annual turnover required was reduced, an official added. GCC had already found all three firms ineligible for the tender but proceeded with it only based on the high court’s instructions and orders. “For instance, the high court said the tender could be split between two parties which could supply 450 carts each. However, one of the bidders did not pay the security deposit and the other bidder agreed to supply the 900 carts in three months. Based on the court’s instructions, the tender was awarded,” officials said. Arappor, in its complaint, also said the winning bidder submitted false proof to GCC about work experience. “They submitted a fabricated document showing proof of doing work worth Rs 9 crore. But we have reliably learned that no GST has been paid by them for the material or the payment received. DVAC should investigate this,” Jayaram said. In response to this, GCC said they had collected genuinity certificates from all bidders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/marina-cart-tender-fixed-ngo-complains-to-dvac/articleshow/80713747.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Third sero survey: 19.45% exposed to Covid in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: The third serological survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Punjab has painted a grim picture of the Covid outbreak in the state as a high percentage of the general population and health workers tested have been found exposed to Covid-19. As many as 19.45% of the covered population had contracted the virus and recovered. The percentage of people found exposed to the highly contagious virus in the latest survey is higher than the findings of the second survey conducted by IMCR in September last year. During the second survey, 11.26% were found exposed to the virus. In a sero-survey, blood samples of people are collected to ascertain spread of virus in selected population. The third survey was conducted in four districts — Gurdaspur, Patiala, Jalandhar and Ludhiana — for which samples were collected in between December 17 and January 8 from a randomly selected population of 2,000, of which 389 were found exposed to Covid-19 and had developed antibodies. Among the general public, 19.37% found exposed in the four districts from where 400 samples each were collected. Highest positivity rate of 22.25% was found in Ludhiana where 89 people were found infected, 20.25% were found to have been exposed to the virus in Gurdaspur, 18.75% in Patiala and 16.25% in Jalandhar. Of 400 health workers included in the survey – 100 each from these districts—79 (19.75%) had contracted the virus and recovered. Of 100, 27 were found to have contracted the virus and recovered in Gurdaspur, 23 in Patiala, 20 in Jalandhar and nine in Ludhiana. The findings of the current survey indicate that a sizable population is still vulnerable to getting infected and there is a need to continue with the containment measures being taken by the government. The high prevalence of exposure calls for the need to immunise the vulnerable population. Despite putting efforts, the state health authorities are struggling with low coverage of vaccination among the priority groups in the first two phases of the ongoing drive. Apprehensions regarding the safety and efficacy of the vaccine are said to be the key reason for health and frontline workers showing hesitancy in getting inoculated. So far 67,861, have been inoculated in the vaccination drive which is going on since January 16. Total, 65,345 medical professionals have received the first shot. In all, Punjab in phases aims to vaccinate about 70 lakh people which account for about 25% of the state’s total population. In the last few months, there has been a drop in the number of fresh cases, but the high death rate continues to worry the state health authorities. Punjab’s covid fatality rate stands at 3.23% against the all-India average of 1.45%. ICMR sero survey data District | Samples tested | Number of positive cases | % of positive Gurdaspur | 500 | 108 | 21.6 Patiala | 500 | 98 | 19.6 Jalandhar | 500 | 85 | 17 Ludhiana | 500 | 98 | 19.6 TOTAL | 2,000 | 389 | 19.45 (Figures include both healthcare workers and general population)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/third-sero-survey-19-45-exposed-to-covid-in-punjab/articleshow/80713744.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Centre, Uttarakhand ink Rs 173 crore MoU to set up Science City in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: The Centre on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the state government to set up a Science City in the Jhajhra area of Dehradun. The project worth Rs 173 crore would come up in a span of four years. Out of the total share, Centre would contribute Rs 88 crore and the remaining Rs 83 crore would be provided by the Uttarakhand government. The MoU was signed between the Uttarakhand State Council for Science and Technology (UCOST) and National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), Ministry of Culture, Government of India, in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at a ceremony in his official residence. On the occasion, CM Rawat said, “It is a major achievement for us. The science city will largely benefit students and youth. Science city will be a centre of excellence for science communication. Science City will be an iconic and have a very attractive campus.” According to officials, an estimated seven-to-eight lakh people will be benefited every year from this facility. After completion of the project, the science city would be an important and attractive facility for science and technology communication, popularisation and innovation among the students, teachers, common citizens, and tourists. Earlier, the state had obtained an in-principle approval from the ministry of culture, Government of India, for its proposal of up-gradation of Regional Science Centre, Dehradun, to the Science City under the scheme of Promotion of Culture of Science (SPoCS). After this, the approval of the Delegated Investment Board of the ministry of culture, Government of India was finally received for Science City Dehradun in April 2020. The MoU has been signed by Rajendra Dobhal, Director General, UCOST nominated by the state government and Samarendra Kumar, Secretary, NCSM, Kolkata. The National Council of Science Museums (NCSM) is an autonomous body under the Centre’s ministry of culture, which develops Science Cities, Science Centres, Innovation Hubs and Mobile Science Exhibitions throughout the country. Science City Dehradun will have thematic galleries on Astronomy and Space Sciences, Robotics, Science and Technology heritage, geological life, climate change, energy, biotechnology, virtual reality, augmented reality, artificial intelligence space theatre cum planetarium, digital panorama on biodiversity, simulator, aquarium, special show on high voltage and laser science, outdoor science park, theme park, butterfly park, fossil park, biodome, and miniature Uttarakhand. Besides, the convention centre and the exhibition hall will also be part of the Science City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-ukhand-ink-rs-173-crore-mou-to-set-up-science-city-in-doon/articleshow/80712621.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Mayor puts garbage operators under scanner for shoddy service, flouting norms||Nagpur: Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari on Friday hinted at discontinuint services of AG Environ and BVG India — companies entrusted with door-to-door garbage collection — for violating terms of their agreement with civic body.Tiwari has sought a detailed report on the working of both companies by Monday. The mayor’s office was regularly receiving complaints from corporators and citizens regarding them. On Friday, Tiwari held a meeting attended by deputy mayor Manisha Dhawde, standing panel chief Vijay Zalke, additional commissioner Sanjay Nipane, deputy commissioner (SWM) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar and assistant municipal commissioners of 10 zones. He reviewed the sanitation work zone-wise. He was informed that currently there were 6,31,268 units from where both the agencies collect garbage. The mayor also learnt that no segregated waste was being collected from source. In many zones, only 30-40% of waste is segregated and dumped in dumping yards. The mayor expressed his displeasure over this.The agreement with the two firms has a provision of imposing penalties for dumping mixed garbage at Bhandewadi yard. Accordingly, a fine of crores could be imposed on both the companies. No such action has been initiated against the firms yet.In addition, the agreement stipulates two cleaners with the driver on one vehicle during house-to-house garbage collection. In reality, a garbage collecting vehicle has only one employee and one driver. Overall, the working of both the companies shows various violations, Tiwari said calling it a very serious matter. The mayor also directed AG Enviro and BVG to submit a detailed report on their working by Monday when the civic body will take a call whether the companies should be retained or not.During the meeting, MLC and senior BJP corporator Pravin Datke pointed out the agreement was being violated by both the companies. “In many places, garbage is not collected from households every day. It was also observed that the number of employees deputed was less than what was required,” he claimed. Health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja said the quality of work was not what it used to be when the two firms initially took up the garbage collection work in November 2019.Legal committee chairman, BJP corporator and lawyer Dharmapal Meshram raised the issue of sacked employees at both the firms. He said it was unfair to fire employees without any prior permission or intimation. On Meshram’s request, the mayor has called a special meeting with the labour commissioner on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-puts-garbage-operators-under-scanner-for-shoddy-service-flouting-norms/articleshow/80711804.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Vintage vehicle owners assn objects to proposed vehicle scrappage policy||Nagpur: Central India Vintage Automotive Association Nagpur (Civaan) has objected to the newly proposed vehicle scrappage policy of the central government.In a letter to Giridhar Aramane, secretary, ministry of road transport and highways, Civaan said that the new measures must not be invasive and coercive. According to the association, most of the old private vehicles are used by lower, middle class, retired persons and enthusiasts. “The policy is unveiled at a time when many such owners are still reeling under the post-pandemic, financial resource crunch. Most of them are financially crippled even otherwise, and may never be able to afford a new replacement vehicle. Policies need to be people-centric and not centred around vested interests,” Civaan secretary Anjan Chatterjee said.The Nagpur district has around 42,145 private and transport vehicles registered with three RTOs — Nagpur city, east and rural, which fall under the proposed new scrappage policy (automatic scrapping of 15-year-old transport vehicles and 20-year-old private vehicles). Chatterjee added Delhi and NCR have already got rid of over 10-year-old diesel and over 15-year-old petrol private vehicles, but the expected magic of an utopian, pollution-free NCR bombed. In fact, 2019 and 2020 winters recorded the worst smog in history, he said.Old private vehicles are rarely driven daily and are used sparingly. “If such an old vehicle is replaced with a new one, the usage of vehicles will go up by 5 to 10 times. During manufacture, every car creates a carbon footprint,” the letter stated.Older cars generate jobs for lakhs of workers, component makers and generate income for the MSMEs by way of repairs and other allied maintenance works, it said.Germany, France, UK and USA have started recognizing 30-year-old cars as national wealth value wise and as imprints of their automobile history. “We are getting a new policy to preserve 50+ year old private automobiles very soon, to be tagged as Vintage. If 20-49-year-old ones face the merciless axe, the numbers graduating into the vintage category will dwindle,” pointed out Chatterjee.The truly polluting vehicles need to be scrapped at licenced outlets, no doubt, he said, adding an owner’s last trip with his vehicle to the scrap yard should not be under duress, but must always be voluntary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vintage-vehicle-owners-assn-objects-to-proposed-vehicle-scrappage-policy/articleshow/80711820.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 6, 2021||Nashik||Infant Jesus shrine feast to be online this year||Nashik: The annual feast of Shrine of Infant Jesus will not take place this year due to Covid-19 but the shrine will be open for devotees to pray. The feast is usually held on the second Saturday of February. This year, it was to be held on February 13-14. Fr Trevor Miranda, chaplain of the shrine, said nearly five lakh devotees from across the country come for the feast. Online masses have been arranged for devotees on February 13 in English, Marathi, Konkani and Tamil. Online novenas will continue till the feast days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/infant-jesus-shrine-feast-to-be-online-this-year/articleshow/80712677.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||BJP prez to start second leg of his state-wide tour||Dehradun: As part of his state-wide visit in the run-up to the assembly polls scheduled in the early part of next year, Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat will be in Ramnagar from Tuesday. This will be Bhagat’s third round of state-wide campaign that aims to develop “strong connection between party’s senior members and its local leaders”. BJP state media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said that the BJP state president will start the third phase of his campaign under the ‘120-day, 70 assemblies tour’ from the Ramnagar constituency from February 9. In this five-day tour, BJP president will visit Ramnagar, Salt, Chaubattakhal, Lansdowne, and Yamkeshwar assemblies and communicate with the local party workers. “State general secretary Kuldeep Kumar will also join Bhagat in his constituency visit,” said Chauhan. He added that in the assembly-wise meetings, the BJP state president will meet every worker on the ground and the office bearers of the party in the particular constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-prez-to-start-second-leg-of-his-state-wide-tour/articleshow/80712628.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Active cases fall below 1,000 in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s count of active cases has gone below 1,000 as the state reported 84 new Covid-19 cases, 86 recoveries and one death on Friday. Meanwhile, as many as 4,069 health care workers and others were given the vaccine jabs in 21 districts across the state. Barring Hisar, where vaccination sessions could not be held, the drive was smooth across the state. Now, the state 949 active cases while the recovery rate is 98.52% and doubling rate 123 days. Gurugram topped the tally with overall new cases in a district and highest vaccinations in a day. The district also reported 23 cases and one death during the day. Panchkula recorded the second highest count of 18 new cases, while the remaining 20 districts reported less than 10 cases. Sonipat, Hisar, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Palwal, Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri districts have reported zero case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/active-cases-fall-below-1k-in-haryana/articleshow/80713752.cms||Manvir Saini
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Tribunal in Tamil Nadu tells vehicle owner to pay Rs 15 lakh to kin of accident victim||CHENNAI: An accident claims tribunal in Tiruvallur distict has directed the owner of a car to compensate the family of an accident victim instead of the insurer as the car was being driven by a youth who did not have a driving licence. The tribunal agreed to the insurer’s arguments that by allowing a person without a licence to operate his vehicle, the owner had breached the terms and conditions. The tribunal directed the car owner to pay Rs 15 lakh to the family of a 20-year-old who was killed in the accident. D Subramaniam and D Lakshmi, parents of the deceased, moved the tribunal seeking a compensation of Rs 25 lakh. According to their petition, their son was traveling in a car along with three others and near Arambakkam it hit a tree while avoiding a buffalo that crossed the road. The accident happened on April 11, 2017. In response, the insurer of the car contended that the driver of the car did not have a valid driving license at the time of the accident. The tribunal, after perusing the documents and evidence submitted, noted the deposition by the sub-inspector of Arambakkam police station who stated that the car was driven by a man named Surya. The tribunal held that the accident happened due to the rash and negligent driving by the car driver. The counsel for the insurer submitted that allowing a car to be driven by someone without driving licence is a breach of terms and conditions. Holding that the victim’s family is eligible for compensation, the tribunal after considering factors including the young age, loss of future income and other factors, arrived at an amount of Rs 15 lakh as compensation and directed the owner of the car to compensate the family within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tribunal-tells-vehicle-owner-to-pay-15l-to-kin-of-accident-victim/articleshow/80713769.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Nine districts in Maharashtra on radar for testing less||PUNE/MUMBAI: The state health officials have identified nine districts — Nandurbar, Nanded, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara and Ratnagiri — conducting less than 140 tests per million, as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research, while the testing has dipped across the state off late. The average daily count of tests in Maharashtra dropped below 58,000 in the first week of February after staying in the range of 63,000-plus towards the end of January. The daily testing was below the 10,000-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region since the beginning February. Mumbai has been testing around 15,000 each day. The central team members visiting Maharashtra (another team is in Kerala), after assessing the data, directed the state health officials to increase the testing and contact tracing in the nine districts testing less than the prescribed standards. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state would be focusing on increasing the overall testing in the state with special focus on these districts, as recommended by the central team. “We have enough laboratories in the state and we shall focus on increasing the tests,” he said. The Centre on Thursday had pointed out that the country’s weekly positivity rate was 1.8%, but eight states were reporting more than the national average. Maharashtra had a weekly positivity rate of about 4.6%. Kerala had the highest at 11%, followed by Chhattisgarh at 6%. Within Maharashtra, several districts continued to report positivity in the range of 10% to 14%, a direct pointer to increase tests. State Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the central team had identified hotspots in all the nine districts conducting less tests. The health and the district administration officials had been told to carry out stringent monitoring in these areas, he said. “The state is lagging in testing and contact tracing and this has to pick up,” Joshi said. Admitting that there had been a dip in testing, the state health officers claimed that the tests were being conducted according to the number of cases. “In September-October last year, we were carrying out nearly 85,000 tests daily and today, we are at 60,000 per day because we are not reporting as many cases. We are daily reporting below 5,000 cases now as against 20,000 in the earlier months,” said the state surveillance officer, Dr Pradeep Awate. He said while there was a need to increase the testing, identifying the pockets where the positivity rate was higher than the state positivity rate was also important. “Our state’s positivity rate is 4.6% and we are identifying hotspots or districts where the positivity rate is higher. The testing would be increased in these areas in the coming days,” Awate said, adding that the specific hotspots would be identified in the nine districts. Health experts expressed concerns over the reduction in testing across Maharashtra in view of the new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said some degree of complacency had set in among people. He said the state continued to see an average of 2,800-3,000 positive cases. “Ideally, 18-20 contacts should be traced and tested. It seems we may be testing around 10-12,” he said, adding that there was room for improvement. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid control, said there was a perception that the pandemic was over. “But aroud 2,800 and odd fresh detections daily show that the viral activity is on,” he said. Doctors did not rule out the reluctance among patients to get tested. Physician Dr Gautam Bhansali said there was a possibility that those with mild symptoms could be skipping tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-districts-in-maharashtra-on-radar-for-testing-less/articleshow/80713773.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Diesel one paisa shy of Rs 84 in Mumbai; 3-hour chakka jam today by transporters||MUMBAI: Fuel prices were hiked for the second day in a row, pushing diesel rate in Mumbai to a record high of just one paise shy of Rs 84-mark on Friday. Petrol, too, was hiked by 29 paise to retail at the highest-ever rate of Rs 93.49 at city pumps. The rising diesel price has left transporters fuming with the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) declaring a three-hour ‘chakka jam’ on Saturday, from noon to 3pm. The protest is expected to be peaceful, but it could delay transportation of goods across the state. The transporters’ protest will coincide with that of farmers who have called for a three-hour chakka jam in the country on Saturday. “We have advised our members to voluntarily stop running their vehicles in keeping with the solidarity with farmers. This way, we also intend to register our protest against the government’s callous approach to the road transport sector and non-resolution of its legitimate issues of rising diesel price,” said AIMTC chairman (core committee) Bal Malkit Singh. “We will be convening an emergent meeting this weekend to take a call on deteriorating conditions of the road transport sector including diesel rate hikes,” Singh added. Sources said that the AIMTC may decide on a nationwide stir. The last such protest was in July 2018 when transportation of goods across the country had come to a standstill for a few days. While seven districts across Maharashtra on Friday had diesel prices over Rs 84 a litre, as many as 17 districts retailed petrol at over Rs 94. Diesel price in neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai was Rs 84.10/litre. The highest diesel price in the state was in Amravati—Rs 85.38 per litre—followed by Aurangabad at Rs 85.15. Data procured from oil companies showed that Parbhani has the highest rate of petrol in the country at Rs 95.67/litre (a 28 paise hike on Friday), followed by Nanded, at Rs 95.51/litre. Parbhani may be the first district to cross the Rs 100-mark if prices continue to rise in the coming weeks, said sources. Sources in oil marketing companies said that fuel prices are hiked or reduced based on fluctuations in international crude oil prices. It is also impacted by the rise or fall in rupee vis-a-vis the dollar. Meanwhile, activists from political parties, including Shiv Sena and Aam Aadmi Party, hit the road on Friday against the fuel price hikes—it has increased by nearly Rs 17/litre in the past 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diesel-one-paisa-shy-of-rs-84-in-mumbai-3-hr-chakka-jam-today-by-transporters/articleshow/80713799.cms||Somit Sen
February 6, 2021||Pune||Cash-strapped PCB struggles to pay salaries||PUNE: At least 350 employees — including doctors — of Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) have yet to receive their salary for January as the board grapples with an acute shortage of funds. “We need Rs6 crore per month to pay our permanent and contractual employees, as well as pensioners. So far, we have only been able to pay salaries to our Class IV employees, apart from clearing pension dues worth Rs2 crore,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said. Kumar blamed the board’s precarious financial position on dwindling revenue from local sources like vehicle entry and property tax, pending GST share from the government and service charge dues from defence ministry establishments. “We have issued notices to over 250 property tax defaulters, warning them of legal action — including attachment — if they do not clear their dues in a month. Further, we expect Rs20 crore in aid from the defence ministry in the next few days,” Kumar said. The PCB said it has been asking for its GST share from the state and the Centre for two years. “We have also moved Bombay high court. The matter is pending there,” Kumar said. A senior official from the Directorate General Defence Estates (DGDE) said 50 of the 62 cantonment boards across the country were facing a similar crisis. “Unfortunately, we are unable to find a solution as there is no adequate allocation from the defence ministry. With the abolition of local body tax, which was the main source of income for these cantonments, the boards are facing a big crisis. The ministry has been receiving complaints about the financial woes from across the country,” the official said. Activist-lawyer Netraprakash Bhog from the Pune cantonment area pointed out the lack of development in the cantonment limits. “We haven’t seen any big development project in the past five years in any cantonment area in Pune. The authorities need to understand that the residents of the cantonments are at the receiving end. They must fight even for basic civic amenities,” Bhog said.  Khadki and Dehu Road cantonment boards too have raised similar concerns, although they are relatively better-placed compared to PCB. A senior KCB official said, “The board had to send reminders to ordnance factories over payment of service charges of over Rs30 crore. This will meet our basic requirements, including salaries, for at least six months.” DCB CEO R Harital said they were pinning their hopes on GST share from the state government. “We are somehow able to meet our salary and pension obligations, but payments to private contractors have been pending for a few months,” Harital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cash-strapped-pcb-struggles-to-pay-salaries/articleshow/80713765.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Petrol, diesel prices hit historic high, transporters in two minds over tariff||PUNE: Fuel prices in the city are on fire, burning holes in consumers’ pockets. On Friday, a litre of petrol was sold for Rs 93.14 a litre — the highest spike after 2013. The price for diesel also touched an all-time high of Rs 82.38 per litre. “The main reason for the hike in the fuel prices is taxation. The Union government levies around Rs30 as excise duty on a litre of petrol, besides the state government charging around Rs28 as value added tax (VAT),” said Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson of the All India Petrol Dealers Association. “The income of a major section of people has drastically reduced due to the pandemic. The taxation seems to have become heavy. The basic price of petrol is nothing more than Rs30 to Rs35 for a litre. It is a request to the Centre and the state governments to lower these taxes. It will be big relief for the common people,” he said. Sagar Rukari, vice-president of the Pune Petrol Dealers’ Association, also expressed concern over the fact that diesel price has gone so high for the first time in Pune. The rise in the disel price has left the transporters thinking whether or not to increase their charges. Ram Kadam, chairman of the Pune district Motor Goods Transport Association, told TOI that there would be an at least 30% increase in the transportation costs of goods including vegetables. “The hike is inevitable now. The rise in the fuel prices will have a cascading effect and palmost all commodities are likely to become costlier,” he said. Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra state Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said though some transporters have increased the charges by 10%, it wouldn’t help them much. “One has to take into account that the market is not fully open. The competition in the sector is fierce in the post-lockdown days and some transporters have decided not to increase the charges,” Shinde said. Balasaheb Khedekar, president of the Pune district luxury bus association, told TOI, that any further hike in fuel prices might lead to increase in fares. “It will still be a risky move considering that we are not getting enough passengers. But if the prices keep on increasing like this, we will have to take the risk,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-diesel-prices-hit-historic-high-transporters-in-two-minds-over-tariff/articleshow/80713777.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 6, 2021||Shimla||Himachal meets 67% Covid vaccination target||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh recorded 67% coverage of Covid-19 vaccination as against the target of 4,776 persons on Friday. In all, 3,195 persons were vaccinated in the state. The drive was carried out in government health facilities of 10 districts, except Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur. So far, 51,573 persons have been vaccinated in the state. Vaccination drive was not carried out on January 24, 25 and 26. Adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported in 2 persons including one each in Mandi and Solan districts. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. In Bilaspur, against the target of vaccinating 346 persons, 217 were vaccinated. In Chamba, against the target of vaccinating 468 persons, 316 were vaccinated. In Hamirpur, against the target of vaccinating 343 persons, 186 were vaccinated. Against the target of 954 persons, 835 beneficiaries got the jab in Kangra. In Kullu, against the target of vaccinating 483 persons, 294 were vaccinated. In Mandi, against the target of vaccinating 311 persons, 265 were vaccinated. In all, 35 persons, against the target of 200, were vaccinated in Shimla. While 238 persons had to be vaccinated in Sirmaur, only 101 got the jab. In Solan, 760 persons were to be administered the vaccine, but only 468 persons got the jab. Only 460 of 673 target beneficiaries were injected with the vaccine in Una. In all, the state plans to vaccinate 77,000 health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-meets-67-covid-vaccination-target/articleshow/80713770.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Surat||Angry workers threaten to quit BJP||Surat: Discontent brewing among BJP workers over ticket distribution for the municipal corporation elections spilled on the roads as sit-ins, sloganeering and threats of mass resignations were witnessed in some cities on Friday.Local leaders, who were not given the tickets, gathered in large numbers along with their supporters in Surat, Jamnagar and Vadodara.In Surat, close to 250 workers from ward number 28 (Pandesara-Bhestan) shouted slogans outside the party headquarter at Udhana, alleging that four ‘imported’ candidates were chosen while strong contenders were ignored. They even sat on dharna and threatened to en mass resignation for ‘meagre’ representation of their people.Kavita Patil, a senior worker from Pandesara said, “I have been working in the midst of the people for the last 15 years. In the previous election, party leadership had promised me a ticket in the 2021 polls. But they reneged on the promise and selected totally new faces whom people don’t even know.” Various communities also organized demonstrations at the BJP headquarters and state BJP president CR Paatil’s office at Ambanagar to voice their anger. Kiran Das, another party worker said, “If the party is not bothered about our dedication, I am happy to resign.”Even as BJP picked up 38 Patidar candidates, dissatisfaction was brewing in Patel-dominated areas like Varachha against fielding new faces. The party workers had burnt the voters’ list and BJP’s election material in the ward number-3 of Varachha.Bhagirath Behera, vice-president of Surat Oriya Welfare Association (SOWA) said, “Oriyas have made Surat their karma bhumi for the last four decades. I am a dedicated BJP worker but the party continues to ignore representation of the community in SMC. Not a single Oriya has been given the ticket through our population is eight lakh. Meanwhile, two candidates who were above 60 years, were replaced with. Instead of Anita Desai, Sonal Desai was chosen for ward 6 while Laxman Beladiya’s ticket was given to Naresh Dhameliya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/angry-workers-threaten-to-quit-bjp/articleshow/80711840.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Of 72.8k vaccinated against Covid in Punjab, 67,360 are health workers||CHANDIGARH: In the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, a total of 4,993 beneficiaties received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Punjab on Friday. No case of hospitalisation was reported in the last 24 hours. The beneficiaries include 2,015 health workers and 2,978 frontline workers. So far, 72,854 beneficiaries have been jabbed. Of them, 67,360 are medical professionals. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal and secretary medical education D K Tiwari were among the frontline workers to get the first dose. They were vaccinated in the presence of Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan. “I am happy two of the state’s frontline warriors who planned and executed the war against novel coronavirus from the beginning of the outbreak of pandemic, have been vaccinated today. I wish them and the entire department of health and the department of medical education all the best for successful conduct of Phase II of Covid vaccination drive,” said Mahajan. A total of 1,900 cops, including additional director general of police (ADGP) law and order Ishwar Singh, inspector general of police (IGP) law and order Ajay Kumar Pandey, and two IGPs from vigilance bureau got vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-72-8k-vaccinated-against-covid-in-punjab-67360-are-health-workers/articleshow/80713757.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PA to assistant estate officer joins probe||CHANDIGARH: The personal Assistant (PA) of an assistant estate officer joined the police investigation in a case related to burning of official files of the estate office by a watchman. The police said Vibhusan, PA of the assistant officer, reached the police station for interrogation. Sources revealed that Vibhusan refuted all the allegations labelled by Pankaj against him. However, Pankaj again alleged that the PA directed him to burn the files. The police also seized the mobile phone of the PA and sent the same to the CFSL for examination. The police have also summoned Diksha, Pankaj’s sister to join the investigation. The police said only file covers were burnt and documents are safe as a constable caught Pankaj while trying to burn the files. Sector 17 police had arrested Pankaj, watchman of the estate office, Sector 17, from Rajpura on Tuesday on the charges of stealing and burning official files on January 17 night near the estate office building. Rakesh Kumar, junior assistant (record keeper), had reported that constable Karamvir had caught Pankaj burning the files outside the estate office building in Sector 17 on January 18. The police released him after registering a DDR. After receiving a complaint from Kumar, Sector 17 police registered a case of theft, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy on January 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pa-to-asst-estate-officer-joins-probe/articleshow/80712665.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Manoj Parida lays stone of two MLD sewage plant||CHANDIGARH: UT adviser Manoj Parida laid the foundation stone of 2 MLD sewage treatment plant using MBR technology on Friday. The Rs 19.9-crore project has been undertaken to treat sewage generated from Kishangarh village and using treated water for irrigation purposes in lake area, golf course, IT Park area and meet the water requirement for the lake. The installation of the STP will also comply with the directions of the NGT. The parameters for the STP were fixed keeping in view the requirement for topping the lake, duly vetted by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC). The system is proposed to run through full automatic Scada system where the quantity and quality of water at inlet and outlet will be monitored, which will further be checked by the engineering department and the CPCC. The scope of the project consists of construction period of eight months and comprehensive operation and maintenance of the plant for 10 years by the agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parida-lays-stone-of-2-mld-sewage-plant/articleshow/80712647.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||National Games to be held in Uttarakhand postponed yet again||DEHRADUN: Originally scheduled for 2018, the 38th National Games in Uttarakhand is set to be postponed yet again, primarily due to the prevailing Covid-19 scenario and the incomplete arrangements due to it. Speaking to TOI, Brijesh Kumar Sant, secretary of the state sports department, said, “The games are likely going to be postponed. However, we haven’t formally announced yet.” The official added, “This has happened primarily due to the works getting stalled in the wake of coronavirus-induced lockdown. We haven’t released any official order regarding this matter yet,” said Sant. The 38th National Games were expected to witness 34 different sports in two ‘games villages’ — Dehradun and Haldwani. The announcement for the 38th edition of the sports mega-event was first made by the Centre in 2014. Meanwhile, the state has asked the Centre to provide a financial assistance of Rs 500 crore for the National Games. The state is yet to receive the amount. Notably, the 36th and the 37th National Games, proposed to be held in Goa and Chhattisgarh respectively, also haven’t been held yet. The last National Games were held in Kerala in January 2015. It was the 35th edition of the sports extravaganza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/national-games-to-be-held-in-ukhand-postponed-yet-again/articleshow/80712657.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||452 get shots at 12 sites in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Out of the total 1,197 health care and frontline workers, 452 beneficiaries received the Covid-19 vaccine shots on Friday. A total of 12 sites were operational, where 1,106 health care workers had to be vaccinated. However, only 371 came for immunisation. While out of 91 frontline workers, 81 were vaccinated. Till date, out of 11,756, targeted beneficiaries, 5,341 have been vaccinated. 280 of 412 jabbed in PanchkulaPanchkula: A total of 280 health and frontline workers were vaccinated out of the 412 targeted beneficiaries on Friday, achieving the 43.5% target. As many as 4,006 beneficiaries, including 3,790 health care workers and 216 frontline workers, have been inoculated so far. 215 get vaccinated in MohaliMohali: A total of 215 people got vaccinated in Mohali on Friday. The officials claimed that out of 215, 119 were healthcare workers and 96 were frontline workers. As many as 4,545 health workers and 152 frontline workers have been vaccinated so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/452-get-shots-at-12-sites-in-city/articleshow/80712674.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Water from Bhama Askhed to Dhanori, Lohegaon areas improves quality of life||Pune: Water from Bhama Askhed has reached 10 water storage tanks in Pune’s eastern parts and is now being distributed to scarcity-hit areas like Dhanori, Lohegaon while trials for supply have started in Vimannagar and Vadgaonsheri areas as well. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now looking forward to supplying water to the remaining 8 to 10 tanks in areas like Nagpur Chawl in Yerawada and other areas in a fortnight. Various tests are being conducted on technical parameters at these tanks to ensure seamless flow, civic officials said. The civic administration completed the laying of the pipeline from the dam up to the city last month. Subsequently, it started the testing and trials of the pipeline’s network. Last month, the administration began supplying of water in a phased manner. All the proposed areas will be covered in the next few days. Sudesh Kadu, executive engineer from PMC, said work is progressing as per schedule. “The water reached the city’s boundary last month, 34km from the dam. We are supplying it to the storage tanks in the eastern parts of Pune. Water will go to more than 20 tanks, and has reached 10 tanks. Some tanks are located on a gradient, hence our teams are facing challenges. But we are confident that the work of supplying water to all the tanks will be over in the next two weeks,” he said. Kadu said the PMC’s teams are conducting trials to ensure that the system is foolproof and the water flows up to each tank without disruptions. Local MLA Sunil Tingre said water supply would improve even more once the administration completes all the trials. “I have been following up the issue with the civic administration to make sure that water reaches all the proposed areas of the eastern parts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-from-bhama-askhed-to-dhanori-lohegaon-areas-improves-quality-of-life/articleshow/80713797.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||CBI books MES Vizag official on corruption charges||Hyderabad: The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a Visakhapatnam Military Engineering Services (MES) official on the charges of corruption in maintenance works. The accused official, Shankar Narayana, demanded Rs 32,000 bribe to pass a bill of Rs 14 lakh, the CBI said. The CBI named Narayana as an accused and booked the cased under the Prevention of Corruption Act based on a complaint filed by JV Ramana, managing partner, in JPR Constructions and Engineers, a contractor for Vizag MES. In July 2019, Ramana was awarded the work pertaining to repair, replacement of sewage lines, filter beds and soak wells for Rs 20 lakh in an online open tender. The work was to be completed in nine months. The work was completed on August 17, 2020, with an extension of four months. Ramana received Rs 6 lakh for the first running bill in February 2020 from the garrison engineer, naval depot. The contractor later submitted a pre-final bill for Rs 12 lakh and the final bill of Rs 2 lakh to MES in December last year. However, the money to Ramana was not released. He met Narayana on January 23 this year. It was under Narayana’s supervision the works were executed. The official demanded that the contractor pay 5% of bill amount and 3 per cent of the total for certifying the bills for payment. When Ramana expressed his inability, the percentages were reduced to 3 and 2 for certifying the bills. Narayana told Ramana that he would not release the money unless the bribe money was paid and threatened to pass adverse remarks. He demanded Rs 32,000 bribe from the contractor. Ramana refused to pay the bribe amount and complained to the CBI, which took up investigation and filed a case against the accused engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-mes-vizag-official-on-corruption-charges/articleshow/80713755.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 6, 2021||Goa||Kamat took govt contracts as MLA, should resign: BJP||Panaji: BJP on Friday demanded Digambar Kamat’s resignation as leader of opposition in the state assembly saying that Kamat’s company had accepted government contracts “even after being an MLA”. “Kamat should come out clean on the issue,” said BJP’s newly appointed spokesperson Urfan Mulla, former Congress minority cell chief who joined BJP in November last year. Reacting to the allegations, Kamat said, “On the same subject, three different disqualification petitions were filed before the Election Commission and all three were dismissed.” Mulla said that Kamat used to do contract work for the PWD in 1980, and he became a MLA in 1994. He added that even after Kamat was the MLA he continued to accept contracts from PWD, adding that in 1996 Kamat got his wife as a partner in his company and continued to accept PWD contracts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-took-govt-contracts-as-mla-should-resign-bjp/articleshow/80716092.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Pune’s reconciled caseload 5.2k now||Pune: The reconciled figures of Pune’s Covid-19 figures touched 5,222 on Friday from 13,000 earlier this week. The reconciliation of figures on the public health portal continued throughout this week. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate told TOI, that it was a continuous process and the figures were being corrected. The district health officials said the figures of the active cases in Pune would be completely rectified soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-reconciled-caseload-5-2k-now/articleshow/80713785.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Notices to officers on debris dumping at mangroves||MUMBAI: Show-cause notices were issued to a range forest officer, round officer and forest guard to explain dumping of debris on mangroves declared as reserved forest at Mahul.  State forest department pointed to negligence leading to the dumping. NGO Vanashakti had complained to mangrove conservation cell (MCC) on 15 acres of mangroves and wetlands being reclaimed. It said at least 700 trucks of debris were used to reclaim areas and police were silent witnesses to it. “Mahul is congested and a high-security zone. How did 700 dumpers destroy mangroves?” it asked. Virendra Tiwari, chief conservator of forests (MCC), said they would ask for CCTV footage of the area from the police commissioner’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/notices-to-officers-on-debris-dumping-at-mahul-mangroves/articleshow/80713681.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No new road to international airport||CHADNDIGARH: The new road project for the international airport seems to have lost its importance as the Haryana government has already shown its unwillingness to spend a huge amount on the project. Moreover, as the Air Force land was also coming between the project, hence, it could not get nod from the forces. Sources in the Chandigarh administration revealed that the project was already dropped in a north regional meeting headed by Union minister Amit Shah in 2019. “As per the DMRC report, the project costed around Rs 1,200 crore and Chandigarh and Haryana had to pay the maximum amount and the Haryana government refused to spend the huge amount on the project. Moreover, one tunnel was also planned in the project, but as the Air Force land was also there, it turned out to be complicated,” said sources. According to information, the Punjab government was already showed reluctant for the project. Since Haryana also took a back seat due to finances, the idea of a separate road was dropped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-new-road-to-intl-airport/articleshow/80712679.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Govt working on various plans for police housing: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was working on various plans for solving the housing problems of police personnel in the state.“We can request a builder to handover his land for police housing and, in return, we shall give him an extra FSI (floor space index) and pay him the cost of the building constructed. We can also consider institutions like the Life Insurance Corporation of India Limited for constructing affordable homes for the police,” Ajit Pawar, also the district guardian minister, said.“If as a government we expect good services from the police, then we are bound to solve their problems, too,” he said, speaking after the launch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police services for the public, including SEVA App, social media accounts and X-Tracker app to keep track of externed criminals.Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash, additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, MLAs Anna Bansode and Dilip Mohite were present on the occasion.Ajit Pawar said the state government would grant permission for setting up of police stations. “The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation will make financial provision for the same,” he said.Appreciating Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash’s people-friendly policing move, he said, “The MVA government always supports officers who take initiative for the public by using the latest technology. Police should not bother about any political interference and work for the safety of common people.”Ajit Pawar also felicitated the in-charges of six police stations who scored A++ grades in the Smart ISO certification.Krishna Prakash said, “We have launched these apps for people-oriented policing. With our presence in social media, we can reach out to people immediately and the public, too, can approach us any time.”The Pimpri Chinchwad police can now be contacted on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and on YouTube, he said.The commissioner said they were planning to use the X-Tracker app for helping senior citizens. “Senior citizens who stay alone at home can be easily tracked with the help of this app,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-working-on-various-plans-for-police-housing-ajit-pawar/articleshow/80713803.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt seeks more stringent quarantine for international returnees||PUNE: The state government has sent a letter to the Centre, urging it to ensure that all international airports quarantined passengers in the city of arrival instead of allowing them to travel to Maharashtra by road. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that there was a need for strict vigilance on international travellers coming to the state. He said there had been many instances of foreign returnees reaching Maharashtra by road after de-boarding at places outside the state. “International passengers should be isolated at the first port or the airport of arrival for complete duration. It is the standard textbook practice adopted abroad and it has a tremendous effect on controlling the epidemic. The same should be carried out here also, so that there is strict monitoring of all passengers,” Vyas said. State task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said it was better to be cautious than putting the guard down. “Utmost care needs to be taken for the new strains,” he said, referring to the new UK, Brazil and South Africa variants of coronavirus. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also cautioned the authorities and citizens against becoming complacent in the fight against Covid-19 in the cabinet meeting held on Thursday in view of the second wave in Britain and Brazil. On January 20, there were 1,820 deaths in the UK because of the new strain. The average daily toll in Brazil has been 1,000 off late with a daily case tally of 50,000. The health secretary said the number of positive cases had started declining in these countries from June-July last year. Then the new strain, which spreads 70% faster, came to the fore, he said. National Health Mission director N Ramaswami said the total number of travellers reaching the state from the UK was 5,073 so far. Of them, a total of 4,948 have been traced. As many as 4,322 travellers have completed 28 days of isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-seeks-more-stringent-quarantine-for-intl-returnees/articleshow/80713800.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 6, 2021||Shimla||71 new Covid cases in Himachal, 48 recover||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 71 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday while 48 positive patients recovered. With this, the state has 57,764 positive cases, of which 462 cases are active, 56,316 patients have recovered, 970 patients have died while four have migrated out. A total of 9,59,153 people have been tested for Covid till date, of whom 9,01,112 tested negative while results of 277 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include 42 from Mandi district, nine from Una, four each from Solan, Kangra and Kinnaur, three from Kullu and Sirmaur and one each from Bilaspur and Chamba. Those recovered were Chamba and Kangra (3 each), Mandi (16), Shimla (14), Sirmaur (4), Solan (6) and Una (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/71-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-48-recover/articleshow/80713790.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: After killing wife, man dies as his car hits truck||MOHALI: Just a few hours after a man allegedly murdered his 32-year-old wife at their rented accommodation in Sunny Enclave, Kharar, he was killed in a road accident in Chandigarh in the early hours of Friday. Waris Quameruddin (33) and his wife Varsha Chauhan belonged to Bhopal. The two had an interfaith love marriage in October 2019. They had moved to Gurgaon and shifted to Kharar last month. Both had lost their jobs in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Police found the body of Varsha in a bathroom after receiving a call from her landlady Ruchi. “The house was ransacked. Varsha was attacked with sharp objects. We recovered a knife and a scissor form the crime scene,” said sub-inspector Harsh Mohan, Sunny Enclave chowki in-charge, and the investigating officer. The couple had earlier told the landlady they would vacate the house on Friday. Ruchi went to check on them and found Varsha lying in a pool of blood. She told police the two were planning to settle in Europe. “We are interrogating a man named Sandeep who used to live on the same floor in a separate room. He told us that the couple used to flight regularly,” said a police official. Police sources said Varsha was killed around 2am-3am. At 3.45am, Waris died after his Chevrolet Duster vehicle rammed into a truck from the rear in Sarangpur. He was headed towards Mullanpur barrier from the Dadumajra dumping ground side in his Gurgaon registered car. The truck driver fled. Waris’s body was kept at the mortuary of Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, while that of Varsha at civil hospital, Kharar. Police registered a murder case against Waris and an unknown person on the statement of the landlady. Box: Love marriageWaris Quameruddin, the husband, was behaving in an awkward manner for last four days and had created a ruckus at a hotel in Zirakpur, sources said. The two had got married against their families’ will in October 2019 and were staying in Gurgaon. They had moved to Kharar last month. They had no children||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-killing-wife-man-dies-as-his-car-hits-truck/articleshow/80712696.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sachivalaya employee files FIR alleging slander on Facebook||AHMEDABAD: A 26-year-old woman, Khushbu Panchal, filed a complaint at the Ahmedabad city cybercrime police station alleging that an unknown person had created a Facebook account under the name ‘Rajesh Patel’ and posted pictures of her and her ex-husband, with text maligning her. The complainant has been working as an assistant engineer at the Sachivalaya for the last six months, before which she was posted in Tharad. In her FIR, she stated that she had married Dashrath Panchal, a resident of Kathwada, on February 26, 2020. One month after the wedding, due to friction between them, they agreed amicably to get a divorce. Later, she got engaged to a resident of New Naroda. She stated that her former husband then began calling her and sending her messages, which continued from other numbers after she blocked his mobile number. The FIR states that on September 9, a relative of hers alerted her to the fact that a Facebook account by the name ‘Rajesh Patel’, had posted pictures of her along with defamatory and obscene text. Cybercrime police station registered an FIR under the Information Technology Act, for fraudulently using a digital signature and publishing lascivious material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sachivalaya-employee-files-fir-alleging-slander-on-fb/articleshow/80713812.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Vadodara||Gang rape survivor alleges threat||Vadodara: A minor gang rape survivor living in a village of Lunawada taluka in Mahisagar district has alleged that she was abducted by two persons, who also thrashed and threatened to take revenge as they were incarcerated. The girl was raped when to relieve herself outside her house on Tuesday. Two persons allegedly abducted her on a motorcycle and took her to a nearby farm. The girl has claimed that the duo beat her up following which she fell unconscious. According to the survivor, the accused asker her why had she locked up their children in jail. They also said that they would take revenge. She reached home and narrated the incident to her father. They then approached the police which registered a complaint and also took the girl to the hospital for treatment and medico-legal examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gang-rape-survivor-alleges-threat/articleshow/80712750.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Jagga slams celebs over farmer talk||Hyderabad: Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy on Friday found fault with celebrities, including film stars and cricketers, for speaking against the agitating farmers. “Ploughing the land, irrigating it, raising a crop and harvesting it is not as easy as delivering a dialogue and shaking legs to dance in front of the camera or wielding a willow in a cricket match,” said Jayaprakash Reddy. Stating that farmers have been braving the winter chill and trying to impress upon the government to repeal the new farm laws for two months, the Congress legislator sought to advise the celebrities making statements in support of Narendra Modi-government and against the farmers. He said, “No matter how many accolades you earn in your respective professions, you will have to survive by eating agriculture products cultivated by farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagga-slams-celebs-over-farmer-talk/articleshow/80713768.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||12k homes for BMC conservancy staff, Rs 500 crore earmarked||MUMBAI: BMC in its budget has once again floated Ashray Yojana (shelter scheme), its dream scheme to provide housing to its conservancy workers, with municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal making an allocation of Rs 500 crore. The BMC will build 12,698 tenements measuring 300 and 600 sq feet at 34 locations in the city. “Tenders have been invited for appointment of agencies on ‘design and build’ basis. The tender process is at a final stage,” Chahal said in the budget. TimesViewConservancy staffers are an essential workforce and play a key role in keeping the city clean. The plan to provide them housing has been dragging since 2008 and the condition of their housing colonies is only deteriorating every year. The BMC must take a serious view about providing them safe &amp; clean homes and fast track the Ashray Yojana.The scheme was first floated in 2008, with a promise to make the homes ready for the 2012 elections. It was a poll promise again during the 2017 polls, and it has now been revived for the 2022 polls. The original plan was conceptualised by noted architect PK Das and then joint municipal commissioner V Radha. According to officials, there are around 28,000 conservancy staffers. They live in 39 municipal colonies, but most of the buildings are in a dilapidated condition and, at many locations, residents have been moved into transit accommodation. “We had submitted the design in 2008. Work has already begun in locations like Dadar and Grant Road. In Fort, workers have already moved in to their homes,” Das said. “We have been hearing about the Ashtray Yojana since 2008, but nothing has happened beyond announcements. It looks like this time too, it will remain only on paper,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in the BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/12k-homes-for-bmc-conservancy-staff-rs-500cr-earmarked/articleshow/80715535.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 6, 2021||Pune||Duo snatch techie’s phone, detained||Pune: Two teenage boys were detained on Thursday on the charge of robbing a software engineer’s smartphone, while he was booking a cab near a PMPML bus stop at Wakdewadi on Monday night. Sub-inspector Pratap Giri from Khadki police said, “The software engineer, Parag Kulkarni (35), had visited Wakdewadi for personal work. He was booking a cab. The teenagers — aged 17 and 18 years — riding on a scooter, snatched his cellphone and sped away.” An autorickshaw driver, who was nearby, jotted down the scooter’s registration number and shared it with Kulkarni, who then lodged an FIR on Thursday. “We traced the address of the boys and detained them. We recovered the smartphone worth Rs25,000 from them,” Giri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-techies-phone-detained/articleshow/80713813.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC passes Rs 1,641 crore budget, demands share from administration||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation (MC) in its house meeting on Friday passed a budget of Rs 1,641 crore while citing the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission report to demand its share from the UT administration that has already announced a grant-in-aid of Rs 502 crore to it. The civic body sought Rs 1,176 crore grant-in-aid (GIA). The MC kept Rs 1,197.55 crore under revenue segment meant for committed liabilities, like paying salaries, wages and pension and expenditure on bills and fuel. A sum of Rs 443 crore was kept under capital segment for developmental works. The MC declared to earn Rs 469 crore from its own resources. Focusing heavily on the grant-in-aid according to the commission, the MC specifically mentioned that it should receive a proper share from the UT departments, calling it its right, stressing that this will end the requirement of additional funds and pointing out the amount will be spent on the development of the city. The MC has already demanded excise duty of Rs 26 crore from the administration during its finance and contract committee (F&CC) meeting. At the same time during the meeting, most councillors asked about the development of the 13 handed over to the MC in 2019 and sought more money. “There is a dire need to focus on the development of these villages,” councillors said. They also demanded ongoing developmental works be completed in their municipal awards. Like previous years, maximum budget was kept for the engineering department of the MC, which includes roads, buildings, water supply, sewage and horticulture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-body-passes-rs-1641cr-budget-seeks-share-from-admn/articleshow/80712686.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 6, 2021||Pune||Bypolls to two PMC seats on the cards||PUNE: Byelections for two wards in Pune Municipal Corporation, which have been vacant since December, will be held soon. Corporators Mahesh Ladkat (Navi Peth) and Vijay Shewale (Bopodi) — both from BJP — had passed away in December. PMC has started updating the voters’ list. A draft voters’ list will be prepared on February 16. Suggestions and objections will be invited from February 16 to 23. The final list will be published on March 3, while the list of voting booths will be announced on March 8. The boothwise voters’ list will become available on March 12. The new elected members will have a tenure of less than a year, with the next municipal elections scheduled for February 2022. PMC officials said the elections will be held as a part of byelections for 16 civic bodies in the state. These seats have become vacant for various reasons, such as demise of the elected member and disqualification over bogus documents, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bypolls-to-two-pmc-seats-on-the-cards/articleshow/80713808.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||DG-AFMS lauds armed forces medicos||Pune: Vice Admiral Rajat Datta, the Director General of Armed Forces Medical Services (DG-AFMS), said these were exciting and dynamic times for the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) with the effort to put behind the major Covid-19 pandemic and continue to expand health capabilities as never before. He was giving an online address at the concluding session of the 69th annual Armed Forces Medical Conference and the 59th Armed Forces Medical Research Committee (AFMRC) at the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) on Friday. The AFMS had rolled out its Covid-19 vaccination campaign on January 16 for the Armed forces personnel across the country. He lauded the efforts of the healthcare workers and Armed forces doctors for working hard during the health crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dg-afms-lauds-armed-forces-medicos/articleshow/80713816.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||BJP candidates’ list spurs protests across Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The BJP office in Khanpur was swamped by protesters throughout the day on Friday, as the party’s workers demanded that several candidates be changed for the forthcoming local body polls. Several groups of workers from Naranpura, Vasna, Nava Vadaj, and Gota among others had converged on the BJP office. BJP leader I K Jadeja and the party’s city president Jagdish Panchal had a tough time handling the protests. Anticipating protests, the BJP had ensured adequate police presence throughout the day. The party’s officials said that the majority of the protesters were not against the denial of tickets to senior or sitting corporators, but wanted some candidates to be changed. In Naranpura, the workers wanted two new faces to be replaced. On Thursday, protests over the BJP’s candidates had been held late into the night in Gota, Vasna and other wards. People had come out on the streets after 11pm despite the curfew. The party’s leaders said that almost at all the places, protesters were seeking changes in the candidates’ list, even if the party wanted to field new faces. Amit Shah, a BJP leader in the corporation and a corporator, has been denied a ticket from Vasna. “We all have accepted the party’s decision and are nowhere involved in these protests,” Shah said. “These protesters, especially from the slums, want their favoured candidates to get the tickets.” Another corporator, from the western part of the city, said: “Many people had contacted me and had said that they will protest and I should accompany them.” He went on to say: “But I refused to join them as it was not in my interest.” With protests intensifying, the party put Pradipsinh Jadeja in charge of the firefighting exercise. Jadeja said: “I along with I K Jadeja and Jagdish Panchal told the workers that the decision of the parliamentary board must be respected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lotus-candidates-list-spurs-protests-across-city/articleshow/80714226.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court pulls up GST dept for coercive recovery tactics||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday pulled up the GST officials for their alleged pressure tactics to achieve tax collection targets and made a sarcastic remark about Gujarat being one of the top states in GST collections in the country. The case before the high court involved Kanubhai Patel (62), the proprietor of Bharat Acid and Chemicals in Vapi town. The officials of Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Surat (DGGI) conducted searches on Patel’s premises on January 22, and he was taken to the department’s office, where he was allegedly kept at the office for 33 hours. His advocate Hardik Vora complained that he was not released before the senior citizen paid Rs 9 crore to the department. It was also alleged that extreme physical and mental torture was used by the officers during search and subsequent proceedings. It was also alleged that the officials resort to such pressure tactics to achieve collection targets. Upon hearing the case, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said, “The facts of this case are very gross and shocking. Serious allegations have been levelled against the respondents Nos. 2 and 3 (additional director and senior intelligence officer of DGGI) respectively. The matter needs to be looked into urgently.” After recording case details briefly, the judges remarked, “No wonder, the state of Gujarat has topped the list of states with the highest collection of tax under the GST Act in the country for the year 2020-21.” The lawyer brought to the court’s notice that the GST officials’ aggressive proceedings in this case resulted in an attempted suicide earlier this week in Surat, when a businessman named Mukesh Maru jumped from the DGGI office in Vesu area of Surat. He was a purchaser in the transaction that is being probed by the officials. The bench issued notice to the authorities seeking reply by February 16. The court specifically directed the two officials involved in this case to reply in this case so that the “court is able to proceed further with the matter expeditiously”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-pulls-up-gst-dept-for-coercive-recovery-tactics/articleshow/80713672.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Dehradun||Rain spell leaves dug-up Dehradun roads in shambles||DEHRADUN: City residents faced a tough time commuting on Friday morning after Thursday’s heavy rainfall left many roads in shambles. The worst-affected were roads that had been dug up for civic works and left unattended at several spots across the city, including Araghar Chowk, Subhash Road, Convent Road and parts of Dalanwala area. Akash Ahuja, owner of a medical store near Araghar, said, “Since civic works of the Smart City project are taking place at many places, it has made commuting a tough task. Already, traffic snarls due to diversions at various places had made travelling a time consuming affair. The rains have made it risky as well.” At places like Paltan Bazar, Haridwar road and Kargil Chowk, where construction work is under way, waterlogging was witnessed at quite few spots. Kavita Balyan, a resident of Mothrowala, said, “Roads are already in a mess. It’s especially tough to ride a two-wheeler with rain water filling dug-up roads.” Jatin Gurung, another resident, said, “Authorities must expedite Smart City work so that roads can be repaired at the earliest and bring relief to residents. The situation is worse in newer wards where muck overflows on lanes even after slight rains.” When queried on when the roads situation is expected to improve in the state capital, roads division executive engineer D C Nautiyal said, “We’re preparing to repair some roads once the weather becomes favourable. Roads undergoing Smart City work will take some time, as underground connections at several stretches are pending. Once we get official approval, we will begin road repairs and they will be done in no time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-spell-leaves-dug-up-doon-roads-in-shambles/articleshow/80712685.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||SRA cedes ground to BMC on slum rehab schemes||MUMBAI: Within a day of the city’s municipal commissioner batting for a consolidation of more powers under the BMC, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority has ceded ground by notifying that once a shanty redevelopment project is awarded an occupation certificate, BMC would take over as the planning authority for it.  Iqbal Chahal, in his budget speech, referred to issues arising on account of multiple planning agencies like MMRDA, MHADA, SRA, MIDC, exercising jurisdiction in the city, saying it was often left to BMC to incur costs on facilities/services while other agencies levied charges. As if on cue, Satish Lokhande, chief executive officer, SRA, in a circular on Friday, said on completion of a slum rehab scheme, the area would cease to be a slum. "…once full Occupation Certificate is issued to the building it ceases to be a slum rehabilitation area. Thereafter …under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act on account of any violation…BMC will be the planning authority," it says . Lokhande said the SRA met with additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal before the decision. The circular now directs SRA staff not to entertain proposals for ‘change of user’ or regularisation of addition/alterations for buildings for which Occupation Certificate has been granted. Instead, BMC will be adjudicating authority. BMC allows regularisation of certain unauthorised constructions on payment of penalty. Amid a shortfall in revenue, BMC has also raised the issue of non-receipt of Rs 1,600 crore collected as land premium for slum rehab schemes initiated on BMC-owned land. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has assured that such dues, owed by departments and agencies to BMC, would be paid by March 31. Thackeray has also agreed to consider a plan to make BMC sole planning authority for the city. The corporation has already proposed that it be made planning authority for Cuffe Parade and Marine Drive. Currently, MMRDA handles planning in these areas. "These authorities are authorised to plan development of layouts ... whereas BMC provides all infrastructural facilities such as water supply, sewerage, roads,. This leads to loss of revenue to BMC... BMC should be the single planning authority," said Chahal’s speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sra-cedes-ground-to-bmc-on-slum-rehab-schemes/articleshow/80713852.cms||Clara Lewis
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Cycle zone to connect New Town malls||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), along with the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), is planning to turn a road connecting Central Mall with Axis Mall below the flyover in Action Area I into a cycle-zone where no cars will be allowed. As per the plans of the authorities, the zone will have cycle tracks, street food plaza, recreation zones, sitting arrangements, public art, tree plantation and other decorative structures that will have a clean and green look. “We have just made the plan. We will discuss with architects and town planners as to how the pedestrian plaza can be developed,” said an official. As very few vehicles use the cross road, the authorities have identified it for the development of the pedestrian zone. Besides, a clock tower situated on the road makes it ideal for being a pedestrian zone, said the official. The other road that the authorities are also planning to develop into a pedestrian plaza is the street in front of Eco urban village. The authorities had recently organised a design contest on streets for people, where the participants came up with several creative designs on pedestrian-friendly streets. Hidco and NKDA have been working on such plans to develop pedestrian friendly streets and cycle tracks across New Town as a part of the green city project. “There are many such pedestrian only streets abroad. This not only give pedestrians, including children and the elderly, a chaos-free walking space, it is also environment-friendly and reduces vehicular pollution,” said the official. NKDA has already developed the 400-meter service road from Swapno Bhor Park to New Town mela ground into a smart street with internet hot spots, solar benches, solar trees, water ATMs and plastic laid road. In neighbouring Sector V, the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority is engaging consultants to come up with a design to develop street No. 25 — that connects Infinity Benchmark with Broadway — into a pedestrian plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cycle-zone-to-connect-new-town-malls/articleshow/80713815.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Technical glitches delay two exams at Panjab University||CHANDIGARH: Due to technical glitches, both the morning as well the evening slot papers for environment and road safety education and violence against women and children, which were scheduled for Friday, have now been postponed. This was informed by Dr Jagat Bhushan, controller of examination, Panjab University, Chandigarh. It was informed that the new dates for these examinations will be notified on the website shortly. Around 67,000 students were to appear in these exams on February 5. The semester examinations will commence from February 15. A total of 2,86,812 undergraduate and post-graduate students will appear in the odd semester examinations. The new admissions will begin from March 8, 2021. The practical exams of the new admissions will be held in February end. Dr Bhushan said the detailed instructions for students i.e. downloading of admit card, question paper, attempting the question paper, submission of answer sheets etc. is available on the examination portal notice board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/technical-glitches-delay-2-exams-at-pu/articleshow/80712680.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Daily recoveries jump to month’s high of 1,373 in region, six succumb to Covid||PUNE: A total of 1,373 Covid patients recovered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, its highest since December 24 when 1,410 people were discharged. Besides, 443 individuals tested positive for the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours. Among the recoveries, the rural areas recorded maximum 1,050 discharges, followed by the PMC limits (224) and the PCMC limits (82). A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the PMC limits added 195 new cases on Friday, followed by the rural areas (163) and the PCMC limits (83). With this, the region’s recovery count has increased above 3.74 lakh, while its caseload above 3.88 lakh. The region reported six more deaths due to the infection on Friday, including two deaths in the PMC limits, three in the PCMC areas and one in the rural areas. The total deaths reached 9,092, included 4,945 in the PMC areas, on Friday. The sample testing dropped to 6,590 in the region on Friday from Thursday’s 7,100 tests. The report further stated that tally of active cases in the region reached 4,818, of which 3,036 patients were in home isolation and 1,782 patients admitted in hospitals for further treatment. A report released by the PMC stated that active caseload in the municipal limits dropped below 1,500 to 1,492 on Friday evening.  For the second day in a row the state and the city reported a dip in Covid cases. On Friday, Maharashtra added 2,628 cases and 40 fatalities, taking the tally to 20,30,630 and toll to 51,255.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-recoveries-jump-to-months-high-of-1373-in-region-six-succumb-to-ncov/articleshow/80713811.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Funds kept for Sec 17 multilevel parking repair work, says mayor||CHANDIGARH: Sufficient amount of the money has been kept for repairing the Sector 17 multilevel parking lot, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said during the general house meeting of the municipal corporation on Friday. The statement come in the backdrop of leakage — witnessed mostly during the monsoon — resurfacing in the project during the rain on Thursday. The parking was leaking from its corners. Soon after its construction, the problem had erupted. Sharma said, “The multilevel parking is one of our prime concerns and the matter is in my notice. We will see whether the contractor will do it, or any other thing needs to be done, but we are fully committed to repair this parking and encourage the people to use the facility. Moreover, how to popularise the parking also under consideration”, In 2019, experts from IIT Roorkee had visited the multilevel parking and blamed anomalies for the leakage. The MC had started holding talks with the contractor but the matter ended up in litigation. Although the MC had kept IIT Roorkee in the loop while planning the repairs, the work is yet to start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/money-kept-for-sec-17-multilevel-parking-repair-mayor/articleshow/80712704.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 6, 2021||Pune||Three held in Mumbai man’s murder case||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Friday arrested a snacks centre owner (55) and his two sons on the charge of beating a Mumbai resident (48) to death at in Hinjewadi on Thursday night. “Rajkumar Ghuge of Mumbai succumbed to his injuries early on Friday morning,” deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Anand Bhoite told TOI. Ghuge's wife is a Mumbai police personnel. Ghuge’s friend, Ramesh Gaikwad, has filed an FIR with the police. “Two of our friends and I accompanied Ghuge to the city on Thursday evening,” Gaikwad told TOI. “While returning to Mumbai, we halted at a restaurant in Hinjewadi for dinner. Ghuge went to a nearby snacks centre next, where he had an argument with the owner,” Gaikwad said, adding that the four friends went for dinner once Ghuge returned from the snacks centre. “Ghuge finished dinner early and went out for a smoke. When we came out, we saw that the snacks centre owner and four other men were beating up Ghuge,” Gaikwad said. “We have arrested Nandkumar Dhokale (54) and his two sons — Prashant (35) and Pramod (32),” DCP Bhoite said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-held-in-mumbai-mans-murder-case/articleshow/80713847.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||More private doctors, hospitals raise complaints of names missing in app||PUNE: More private medical practitioners came forward with complaints of ‘missing names’ in the CoWIN app for Covid vaccination after the TOI report highlighting the issue appeared on Friday. Some private hospitals also reported missing names of their staff in bulk, despite submitting requisite details to the local health authorities. PMC health officials, however, claimed that they could not do anything as the Centre had blocked the access to the centralized software. “We have received many complaints of missing names from private practitioners as well as quite a few small and medium-sized hospitals. Most reached out to us after reading the TOI report on the issue,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) does not have the exact number of missing names, but Patil said names of close 2,000 workers were likely to be missing from the app. A private hospital in Mukundnagar reported names of 60 of their staff missing from the app. Paediatrician Rajeev Joshi said, “There are about 25 small and big hospitals in the Bibvewadi area. Their staffers, who opted for the shot during the registration drive were in for a shock when they found their names missing in the app.” Senior orthopaedic surgeon Nitin Bhagali said, “A total 32 employees of my hospital have been denied the shot, including myself, because despite submitting the requisite details, our names are missing in the app. We worked during the period when the pandemic was at its peak. This is how we are rewarded.” He said, “I have registered my displeasure with the state health minister Rajesh Tope on phone about a week ago. He promised to solve my grievance.” Some of the hospitals designated as vaccination centres in the city have also reported missing names of their staffers on the portal. “A total of 1,200 of our hospital employees had submitted their details to get the Covid shot. About 20% of the names are missing,” said Inlaks and Budharani hospital’s administrator Abhijit Dahanukar. Ashish Bharati, chief of the health department, PMC, told TOI, “We want to help them (private doctors) but the Union government has blocked the access to the app for registration. We have conveyed the complaints to the higher authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-pvt-doctors-hospitals-raise-plaints-of-names-missing-in-app/articleshow/80713842.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Govt proposes new flyovers for Kolkata, revives old projects||KOLKATA: Mamata Banerjee government has proposed many flyover projects to improve the city’s connectivity. Besides, a host of flyover proposals that had been put on hold for some time have also been revived. The chief minister on Friday announced a budgetary allocation of Rs 2,475 crore for the next financial year for implementing the plans to develop Bengal’s road and bridge infrastructure, which includes the city projects. Most of the flyover plans are being taken care of by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) with a few plans being looked after by the state PWD. A meeting was held a few days ago in which it was reportedly informed to KMDA and PWD about the plan to revive some flyover proposals for which detail project reports had been prepared. The CM in her budget speech mentioned that feasibility studies would be conducted for a number of new flyover plans and that the projects would be executed if they are found to be technically feasible. Some of these new project proposals include a skywalk for pedestrians on Park Circus connector and a flyover from Paikpara to Sealdah station. Other projects that have already been conceptualized and for which feasibility study will be conducted are the proposed flyover along Anwar Shah Road from Jibanananda Setu to Deshopran Sasmal Road crossing, a flyover from Ultadanga to Posta Bazar, a flyover along Raja SC Mallick Road from Garia to Jadavpur and a flyover from Majherhat to Tollygunge till Jadavpur-Garia. Among plans announced by the CM, KMDA is already working to finalise route alignment of Bypass to New Town flyover. Among other flyover projects that will be executed, for which feasibility studies have been completed, include Airport Gate to Jessore Road flyover on NH 34 and VIP Road, a 3km flyover connecting Ultadanga and Bangur Avenue, Ruby to Kalikapur flyover with skywalk for pedestrians and an arm from Maa flyover on Syed Amir Ali Avenue up to Gurusaday Dutta Road. Roads from Pragati Maidan fire station to Bantala and from Bantala to Ghoshpur will be widened and a new bridge has been planned in Kidderpore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-proposes-new-flyovers-for-kol-revives-old-projects/articleshow/80713849.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||60 actors take to the stage as local theatre community strives to make a comeback||Pune: As things return to normal and theatres open up, 60 actors from the city have decided to come together as a statement of solidarity with the local theatre community. The actors will perform at a two-day theatre festival on February 6-7 at the open-air stage at Shri Mahavir Jain Vidyalaya, Agharkar Road.The pandemic has been a tough time for theatre. “With Covid-19 cases reducing, footfall at the theatre seems to be increasing. Our theatre festival is intentionally organized at an open-air theatre, adhering to safety protocols. Every group of actors was given a different space to rehearse. Our green rooms too, are spread across the venue. We have also conducted orientations for actors to maintain personal hygiene. Provision has been made for washbasins with handwash near the stage. Though the venue can seat 250 people, we are limiting the audience to 100 chairs,” said Yuvaraj Shah, founder-producer, Swatantra Theater Pune.The festival will include four plays — Kabira Khada Bazar Me, Panchi Aise Ate Hain, Bakri and Ujbak Raja Teen Dacait.Stage actor Ashwin Sharma, said, “Theatre is striving hard to find its ground after the pandemic. Online theatre was tedious at times, but at least it did not let the art form come to a halt. Returning to the stage is like finding home. The chemistry between co-actors is so important, which is lost in online performances. I am really excited to experience the audience’s live reactions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/60-actors-take-to-the-stage-as-local-theatre-community-strives-to-make-a-comeback/articleshow/80713858.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC helps inter-faith couple ordering legal aid to register marriage||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has come to the aid of an interfaith couple who have weathered legal hurdles and health-related problems to reunite and get married. The couple, a Muslim woman and a Hindu man from Banaskantha district, was reunited after they being on the run for nine months and being separated for six more months. In the meantime, the man had to go to jail and the woman tested positive for HIV. However, both of them remained firm on their desire to get married and the high court has ordered the district legal aid service to help the couple in marriage registration and in getting medical treatment. In this troubled time for the couple, the HC had been overseeing the woman’s medical treatment. The man was also tested but was found to be HIV negative. The doctors told the HC that the incubation period in some patients could be longer and the man could test positive after a few months. The court ordered periodic check ups. Moreover, the high court also ordered criminal prosecution of the girl’s father for furnishing a bogus birth certificate showing her to be a minor of 16 years. It was with this alleged bogus birth certificate that his daughter’s boyfriend was booked for abduction and charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). He was facing an arrest warrant and even went to jail. When the girl appeared before the court and declared that her real age was more than 20 years, the HC ordered legal aid for the man and his release from jail. The HC also asked the police to consider the option of filing a summary report against him because the FIR was filed on a bogus birth certificate. The case came to the HC in December 2019, when the girl’s father filed a habeas corpus petition complaining that his minor daughter was in illegal detention of the Hindu man and his family. It was after the court got tough with the cops that they traced the girl and produced her before the court in August 2020. Since then she was staying in the Palanpur women’s protection home. The man, who was on the run, was arrested, placed in custody and later released on bail. Last week, the couple appeared before the court and the man insisted that he would take proper care of her and that they intend to get married soon. The HC ordered the Banaskantha SP to provide protection to the couple because this would be an inter-religious marriage and ordered free medical aid to the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-comes-to-aid-of-interfaith-couple-who-weathered-legal-hurdle-health-issues/articleshow/80713839.cms||Saeed Khan
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: SC issues notice over FIR demand for body swap at VS Hospital||AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the state government in response to an appeal demanding registration of an FIR in the episode of swapping of dead bodies in the VS Hospital’s morgue. Kin of the elderly woman, whose body was handed over to another family for cremation, have approached the apex court after the Gujarat high court rejected their plea for registration of an FIR. In December, the HC opined that the family should have approached concerned magisterial court in accordance with the law, and such litigants should not burden the high court for registration of police complaint. When petitioner’s advocate Sachin Vasavada presented the case before the SC, the bench of Justices Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi sought a reply from the state authority. The judges made oral observation that this is a serious issue and expressed surprise over one person cremating two dead bodies because of the alleged mistake on part of the hospital staff. The litigants in this case are Pranavkumar Chand’s family, who complained that the dead body of Lekhaben Chand (70), who died of cardiac arrest in November 2020 and her dead body was placed in VS Hospital’s morgue, was missing from the morgue when her family member went to the morgue to collect the dead body. It was revealed that the body was mistakenly handed over to another family. Instead of the Chand family, Lekhaben’s body was handed over to the family of Divyaben Bagadiya. When the controversy erupted, the Bagadiya family swore an affidavit and declared that they had cremated Lekhaben’s dead body and returned to the hospital to collect Divyaben’s body. The Chand family has also filed another petition in the high court seeking Rs 50 lakh compensation from the authorities for the goof-up because due to swapping of the dead bodies, the family has remained deprived of performing last rites of the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-issues-notice-over-fir-demand-for-body-swap-at-vs-hospital/articleshow/80713854.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||5 held after live porn video-making racket busted at Madh island bungalow||Mumbai: City crime branch on Thursday busted a live porn video-making racket after raiding a bungalow at Madh island in Malad and rescued a woman. The property cell arrested five persons of a production house, including two women (a photographer and graphic designer) who were recording porn at Green Park bungalow at old Ferry Marg. Sources said it could be the tip of the iceberg as most private bungalows and shacks indulge in prostitution and shoot porn films under the guise of film-shooting. What baffled police is that two women were part of the gang exploiting young girls under the pretext of giving them a break in the film industry. Police rescued a 25-year-old victim and sent her for rehabilitation. The five were arrested under IPC sections for cheating, indulging in obscene acts in public places and publicly exhibiting or circulating obscene books or literature, and under Information Technology Act. Police froze a bank account of the production house which had a balance of Rs 36.5 lakh, generated from subscriptions of porn apps where the accused uploaded the videos. Police seized a high-definition video camera, six mobile phones, a laptop, spotlight, camera stand, memory card containing video clips and script, said deputy commissioner of police Prakash Jadhav. “We got information that a gang was issuing advertisements for fresh faces and under the pretext of giving them roles in movies they used to take them to these bungalows, make them do odd scenes, lure them with bigger amounts and make them sign agreements and force them to act in porn movies,’’ said senior inspector (property cell) Kedari Pawar. Investigating officer Laxmikant Salunke said the accused would pay Rs5,000-15,000 and then upload the clips on apps and social media, which would generate revenue. Going through WhatsApp chats and bank transactions it appears the gang has been doing this for one and a half years, and may have duped many who are scared to complain, said inspector Dheeraj Kohli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-held-after-live-porn-video-making-racket-busted-at-madh-island-bungalow/articleshow/80713688.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health dept to set up counselling centre to allay vaccination fears||CHANDIGARH: The UT health department will have a dedicated counselling centre to allay Covid-19 vaccination fears of health and frontline workers, a step prompted following the release of the health ministry’s data that mentioned Chandigarh having a coverage of less than 30% and weekly positivity rate higher than national average. “Vaccination hesitancy is there. But in UT, we are faring the best. We are making counselling cell and counsellors will be trained under the supervision of a WHO observer. Our psychiatry department will also train the counsellors,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, UT. The department had been earlier engaging interns and house surgeons on rotational basis to make calls and communicate to beneficiaries about the vaccination. “But now, there will be a dedicated team of counsellors who are able to communicate in this vaccination hesitancy cell,” said the DHS. Seeing the low response amongst the health care workers for vaccination, the UT health department had decided to simultaneously start with the frontline workers as well. “Our heads of the departments have been making rounds and motivating the staff, but there is still reluctance,” said the DHS. She said, “Most are waiting for the others to receive the second dose and see the effect, before making the decision. There was also hesitancy due to the reaction of Pfizer's vaccination abroad.” The UT health department has strategised to have few targeted beneficiaries to avoid wastage of vials. One vial has ten dosages which must be consumed within four hours after opening the seal. CUTTING WASTAGE We are judiciously calling those only who give their telephonic consent to reduce wastage. There should be no fear as we had a former director of PGI, who is 96 years old, receiving the vaccine Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, UT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-dept-to-set-up-counselling-centre-to-allay-vax-fears/articleshow/80712702.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Students opting for online classes feel neglected, says hours reduced considerably||LUDHIANA: With government issuing fresh instructions for re-opening of schools, students who have opted for online classes have started feeling neglected. Most of them complained that their classes have been reduced, as schools and teachers are paying more attention to regular classes. Aarav, student of a prominent public school, said, “There are no online classes in the first three days of the week, only the last three days are reserved for online classes, that too for an hour only. Earlier, the school used to conduct online classes for at least four hours. I am not allowed by my parents to attend the school, as a result my studies are being affected.” Yashu Singla, a Class VIII student of another private school, said, “I am attending the school from Monday to Wednesday and I have online class from Thursday to Saturday. I am attending regular classes from 10am to 3pm, however the time table for online classes is different and the number of hours is very less. Whenever my teacher gets free from class, he takes online classes.” Meenu Duggal, a parent, said, “Ever since schools were reopened, the duration of the online classes have been reduced. I feel this is an indirect way of pushing parents to send children to schools.” Another parent requesting anonymity said, “It’s not fair on the part of schools that they reduced the timings for online classes. Schools should pay equal attention to the students who are opting for online classes and have not given parents’ consent to the schools for offline classes.” Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) city coordinator Paramjit Kaur said, “This is not done as we cannot compel students to attend schools. There should be no difference and the duration for the lectures should be the same. Head of the institution should take care and parents can also write to higher authorities for their intervention.” Meanwhile, according to the directions of Punjab government, Guru Nanak International Public School, Model Town has already reopened for classes I to VIII. The students of classes V to VIII started coming to school from January 18 whereas students of classes I to IV are allowed to attend the school from February 1 with Covid-19 protocols. The students are allowed to attend offline classes only with the written consent of their parents. Authorities claimed that the attendance was not being enforced. Offline PTMs were also held from January 25 to 30 in different time slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/students-opting-for-online-classes-feel-neglected-says-hours-reduced-considerably/articleshow/80713850.cms||Mehak Jain
February 6, 2021||Pune||Better show in PCMC, rural parts improve PMR vax tally||Pune: A rise in the number of vaccinations in the rural and the Pimpri Chinchwad areas ensured higher (73%) immunisation in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, a day after just 63% of the target beneficiaries turned up to receive the shots. Areas in the Pune municipal limits kept the onward march by recording 98% vaccination on Friday. Overall, as many as 4,035 beneficiaries — 3,775 healthcare workers and 260 frontliners — took the Covid shot against the day’s target of 5,500 on Friday. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas and the rural parts registered an improvement in their turnout at 61% and 59%, respectively, as against the Thursday’s turnout of less than 50%. Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department, said, “We have been asked to increase the vaccination sessions. But we want to go slow. We will have to start administering the second dose from February 13. Private hospitals-cum-vaccination centres are recording most inoculation.” Many private hospitals in the PMC areas, where vaccination facility is operational, have inoculated most of their own staffers through on-the-spot vaccination. Surgeon Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said, “A total of 3,800 of our staffers have registered themselves for the vaccination. Of them, more than 2,000 have been vaccinated so far.” “The turnout is bound to fluctuate. The hesitancy is bare minimum now,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department, PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/better-show-in-pcmc-rural-parts-improve-pmr-vax-tally/articleshow/80713861.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||KRMB panel to assess Sagar canal water loss||Hyderabad: The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has decided to study water losses in Nagarjuna Sagar left bank canal by appointing a three-member committee. The KRMB said the effort is to see that every drop is utilised and ensure it reaches even tail-end areas. The KRMB met on Friday with member-secretary DM Raipure chairing it. AP water resources department engineer-in-chief C Narayana Reddy and Telangana chief engineer V Narasimha attended it. “The losses from the left bank canal are more than 40 per cent during release of water. The board needs to get a factual report on the losses and leakages of total supplies. The three-member committee will assess the losses,” Narayana Reddy said after the meeting. Both Telangana and AP gave their water requirements — both agriculture and drinking water indents — till March 31 to the KRMB at the meeting. While Telangana sought 82 tmcft, AP has asked for allocation of 108 tmcft. Telangana officials urged the board to ensure that the water level is maintained at a minimum of 810 ft in Srisailam and 520 ft in Nagarjuna Sagar reservoirs. The board, it is learnt, asked AP officials to revise their water requirement limiting to 95 tmcft and submit fresh proposals. “The KRMB will take a decision on water allocation based on the water availability in Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar projects,” an official said. Meanwhile, AP has objected to Telangana’s demand to make use of water, which was not utilised in previous allocations. AP water resources authorities also insisted that KRMB office be shifted to Visakhapatnam as AP government has chosen Visakhapatnam as its executive capital. “We have been demanding shifting of KRMB office for the last few years. We hope the necessary steps will be initiated soon,” Narayana Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-panel-to-assess-sagar-canal-water-loss/articleshow/80713806.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 6, 2021||Patna||HC orders probe against Patna City ADJ||PATNA: The Patna high court has ordered an administrative probe against ADJ-I of Patna City sub-division for his conduct and fairness in judicial approach while granting anticipatory bail to one accused and denying it to other facing similar charges in the same murder case. The bench simultaneously ordered that judicial records related to both the accused be placed before the Chief Justice for the needful. The bench pronounced the order on January 29. It was uploaded to the high court website the next day. The high court exercised its suo motu power of revision to take up the matter for hearing in which the subordinate court granted anticipatory bail to one Brind Paswan. He has been directed to surrender and pray for regular bail within four weeks. A bench of Justice Birendra Kumar observed that since the judicial officer passed conflicting orders in the same case against material on record, the conduct and fairness in his judicial approach may require probe on the administrative side. The court of ADJ-I had rejected the anticipatory bail petition of Putur Paswan on December 11, 2019, but granted it to Brind on December 23 that year. The FIR in the murder case was lodged with Daniyawan police station in Patna on October 24, 2014 on the statement of slain woman’s daughter Mili Kumari. Mili had alleged that Putur, Brind and others attacked her sister Mahima Mishtri and mother at Erai Mustafapur with sharp-edged weapons, iron rods and sticks. Mili’s mother was declared brought dead at NMCH. The other family members had also received multiple serious injuries. The HC observed that while granting anticipatory bail to Brind, the judge noted that no special accusation was evident against him. But the same judge refused anticipatory bail to Putur against whom there were identical allegations. The bench observed that the lower court order suffers from non-application of judicial mind, lacks reason, is result of an error of record and suffers from non-consideration of serious act committed by Brind. The bench set aside the order. Putur had moved the HC seeking anticipatory bail, but a bench of Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad rejected it on September 29, 2020. It surfaced during his bail hearing that anticipatory bail was granted to Brind, following which the high court ordered the registration of a suo motu criminal revision case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-orders-probe-against-patna-city-adj/articleshow/80713882.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||‘Big chunk of BMC budget allocation to stay on paper’||MUMBAI: Despite falling revenues and a drop in income amid the Covid-19 pandemic, BMC’s budget allocation has increased 16.7% to Rs 39,038 crore compared with Rs 33,441 crore for the previous year. BMC’s capital expenditure has been pegged at a massive Rs 18,750 crore compared with Rs 11,764 crore last year. Despite the high allocation for capital expenditure over the years, BMC has been able to spend around 50% of the money allotted so far. Opposition leaders have alleged the mega allocation for capital expenditure may remain only on paper in an election year. They said with little time left, a large chunk of Rs 18,750 crore may remain unspent.  BMC data shows in 2020-21, capital expenditure was Rs 11,764 crore and later revised to Rs 10,903 crore. Of that, BMC had only spent 48.8% till December 2020. Over the past few years, BMC has spent less than Rs 10,000 crore of the capital expenditure. “Capital expenditure that was Rs 5.432 crore in 2018-19 increased to Rs 10,903 crore in 2020-21. In just a short period of two years, there is a noticeable rise in capital expenditure. Further increase is estimated at Rs 18,750 crore in 2021-22,” Chahal said. Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh said the BMC budget was too ambitious. “Last year they spent Rs 2,000 crore on fighting Covid-19 and yet have not managed to spend more than 50%. So saying they will spend Rs 18,750 crore in an election year is being too ambitious. This kind of spending is not possible and it will remain a paper allocation,” Shaikh said. Officials said every year, the country’s richest civic body manages to spend less than 50% of its total budget, with key departments spending less than 30% of the funds allocated to them. Only spending on mega projects such as the coastal road and Goregaon-Mulund Link Road happens as per the estimates. “This budget was nothing but an inflated dream that will never be fulfilled. There will be four months of monsoon when works will be halted and then at the end of the year, there will be the election code of conduct when no new projects can be carried out. So, either the funds will lapse or they will be spent in an arbitrary manner,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in the BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/big-chunk-of-bmc-budget-allocation-to-stay-on-paper/articleshow/80712711.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Police officials, others take Covid jab, encourage others||LUDHIANA: After senior police and administration officers coming forward to take the vaccine shot in the second phase of vaccination that started on Tuesday, now the lower-rung officials in the district are also showing equal zeal to get themselves immunised against Covid-19. Those taking the jab on Friday included head constables, constables and some other Class IV employees. Earlier, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal and municipal commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal had taken the jab. Besides, some more senior-rank officers of the police commissionerate have also been inoculated in this phase. Hari Ram, 50, a cook working with the Ludhiana police department, said, “I had contracted coronavirus in August 2020 and recovered later. Now that the vaccination drive has started, the senior officials are enquiring with everyone whether he wants to get the jab. I agreed and I took it on Thursday. Till now, I have not experienced any side effects.” Asked why he did not wait for all senior officials to get vaccinated first, he said, “I did not feel the need to wait.” Head constable Natha Singh, 49, who is attached to PCR, said, “I never contracted the virus. However, since the vaccination drive has started for the cops as well, I took the shot. Throughout the lockdown, the police personnel worked as frontline workers selflessly, without caring for their health. Even now, since some people are apprehensive about getting vaccinated, we should take the jab to set an example and dispel all misgivings about the vaccine in the minds of the people.” Natha Singh was inoculated on Friday. Similarly, senior constable Sukhpal Kaur, 32, posted at Saanjh Kendra at Division No. 1 police station, also took the vaccine on Friday. She said, “I have my family at home, including a 5-year-old daughter. Since I am part of the police force, I am more vulnerable to contracting the infection, as we have to deal with the public. I got vaccinated so that I remain safe and do not carry the virus home.” BOX Policemen jabbed so far Date — Vaccinated Feb 3 — 30 Feb 4 — 400 Feb 5 — 376 BOX Who took shots on Feb 5 ACPs — 4 Inspectors — 8 Sub-inspector — 12 Asst sub-inspector — 165 Head constable — 44 Constable — 127 Home guards — 4 Stenos — 2 Class-IV staff — 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-officials-others-take-covid-jab-encourage-others/articleshow/80713866.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 6, 2021||Pune||DIAT sets up robotics school||Pune: The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) has launched the School of Robotics. The department of mechanical engineering has been running a course of robotics since 2015 but due to the advancement and interdisciplinary nature, the dedicated school has been established now. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diat-sets-up-robotics-school/articleshow/80713868.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to shelve anti-love jihad bill for now||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government has decided not to enact the anti-love jihad law for the time being. The decision was made after legal experts, including the advocate general, opined that the new law might not be legally sustainable. Highly placed government sources said that following the adverse opinion, the government, in most likelihood, will not introduce the bill in the budget session of the assembly which begins from March 1. After BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh enacted the laws to curb love jihad, the Gujarat government had expressed its resolve to introduce the law, too. This, despite the fact that the Gujarat government already has an anti-conversion law which prohibits conversion from one religion to another by the use of force or allurement or by fraudulent means. The state government had earlier directed concerned departments – home, law, and legislative and parliamentary affairs – to legally vet the law enacted by the UP and MP state governments. They were asked to view the new law vis-à-vis the anti-conversion law and recommend if there is a need to implement a new law or amend the existing one. “The state government’s internal experts and the advocate general opined neither a new law nor an amendment might be legally sustainable. Legality of similar acts passed by other states have been challenged in the SC. Except for political calculations, there is very little possibility that the bill will be introduced in the budget session,” sources told TOI. Recently, DyCM Nitin Patel had said that states like UP and MP have enacted laws to curb love jihad and ensure there is no friction between communities. “The Gujarat government has received many representations from different organizations and people. We are studying the effectiveness, long-term effects, and legal standing of the laws made by UP and MP. The Gujarat government will take a decision at an appropriate time regarding such a law,’’ Patel had said. Gujarat’s existing law has provision to penalize a person involved in forced conversion under the pretext of love or marriage. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 mandates that a citizen obtain prior approval from the district authority for conversion. Under the existing law, any person found guilty of indulging in forced conversion can face imprisonment up to three years and a fine of up to Rs 50,000. If the person who has been forced to convert is a minor, a woman or a person belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe, the maximum imprisonment has been fixed at four years and a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-to-shelve-anti-love-jihad-bill-for-now/articleshow/80713869.cms||Kapil Dave
February 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: 24x7 helpline for garbage disposal complaints soon||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to introduce a 24X7 helpline for citizens to lodge complaints pertaining to garbage dumping and disposal. The initiative has been taken ahead of the Swachh cleanliness survey, which is likely to begin in March. The helpline number 18001030222 will soon be operational 24x7 for garbage-related complaints, civic officials said. The civic body takes actions against citizens for throwing garbage on the road during the day. Many citizens dump garbage on public spaces at night to avoid action. The helpline aims at curbing such activities. Besides citizens, even bulk garbage generators will be monitored through this helpline. “The PMC has set up a war room for resolving complaints. Those pertaining to garbage dumping will also be handled by the war room. The initiative is aimed at making PMC limits free from garbage dumping on open spaces,” said Amit Deskhmukh, head of the PMC’s solid waste management department. He said that the civic body has taken up a number of initiatives to ensure that garbage is not dumped on road or public places. The helpline will help improve citizens’ participation as they can alert about debris and garbage dumping. A squad can be formed for taking action during the night as and when needed. Deskhmukh said that the civic body was preparing for better ranking in the cleanliness survey. Steps have been taken to improve the open defecation free (ODF) ranking. A special debris disposal facility has been introduced and model public toilets have been set up. Pune (PMC areas) was ranked the 15 cleanest city in the country in the Swachh cleanliness ranking 2020. In 2019, the city had bagged the 22nd spot. The city had secured the 37th rank in 2019. It made it to the list of top 10 cleanest cities in the country in 2018. In 2017, the PMC was at the 13th spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24x7-helpline-for-waste-disposal-complaints-soon/articleshow/80713863.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||New industrial corridors to boost business in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that special industrial corridors are being planned from Dankuni to Asansol via Burdwan-Durgapur and Borjora-Bankura to Raghunathpur in Purulia district. She also announced a host of projects to bolster industrial infrastructure and new-age industries like IT and reiterated the state’s commitment for traditional industry like tea in the state budget at the assembly. There will be an industrial township too, she said. The first industrial township in the state will be built on 2,483 acres of WBIDC land at Raghunathpur in Purulia. The township has been named as ‘Jangal Sundari Karmanagari’. “The development of this project will create huge employment opportunities. I propose to allocate Rs 100 crore for the next financial year,” she said. She also made it clear that the deep sea port at Tajpur in East Midnapore would be a reality. The project will cost around Rs 7,000 crore for infrastructure development. This will create employment opportunities for thousands of people, she added. According to her, the oil and gas exploration in Ashoknagar by ONGC will also result in setting up of various ancillary industries based on oil and natural gas and will provide huge opportunity for employment. Commenting on Deocha Pachami, the second largest coal block in the world, Banerjee added that in first two years work will only commence on government land and no one will be evicted from their land. According to her, in cases where land acquisition will be required, the compensation will be determined based on consultation with land owners and additional incentive, along with rehabilitation package, will be suitably provided. On Bengal Silicon Valley project which was launched on 200 acres at New Town, she said 79 acres have been allotted to 24 IT companies, which will attract investment of around Rs 11,317 crore and provide employment opportunity. On ‘Chaa Sundari’, that aims to provide pucca houses to tea workers, she added that work has already started on 200 acres. Leading chambers of the state termed the announcement of industrial township in Raghunathpura a positive move. ICC president Vikash Agarwal, Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Deb A Mukherjee, Bharat Chamber president Ramesh Kumar Saraogi and Akash Shah, president MCCI, said that focus has been given on developing industrial infrastructure, deep sea port and regional connectivity. Credai West Bengal president Sushil Mohta said the industrial township at Raghunathpur and few industrial corridors would give a very positive outlook of Bengal and attract investments in industries from outside. Luxmi Tea MD Rudra Chatterjee said further development in tea project was a good move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-industrial-corridors-to-boost-biz/articleshow/80713867.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Surat||Luxury bus with baraatis rams into parked tanker in Tapi, three killed||Surat: At least three persons, including husband-wife duo, were killed and 13 others injured when a luxury bus carrying a marriage party rammed into a parked tanker on the Surat-Songadh state highway 53 near Bajpura village in Tapi district early on Friday morning. Sources said the accident occurred at about 6.15 am. Due to the impact of the collision, the left side of the luxury bus suffered extensive damage leading to the death of three persons including the husband-wife duo, who died at the accident scene. The deceased have been identified as Rauf Bhikan Shaikh (65) his wife Zaibunissar Rauf Shaikh (55) —resident of Devali village of Malegaon in Nashik district of Maharashtra. The third person who died was 41-year-old Quayyum Abdul Aziz Shaikh, a resident of Thane in Mumbai. The Valod police in Tapi and the people of Bajipura village had immediately rushed to rescue the accident victims. It took about two hours for the police to remove the body of Quayyum which was stuck in mangled remains of the bus. According to police, the marriage party had started from Malegaon in Nashik at about 11 pm on Thursday night to reach Surat’s Limbayat area. Due to heavy fog on Friday morning, the bus driver rammed into a parked tanker on the roadside. The tanker had developed a technical snag hence the driver had parked the vehicle on the roadside. Drivers of the tanker and the luxury bus escaped from the spot. The police have registered case under section 279, 337, 338, 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code and 177 and 184 of the Motor Vehicle Act. The injured were shifted to Vyara, Bardoli and Surat for further treatment. Condition of three victims identified as Naeem Haji Rashid Maniyar (51), Azhar Aziz Maniyar (22) and Noor Mohammad Fakir Mohammad (45) — all resident of Malegaon and Nandurbar —is critical and they have been shifted to Surat’s New Civil Hospital (NCH) for treatment. V R Vasava, sub-inspector of Valod police station said, “The collision of the two vehicles ripped apart the left portion of the luxury bus leading to the death of three persons. The drivers of both — the tanker and luxury bus — escaped after the accident. A case has been registered and an investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/luxury-bus-with-baraatis-rams-into-parked-tanker-in-tapi-three-killed/articleshow/80712693.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Crores spent on facelift, but MRTS a put-off for commuters in Chennai||CHENNAI: Railway stations of the Mass Rapid Transit system in the city remain a nightmare for commuters despite crores of rupees spent on ‘renovation’. Problems of poor lighting, too many entry-exit points, inadequate police presence, unkempt corridors, dysfunctional lifts, broken glass panels and absence of drinking water facilities plague almost every one of the 18 stations on the 19.34km line from Chennai Beach to Velachery. On Thursday, TOI found almost all the stations in a pathetic state. At Chintadripet, the first floor was littered with waste. Repainting work was on at one end and most commuters appeared confused over which way to take to the platform as there was no signage. The Indira Nagar station stands as a colourful landmark on OMR, but the scene inside is hardly welcoming, with commuters having to walk along almost pitch dark stairs even at 4pm. Tirumailai has welcoming painting on walls near the platform, but the overall appearance is unkempt, with plywood peeling off the doors, while Mandaveli is full of bird droppings. The roof at Kotturpuram leaks, while Kasturba Nagar has a new roof but battered cladding has not been removed. Most commuters seem resigned to their fate. Women almost run up the stairs or escalators, feeling safe only when they reach the platform. “There are some people always on the platform. These days there is an RPF constable too. But the station needs better lights and more police,” said Ramya at Indira Nagar. S Sridhar, who boarded a train at Velachery, said the station was deserted during non-peak hours. “There were only three people in the train when I got in. It was on the platform for a long time but there was no RPF constable anywhere.” In contrast, metro rail, also a mass transit system, has introduced smart cards, touch screen kiosks for tickets, QR code tickets, CCTV cameras covering every inch of stations and seamless intermodal connections. Southern Railway wanted to match such services, but it is only on the Chennai Beach-Tambaram route that commuters enjoy better amenities including new rakes, aesthetically designed benches, food stalls, well maintained buildings and CCTV coverage. V Rama Rao of Traffic and Transportation Forum said railways was showing little interest. “It has Nirbhaya funds, but it is not yet used for CCTVs in MRTS stations. It needs a full overhaul and a lot of investment.” A senior railways official said renovation work is progressing gradually at some stations. “The roofs have been changed and repainting is on. Chintadripet station is being repaired at `6lakh.” At a press conference, Southern Railway general manager John Thomas said RPF was strengthened wherever needed. “Steps are being taken to improve security and CCTV cameras will be installed using Nirbhaya fund.” All brave talk, but the 2021-22 Union budget has allocated nothing for the line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crores-spent-on-facelift-but-mrts-a-put-off-for-commuters/articleshow/80713980.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: After 12 rounds, last chance for students to get FYJC seats||PUNE: The directorate of secondary and higher secondary education has decided to conduct one final admission round between February 5 and 13 after finding students without admission even after 12 admission rounds for the first-year junior college. There are 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with an intake capacity of 1.07 lakh against which 70,202 students have been admitted while 16,714 students have not got admission. Admission to FYJC in six metropolitan areas (Mumbai MMR, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Nagpur Municipal Corporation is being done centrally, online. Three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first come first serve (FCFS) rounds have been held so far. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education of Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online but did not upload the documents required or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to the office seeking an extension of dates so one last round is being organised.” Students from abroad are required to attest documents by an authorized agency in their respective countries. However, due to the condition caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the students are facing difficulties. Admission should be given to the students who have passed standard X abroad according to their qualifications. If the documents are not attested, such students should also be given admission with a period of guarantee. All such students are required to bring the ‘Countersign of Embassy’ on the documents,’ said an official notification released on Friday. The notification also cautioned students who want to change their already confirmed admission by cancelling it and applying it for new admission. Before cancelling the admission, one should make sure that seats are available at the place where the admission is to be made, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/after-12-rounds-last-chance-for-pupils-to-get-fyjc-seats/articleshow/80719145.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: After 12 rounds, last chance for students to get FYJC seats||PUNE: The directorate of secondary and higher secondary education has decided to conduct one final admission round between February 5 and 13 after finding students without admission even after 12 admission rounds for the first-year junior college. There are 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with an intake capacity of 1.07 lakh against which 70,202 students have been admitted while 16,714 students have not got admission. Admission to FYJC in six metropolitan areas (Mumbai MMR, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Nagpur Municipal Corporation is being done centrally, online. Three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first come first serve (FCFS) rounds have been held so far. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education of Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online but did not upload the documents required or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to the office seeking an extension of dates so one last round is being organised.” Students from abroad are required to attest documents by an authorized agency in their respective countries. However, due to the condition caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the students are facing difficulties. Admission should be given to the students who have passed standard X abroad according to their qualifications. If the documents are not attested, such students should also be given admission with a period of guarantee. All such students are required to bring the ‘Countersign of Embassy’ on the documents,’ said an official notification released on Friday. The notification also cautioned students who want to change their already confirmed admission by cancelling it and applying it for new admission. Before cancelling the admission, one should make sure that seats are available at the place where the admission is to be made, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-12-rounds-last-chance-for-pupils-to-get-fyjc-seats/articleshow/80719148.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Coordinate, communicate and cooperate to make villages self-reliant: Gadkari||Wardha: It is necessary to work on the three pillars of communication, coordination and cooperation to make villages self-reliant, generate employment for the youth and improve agriculture, said Union minister Nitin Gadkari while addressing the inaugural ceremony of a two-day national workshop ‘Wardha Manthan 2021: Foundation Stone of Gram- Swaraj’, at Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University (MGIHU) on Saturday. The minister added that marketing was needed along with new technologies to boost rural products. “Branding is most important to sell any product in the market. For example, 'goras pak' (a cookie) can reach the global level through packaging and branding, but in its absence is limited to Wardha,” he said. Gadkari added, “I have talked to ITC chairman to invest Rs100 crore for development of goras pak and other milk products in Wardha district. Gadkari said that we have to change ourselves according to time. “We need to change policies and technology for rural industrialization. Employment generation through changing the village economy by Gandhian way is a subject close to my heart. I invite the youth to come up with innovative ideas and improve the income of farmers and village-based industries,” he added. Gadkari further said, “Being a politician, I am an entrepreneur as I also invest in research. Only the village economy can fill the gap of poor and rich. To end economic inequality we need Gandhian way of Swaraj. Without making villages self-reliant we cannot make India atmanirbhar.” Dr Mahesh Sharma, the chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi central university, Motihari, said economic inequality had increased. “Prime Minister Modi has shown the way to a self-reliant India. Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat ji also emphasizes on self-reliance,” he added. MGIHU vice-chancellor Rajneesh Kumar Shukla, the chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi Central University, Motihari (Bihar) and former chairman of khadi and village industries commission, Dr Mahesh Sharma, BJP MP Ramdas Tadas, BJP MLA Pankaj Bhoyar and Vinoba Bhave's secretary Balvijay Bhai were present on the occasion, while hundreds of activists across the nation participated in the programme online. Gadkari was on a daylong tour to visit serval khadi organizations to understand the activities being carried out to boost village economy and development of khadi and village industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coordinate-communicate-and-cooperate-to-make-villages-self-reliant-gadkari/articleshow/80725766.cms||Balwant Dhage
February 6, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: All govt schools, Anganwadis get potable water supply||LUDHIANA: Under the ‘Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai’ mission, all government schools and Anganwadi centres in Ludhiana district now have potable water supply. With the start of potable piped water supply in 18 government schools recently, all such schools in the district have been covered. Additional deputy commissioner (development) Sandeep Kumar said along with potable water supply, reverse osmosis (RO) systems have also been installed in five government schools. He said, "All schools and Anganwadi centres now have water for drinking, hand washing, toilet use and cooking of mid-day meals." Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had launched the ‘Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai’ mission as part of the Punjab government’s campaign to accomplish the goal of 100% potable water supply and maintaining cleanliness in all the rural households and schools of the state by March next year, so as to make Punjab the first state in the country to achieve this distinction. The 18 schools where potable drinking water was provided recently include government primary schools at villages Dholanwal, Garhi Sheru, Hadiwal, Ratangarh, Chakki, Dhulewal, Kaunke, Lakhowal Khurd, Mand Sukhewal, Mehndipur, Rahimabad Kalan, Rahimabad Khurd, Sansowal Kalan, Shitabgarh, Udowal Kalan and Salempura, and government middle schools at Mangli Tanda and Rahimabad Khurd. Navdeep Singh of Hadiwal is happy as potable water supply would be provided in the Government Primary School of his village. He said, "Earlier, the students did not have access to clean drinking water, but with the efforts of the government, now they can stay healthy."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-govt-schools-anganwadis-get-potable-water-supply/articleshow/80713900.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Financial help for Covid-hit tourism sector||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Friday launched a special financial assistance to revive the Covid-hit tourism and hospitality industry. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “Under this scheme loan will be provided from Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lakh through banks while the state government will bear 50% of the interest in the first year.” The CM proposed to allocate Rs 10 crore for this scheme in the next financial year. She said that various organisations associated with tourism like resorts, hotel, home-stay, tourism ancillary companies would come under the purview of this scheme. The CM further said that since ‘The West Bengal Incentive Scheme, 2015’ lapsed in December 31, 2020, the state will launch a “new incentive scheme for a period of five years with effect from the next financial year.” “Development of eco-tourism resort at Lataguri in collaboration with tourism department was also completed,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fin-help-for-covid-hit-tourism-sector/articleshow/80713910.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Covid-19 testing dips in Maharashtra, nine districts under scanner||MUMBAI: Daily testing for coronavirus in the state has been on a slide, which experts called worrisome since several districts continue to report a high positivity rate. The average daily count of tests has dropped below 58,000 in the first week of February after staying in the range of 63,000-plus towards the end of January. State health officials have identified nine districts -- Nandurbar, Nanded, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara and Ratnagiri -- conducting less than 140 tests per million, a limit prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). TimesViewTesting, tracing and treating have been the most efficient strategy to contain the pandemic virus so far. Testing assumes a more crucial role now with schools and colleges opening, local trains allowing citizens and more offices resuming normal operations.Central team members visiting Maharashtra, after assessing the data, directed state health officials to increase testing and contact-tracing in these districts. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state would focus on increasing overall testing with special focus on these districts, as recommended by the central team. “We are seeking advice and following the guidelines given by them. We have enough laboratories in the state and we shall focus on increasing tests,” he said. The Centre on Thursday had pointed out that the country's weekly positivity rate was 1.8%, but eight states were reporting more than the national average. Maharashtra, which was one of the eight states, had a weekly positivity of 4.7%. Kerala had the highest at 11%, followed by Chhattisgarh at 6%. Within Maharashtra, several districts continue to report positivity in the range of 10% to 14%. State officials have often defended the low testing numbers saying that new detections were low which in turn also meant fewer contacts being traced. However, many other states that are recording fewer cases have managed to hold on to the testing momentum. Delhi is testing over 60,000. UP and Karnataka are testing 1.1 lakh and 74,000, respectively, every day. Kerala that is contributing to the greatest number of positive cases daily ramped up testing by 80,000 on Thursday and 91,000 on Friday. It has set a daily target of 1 lakh. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that some degree of complacency has set in. He said the state continues to see an average of 2,800-3,000 positive cases. “Ideally, 18-20 contacts should be traced and tested. It seems we may be testing around 10-12,” he said, adding that there was room for improvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-testing-dips-in-state-nine-districts-under-scanner/articleshow/80717076.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 testing dips in Maharashtra, nine districts under scanner||MUMBAI: Daily testing for coronavirus in the state has been on a slide, which experts called worrisome since several districts continue to report a high positivity rate. The average daily count of tests has dropped below 58,000 in the first week of February after staying in the range of 63,000-plus towards the end of January. State health officials have identified nine districts -- Nandurbar, Nanded, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara and Ratnagiri -- conducting less than 140 tests per million, a limit prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). TimesViewTesting, tracing and treating have been the most efficient strategy to contain the pandemic virus so far. Testing assumes a more crucial role now with schools and colleges opening, local trains allowing citizens and more offices resuming normal operations.Central team members visiting Maharashtra, after assessing the data, directed state health officials to increase testing and contact-tracing in these districts. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state would focus on increasing overall testing with special focus on these districts, as recommended by the central team. “We are seeking advice and following the guidelines given by them. We have enough laboratories in the state and we shall focus on increasing tests,” he said. The Centre on Thursday had pointed out that the country's weekly positivity rate was 1.8%, but eight states were reporting more than the national average. Maharashtra, which was one of the eight states, had a weekly positivity of 4.7%. Kerala had the highest at 11%, followed by Chhattisgarh at 6%. Within Maharashtra, several districts continue to report positivity in the range of 10% to 14%. State officials have often defended the low testing numbers saying that new detections were low which in turn also meant fewer contacts being traced. However, many other states that are recording fewer cases have managed to hold on to the testing momentum. Delhi is testing over 60,000. UP and Karnataka are testing 1.1 lakh and 74,000, respectively, every day. Kerala that is contributing to the greatest number of positive cases daily ramped up testing by 80,000 on Thursday and 91,000 on Friday. It has set a daily target of 1 lakh. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said that some degree of complacency has set in. He said the state continues to see an average of 2,800-3,000 positive cases. “Ideally, 18-20 contacts should be traced and tested. It seems we may be testing around 10-12,” he said, adding that there was room for improvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-testing-dips-in-state-nine-districts-under-scanner/articleshow/80713961.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: After 12 rounds, last chance for students to get FYJC seats||PUNE: The directorate of secondary and higher secondary education has decided to conduct one final admission round between February 5 and 13 after finding students without admission even after 12 admission rounds for the first-year junior college. There are 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with an intake capacity of 1.07 lakh against which 70,202 students have been admitted while 16,714 students have not got admission. Admission to FYJC in six metropolitan areas (Mumbai MMR, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Nagpur Municipal Corporation is being done centrally, online. Three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first come first serve (FCFS) rounds have been held so far. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education of Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online but did not upload the documents required or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to the office seeking an extension of dates so one last round is being organised.” Students from abroad are required to attest documents by an authorized agency in their respective countries. However, due to the condition caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the students are facing difficulties. Admission should be given to the students who have passed standard X abroad according to their qualifications. If the documents are not attested, such students should also be given admission with a period of guarantee. All such students are required to bring the ‘Countersign of Embassy’ on the documents,’ said an official notification released on Friday. The notification also cautioned students who want to change their already confirmed admission by cancelling it and applying it for new admission. Before cancelling the admission, one should make sure that seats are available at the place where the admission is to be made, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-12-rounds-last-chance-for-pupils-to-get-fyjc-seats/articleshow/80713826.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC OKs axing 1,184 mangrove trees for city’s power project||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday permitted felling of 1,184 mangrove trees for the proposed 400KV Kharghar-Vikhroli Transmission Line project for strengthening Mumbai’s transmission system. Kharghar-Vikhroli Transmission Line Pvt Ltd undertook to plant 15,000 saplings, as suggested by an amicus curiae (friend of court) appointed by HC, instead of the original assurance to plant 10,000 to offset loss of mangroves. A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and S P Tavade permitted the tree cutting subject to their undertaking, which must be filed within a week, and compliance of other conditions of ministry of environment and forests, and other authorities. Meanwhile, in an unrelated development, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted that the state has declared 3,913 hectares of mangroves across Maharashtra as reserved forest. It includes 1,418 hectares in suburban Mumbai, 986 in Raigad and 1,510 in Palghar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-oks-axing-1184-mangrove-trees-for-citys-power-project/articleshow/80715625.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccine drive hits hesitancy hurdle in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: Vaccine hesitancy seems to have affected the vaccination drive against Covid-19 in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh if the official data is any indication. Initially, though the Telugu states performed well, a few cases of adverse reaction and four suspected vaccination deaths resulted in many healthcare workers preferring to stay away from the vaccination drive. Telangana now ranks 12th among states in India in terms of the number of vaccinations as on Friday. Andhra Pradesh, however, is better placed. It occupies the 10th position. In terms of percentage of vaccination, Telangana is better placed than AP. Telangana has achieved 58% of the target, while AP has conducted 49% of the targeted vaccinations. Official data shows that AP has performed 2,67,193 vaccinations as against Telangana’s 1,92,216. Other southern states like Karnataka (3,30,112) and Kerala (2,70,992) are better placed than Telugu states. Uttar Pradesh leads the national vaccination tally with 5,89,101. Officials said that while some people are resorting to the wait-and-watch approach, the sustained downward spiral of the daily new Covid-19 cases and presumed herd immunity are discouraging a few. AP was supposed to conclude the mass inoculation drive for the nearly 3.88 lakh healthcare workers in the first phase itself. But the state achieved only 49% coverage in the first phase by administering the vaccine to 1.9 lakh healthcare workers. The remaining healthcare personnel are now being given the jab alongside the frontline respondents as part of the phase two vaccination drive, which began on February 3. That vaccine hesitancy is high is evident from the fact that, for instance, on February 4 as against the target of 26,056 beneficiaries, only 11,547 or 44.3% had turned up. Dispelling misconceptions associated with the vaccine, director of public health, Telangana, Dr G Srinivas Rao, said, “The vaccine is there to save lives and not take lives. More than 90% of the information available about the vaccine on social media is false.” Health officials also reiterated that the vaccine is being administered to the beneficiaries only after assessing their health status. Dr P Raghu Ram, director, KIMS – Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases, who recently took the vaccine shot said, “before believing the misconceptions and remaining hesitant towards getting the jab, it is important to remember that an unprecedented global effort has been invested in controlling the virus and approving the vaccine.” AP Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr K Rambabu, said that the health department is creating awareness among the general public about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. “We are advising people suffering from allergic reactions, asthma and health conditions like kidney failure to not take the vaccine. But some people, who survived the novel coronavirus disease, are not turning up for the vaccination drive thinking that they have already developed antibodies against the virus. We are constantly monitoring the vaccination coverage and encouraging people to come forward to take the vaccine shot,” said Dr Rambabu. The state nodal officer said that the vaccination drive may gain momentum in the second phase. Dr C Prabhakar Reddy, who served as the state Covid-19 special officer, asked the public to not hesitate to take the vaccine. “In the worst case scenario, the recipient may not develop immunogenic responses against the novel coronavirus. Otherwise, there would be no complications,” said Dr Reddy. Meanwhile, AP is planning to conduct a study on those who have received Covid-19 vaccine, on the lines of sero-surveillance studies. The study would help understand immune responses, and the antibody longevity in the vaccine recipients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-drive-hits-hesitancy-hurdle/articleshow/80713846.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Narol Gam samples test negative for bird flu||Ahmedabad: Amdavadis, you can relax. For now, you do not need to be worried about bird flu affecting the city. Though bird deaths continue to be reported from Narol Gam even on Friday, the samples of dead birds sent to the Bhopal lab has tested negative for avian flu. A total of 200 birds have been found dead in Narol Gam. This is the highest number of bird deaths that has taken place in one area following an outbreak of bird flu in the state. Secretary (Animal Husbandry) N B Upadhyay confirmed that the samples of carcasses sent from Ahmedabad have tested negative for bird flu. Fear had gripped Narol gam since Wednesday when dead pigeons began raining down near Akruti Township. The officials said that avian flu is a highly infectious respiratory disease caused in birds by the influenza virus. Officials said, "Now that the samples have tested negative, we will conduct a post-mortem of the birds to find the exact cause of death." The officials said they suspect the birds had consumed insecticide-laced grains. They added that surveillance of the area, which had begun on Wednesday, will be stopped on Saturday. After dead birds were spotted in Narol, officials had also carried out a search of poultry farms in the vicinity for largescale death of birds. However, the department found no such incidents. Gujarat first reported bird flu outbreak in January after samples taken from dead birds in Batva in Junagadh tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/narol-samples-test-ve-for-bird-flu/articleshow/80713908.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: After 12 rounds, last chance for students to get FYJC seats||PUNE: The directorate of secondary and higher secondary education has decided to conduct one final admission round between February 5 and 13 after finding students without admission even after 12 admission rounds for the first-year junior college. There are 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with an intake capacity of 1.07 lakh against which 70,202 students have been admitted while 16,714 students have not got admission. Admission to FYJC in six metropolitan areas (Mumbai MMR, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Nagpur Municipal Corporation is being done centrally, online. Three regular rounds, two special rounds and seven first come first serve (FCFS) rounds have been held so far. A S Ukirde, deputy director of education of Pune division, said, “There are many students who confirmed their admissions online but did not upload the documents required or did not get an allotment at all. There are students who thought their admission was confirmed and did not apply in the first-come first-served round. Parents have been coming to the office seeking an extension of dates so one last round is being organised.” Students from abroad are required to attest documents by an authorized agency in their respective countries. However, due to the condition caused by Covid-19 pandemic, the students are facing difficulties. Admission should be given to the students who have passed standard X abroad according to their qualifications. If the documents are not attested, such students should also be given admission with a period of guarantee. All such students are required to bring the ‘Countersign of Embassy’ on the documents,’ said an official notification released on Friday. The notification also cautioned students who want to change their already confirmed admission by cancelling it and applying it for new admission. Before cancelling the admission, one should make sure that seats are available at the place where the admission is to be made, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/after-12-rounds-last-chance-for-pupils-to-get-fyjc-seats/articleshow/80719152.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cases of vandalism continue, gang damages eight vehicles||PUNE: A group of five to six men carrying sharp weapons damaged eight vehicles and created a ruckus at Sasane Vasti in Mohammadwadi shortly after Thursday midnight, barely two days after the city police announced a major offensive against people engaging in vehicle vandalism. The crime branch on Friday arrested four suspects — including criminals on record Azhar Shaikh (21) and Rahil Shaikh (22), and their friends Kaif Shaikh (19) and Akshay Jagtap (24). Their custody was then transferred to the Wanowrie police. TimesViewInstances of local goons vandalizing vehicles parked along roads are happening quite frequently in the city. While the monetary cost of the damage may not be too high, such instances terrorise the law-abiding citizens in the area. It is high time the city police deal with these hooligans with an iron hand. Only a stringent action will act as a deterrent.Senior inspector Hemant Patil from the crime branch (Unit V) said, “We analysed CCTV footage and one of our policemen identified Kaif as one of the suspects. Kaif was taken into custody and he revealed the names of three of his accomplices during questioning. We then took them into custody.” Patil said, “The four told the police that they had a dispute with an autorickshaw driver after the latter abused one of the suspects for not driving his vehicle properly. The suspects chased the driver to teach him a lesson but he picked up speed and drove into a lane in Sasane vasti and lost them. When the suspects failed to trace him, they vandalized the vehicles with weapons and fled.” The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of the crime division, Bachchan Singh, said, “We shall take a call on taking stringent preventive action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-of-vandalism-continue-gang-damages-eight-vehicles/articleshow/80713937.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 6, 2021||Pune||Village school students from Akkalkot mix in colour to abstract artist Kolte’s book of poems||PUNE: Prabhakar Kolte, one of India’s leading abstract artists and a former professor at JJ School of Arts in Mumbai, recently published a book of poems. The renowned artist chose the students from KP Gaikwad High School in Akkalkot taluka, Solapur district, for the illustrations, and he launched the book in the school early this week. The school shot to fame when its teachers used loudspeakers in community spaces to impart daily lessons to students during the lockdown. The school is in a rural area and students have little exposure to the world. Mayur Dantkale, a drawing teacher in the school for 10 years, said the students did not know great personalities, their work, or even the various sectors where people work. “Seven years ago, I started telling students about some or the other personality, their field of expertise. I wrote letters to them if I found their addresses online. I would also encourage students to write to them depending on what they wanted to say to them,” Dantkale said. He received over 3,000 replies from such people. “Almost 80% of the people replied. We don’t do it for publicity. When we tell the students about great people, they get inspired. Once we write a letter, it is a thrill to wait for their replies and it is like a festival when it arrives. It gives our students hope,” Dantkale said. About three years ago, he spoke about Kolte to standard VIII students. On Diwali, about 40 students along with the teacher wrote to him. “These were small greeting cards the students had made with their wishes inside them. We got a reply which also had an illustration by Kolte himself along with the message that he would like to meet us. Apparently, he had never received so many handwritten letters ever, and was touched,” Dantkale added. The correspondence continued and the veteran artist wrote a book of 30 poems in Marathi based on the school and students, and told Dantkale to send the illustrations done by the students. Those by Vaishnavi Vasure (std VI), Smita Laute (std IX) and Rasika Kaulgi (std IX) were selected and sent. On Monday, he visited the school and launched the book, spent time with the students and spoke about painting and its nuances. “It was inspiring. Not many big names take the time to visit a rural school. On a personal level, meeting Kolte was the equivalent to a national award,” Dantkale added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/village-school-students-from-akkalkot-mix-in-colour-to-abstract-artist-koltes-book-of-poems/articleshow/80713864.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||AEFI cases to be referred to Gandhi Hospital now||Hyderabad: As the Covid-19 vaccination drive for 1, 88, 402 frontline workers including police personnel, municipal, revenue and panchayat raj staff begins on Saturday, the state government has made key changes to the programme. Authorities have said that serious cases of Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) will be sent to the state-run Gandhi Hospital. In the early days of the vaccination drive, the government had identified a few tertiary care hospitals for treatment of AEFI cases, but had later changed its course of action by sending the cases only to Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). However, from Saturday, all such cases will be referred to Gandhi Hospital. The government also made another key change in the Covid-19 vaccination drive. So far, the drive has been carried out only on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. However, from Saturday, the drive will be conducted from Monday to Saturday. With the administration of the second vaccine dose to healthcare workers set to begin on February 13, the government has set February 12 as the deadline for completing the administration of the first dose to all frontline workers. Meanwhile, sources said the health department has sought clarity on Covaxin from higher authorities. “It is unlikely that Covaxin will be given to frontline workers from Saturday. The government is in wait-and-watch mode,” said a top official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aefi-cases-to-be-referred-to-gandhi-hospital-now/articleshow/80713862.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyber forensic lab inaugurated||Mulugu: A cyber forensic lab was inaugurated at Mulugu district superintendent office on Friday. Speaking at a meeting here, superintendent of police (SP) Sangramsingh G Patil said that the forensic lab is equipped with hi-tech tools to trace criminals, and directed all police personnel to undergo training with the core IT staff. “The lab will be useful during investigations. If the forensic lab reports are received early, the needy will get justice on time,” he said.—Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-forensic-lab-inaugurated/articleshow/80713865.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Road tax relief for passenger transport||KOLKATA: The Bengal government said on Friday that road tax on all passenger transport vehicles will be waived from January 31 2021 to June 30 2021 for two quarters. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “The pandemic has caused huge losses to the transport sector. We have already waived the fine for late permit renewal, fitness certificate and driver’s license renewal. To extend a helping hand further, I propose to waive the road tax on all passenger transport vehicles from January 1 to June 30 this year (two quarters).”  Moreover, the transport department is also offering a waiver of 50% of the compounding amount for the motor-vehicle offences, irrespective of the dates when those were committed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/road-tax-relief-for-passenger-transport/articleshow/80713962.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana’s Covid recovery rate stays high||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 169 new Covid-19 infections on Friday and one death, taking the overall caseload to 2,95,270 and toll to 1,607. Altogether 1,964 patients are under treatment but with an improving recovery rate in the state, which is nearly 99%. So far, a total of 80,34,038 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state and 2,91,699 persons have recovered. In the data released by the health department officials on Friday, 37,378 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state, while reports of another 858 samples are awaited. Health authorities in the bulletin once again said that people with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardiac illness, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer or any other chronic illness are requested to stay indoors and avoid any kind of travel except for medical care in order to avoid exposure to Covid-19. “If symptoms related to Covid-19 are observed, please report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay,” the statement read. The data also shows that a total of 189 persons recovered on Friday. The GHMC limits saw 31 new cases followed by 11 new cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri district and 10 cases in Karimnagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-covid-recovery-rate-stays-high/articleshow/80713853.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Over Rs 600 crore for Pune rail division, no new trains||Pune: Two ongoing Pune railway division projects — yard remodelling and development of Hadapsar station as a satellite terminus — received allocation of Rs8.36 crore and Rs13 crore, respectively, in the Union Budget. The sanctioned amount was out of the over Rs600 crore for the ongoing projects in the Pune division. However, no announcement was made for new trains in the division, a senior railway official said. Divisional railway manager (DRM), Pune, Renu Sharma said both the projects would take atleast three more years for completion. The official said the Pune station’s platform extension work — a part of the Pune yard remodelling project announced in 2017 with an estimated budget of Rs51.85 crore — was still in the planning stage. Sharma said the Hadapsar satellite terminus project, announced in the 2016-17, would be ready by March 2024. In February last year, the Central Railway general manager, Sanjeev Mittal, had said the work on the satellite terminus would be completed by June 2020. Sharma on Thursday, however, said only 30% of the work on the first phase of the project was completed till date. The division received Rs555 crore for Pune-Miraj-Londa line project and electrification work, Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-rs-600-crore-for-pune-rail-division-no-new-trains/articleshow/80713857.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 6, 2021||Surat||Representations made till late night||Vadodara: Senior BJP leaders in the city burnt midnight oil to placate the disgruntlement over ticket distribution that led to representations at the party office in Sayajigunj till late Thursday. Peeved workers in some wards spent a better part of the day on Friday too voicing their dissatisfaction. On Thursday, the row began over selection of candidates in ward 17 and ward 18 where ‘outsiders’ were parachuted to the constituencies. These included a candidate in ward 17 who was said to be close to state BJP chief CR Paatil. Workers have threatened to stay away from campaigning. In ward 18, women members remained miffed as both the women candidates in the ward were not known to them. But the only ward where rebellion was feared was ward 12 where Rajesh Thakkar was looking to contest as an independent if possible after a meeting with supporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/representations-made-till-late-night/articleshow/80711912.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||MGP: Low ranking to Lobo, Rodrigues is insult to minorities||Panaji: MGP on Friday said that the ranking of certain ministers in the Pramod Sawant-led government was an insult to their stature, for which they should resign from the cabinet before the next assembly session. On Thursday, the state government had issued a notification defining the seniority of ministers. The ranking of waste management minister Michael Lobo, water resources minister Filip Nery Rodrigues, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, health minister Vishwajit Rane and power minister Nilesh Cabral was way below on the seniority list, MGP said. “If they have any self-respect, then they should resign from the cabinet,” senior MGP leader and Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said. He said that it appeared that all minority community ministers have been sidelined. He also said that Rodrigues, who was a senior minister in the BJP government, has been placed second last in the list. “It’s a big insult to the minority community and especially, South Goa.” Dhavalikar said that Lobo, who helped BJP to break MGP and Congress MLAs to form the government, has been placed last. He said that Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate who worked to break Congress party and his wife Jennifer have been placed low in the seniority list. This shows that defected MLAs have no place in BJP, Dhavalikar said.  Dhavalikar said that it is an insult to Rane, who worked very hard during the pandemic. It is sad to find power minister Nilesh Cabral not getting a good position, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-low-ranking-to-lobo-rodrigues-is-insult-to-minorities/articleshow/80716099.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: DNA of cubs does not match with lioness||AHMEDABAD: The attempts by the forest department to reunite two lion cubs with their mother seems to have hit a dead end after the DNA sample results of the cubs did not match with those of a lioness who was suspected to be their mother. The department rescued three cubs on September 23, near Virpur village from Visavadar forest range. Finding no trace of the mother lioness, the forest officials took the cubs to Sakkarbaug Zoo where one of the cubs died. A senior forest official when contacted said that the cubs are likely to have been abandoned by their mother. “It would be a very rare instance if a lioness abandons three cubs,” said H S Singh, an expert on Gir lions and a member of the National Wildlife Board. The samples of the cubs and suspected mother lioness were collected in mid-December and were sent for DNA analysis to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad some-time in the mid of January. “From the DNA analysis report, it has been proved that the suspected lioness was not the mother of the cubs as believed by many,” according to a press statement by the forest department. More than four months later, the forest department however remains clueless about the identity of the lioness who mothered the cubs. With more than 250 dedicated trekkers in and around Gir and despite using modern technology methods like radio collaring, there is no trace of the mother lioness. The suspected mother, whose sample was taken for matching purpose, was captured by the forest department for attacking a child. The incident took place, a fortnight before the cubs were found. The lioness was released in the last week of October after the forest department’s investigation showed that it the lion did not attack the child, said a senior forest department official. What happened next made the field staff of the forest department suspect that the captured lioness could indeed be the mother. For she, upon her release in Rajpara area of Visavadar forest range, ran all the way to Virpur village, about 35 kilometers away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dna-of-cubs-does-not-match-with-lioness/articleshow/80713964.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||City party leaders in Maha panel||Pune: Congress Pune city unit chief Ramesh Bagwe and former MLC Mohan Joshi have been appointed state vice-presidents of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). Joshi will also work as the party convener. The party has appointed 10 vice-presidents, of whom two are from Pune. Leaders from Pune, including ex-MLCs Anant Gadgil and Sharad Ranpise, have also been given positions in the state working committee. “The party and senior leaders have given me this important responsibility. It has come ahead of the municipal elections. The party will prove its mettle in these elections,” said Mohan Joshi. “The appointment is a welcome gesture. I will focus on ensuring that loyal party workers receive their due in party functioning. Even in the upcoming polls, workers who have worked on the ground, will receive priority,” Gadgil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-party-leaders-in-maha-panel/articleshow/80713876.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||With little for state in Union Budget, KCR to focus on revenue mobilisation||HYDERABAD: With the Centre giving very little to Telangana in the Union Budget, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the officials to prioritise funds for sectors like welfare and irrigation in the state budget for 2021-22 financial year and cut down unnecessary expenditure. He also asked the officials to speed up revenue mobilisation measures like auctioning government land parcels in Hyderabad as the state is set to net 20 per cent to 30 per cent less than the estimated revenues. The CM was speaking at a review meeting with finance and irrigation officials on the budget preparation for the second day on Friday. The government is spending over Rs 50,000 crore on various welfare schemes such as Aasara pensions, Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, electricity subsidy, scholarships, loan waiver, etc. “Almost all the schemes will be continued and provision for new schemes like allowance for the unemployed youth will be made in the budget,” officials said. “Funds will be set apart for the unemployment allowance scheme in the budget, which will be implemented from April 1 this year. We have studied the jobless dole scheme implemented in other states,” a senior CMO official said. KCR is believed to have told senior officials during Thursday’s budget meeting that there was no mention about the schemes where the state gets a major chunk of funds except for Mission Bhagiratha and other schemes. Officials told him that the state’s share in the central tax pool had come down in the 2020-21 financial year. “The Centre, in its previous budget, had mentioned that it would pay Rs 16,727 crore to the state. But, we are going to get Rs 5,000 crore less from the Centre,” senior finance officials said. The CM also discussed about the financial burden on the exchequer after revision of salaries of state government employees. On irrigation projects, the CM instructed the water resources department to complete the Palamuru-Ranga Reddy Lift Irrigation Project and work on Kaleshwaram project to enhance tmc capacity. A major portion of fund requirement for the projects would be met from loans availed from a special purpose vehicle, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-little-for-state-in-union-budget-kcr-to-focus-on-revenue-mobilisation/articleshow/80714002.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Brain-dead woman in Kolkata gives new lease of life to 3||KOLKATA: The family of a 54-year-old woman, who was declared brain dead at Fortis Hospital Anandapur, donated her organs on Friday. This was the first organ donation in Bengal this year. Sudipta Dutta, a Belghoria resident, was rushed to Fortis Hospital a few days ago in a critical condition after she had suffered a brainstem haemorrhage. All efforts to save her went in vain and the hospital authorities counselled her kin for the organ donation. While the woman’s liver was flown off to Delhi, where the organ will be transplanted into a patient suffering from end stage liver failure at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), her kidneys will save the lives of two renal failure patients at SSKM Hospital and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals in Kolkata. “It is good to see that grieving families are responding to the cause of organ donation. While two patients from the state and one outside will be saved through this donation, it is good normalcy in clinical emergency is being restored,” said Arafat Faisal, medical superintendent, Fortis Hospital, Anandapur. The last time the city had a deceased organ donation was on November 30 when the family of 40-year-old tribal woman from Midnapore donated her organs after she was declared brain dead at SSKM Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brain-dead-woman-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-3/articleshow/80714024.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 6, 2021||Vijayawada||KRMB office likely to be shifted to Vizag soon||Amaravati: Narayana Reddy, Andhra Pradesh engineer-in-chief (irrigation), on Friday said that shifting of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) office to Visakhapatnam is imminent and there is no second thought on the issue. He said the decision to relocate KRMB was communicated to the board and it has been accepted. The chief engineer added that it was the choice of the AP government to set up KRMB in Visakhapatnam keeping in view the logistical needs of the officials of both the states as well as of the KRMB. AP officials have requested the KRMB governing council, which met in Hyderabad on Friday, to expedite the relocation of its headquarters to Vizag. As per the the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) was allotted to the Telangana government and the KRMB to AP. It was the choice of the AP government to identify the location for setting up the KRMB as the Act had only suggested it should be located on AP soil. The previous TDP government had wanted the board to be located in Vijayawada. With no concrete measures initiated to move the office to Vijayawada during the TDP regime, the YSRC government had decided to set it up in Visakhapatnam keeping in view its preference to locate the executive capital city in the Port City. The Telangana government has raised objections about the AP government’s attempts to relocate KRMB in Vizag as the city is not located in the Krishna river basin. Sources said that AP officials contended that the GRMB is also not located in the Godavari basin. “We have already identified a few locations for setting up of KRMB in Visakhapatnam and showed the premises to a team of officials from the board. They are most likely to take the final call shortly,” Narayana Reddy told TOI after attending the KRMB meeting held in Hyderabad on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krmb-office-likely-to-be-shifted-to-vizag-soon/articleshow/80712739.cms||Samdani MN
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman, paramour held for hubby’s murder||WARANGAL: A woman, her paramour and two others were arrested on Friday on charges of murdering the former’s husband. Commissioner of Police P Pramod Kumar said that Thallapally Pujitha, a resident of Waddepally, had hatched a plan to kill her husband Thallapally Anil to continue her illicit relationship with Hanamkonda Danny of Peddammagada area on January 22. Danny engaged his relative Hanamkonda Sathish and Kotti Sudhamani of Julywada to kill Anil. After the murder, Pujitha lodged a complaint with the Subedari police stating that her husband was missing. During the investigation, the police found the body of Anil in Mylaram reservoir on January 29. However, Anil’s relatives suspected Pujitha’s role. During investigation, police found that Danny and Pujitha were involved in the murder. Danny's sister Sudhamani was also part of the murder plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-paramour-held-for-hubbys-murder/articleshow/80713906.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||National toy fair to be held on February 27: Guruprasad Mohapatra||AHMEDABAD: A national virtual toy fair is set to be organised this month to push for toy manufacturing in India, according to the secretary of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Guruprasad Mohapatra.  He was delivering the keynote address at the Industry Townhall organized on Friday evening, as part of the second edition of Ahmedabad Design Week (ADW), held by Unitedworld Institute of Design (UID). “I want to propose a national toy fair, which will be held on February 27, virtually. Some 1,100 leading manufacturers and sellers of toys have registered for the five-day fair. Lakhs of schoolchildren and their parents will also visit the fair and business-to-consumer (B2C) transactions will be enabled during the fair,” said Mohapatra.  He also emphasised on creating mega toy and game clusters to create world class infrastructure to integrate production chain and encourage exports. “Some eight to nine toy clusters will soon be announced in the days to come. Coordinated efforts are needed to boost toy manufacturing in India. We don’t manufacture toys in quantity in various categories to meet the demand in Indian market, which comprises 85% of imports; whereas 15% of the requirement is met by Indian manufacturers,” he said. Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education, government of Gujarat, who was also present during the townhall, said, “The time is now ripe that design fraternity as a whole to gear up for designing toys for India. We must enter into mass production and class production for those who look for novelty, those with spending capacities, but who are looking for different aspects in toys. The industry has to gear up because the toy sector has been dominated by a few multi-nationals, which have been sourcing toys from abroad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/national-toy-fair-to-be-held-on-feb-27-mohapatra/articleshow/80714007.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: 4.9k poultry birds die in 2006 avian flu epicentre||PUNE: Over 4,933 poultry birds have been found dead in four farms at Navapur in Nandurbar district during the past two days in the first case of this magnitude in commercial poultry farms in Maharashtra. In 2006, Navapur was the epicentre of avian influenza outbreak in the state. “Avian influenza is suspected to be the cause of the death. Samples have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal for confirmation, ” Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Friday. Bird deaths in Maharashtra in the past two days have also spiked suddenly to 1,000-3,000 a day after a recent lull. Officials, however, attributed the rise to the huge poultry mortalities in Navapur  This is the first instance of this magnitude since the outbreak began this time in terms of the sheer number of poultry deaths at a single location in the state. “Navapur is known for layer poultry farming. This refers to the practice of raising egg laying poultry birds for the purpose of commercial egg production. We received an intimation on Thursday that there were huge bird mortalities in Navapur. But the entrepreneurs had earlier hid this fact from the authorities,” Singh said. Another official said, “The entrepreneurs told us that they had thought the deaths were a result of Newcastle disease, a contagious and often fatal ailment that affects over 250 bird species worldwide. But it is mandatory to report such suspected deaths at a time when sporadic bird flu cases are being reported from the state." The animal husbandry department has filed a first information report (FIR) against the affected poultry entrepreneurs in Navapur on the charges of concealing the suspected deaths. The FIR was lodged under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act 2009, under which reporting such deaths is obligatory for the officials to take appropriate preventive measures. Animal husbandry department officials said four such layer farms in Navapur have been affected. There are around 25 layer poultry farms in Navapur. The Nandurbar district collector recently formed a team to assess the number of poultry birds’ deaths in Navapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-9k-poultry-birds-die-in-2006-avian-flu-epicentre/articleshow/80713917.cms||Neha Madaan
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||LI schemes in Nalgonda soon: Chief minister||Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that all the lift irrigation schemes, including Nellikallu in Devarakonda, Nagarjuna Sagar, Munugode, Kodad and Huzurnagar assembly segments under the combined Nalgonda district would be constructed soon. Public representatives from Nalgonda district met KCR on Friday in Pragathi Bhavan. In this context, the CM assured them that eight to nine LI schemes along with Nellikallu would be constructed at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore. The CM decided to lay a foundation for the lift Irrigation Schemes in one place. The CM He will lay the foundation stone for the LI scheme on February 10 at Nellikallu and address a public meeting at Halia. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/li-schemes-in-nalgonda-soon-chief-minister/articleshow/80714039.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Pune||Praj reports higher profits, revenue in Q3||Pune: Biofuel and biotechnology firm Praj Industries on Friday reported increased profits and revenue for the third quarter of the ongoing fiscal. The company added it expects more improvement due to prospects in healthcare and sanitation. Praj’s revenue improved to around Rs348 crore in Q3 against around Rs300 crore during the corresponding quarter in 2019-20. Its profits also increased to around Rs39 crore. In Q3 2019-20, the company had reported Rs24 crore profits. “We expect continued positive development in bio energy space across liquid and gaseous fuels. Positive developments in healthcare, sanitization and water conservation ecosystem bode well for our high purity and zero liquid discharge businesses,” Praj CEO and managing director Shishir Joshipura said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/praj-reports-higher-profits-revenue-in-q3/articleshow/80714037.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||‘Spurious liquor’ claims 3 lives in Kaimur district||SASARAM: At least three persons died and five others were hospitalized in serious condition allegedly after consuming spurious liquor at Kudasan village under Bhabhua police station area in Kaimur district on Friday evening. Kaimur SP Rakesh Kumar, who is camping in the village, said only postmortem report of the deceased would confirm the reason behind their death. He said a medical board would conduct the postmortem Friday night. The deceased were identified as Ram Keshi Chandra (55) and Lal Mohar Bind (22) of Kudasan and Chandrika Paswan (31) of Shivpura. According to sources, eight labourers consumed countrymade liquor bought at Kudasan. After returning home, they started vomiting and complained of uneasiness. They were taken to different private hospitals at Bhabhua where the three died during treatment. One Dharmendra Kahar was referred to Varanasi in a serious condition. The four others were undergoing treatment till the last report came in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spurious-liquor-claims-3-lives-in-kaimur-district/articleshow/80714035.cms||Alok Chamaria
February 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Fewer than 100 cases in 9 dists||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 97 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,88,275. The toll increased to 7,158 as one more patient succumbed to the virus. Altogether, 179 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Friday. There are currently 1,071 active cases with 8,80,046 cumulative recoveries and 7,158 fatalities. Chittoor reported 25 new infections on Friday, followed by Krishna (11) and Visakhapatnam (10). The remaining 10 districts recorded single-digit case numbers. The active cases are as few as 11 and 14 in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, respectively. The active caseload dropped below the 100 mark in Visakhapatnam district, becoming the ninth district to do so. East Godavari district achieved a 99.4% recovery rate. AP tested 33,876 samples on Friday and detected 97 cases, translating to a positivity rate of less than 0.3%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fewer-than-100-cases-in-9-dists/articleshow/80712753.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Two-year-old leopard dies in hit-and-run||THANE: A male leopard, aged about two, died after it was run over by an unidentified vehicle on Mumbai-Nashik highway, about 4km from Tansa Wildlife sanctuary, early Thursday morning. Locals who spotted the dead leopard around 5.30 am informed the police who alerted forest officials at Shahpur. Deputy conservator of forests V T Ghule and assistant conservator R H Patil took the carcass to the forest office in Asangaon. A post-mortem revealed that the leopard died in a hit-and-run. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/two-year-old-leopard-dies-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/80692708.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||T to have Aarogyasri, Ayushman Bharat from next financial year||Hyderabad: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Friday said that the Aarogyasri and Ayushman Bharat schemes will be implemented in the state in the next financial year. Addressing the media, the minister said that Aarogyasri scheme has nearly 26 lakh beneficiaries whereas the Ayushman Bharat scheme has 80 lakh beneficiaries. “Soon, we will work out a plan to implement both,” he said. Stating that Covid-19 is well under control, the minister said that many district level and tertiary care hospitals that were only dealing with Covid-19 cases have already resumed non-Covid services. He said that Covid-19 patients with chronic ailments will be admitted to Chest Hospital and those with multiple organ issues will be admitted to Gandhi Hospital. The minister added that Covid-19 patients with simple symptoms will be treated at TIMS hospital. “Other than medical colleges attached to teaching hospitals and a few district hospitals, there is no need to provide massive infrastructure for Covid-19 treatment,” he said. Eatala said that during a review meeting with all government department heads, it was decided to upgrade big government hospitals with additional facilities. The number of ICU beds at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) will be enhanced to another 150, he said. “A state-of-the-art organ transplant facility, being built at a cost of Rs 35 crore, will soon be provided at Gandhi Hospital and the decision on Osmania General Hospital’s new building or revamp will be taken only after the high court’s decision,” he said. The minister said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has cleared promotions of nearly 700 healthcare staff working at Telangana Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (TVPP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-have-aarogyasri-ayushman-bharat-from-next-financial-year/articleshow/80713930.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Nobody can stop VSP privatisation’||Hyderabad: Former Union minister of state and Rajya Sabha member YS Chowdary on Friday said the Centre has decided to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) to attract more investments. He also said agitations by both YSRCP and TDP will not stop the privatisation of the VSP. Speaking to reporters, the BJP MP said the process of privatisation began in the country in the ’90s and added that no one will lose jobs once the steel plant is privatised.  He said the results of the Union Budget will be felt in a positive manner soon. “Some of the new road projects taken up in both Telugu states will help spur growth,” the MP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nobody-can-stop-vsp-privatisation/articleshow/80713954.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Central team wants genomic study in Maharashtra to check for mutations||MUMBAI: A Central team sent to study why Maharashtra is one of the main contributors to the country’s Covid-19 burden wants genome sequencing to check for mutations, better screening of the population and contact-tracing across the state, especially in the eight districts where the daily caseload has suddenly increased in recent weeks. On February 4, the Centre released data to show that Kerala and Maharashtra, with 69,365 and 38,762 active cases respectively, contributed to 70% of the country’s Covid burden. The Central team, led by National Centre for Disease Control director Dr Sujit Singh, on Friday morning met senior state public health officials and also held a virtual conference with various health and district officials. “The daily caseload in eight districts such as Amravati, Yavatmal, Sangli and Nandurbar have suddenly shot up,” said a public health official. “The Central team wants genomic sequencing of new cases here to look for mutations or variants,” he said. There was also a discussion on whether travel restrictions and mandatory testingfor on travellers from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa should continue. “A Central team official pointed out cases from these four states had dropped drastically. Moreover, no testing or quarantine norms were in place for visitors coming from Kerala,” said a doctor who was present. Incidentally, genomic studies are underway in Kerala to look for mutations that may have contributed to the surge. The Central team mainly discussed the situation in Thane, Pune and the rest of Maharashtra. The team visited the ICU in BMC-run Sion Hospital and plans to visit Thane on Saturday. Officials in Thane have been told that the team will be visiting on Saturday. “They may visit one of the corporation hospitals and a vaccination centre,” an official said. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said that Maharashtra’s case fatality rate is high because of the past cases. “The CFR in Mumbai in the last month was 1.5. Cases are down in most districts of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/central-team-wants-genomic-study-in-maha-to-check-for-mutations/articleshow/80714053.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||NMC extends Aapli Bus pass validity||Nagpur: The NMC’s transport department on Friday announced an opportunity for extension of Aapli Bus pass facility to the extent of number of days lost due to lockdown for pass holders. The NMC had stopped Aapli Bus service from March 23, 2020, due to Covid scare. The city bus service resumed from October 28 last year. Those who had obtained the pass before the lockdown was imposed will get the benefit of extension of days of their pass, said transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar. The extension of bus pass will cost Rs6.82 lakh to the NMC’s exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-extends-aapli-bus-pass-validity/articleshow/80712769.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Patna||Sachin insulted Bharat Ratna: Shivanand||Patna: Amid the global war of words over farmers’ protests on social media, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari on Friday sparked a row saying cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar “insulted the Bharat Ratna honour by doing advertisement for the Narendra Modi government”. Following tweets by US pop singer Rihanna and teen Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg in support of farmers’ protests in Delhi, Tendulkar had tweeted on Wednesday, urging unity and saying India can handle its internal affairs and outsiders should not interfere. “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let’s remain united as a nation,” tweeted Tendulkar, who was conferred the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award in 2014. Shivanand alleged that Tendulkar, along with several other civilian award-winning celebrities, is “being used” by ṯhe Narendra Modi government at the Centre. “Modi government is using Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar (Padma Bhushan, Padma Vibhushan) and Ajay Devgan (Padma Shree) among others to counter the international celebrities supporting farmers' protests in Delhi. This is simple tactics to manipulate public opinion,” he said. Shivanand, however, said on Friday that he had “strongly protested” even when Bharat Ratna was announced for Tendulkar. “I had said that legendary Indian hockey player Major Dhyan Chand, who was also recommended by the sports ministry for Bharat Ratna, deserved the same more than Tendulkar. However, Tendulkar was chosen for the award, even though he did nothing great than earn a whole lot of money by playing cricket,” Shivanand told TOI. Pressing his point further, Shivanand said, “He can be a good cricketer but he has become an advertisement model. He comes on television now and then for advertising‑- commercial as well as the government.” Though Shivanand claimed that Tendulkar’s tweet, as well as his comments, both come under ‘freedom of expression’, but the RJD leader is facing flak from NDA constituents and even Congress tried to distance itself on this issue. “Shivanand Tiwari is nowadays representing the lot of frustrated groups of opposition leaders who are in a frenzy to grab news headlines. His statement on Tendulkar is absurd and uncalled-for. Shivanandji should apologise to the people of this country,” BJP’s spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. JD (U)’s spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad demanded from Shivanand to take back his comments against Tendulkar. “If RJD has any regard for national integrity, pride and unity, then it should immediately take strong action against Shivanand,” he said, adding that Shivanand made the statement on the instructions of leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Bihar Congress, on the other hand, tried to distance itself from Shivanand’s comment on Tendulkar. “It can be his personal opinion but we respect Tendulkar as a cricketer,” Congress’s MLC and spokesperson Prem Chand Mishra said, adding that Tendulkar should also support the farmers' protest. Incidentally, Tendulkar was conferred the Bharat Ratna during Congress-led UPA government at the Centre in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sachin-insulted-bharat-ratna-shivanand/articleshow/80714081.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Vij CCS cops bag first place in crime detection awards||VIJAYAWADA: The Crime Central Station (CCS) police in Vijayawada stood first on Friday under the Award for Best Crime Detection for the second quarter of 2020. Director general of police D Gautam Sawang issued the award to the CCS team for cracking the sensational burglary in Vuyyur town and recovering Rs 50 lakh worth of property. The incident was reported on January 14, 2020 and was solved in June when police arrested G Subrahmanyam (40), a notorious burglar with 12 cases registered against him and a KD sheet. Subrahmanyam had first tried to rob a TVS showroom in the town. He later broke into complainant Siva Vara Prasad’s house and stole Rs 60 lakh worth of cash and gold ornaments. The second prize went to Chittoor district police for cracking the rape and murder of a five-year-old minor girl in Mudivedu. The incident occurred on November 7, 2019 when the accused stalked a five-year-old and followed her to an isolated place behind a private convention hall before raping and killing her. He later threw the body behind the compound and washed the scene of crime. Five teams examined eyewitness accounts and recorded their statements and visited crime-prone villages in Angallu, Mudivedu, B Kothakota, Madanapalle town and Punganur. Finally, the accused was traced and arrested. The third prize was given to Guntur Urban police for cracking a case of online sexual harassment. The case related to a jilted lover who allegedly sedated his girlfriend and shot nude footage of her before uploading it online. His friends then started blackmailing the victim for money and sexual gratification. After years of harassment, the victim approached the police who traced all the accused. The award was given to the CCS team for solving a burglary in Vuyyur town reported in January 2020 in which Rs 60 lakh worth of cash and gold were stolen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-ccs-cops-bag-first-place-in-crime-detection-awards/articleshow/80712768.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Payment of balance amount to Griha Aadhar beneficiaries soon||Panaji: About 16,000 Griha Aadhar applications are pending for clearance with the directorate of women and child development, while a verification report of Goa Electronic Ltd (GEL) of 20,000 names is awaited. Once the verification is completed, some names that do not fit into the criteria of the scheme will be deleted and new names will be added, an official of the directorate of women and child said. “Last year, after verification, 5,000 names were dropped for various reasons such as beneficiary not alive, address not found, and beneficiary’s annual income more than the upper limit fixed to be eligible to avail benefit of the scheme,” the official said. “Prior to the pandemic, we had cleared about 10,000 applications after deleting 5,000 names. Even though the present pendency is 16,000, we will not be able to clear all applications for there is a ceiling as to how many beneficiaries could be allowed under Griha Aadhar,” the official said. Payments under the social welfare scheme have been delayed owing to financial crunch faced by the state on account of the pandemic. The officer, however, said that even during difficult times, the government has paid three instalments while payment of the balance amount would begin shortly. When the scheme was introduced in 2013, the state government had mandated an upper limit of 1.5 lakh beneficiaries. At present, 1.3 lakh women receive Rs 1,500 as monthly dole under the scheme. The officer though did not specify how many applications of 16,000 would be cleared, and added that it will depend on how many beneficiary names get deleted. Also, 18,095 applications have been pending under the Laadli Laxmi scheme since last year. “Payments could not be made due to lack of funds. The government could not release funds due to the pandemic. But shortly, we will start payments under this scheme as well,” the official stated. The issue of non-payment under the two schemes was raised in the recently-concluded winter session. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had assured the House they would start payments soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/payment-of-balance-amount-to-griha-aadhar-beneficiaries-soon/articleshow/80716105.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||4 out of 5 districts in state’s Covid watch list from Vidarbha||Nagpur: The Maharashtra state health department has released a district-wise weekly database of the Covid-19 scenario in state which has some alarming outcomes for Vidarbha. The data collected between January 27 and February 2 shows that many districts in the region are included in the list of top 5 with highest rate of increase in new Covid-19 cases, top 5 with highest case fatality rate, top 5 with highest samples positivity rate and other important indicators. More cases: Four out of the five districts in the state with highest rate of increase in new Covid-19 cases last week are from Vidarbha. Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Wardha have reported the highest surge last week, especially after showing a good control earlier. TOI on February 5 had reported that the new surge could be due to casual approach of people who consider the pandemic to be over. Doctors have appealed people to follow all Covid restrictions strictly. The state health department has kept these four districts in a special watch list and advised the local administrations to start strict control measures.Death Rate: Bhandara district has been included in ‘watch list’ for Covid-19 death rate. Bhandara is one of the five districts with highest case fatality rate in the state. Bhandara’s overall Covid-19 case fatality rate is 2.43%, but during the week that ended on February 2, it was 7.69% which is second highest in Maharashtra after Ratnagiri. More positives: Sample positivity rate in Amravati and Nagpur is among top 5 districts in the state. In Amravati, 8.91% of total samples tested positive last week while in Nagpur this rate is 8.43%. This number is less than 10% which is considered as an indicator of good control on infection, as per WHO guidelines. But other districts in the state have performed better, and Nagpur and Amravati need to increase contact tracing and testing in the next few days. Some good points: Gadchiroli district has highest recovery rate of 98% in the state. Recovery rate of Chandrapur, Gondia, Bhandara, Amravati and Washim too is better than state’s average of 95.4%. Nagpur district has done more tests per million population than the state’s average. Vidarbha as compared to state - Districts with case fatality rate more than state’s 2.52%Akola, Wardha and Yavatmal (Fatality rate of all other districts in Vidarbha less than state average)- Districts with recovery rate less than state’s 95.4%Nagpur, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Akola (Recovery rate of all other districts of Vidarbha more than state average)- Districts with high sample positivity rate as compared to state’s 4.51%Amravati, Akola, Nagpur, Yavatmal (Sample positivity rate of all other districts of Vidarbha less than state average)Districts in watch list (Jan 28 to Feb 4)1) Top 5 as per rate of increase in new Covid-19 casesDistrictsNew cases increase rate% Amravati3.15Yavatmal2.80Akola2.24Nandurbar2.21Wardha2.16Maharashtra 0.842) Top 5 as per sample positivity rate DistrictPositivity rate%Nandurbar10.68Satara9.21Amravati8.91Nagpur8.43Nashik7.58Maharashtra4.51||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-out-of-5-districts-in-states-covid-watch-list-from-vidarbha/articleshow/80714046.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Rowdy-sheeter gets interim bail||Hyderabad: Notorious rowdy-sheeter Ayub Khan was on Friday released from Chanchalguda jail after the Telangana High Court granted him interim bail. Khan was sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment (RI) in a fake passport case by the chief metropolitan magistrate at Nampally. Citing medical emergency of a family member, Khan had moved a bail petition before the high court. The court granted him interim bail of 15 days till February 19. In 2017, he was arrested by Kamatipura police on charges of obtaining passport by fraudulent means. In 2018,Ayub Khan and his wife Hafeeza Begum were found guilty in the fake passport case that was obtained by Khan to escape the country. The court had also imposed a fine of Rs 4,500 each on Khan and his wife. Two qazis, Syed Muqtadir Ali Quadri (qazi) and Mohammed Naseeruddin (deputy qazi), were sentenced to two years RI and were imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 each in connection with the case. All accused were tried for the offences punishable under Sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 109 (abetment), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 & Section 12 (1) (a)(b) of Indian Passport Act, 1967.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rowdy-sheeter-gets-interim-bail/articleshow/80713965.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Farm laws: Cong tour from Feb 9||Hyderabad: To rebuild confidence among farmers under distress allegedly due to BJP and TRS governments’ policies, Congress members will interact with farmers in their fields and at market yards. The Congress is launching a state-wide tour ‘Raitulatho Mukhamukhi’ from February 9, demanding repeal of the farm laws and revival of agriculture produce purchase centres. The tour will culminate in Khammam on February 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-laws-cong-tour-from-feb-9/articleshow/80713985.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Expel Parkal MLA: BC groups to CM||Hyderabad: Backward Classes (BC) associations and members of various political parties on Friday at a round-table meeting demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expel TRS Parkal MLA C Dharma Reddy from the party and that assembly speaker P Srinivas Reddy disqualify him from the membership of the House. The meeting was convened by former Congress MP V Hanumanth Rao. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expel-parkal-mla-bc-groups-to-cm/articleshow/80713998.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Agra||Kasganj mahapanchayat: Farmers of western UP to reoccupy Chilla border||AGRA: A decision was taken at a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ held in Soron block of Kasganj district on Friday to reclaim the Chilla border. The meeting headed by former general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) Kuldeep Pandey was attended by thousands of farmers from different districts of western UP. Talking to TOI, Pandey said, “We will reclaim the Chilla border. The mahapanchayat has declared complete support for Rakesh Tikait in fight against the three farm laws.” Earlier, BKU (Bhanu) chief Bhanu Pratap Singh had vacated farmers' protest site at Chilla border following the Republic Day tractor parade violence. Kuldeep Pandey along with his supporters had left the organization and declared support for Tikait. Going against the leadership, over seventy leaders of BKU (Bhanu) from different districts of western UP declared support for Kuldeep Pandey in relaunching protest at Chilla border. During the kisan mahapanchayat, the decision was taken to launch a new organization – Bharatiya Kisan Adhikar Sangharsh Samitti (BKASS) which will spearhead the protest at Chilla border. Kuldeep said, “If the central government fails to withdraw the three farm laws in next ten days then farmers in large numbers under the banner of BKASS will march to Rashtrapati Bhavan on February 17. We will leave a memorandum for the President to pursue our demands with the central government. On the same day, we will be relaunching protests at Chilla border. Like the Ghazipur border, the protest at Chilla border will continue under the leadership of Rakesh Tikait.” “In next three days, we will be marching to the Ghazipur border in large numbers to support Rakesh Tikait and strengthen the farmers’ protest. The central government will have to take back the three farm laws and guarantee MSP for the farmers,” he said. Former Aligarh division in-charge of BKU (Bhanu) Shyamveer Singh Chauhan said, “To withdraw from the protest at Chilla border was a personal decision of Bhanu Pratap Singh. Majority of the workers were not in favour of it. The incident of Rakesh Tikait breaking down at the Ghazipur border resulted in a massive discontent among farmers and our members. We have decided to part ways with BKU (Bhanu). The leadership of the organization is hand in glove with the government. They have lost all respect among farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kasganj-mahapanchayat-farmers-of-western-up-to-reoccupy-chilla-border/articleshow/80711929.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 6, 2021||Agra||5 youths arrested for kidnapping doctor in Aligarh||Agra: Five persons were arrested by Aligarh police on Friday in connection with abduction of a homeopathy doctor. The doctor was later released by them without the ransom of Rs 20 lakh. According to police, the youths planned the kidnapping as one of the suspects needed money to marry his girlfriend.All the suspects are in the age group of early 20s and four of them are graduates, police said. They had planned the kidnapping to help one Mohit Chaudhary, who recently completed his Class 12. He needed the money to marry his girlfriend. Others arrested in the case are Anuj Chaudhary (B Pharmacy), Himanshu Chaudhary and Ankit Shukla (BBA), and Anukalp Chauhan (BSc).Dr Shailendra Singh, a resident of Sakshivihar colony, was abducted on January 28, while he was heading to his clinic in the morning. He was taken to Etah district after abduction but when police reached Kasganj in search of the doctor, they decided to release him in fear of being caught.The doctor was released around 12 pm on January 30 with Rs 200 in Etah’s jungle. His hands were tied. They also threatened the doctor not to disclose anything to police. The abductors also kept his mobile phone.Meanwhile, the doctor's family received a call from kidnappers and after negotiation they were ready to take Rs 10 lakh but asked them to deliver the amount at Pari chowk, Noida. However, the kidnappers changed the programme at the last moment and asked the family to reach Ghaziabad. By the time, the family member who was with the police received the call from Dr Shailedra around 5pm, he had reached home safely.Circle officer Anil Samaniya said that police have recovered Swift car used for abducting the doctor, his phone, Aadhar card, PAN card, driving licence and purse along with three country made pistols and six live cartridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-youths-arrested-for-kidnapping-doctor-in-aligarh/articleshow/80711928.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Agra||No ‘chakka jam’ in UP, U’khand & Delhi on Feb 6, says BKU||Agra: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday announced it will keep Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand out of its nation-wide ‘chakka jaam’ (road blockade) protest on Saturday. The farmers’ outfit also said that there will be no protests in Delhi either, which it said was “already in a ‘chakka jam’ mode”.The decision to not hold the protests in UP and Uttarakhand was "taken in public interest and also due to fear of violence by a few people", BKU said.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said, “We have evidence that a few people would attempt to spread violence at these places. So we have decided to not block roads in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.” Senior BKU leader Dharmendra Malik added, “Sugarcane harvesting is on in western UP districts. Besides, a large number of farmers from different states are on their way to protest sites at Delhi borders. Blocking of roads will also cause inconvenience to students.”In a statement, Samyukt Kisan Morcha said that the protest will be held in other states but essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped.BKU’s UP president Rajveer Singh Jadoun said, “District presidents have been directed to register their protest at the office of district magistrates and hand over a memorandum addressed to the President of India seeking withdrawal of the three farm laws. Leaders in all the districts have been directed to ensure that the law and order situation does not get affected in the protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-chakka-jam-in-up-ukhand-delhi-on-feb-6-says-bku/articleshow/80711930.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 6, 2021||Pune||Avian flu debuts in Pune, samples of 17 dead poultry birds in Dhayari test +ve||PUNE: The city has registered its first instance of avian influenza following the death of 17 poultry birds at a caged facility in Dhayari recently. A senior animal husbandry department official told TOI on Friday that the samples of these birds tested positive for the H5N1 strain of avian influenza. Authorities have sealed the area where the deaths were reported and around 300 backyard poultry birds would be culled in the area within a radius of 1 km from the infected zone on Saturday. An official from the district administration said a 10km area from the infected zone has been sealed. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “The positive cases have been found at Gosaviwasti in Dhayari. We visited the area on Thursday and convinced the owners of the affected birds about the culling and surveillance protocols. The infected zone is a residential area. There’s no commercial farm there.” An animal husbandry official said dead birds were thrown on the road in the area on February 2. PMC sanitary inspectors picked up the dead birds and sent the samples to the disease investigation section in Pune. The samples were later sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Another animal husbandry official said most avian influenza cases from Pune district have been detected in backyard poultry and birds that owners depend on for livelihood. “The birds roam in houses of the owners. Not a single avian influenza instance has been detected in human beings. Almost 40-50 positive bird cases have been detected in Maharashtra and none had a zoonotic connect,” he said. “It is known that the virus can jump over to mammals such as pigs. But no poultry operations are integrated with piggery farms in India. So people should not panic,” the official said. As part of control and containment of bird flu outbreak in the infected zone, demarcation of culling and surveillance areas and launch of control and containment operations by rapid response teams have been undertaken. Culling of birds, absolute ban on movement of poultry and products from the culling and surveillance zones, disposal of dead birds, instant compensation for culling, clean-up and disinfection and post-operation surveillance are some other measures that will be undertaken. Maharashtra Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association president Vasanth Kumar C Shetty told TOI, “There has been a 20-25% drop in sale of chicken across Maharashtra. People have reduced consumption of chicken, and our stocks are piling. The main impact has been on chicken sales, while egg sales have remained more or less the same. The price of a kilo of chicken has dropped from Rs 85 to Rs 60.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/avian-flu-debuts-in-city-samples-of-17-dead-poultry-birds-in-dhayari-test-ve/articleshow/80714017.cms||Neha Madaan
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Must quarantine international passengers: Maharashtra to Centre||PUNE: The state government has sent a letter to the Centre, urging it to ensure that all international airports quarantined passengers in the city of arrival instead of allowing them to travel to Maharashtra by road. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that there was a need for strict vigilance on international travellers coming to the state. He said there had been many instances of foreign returnees reaching Maharashtra by road after de-boarding at places outside the state. “International passengers should be isolated at the first port or the airport of arrival for complete duration. It is the standard textbook practice adopted abroad and it has tremendous effect on controlling the epidemic. The same should be carried out here also, so that there is strict monitoring of all passengers,” Vyas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-centre-must-quarantine-intl-passengers/articleshow/80714124.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Missing tonsure victim traced to Kakinada||RAJAHMUNDRY: Rajahmundry Urban police on Friday traced the tonsure head victim who went missing from his home in Munikudali village in East Godavari on Thursday. It will be recalled that I Varaprasad of Munikudali village had been called to the police station in connection with a case and was allegedly tonsured there on July 18, 2020. On Thursday, Vara Prasad’s wife lodged a complaint stating that her husband was missing. Vara Prasad had reportedly told his family he was being insulted in public. DSP, North Zone, A Venkateswara Rao said Vara Prasad has left his mobile phone and bike at home and spent Thursday night at the residence of his friend, Sandeep, in Konthamuru village. They were later traced to Kakinada. A case has been registered against the duo under section 505(A) of the IPC for intentionally inciting trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/missing-tonsure-victim-traced-to-kakinada/articleshow/80712774.cms||Samson Raj
February 6, 2021||Goa||‘Seek exclusion for MPT from Major Ports Bill’||Panaji: Given that the state government has admitted that the Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020, will have an impact on Goa, the state BJP government must appeal to the Centre to exclude Mormugao Port Trust from Bill, said Congress MLA Aleixo Reginald Lourenco. Lourenco has written to deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar asking him to act fast and put forth Goa’s case before the bill is enacted. Kavlekar, who is the Town and Country Planning minister, had said that the bill has implications on the state and that key legislations of the state could become redundant. Goa TCP Act, Regional Plan, ODPs, Goa Municipalities Act, Goa Panchayati Raj Act, Goa Land Development and Construction Regulations, 2010, and Goa Land Revenue Code would no longer apply in areas under the ownership of the board constituted by the Major Ports, Kavlekar had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seek-exclusion-for-mpt-from-major-ports-bill/articleshow/80716120.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Patna||May consider CBI probe into Rupesh killing: DGP||PATNA: Director general of police (DGP) SK Singhal on Friday said the state police headquarters would consider the demand for a CBI inquiry into IndiGo station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh’s murder case if his family submits any petition in this regard. He said this when TOI asked the DGP at a presser what action would be taken if Rupesh’s family submits a petition for CBI inquiry into the murder case in which one Rituraj Singh had been arrested on Tuesday. The wife and elder brother of the deceased have raised serious doubts over the police claim that Rupesh was killed on January 12 by Rituraj to take revenge of a road rage incident near the Patna airport in November last. Rupesh’s brother Dinesh Singh told TOI over the phone on Thursday that the family wanted a CBI inquiry monitored by the Patna high court into the case. Singh said the family wants the state government to recommend the case for a CBI probe, failing which they will move the high court. However, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani, who also addressed the press conference along with the DGP, said police would try to satisfy Rupesh’s family with their investigation and establish the facts which surfaced in the case before the court. When contacted after the presser, Dinesh told TOI that they will submit a written petition to the DGP for CBI inquiry, if needed to do so. “We are not satisfied with the road rage theory claimed by the police as the motive behind murder. The family suspects some other serious motive behind Rupesh’s killing,” he said. Meanwhile, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma met the grieving wife of Rupesh and other family members at their native place in Chhapra on Friday and apprised them about the investigation made in the case till now. When asked, the SSP said police tried to tell the family everything about the investigation as several distorted news were being aired in the media in the case. “They were apprised about how the killer was nabbed. They were shown all the CCTV camera footages,” he said, adding it’s their right to know about the investigation. He also said the family requested for security of Rupesh’s wife Neetu Singh. “She would be provided an armed bodyguard by the Patna police,” he said. The SSP said Saran police had already deployed two guards at Rupesh’s residence in his native village Sanwari. He said Patna police got to know that Rituraj had been sent to jail in a land grabbing, rioting and Arms Act case lodged with Raxaul police station in Motihari in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/may-consider-cbi-probe-into-rupesh-killing-dgp/articleshow/80714171.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 6, 2021||Pune||Pune: ZP finds at least 100 cases of well-to-do parents grabbing RTE seats in private schools||PUNE: The education office of the Pune zilla parishad (ZP) that conducted an investigation into some admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act scheme has found that seats in some reputed private schools were cornered by well-to-do parents for their children. The ZP officials have come across at least 100 such cases in three schools during their probe. They found that the parents of such students had provided false income certificate proofs issued by the tehsil office to grab seats meant for those from a poor background. TimesViewThe act of well-to-do parents to corner seats set aside for the economically weaker section of students in reputed schools for their wards is highly objectionable. The state government must take serious cognisance of the Pune Zilla Parishad probe and initiate punitive action against the revenue officers who provided false income certificate proofs to such parents and thus facilitated gross abuse of the Right to Education Act.The matter came to light after the principals of these three schools complained to the Pune ZP and submitted all details. Some cases go as far back as the 2015-16 academic year when the admissions were allotted. As per the RTE guidelines, students from poor families whose parents have an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh are eligible to apply under the 25% reservation quota in private schools. K D Bhujbal, investigating officer at the ZP’s education office, said they were trying to verify the background of all the students whose names were submitted to them. “We were surprised to know that some parents had well-established businesses and some owned two houses, one of them on lease, and some were government officers. We suspect that the number of cases is much more than what has been reported now,” he added. The primary education department conducts the RTE admissions across Maharashtra and the local education office allots students to private schools in a 3km radius based on their addresses. The principal of one of the three schools, who had sent all supporting documents to the Pune ZP, said such bending of rules deprived deserving students of their seats. “We tried to conduct our own survey and found that the students live in big housing complexes and had a decent economic background, but their parents had applied under the RTE to bag seats in our school,” the principal said. Another school’s principal complained to the ZP that some students admitted under the RTE quota came to school in their private cars. “It was embarrassing and shocking when other parents pointed this out to us. However, since the Pune ZP allots the admission, we have to admit them after verifying their documents,” the principal said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-finds-at-least-100-cases-of-well-to-do-parents-grabbing-rte-seats-in-pvt-schools/articleshow/80714058.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||New homes in town: Two-and-half BHKs||Hyderabad: The growing demand for an in-house office or classroom, has led to a new trend in Hyderabad's property market -- two-and-half bedrooms-cum-hall-cum-kitchen homes. With work or school-from-home becoming the new normal in the post-pandemic era, several developers from the city are redesigning their projects to accommodate two-and-half bedroom units, along with the conventional 2BHKs and 3BHKs. Most say, these homes are flying off the shelves faster than the rest. "Surprisingly, the demand for the new format is higher than the other homes,” said Viswa Prathap Desu, chief sales officer (residential) with Brigade Group, adding, "When we launched Brigade Citadel, in Moti Nagar, we thought our 2BHKs would sell the fastest. But that's not been the case. We sold out all our two-and-half bedroom units much before the rest." On an average, these homes - with two standard size bedrooms, one small bedroom and two toilets (referred to as 3B2T by many) -- are about 200 to 250 square feet smaller in size than the usual 3BHK and Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh cheaper than the latter. While in larger projects the total area of these homes range between 1,400 sft and 1,550 sft, in mid and small projects the total area is 1,000 sft to 1,200 sft. "We have seen great demand with our High Fields project, and are planning to incorporate this concept in all our future ventures,” said R Suresh Kumar, senior vice-president of Prestige Group (business operations-Hyderabad) Also riding high on this new trend is the Koncept Ambience Group that's sold about 140 two-and-half bedroom units -- between 1,250 and 1,300 sft -- in its Manikonda project, Ambience Courtyard. "In fact, selling our 2BHKs is becoming tough," said the firm's chairman, Mahabir Prasad Agarwal. Admitting that the demand for these homes has peaked post the pandemic, he said that the group is now planning to introduce the model in their villa projects too. "We are launching a few ventures in Bengaluru that will have office spaces within the home," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-homes-in-town-two-and-half-bhks/articleshow/80714166.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
February 6, 2021||Meerut||2 labourers critical after soil caves in at construction site||Meerut: Two labourers were buried after soil caved in at a construction site in Bulandshahr on Friday morning. They were rescued and are said to be critical.The incident occurred when the two of them were working at the construction site and soil suddenly caved in. A rescue operation was launched soon. Later, the labourers were rushed to a nearby hospital where their treatment is ongoing.Sub divisional magistrate Subhash Singh said, “Construction work was on in Bigraau village at tubewell of one Bisamber where two labourers were taking out bricks when suddenly a heap of soil fell on them. A JCB machine was pressed into action for rescue operation and both of them were pulled out safely. The injured were rushed to the nearest hospital.”The two individuals have been identified as Sanjay and Raju.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-labourers-critical-after-soil-caves-in-at-construction-site/articleshow/80711973.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister tests +ve for Covid-19||State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said on Twitter that he has tested positive for Covid-19. “I tested positive for coronavirus today, but my health is good. I appeal to those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested,” he said. Over 17 ministers in the MVA government have tested positive. All of them have recovered and resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/home-min-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/80714275.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Agra||UP CM likely to visit Vrindavan on Feb 14 for inauguration of pre-Kumbh Vaishnav meeting||strap: Covid negative report must for sadhus visiting VrindavanAgra: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to visit Vrindavan on February 14 to inaugurate the pre-Kumbh Vaishnav meeting, which is slated to be attended by 20,000 prominent ascetics from various parts of the country ahead of the main Kumbh event. The meeting - which occurs once in 12 years - will start from February 16.According to district authorities, sadhus will be required to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate after undergoing an RT-PCR test and it should not exceed five days. Besides, every pilgrim will have to undergo thermal scanning and oximeter test, which will be available at all six entrances of the fair.Officials said that though the CM’s programme has not been received so far, he is likely to visit Vrindavan on February 14.Mathura district magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal told TOI that all preparations are in place and precautions are being taken in the wake of Covid-19. “Three dispensaries have been set up inside the Kumbh fair and a 100-bedded hospital and 30-bedded CHC are fully prepared to tackle any kind of health related issues faced by sadhus or pilgrims during the event,” he said.Meanwhile, ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand and IG Satish Ganesh inspected the event site to assess security preparations. Security agencies, including State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Flood PAC and civil police, have started taking up their positions in Vrindavan from Friday.Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that a team of SDRF, one platoon of Flood PAC along with 3,000 police personnel will be deputed for security at the event to be held from February 16 to March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-cm-likely-to-visit-vrindavan-on-feb-14-for-inauguration-of-pre-kumbh-vaishnav-meeting/articleshow/80711950.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bareilly||Locals in Pilibhit demand withdrawal of FIR against farmer’s widow, brother||Strap: ADG says police should have charged Rampur farmer’s family tooPilibhit: Local farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit along with other leaders and politicians have demanded an immediate withdrawal of the FIR lodged against the widow and brother of a protesting farmer who had recently lost his life in the national capital.The matter will be taken up during Saturday's 'kisan panchayat' under the joint aegis of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on the campus of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee in Pilibhit.Three persons, including the deceased farmer’s wife and brother, were booked on Wednesday night for draping his body in tricolour.One of the leaders spearheading the farmers' movement, Yogendra Yadav, told TOI that he was not surprised with the police action.“There is a technicality of law and the spirit of law. The technicality always needs to be reviewed in context of the spirit. If the protesting farmers wish to honour their martyr by draping his body in a national flag, they only enhance the dignity of the national flag which shows their love for the tricolour and their sense of pride. In such a situation any government should celebrate rather than come up with the technicality," Yadav, who is the president of Swaraj India, said.Meanwhile, BKU district president Satvinder Singh Kahlon said the 'kisan panchayat' will take up the "FIR issue". The panchayat will be attended by thousands of farmers and a memorandum of their demands addressed to the prime minister will be handed over to officials, he added.State politicians such as RLD's state vice-president Manjit Singh Sandhu and a former minister Hemraj Verma of Samajwadi Party demanded the withdrawal of the FIR.Incidentally, another deceased farmer Navreet Singh's body was also wrapped in the national flag. Singh had died when his tractor overturned in Delhi. When asked, ADG of Bareilly zone Avinash Chandra said, “An FIR should have been lodged in Rampur too as the national flag code allows this privilege only in certain cases."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/locals-in-pilibhit-demand-withdrawal-of-fir-against-farmers-widow-brother/articleshow/80711963.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 6, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra home minister tests +ve for Covid-19||State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said on Twitter that he has tested positive for Covid-19. “I tested positive for coronavirus today, but my health is good. I appeal to those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested,” he said. Over 17 ministers in the MVA government have tested positive. All of them have recovered and resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-min-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/80717528.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Varanasi||IIT-BHU develops eco-friendly rice husk adsorbent that can help clean Ganga||Varanasi: Researchers at the School of Biochemical Engineering of IIT-BHU have synthesized an eco-friendly adsorbent (a substance that can absorb another), which can remove toxic heavy metal ions such as hexavalent chromium from wastewater. This is a new eco-friendly product synthesized from rice husk through several modifications. The researchers claimed that this eco-friendly and inexpensive adsorbent rice husk can help clean the Ganga. The adsorbent has been synthesized by Dr Vishal Mishra and his PhD students Veer Singh and Jyoti Singh, proving that it shows effective adsorption-cum-reduction of hexavalent chromium. This work has been published in the renowned ‘Journal of Environmental Chemical Engineering’. Dr Mishra said that the hexavalent chromium is responsible for several types of health problems in the human body like various types of cancers, kidney and liver failure. This adsorbent is effective in removal of toxic metal ions from wastewater as compared to other conventional methods that too in less time. Besides, this adsorbent can easily be separated from solution and can be used in the next adsorption cycle. Regarding the socio-economic aspect of this research, Dr Mishra said, “The research is focused on the cost-effective, eco-friendly method for removal of heavy metal ions from water. Rice huskies are easily available worldwide. Adsorbent is synthesized from the rice husk and its surface is modified through iron doping making it suitable for transformation of Cr (VI) ito Cr (III). The Cr (III) is 100 times less toxic in comparison to the Cr (VI).” “In developing countries, water-borne diseases are the major problem. According to the World Health Organization (WHO,) each year 3.4 million people, mostly children, die from water-related diseases. Improving water quality can reduce the global water-borne diseases. Cancer due to heavy metals is a severe problem worldwide,” he added. Developing countries such as India and China are prone to heavy metal contaminations. Human intake of heavy metals, mainly occurs through skin contact, and through contaminated water or contamination in the food product. A water resources ministry report says that about 239 million people across 153 districts in 21 states drink water that contains unacceptably high levels of toxic metal ions. WHO has warned that long-term intake of water containing toxic heavy metals such as Pb, Cr(VI), Cd and as may cause cancer of skin, gallbladder, kidney or lungs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-develops-eco-friendly-rice-husk-adsorbent-that-can-help-clean-ganga/articleshow/80712856.cms||Binay Singh
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s excise policy gets a step closer to reality||NEW DELHI: A group of ministers was constituted by the Delhi cabinet led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday to give a final shape to the excise policy that has been in the works for the past few months. The government wants to develop the ambitious policy to make it a model for the entire country. The GoM would be chaired by deputy CM Manish Sisodia. The new policy is expected to ensure transparency and ease of doing business and also secure a steady growth of government revenue. Delhi government in a statement said the policy would be developed on the lines of the “revolutionary model of education”. The committee includes health and industry minister Satyendar Jain and law and transport minister Kailash Gahlot. The GoM would examine all aspects of the current system and consider the report of the expert committee and suggestions received from all stakeholders and the general public to give a final shape to the policy in the coming weeks. The expert committee had been constituted in September 2020 to suggest reforms in the liquor trade so that quality could be improved and revenue generation boosted. It also examined the avenues of simplifying the liquor pricing mechanism, malpractices and evasion of duty, equitable access to supply and transformation of the trade commensurate with the changing stature of the capital. The recommendations included reducing the legal drinking age from 25 to 21 years, allowing bars in restaurants and clubs to remain open till 3am, reducing the number of dry days to three from the current 25 days, permitting service in open spaces, lower area restaurants, clubs and hotels. Due to the high drinking age in the capital, many people visit Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and other NCR towns, which also results in loss of revenue to Delhi government. The current annual excise revenue of Delhi is Rs 5,068 crore. The committee projected the revenue to rise to Rs 7,651 crore post introduction of the reforms. It also outlined that entrants to the legal drinking age would increase by another 2 million in the next five years, which would lead to higher consumption of liquor. Excise reforms were needed to cater to the demand. After the recommendations of the committee were put in the public domain, the government received over 14,000 suggestions from stakeholders and the general public. The GoM will scan the suggestions and incorporate them into the final policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gom-formed-to-give-final-shape-to-delhis-excise-policy/articleshow/80714259.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 6, 2021||Meerut||Despite ban, 10,000 in Uttar Pradesh attend mahapanchayat||MEERUT: Two days after the administration in UP’s Shamli district invoked prohibitory orders and refused permission for a ‘mahapanchayat’, over 10,000 people came together on Friday afternoon against the three agriculture laws brought by the government. An endless stream of tractors, passenger jeeps, motorcycles and bicycles brought thousands to Bhainswal village, where hundreds of policemen and senior officials were already camping even as the administration appeared to be on the back foot, having diluted its earlier stand of not allowing the gathering. “We had stopped a political party from holding a public gathering. But farmers can air their opinion,” district magistrate of Shamli, Jasjeet Kaur, told TOI. Addressing the farmers, vice president of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Jayant Chaudhary, assailed the Uttar Pradesh government for invoking prohibitory orders. “Section 144 of CrPC had been slapped in Shamli to prevent this mahapanchayat. We did not stop and we will not stop. Farmers cannot be stopped, they build the nation and feed us,” Chaudhary said. The RLD leader also slammed the FIR registered against the family of a Sikh farmer who died in Delhi during the recent protests. A case was filed against the wife and the brother of the Pilibhit man after his body was wrapped in the national flag before cremation. “We respect the tricolor so much that when our brothers come wrapped in it from the borders, we don’t even shed a tear. Now they say we insult our tiranga?” Chaudhary said. He also took a potshot at the government for filing a case against climate activist Greta Thunberg. “She is just a young activist. Will they go to Sweden to arrest her?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/despite-ban-prohibitory-orders-over-10k-attend-shamli-mahapanchayat/articleshow/80711983.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 6, 2021||Meerut||Four assailants pump bullets into 27-year-old, arrested||BIJNOR: Four bike-borne assailants allegedly shot dead a 27-year-old man in Bijnor’s Jhalu town on Friday afternoon. Soon after the shooting, all four were arrested. Witnesses said the four assailants pumped bullets into Rachit Kumar of Syohara Girdhar, who was standing outside a shop. Kumar collapsed and died on the spot. After committing the murder, the assailants sped off. Police cordoned off the area and arrested the four, identified as Sariq, Shadab, Shahzad and Shabar. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said the four are friends. They had a spat with Kumar some time ago and this resulted in the murder. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the IPC. Police have seized a bike and illegal weapons used in the crime. The police team that arrested the four has been rewarded Rs 10,000 for taking quick action. A heavy police force has been deployed in the area to maintain law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-assailants-pump-bullets-into-27-yr-old-arrested/articleshow/80711990.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 6, 2021||Meerut||4.90 lakh children in Meerut given polio drops in 4 days||MEERUT: As a part of the polio eradication drive, as many as 4.90 lakh children in Meerut were given polio drops in four days. This is 80% of the actual set target for the district. The drive started on January 31. The next phase of the campaign will be conducted on February 6 and 7. “As many as 4.90 lakh children have been administered polio drops in Meerut district so far. The drive had started on January 31 and ended on February 3. The drive will resume on February 6,” said Dr Praveen Gautam, Meerut district immunisation officer. It should be noted that Meerut health department had fixed a target of administering polio drops to 5.59 lakh children. With 80% of its target completed, the health department will now administer the next round of polio drops on February 6 and 7. “For a year now, the polio drops were not administered door-to-door due to Covid-19 pandemic. A mop up round will be conducted on February 9 and 10 to cover the children who are missed in the drive,” Dr Gautam added. As many as 1,941 polio booths have been set up. Also, 1,405 health department staff have been given the responsibility to conduct the door-to-door drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-90l-children-in-meerut-given-polio-drops-in-4-days/articleshow/80711978.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Six weeks after rain, roads in Chennai's Mangadu still under water||CHENNAI: Six weeks after rain, water stagnated on interior roads of Mangadu in Chennai’s south-western suburbs has not drained. With electric poles submerged in four-foot-deep water, residents are risking their lives when leaving their homes. Stagnated rainwater has made the roads a breeding ground for mosquitoes, increasing the chances of spreading dengue and other communicable diseases. Shankar Anand, a resident-activist from the area, said: “My pregnant sister had a tough time in reaching the hospital and bringing back the newborn to our home. Last week, there was a cremation ceremony in my neighbour’s home. All their relatives had to wade through stagnated water.” Usually, after every monsoon, it takes four months for roads in Srinivasa Nagar, Janani Nagar and Melraghunanthapuram to get completely dried up, said residents. There are around 500 houses in the area. Apart from temporary measures such as cutting the roads and deploying motors to pump out water to nearby areas such as Chakra Nagar and Indra Nagar, which have drainage lines, no concrete steps have been taken so far, Anand said. “We will take necessary measures to pump out water from the streets soon. Compared to previous years, we did a better job this time,” said a senior official from Mangadu special grade town panchayat. However, given the topography of the area, water stagnation is inevitable. Rainwater from Poonamalle and Malayambakkam enters the low-lying areas near Chembarambakkam basin, the official said. Srinivasa Nagar residents complain that the panchayat has not sanctioned any funds for developing storm water drains or drainage lines in the area although they pay taxes. Several MLAs, district collectors and panchayat executive officers have visited and assured action, but nothing has materialised, said Senthil, a resident of Melragunanthapuram. Neither Mangadu panchayat nor Kancheepuram district collectorate has any proposal to lay pipes in these areas. Apart from the road laid soon after 2016 election, there has been no infrastructure development, Senthil said. Local MLA L Pazhani was unavailable for comment despite attempts to reach him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/6-weeks-after-rain-roads-in-mangadu-still-under-water/articleshow/80714252.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||HC clears decks for ED probe into Dalmia case||Hyderabad: Paving the way for a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into Dalmia Cements episode of the quid pro quo case in which AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is the prime accused, Telangana high court on Friday found fault with Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Ltd and its MD Punit Dalmia for dodging the ED probe with irrelevant petitions. It said the ED is now free to take its probe forward under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). A division bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing two appeals filed by the cement company and its MD who questioned the summons issued to Punit by the ED. The bench said the ED should have continued its probe because the pendency of a case in the high court need not be seen as a hindrance. Though the bench sought to know the current status of the probe, there was none from the ED to brief the bench about the status. However, they said in one of the earlier counters that the cases filed by Dalmias was pending from 2014 and they have been avoiding appearance before the ED despite repeated summons. The Dalmias, on the other hand, questioned the repeated summons even after they explained their case in writing to the ED authorities. Their writ pleas questioning the ED summons were dismissed by a single judge five years ago and even after this, the case did not move forward. The case was posted to June 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-clears-decks-for-ed-probe-into-dalmia-case/articleshow/80714273.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Rejected by woman, BTech grad sets her & mom on fire, kills self||CHENNAI: A 26-year-old woman and her 50-year-old mother died on Friday after being set on fire alive by a man at Korukkupet in a case of unrequited love. The perpetrator, too, died after he set himself afire, police said. Satishkumar alias Boobalan, a BTech graduate residing at Ananthanayaki Nagar in Korukkupet, jumped into Rajitha’s house around 3am on Friday by removing the roof tile after he was denied entry into the house by the family late on Thursday. According to police, Rajitha got a job with the Chennai corporation after her father Venkatesan died in duty four years ago. She was residing with her mother Venkatamma. Satishkumar, who was a contract car driver with the corporation, fell in love with Rajitha. Police quoting sources said the couple used to be seen together quite often. Venkatamma, meanwhile, fixed a marriage proposal for her daughter with another man and a formal engagement happened last week. From then on, Rajitha started avoiding Satishkumar and refused to talk to him. Neighbours saw smoke billow out, called copsFrom then on, Rajitha started avoiding Satishkumar and refused to talk to him. Around 3am on Friday, Satishkumar entered into Rajitha’s house with a bottle of petrol and threatened her and her mother to accept his marriage proposal. As they refused, he poured the fuel on them and torched them alive before ending his life, police said. Neighbours, who spotted smoke emanating from the house, alerted police and fire services personnel. Police found three charred bodies inside the locked house. The bodies have been sent to Stanley Hospital for autopsy. A case has been filed by the R K Nagar police. Further probe is on. (Assistance for those with suicidal thoughts is available on Tamil Nadu’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rejected-by-woman-b-tech-grad-sets-her-mom-on-fire-kills-self/articleshow/80714268.cms||A Selvaraj
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Man held for blackmailing woman on Instagram||Hyderabad: The Cyber Crime Police of Hyderabad have arrested an engineer for blackmailing a 19-year-old girl he befriended on Instagram. The accused, Ch Santosh Kumar (28) is a quality control engineer at an infrastructure company in Aurangabad. On August 11, 2020, Hyderabad Cyber crime police received a complaint from the father of a 19-year-old girl alleging that Santosh Kumar was blackmailing to upload her private photos on social media. Santosh befriended the victim on Instagram after lying to her that he was her schoolmate. Subsequently, they became friends and Santosh expressed his wish to marry her. They exchanged personal photos and after a while, the victim realised that Santosh was chatting with several other girls and blocked him on social media. Santosh started sending her messages from fake accounts and started calling her father. When Santosh sent the father her private photos and threatened to upload them on social media, a police complaint was lodged. Police arrested Santosh from Aurangabad and he was sent in judicial remand in Hyderabad on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-blackmailing-woman-on-instagram/articleshow/80714281.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board readies summer action plan||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board on Friday held a meeting to review the plan to assess the city’s water requirement during the lean summer months. The Summer Action Plan 2021 will be released early next month. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said the plan would incorporate identifying vulnerable areas, catering to dry areas, water supply augmentation strategy, reducing unaccounted for water consumption and augmentation of piped water network. “It is a well-thought plan that allows DJB to optimise available resources, inform and educate consumers and rationalise water supply. All endeavours are being made to quench the thirst of Delhi in summer 2021. We will ensure that nobody faces any water shortage in summer. A meticulous plan is under way,” added Chadha. A senior DJB official said this was an annual exercise in which various contingency plans were prepared for increased water demand during the summer months. “All zones and maintenance divisions prepare detailed action plans. Vulnerable areas are being identified with the help of MLAs, who know which localities face the most problems. Before the onset of summer, all maintenance work of old and damaged pipelines and additional tubewells will be completed,” he added. The water utility has around 10,000 tubewell sites in the city of which 5,500 are defunct. During its meeting on Thursday, the board decided that many of these defunct tubewells would be revived. Those that cannot be used anymore would be utilised for groundwater recharge. DJB has also begun work on improving the efficacy of its water tanker services by optimising the filling capacity at all locations. In last year’s action plan, DJB had targeted a daily production of 925 millions gallons per day (MGD) during the summer months. Of this, 86 MGD was sourced from underground resources. Delhi’s alarming drop in groundwater levels has been a cause for concern for long. A study by National Geophysical Research Institute had mentioned that groundwater levels were depleting at an alarming rate of 10 centimetres each year. A report by Niti Aayog stated that 21 cities in India may face severe water scarcity, including Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Officials said several schemes of wastewater utilisation and lake development were being utilised to assist in groundwater recharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-readies-summer-action-plan/articleshow/80714314.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Have covered Covid SOP, added extra steps, principals tell parents||KOLKATA: A large number of schools have recorded the safety measures that they have taken against Covid before re-opening the campuses and posted the videos on their websites and social media pages. Links have also been sent to parents so that they are aware of all the changes and can advise their wards accordingly. After receiving the government guidelines, schools said they found out that they had not only implemented the measures but had also taken some additional safety steps. According to school authorities, sanitisation, arranging for liquid soaps and hand sanitisers in toilets, stocking up on masks and arranging for distanced seating in classrooms and labs have become as basic as ensuring clean drinking water and proper light in classrooms these days. “We are going much beyond these steps to put parents at ease,” said a principal. The view was common at most schools. Right from the pavement on Moira Street outside Birla High School to classrooms, washrooms, labs and libraries, stickers have been pasted, indicating where to stand, maintaining physical distancing. Markings have been made even on stairs , an isolation room has been set up, all toilets have been renovated with non-touch taps and only dry, packed food will be sold at the canteen. “Even teachers have been shifted to different rooms,” said principal Loveleen Saigal. A short film on the measures has been uploaded on their website for the parents to watch. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy has sent out a similar video, showing new seating arrangements with every section being split into subsections. Toilets will be cleaned hourly. The director, Meena Kak, is also meeting parents in batches. To avoid crowding at the gate during temperature check, some schools are introducing thermal scan camera. “This will monitor temperature of students and teachers the moment they walk through the gate. Someone will man the readings without stopping the flow unless a higher temperature is noticed,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point School. The school has devised an e-health declaration form, which parents will have to fill daily and get a clearance before sending kids to campus. “This is an automated process. Class teachers will also get an intimation immediately and there’s a fool proof tally,” Damani said. Most schools plan to first call in classes X and XII students before asking classes IX and XI to join. “We are distributing Class X and XII girls into several classrooms and working out multiple timetables. Classes will be hybrid so that those at home can also study,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal of La Martiniere for Girls. Almost all schools have formed Covid teams with teachers and school council representatives. “We are calling it our Covid Task Force that will keep a vigil throughout school hours,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/have-covered-cov-sop-added-extra-steps-principals-tell-parents/articleshow/80714387.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Amit Shah visit to Malwan seen as BJP ploy to prop up Rane, cut Sena to size||MUMBAI: Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Malwan in Sindhudurg district to inaugurate a medical college backed by former chief minister Narayan Rane is seen as BJP’s ploy to clip Shiv Sena’s wings in the coastal belt, said observers on Friday. Rane is one of Sena’s arch political foes. Shah, who will visit Malwan on Sunday, is likely to target Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the ruling tripartite alliance which was formed after the Shiv Sena severed poll ties with the BJP-led NDA after the 2019 state assembly elections. The two parties have since been crossing swords on a slew of issues such as Enforcement Directorate probes, the Elgar Parishad row and the farm Bills. Sources said the BJP central leadership is keen to project Rane as the party’s poster boy in the Konkan region, which the Sena covets as its bastion. Rane is said to have a measure of clout in the Malwan-Sawantwadi belt. “Cutting the Shiv Sena to size in the Konkan belt is crucial to the growth of our party. The Sena’s networking in Mumbai hinges on its grassroots workers, most of who belong to Konkan. Rane is being empowered by the party to take on the Sena ahead of the BMC elections,” said a state BJP functionary. Political observers said Shah’s Malwan sojourn assumes added political significance as it coincides with fresh murmurs in the ruling MVA alliance following the Congress decision to appoint Nana Patole, the Speaker of the Maharashtra legislative assembly, as state Congress president. Patole was formally anointed as MPCC chief on Friday. The ruling MVA finds itself in a spot as the NCP has said that claim to Speakership was not confined to one party alone. Moreover, there are talks that the Sena may be eager to install its candidate as assembly Speaker. “The constituent allies will need tact and tenacity to paper over the crisis,” said an NCP politician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amit-shah-visit-to-malwan-seen-as-bjp-ploy-to-prop-up-rane-cut-sena-to-size/articleshow/80715687.cms||Ambarish Mishra
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Colleges, universities to work six days a week from February 8||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has directed colleges and universities to function six days a week from February 8 to cover syllabus and conduct practical classes. Colleges are planning to use the six working days to split the strength and conduct classes on alternate days. The state government has allowed higher educational institutions to conduct physical classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students from February 8. It has allowed hostels for the students to function. In an order issued on Wednesday, higher education secretary Apoorva directed colleges and universities — including arts, science, technical and engineering — to function six days a week by following standard operating procedures till the end of the academic year 2020-21. “We are going to start physical classes with 50% of first year students on Monday. The classes will be split into two batches and each batch attend classes on alternate days,” said S Santhosh Baboo, principal of DG Vaishnav College. Around 9,000 students are enrolled in the college in two shifts. The college expects around 4,000 students a day in the classrooms. Ethiraj College for Women also plans to have only 50% of students on alternate days. “We expect around 3,000 students for physical classes from Monday,” said S Kothai, principal of the college. The college plans to continue with online classes for students who are not able to attend the physical classes. Madras Christian College will let in students on campus in a staggered manner. “We have called second year students from February 10. Next, first year students will attend classes from February 24 and remaining students will come from March 7,” said Paul Wilson, principal of the college. Anna University has issued a staggered schedule to be followed from February 8 on its campuses and colleges. University officials said they wanted to maintain one student per room in the hostel throughout the semester. As per the schedule, the university would allow one year students additionally at any given time in the semester to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/colleges-varsities-to-work-six-days-a-week-from-feb-8/articleshow/80714319.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Active cases: Dip in state, marginal rise in Mumbai||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row the state and the city reported a dip in Covid cases. On Friday, Maharashtra added 2,628 cases and 40 fatalities, taking the tally to 20,38,630 and toll to 51,255. Mumbai registered four Covid-related deaths and 415 new cases, according to the state update. The city’s overall tally climbed to 3.11 lakh, and the toll to 11,384. “Coronavirus cases in Mumbai have been steady between 400 and 500 a day, and deaths have drastically dropped. Mumbai is on recovery mode,” said a senior BMC official. The city has a recovery rate of 94%. In Andheri’s SevenHills Hospital, which is now the largest civic facility for Covid-19, there are around 500 patients. “At the height of the pandemic, we had 1,300-odd patients,” said dean Dr B Adsul. Other BMC hospitals, including KEM in Parel and Nair in Mumbai Central, have less than a tenth of this number. Active cases in the state further dropped to 33,936, with 3,513 people being discharged on Friday. Mumbai reported a slight increase in active cases on Friday. There are a total of 5,750 people under treatment in the city. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli belt registered two deaths and 70 new cases. Its recovery rate climbed to 97%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/active-cases-dip-in-state-marginal-rise-in-mumbai/articleshow/80714327.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kanpur||Commissioner, officials review mega leather cluster, direct SPV to send letter to government||KANPUR: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar on Friday asked the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) Ramaipur mega leather cluster to send a letter to the additional chief secretary MSME mentioning therein details of the land purchased from private sources and send a copy to the additional chief secretary (revenue) so as to start further proceedings of this dream project. At a review meeting for mega leather cluster, district magistrate Alok Tiwari informed the commissioner that on-spot survey and survey of land records would be done soon on the basis of details provided by the SPV. A letter from the government is also required for the same. District magistrate Kanpur Nagar Alok Tiwari, additional district magistrate (land acquisition), SDM Sadar, regional manager UPSIDA, RK Jalan, Ashraf Rizwan and a member of the mega leather cluster Sarveshwar Shukla ,joint commissioner industries and several other officials attended the review meeting. On the issue of public hearing for social environmental impact assessment, the district magistrate said that February 6 (Saturday) had been fixed for the same. Regarding the issue of conversion of two lanes, a 24 km long road connecting Ramaipur to Bhaupur, superintending engineer( PWD) said that an estimate for the same would be prepared within 15 days. The commissioner directed that a proposal for converting this road into four lanes should be sent to the principal secretary (PWD )and a copy should be sent within a month to the district magistrate , special purpose vehicle (SPV) and joint commissioner industries. Raj Shekhar thereafter discussed the issue of power and load assessment of the cluster and shifting of high tension power lines from the area. He directed that coordinates of the lines and cluster area should be surveyed in such a way that HT lines should come in the green belt. Ge asked the superintending engineer (transmission) to do the needful. Regarding drainage system of Rania Industrial Area, regional manager, Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) said that a survey with the industries association and IIT had been done and its report was being prepared. The commissioner directed the joint commissioner Industries to review it on February 15 and ensure that the report was made available to UPSIDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/commissioner-officials-review-mega-leather-cluster-direct-spv-to-send-letter-to-government/articleshow/80712917.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Ahead of polls, AIADMK gives Rs 12,110 crore loan relief to farmers||CHENNAI: Two weeks after DMK president M K Stalin promised to waive off all farm loans in the state if voted to power, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took the wind out of the opposition’s sails by writing off Rs 12,110 crore crop loans availed by 16.43 lakh farmers from cooperative banks. “I am a farmer who loves farmers. It is my first duty to address their sufferings. These farmers can continue cultivation in the coming years without any hassle,” said Palaniswami while making a suo motu announcement about the scheme under Rule 110 on the floor of the House on Friday. The state government would arrange financial resources in the interim budget, the CM said. The average loan waiver per farmer works out to Rs 73,706. Stalin, leader of the principal opposition DMK which boycotted the entire session after staging a walkout ahead of the governor’s address on February 2, said the CM had made the announcement as he was left with no alternative because of his party’s poll promise. Last farm loan waiver was by 2016 Jaya govt, of Rs 5,314 croreSoon after the CM’s announcement, AIADMK MLAs lined up to thank him and touched his feet as a mark of respect. The last time the crop loan was waived was in 2016, when former chief minister J Jayalalithaa assumed charge for her fourth term. The outstanding loan of Rs 5,318.73 crore was waived, benefitting 12.02 lakh small and marginal farmers. Palaniswami alleged that the DMK could not keep its electoral promises of free two-acre land scheme to poor in 2016. Similarly, the party promised crop loan waiver ahead of the 2019 LS polls, but forgot the promise after winning the election. After the end of session, the CM told the party MLAs, who approached him, to publicize the waiver scheme through posters. The AIADMK headquarters too gave instructions to district functionaries to put up posters announcing the scheme across the state. The EPS government has already extended Rs 1,717 crore, under input subsidy head, for the crop loss due to cyclones Nivar and Burevi and the unseasonal rains in January, benefitting 16.43 lakh farmers. The amount is credited directly to the farmers’ bank accounts. The state government extended Rs 2,247 crore towards drought relief in 2017. Earlier, cooperative minister Sellur K Raju said the chief minister scripted history by making the announcement ahead of the election. “So far, promises of waiver of crop loans were made in election manifestos. The CM has made history,” the minister said, adding that the government extended Rs 20,281.93 crore towards relief to farmers in the last 10 years. Profusely thanking the chief minister, textiles minister O S Manian said Tamil Nadu farmers would stand by Palaniswami. “He shines as a real farmer,” he said. Deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman said the chief minister had given a pleasant surprise to the people and a death blow to the DMK’s first family. “There is no chance of a debate on who would be the chief minister next. It is going to be Amma’s government next and you (EPS) will rule,” the leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ahead-of-polls-aiadmk-gives-rs-12110cr-loan-relief-to-farmers/articleshow/80714345.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Chakka jam: Farmers vow to stay off Delhi limits||NEW DELHI: The agitating farmers at the Singhu border are ready for Saturday’s chakka jam, or road blockade, and assured it would be a peaceful one, with no disruptions likely in Delhi. The protestors said they had no intentions of entering Delhi and the protest, which will be held pan-India, aimed at garnering support from the Indian states. The road blockade will mainly impact states other than Delhi, the farmers said. When TOI visited Singhu border on Friday, most protesters were upbeat and optimistic about Saturday’s nationwide protest bringing the farmers’ movement back on track after the unsavoury derailment of January 26. “It will be a peaceful protest on Saturday and we want all participants to maintain discipline and ensure the act’s success,” said farmer Sawarn Singh of Fatehgarh Sahib, Punjab. “The chakka jam is only for three hours, from 12noon to 3pm but we want to maximise its effect as much as possible.” Sawarn Singh was sure Delhi was not likely to face any inconvenience with the event focusing on other states. Charanpal Singh of Rajpura, Punjab, said the farmers’ movement was being depicted as limited to Punjab and Haryana. “This is not just Punjab’s problem or Haryana’s problem. We want the government to see there is outrage in all states and the chakka jam is a way of exhibiting the scale of the problem,” he explained. Jagdev Singh, proudly sporting a Kisan Morcha badge, said the majority of the Indian population was standing with the farmers and the movement to have the central farm laws repealed needed their support. “Saturday is the day to stand up and prove that. Each state is ready to make us count,” said Jagdev Singh. The agitators insisted that the events of January 26 were anomalies. “The directions from the farmers’ unions for Saturday are clear. It will be a peaceful protest,” claimed Harchand Singh of Muktsar, Punjab. “There will be no attempt to create commotion or unrest. Farmers from all states need to step up and the common folk can join in too.” The farmer unions spearheading the over two-month-old protest could be seen on Friday discussing the way forward for Saturday. Langar sewa, for one, would be carried out as usual. Many of those camping at Singhu for over two months said Saturday wasn’t going to be any different for them. “Yes, there is a chakka jam, but this is our chakka jam and the day won’t be any different from normal for those already at Delhi’s borders. We only expect support from other states,” said Maninderpal Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana. Watch Will hold peaceful protest on 'Chakka jam': BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chakka-jam-farmers-vow-to-stay-off-city-limits/articleshow/80714384.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Fighting cases with I-T dept on our own, say Nizam’s grandsons||Hyderabad: Mir Sajjad Ali Khan and Mir Milad Ali Khan, grandsons of Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, said they have no connection with the Nizam’s family association and they are fighting their cases with the Income Tax department individually over the refund of IT on the sale proceeds of Nizam jewellery. Sajjad and Milad are the sons of Imdad Jah Bahadur, son of the last ruler of the princely state of Hyderabad. Several members of the Nizam’s heirs are seeking refund of the income tax deducted on the sale proceeds of the Nizam jewellery. They alleged that one of the grandsons of the Nizam has been claiming to represent them and other legal heirs in seeking redressal of their income tax grievances. “We are representing our own cases before the income tax department and no one is representing us,” they said in a statement here on Friday. They said many members of the family association have withdrawn their membership. “One of the grandsons is making misrepresentation and taking unilateral decisions. They said a public notice on the withdrawal of members from the association was issued. We have approached high court of Telangana and filed a petition to vacate the stay and direct the Income Tax department to release income tax refunds. Thanks to the case filed by one of the grandsons, the entire family members of the Nizam could not get the refund granted by the Income Tax department. Some of the beneficiaries passed away meanwhile, without getting their genuine refunds. Many beneficiaries are suffering in pecuniary distress,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fighting-cases-with-i-t-dept-on-our-own-say-nizams-grandsons/articleshow/80714366.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Revoldo’ takes U-turn, halts ops to take it to Theppakadu elephant camp in MTR||Udhagamandalam: The operation to take the tusker ‘Rivoldo’ to Theppakadu elephant camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve came to a grinding halt on Thursday evening, with the 40-year-old animal making a U-turn at Kallallah near Masinagudi check post in the Nilgiris and disappearing in the forest. The forest department team, which had been guiding the tusker to the elephant camp for the past three days, tried to follow the animal and take control over it, but in vain. L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, said it was the first hiccup faced by them during the operation, which started on February 2. “For now, we have decided not to disturb the tusker until it reaches Vazhaithottam area. We are also discussing options to treat its wounded trunk.” The tip of its trunk was severed in an incident years ago. Of late, the animal has been suffering from breathing problems and not able to eat. Hence, the forest department has decided against translocating the animal after tranquilizing it. “The tusker cannot be tranquilized because of the breathing problems. We are exploring other options to take the elephant to the Theppakadu camp.” Another source said they had taken the tusker to Vibuthimalai near Bokkapuram on the second day of the mission. “It wasn’t an easy task. We didn’t force the tusker at any time of its journey to Vibuthimalai. Instead, we allowed the animal to take its own route, while feeding it sugarcane, watermelon and banana, etc.” Several teams are involved in the operation. While anti-poaching watcher Bandan and retired forest guard Ganesan, who have been taking care of the pachyderm for the past five to six years, are guiding the tusker to the Theppakadu elephant camp, there are other teams that are involved in tracking the route and providing food, among others. “While we managed to take the elephant till Kallallah by Thursday evening, the tusker suddenly made a U-turn and started running back. We don’t know the reason behinds its sudden behavioural change. Maybe, it could have got the scent of other wild elephants,” Srikanth said. According to the official, the tusker was spotted at Mavanallah area on Friday. “We are waiting for the animal to return to Vazhaithottam area, where it had been wandering around for the past six years, to take the next step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/revoldo-takes-u-turn-halts-ops-to-take-it-to-theppakadu-elephant-camp-in-mtr/articleshow/80714339.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||State transport min holds meet to discuss MV Act||Jaipur: The state transport minister held a meeting of concerned officials to find legal ways to reduce the revised penalties on violations under the new Motor Vehicles Act. The focus is especially on reducing the penalties on overloading of commercial vehicles as well as permit violation. A proposal would be made for this for CM’s approval. Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, state transport minister told TOI, “Due to the amendments made in the MV Act 2019, the penalties for violations is very high. For instance if a commercial vehicle is found overloaded then the starting fine is Rs 20,000 which increases by every tonne. The question is that how is anyone supposed to pay these fines which run into lakhs when they probably have just one or two commercial vehicles and are not earning as much as those persons who own many such vehicles. Our idea is that the penalty for overloading should be brought down to Rs 5,000.” According to the minister, similar reductions have been done in states like Karnataka and Gujarat. “In both these states, the penalty for overloading is Rs 5,000 and we want similar model to be adopted in Rajasthan,” said the minister.The MV Act 2019 was implemented on September 1, 2019 though initially Rajasthan had refused to impose the revised penalties as the state found them too excessive. Another focal point is the hefty fine of Rs 20,000 on permit violations which the transport department wants to bring down. Elaborating on this, Khachariyawas said, “We want that the penalty for permit violation should be brought down to Rs 10,000 for heavy vehicles, Rs 5,000 for light motor vehicles and Rs 2,000 for two-wheelers etc. I have instructed the officials to prepare a proposal for the same during the meeting held on Friday and once all the legalities have been resolved, we will present it to CM for further discussion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-transport-min-holds-meet-to-discuss-mv-act/articleshow/80714362.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Nigerian from Nalasopara held for Rs 25 lakh e-fraud in Telangana||MUMBAI: A Nigerian, suspected to be carrying out online crimes from his rented apartment in Nalasopara (east), has been arrested by the Telangana police. The accused, identified only as David, lived in a rented house in Agarwal Nagri. On Monday, cops from the cyber unit of Telangana police tracked down the address of a cyber criminal to Nalasopara. A police team arrived and arrested the accused from his home for allegedly cheating a Telangana resident of Rs 25 lakh in a case of online fraud. Officials of Tulinj police station who co-ordinated with their Telangana counterparts in making the arrest suspect the accused to be involved in many cyber crimes in Vasai-Virar, Thane and Mumbai. The police said it was the first time that the accused tried to con a victim online in Telangana during lockdown. Cops managed to track him down recently. The Tulinj police have begun a drive in Nalasopara (east) to flush out foreigners staying illegally in rented flats. Several Nigerians have been caught living without valid visas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nigerian-from-nalasopara-held-for-rs-25l-e-fraud-in-telangana/articleshow/80692829.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Traffic cops seek south Mumbai imams’ help to spread message of road safety||MUMBAI: City traffic police have reached out to imams in parts of south Mumbai that have a higher incidence of traffic violations, to spread the message of road safety. The imams have been requested to use congregations, including Friday sermons, to counsel people against violation of traffic rules. Mohammed Ali Road, J J Marg, Pydhonie and Bhendi Bazaar are among the localities where imams have begun telling people, especially the youth, to follow traffic rules. TimesViewTraffic police’s request to the imams to appeal to the community against traffic rule violations is a welcome step. Violation of traffic rules in some crowded areas of south Mumbai is a perennial problem and it is good that community leaders have taken up the task to counsel the youths to follow traffic rules. It will help reduce the number of accidents and set an example for others to follow.As part of the ongoing Road Safety Month, DCP (traffic) Yogesh Gupta met a group of imams in south Mumbai on Thursday. “We want motorists to self-discipline rather than follow the rules out of fear of the police department,” said Gupta. “We have spoken to prominent residents of these areas to spread the message and also to imams so they can address people whenever they gather at mosques to pray. The target group are the youth as they are involved the most in traffic violations. We have requested imams to speak about desisting from speeding, signal jumping and rash driving, the most common complaints. Youths will be egged to wear helmets,” he said. Traffic police added the message is for all residents and not one community. Maulana Aijaz Kashmiri, imam of Handiwali Masjid in Bhendi Bazaar, said he and many other imams used Friday sermons to reach out to people with the message that they should follow traffic rules. “It is in their interest and for the safety of others that traffic rules are followed. We have also told traffic police that they should not be lenient in punishing traffic violations,” Maulana Kashmiri said. Senior cleric Maulana Moin Ashraf Quadri (Moin Mian) said he too would call a meeting of imams soon and request them to speak on the importance of adhering to the traffic rules. “Islam is against anything that harms people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/traffic-cops-seek-sobo-imams-help-to-spread-message-of-road-safety/articleshow/80712921.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Central officials carry out inspection of 2BHK houses||Hyderabad: Officials of the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOH&UA), on Friday, inspected the 2BHK houses being built under the state government’s dignity housing scheme. The central team inspected six sites in the city, including those in Kattalamandi (Nampally), Chikalguda and Jawahar Nagar. Five officials divided themselves into teams and inspected the sites. They checked the number of units being built, construction material used and amenities in the housing societies. The officials have drafted reports based on the inspections which will be submitted to (MOH&UA). The team will also visit the sites outside city on Saturday, February 6, which will include sites in Warangal and Sanga Reddy. Their visit was not publicised unlike routine inspections and civic activities. “The inspection was done to check the status/progress of houses in the city. It’s not only Telangana, they are going to other states too,” said a Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) official. The 2BHK housing scheme was mired in controversy on several occasions and was picked up by opposition parties, including the BJP and Congress. In January, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and municipal administration & urban development minister KT Rama Rao took potshots at each other during a programme held to inaugurate the 2BHK housing units. In September 2020, high drama prevailed at Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka’s house at Banjara Hills when animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and mayor Bonthu Rammohan landed at the CLP leader’s house to show him the 2BHK houses after TRS and Congress leaders had wordy duel over the houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-officials-carry-out-inspection-of-2bhk-houses/articleshow/80714389.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Minimal use of remdesivir as many have mild symptoms||Jaipur: As there has been continuous dip in the number of Covid-19 cases, especially the severely affected cases, doctors are no longer using remdesivir, tocilizumab and other injections like dexona.On Friday, the state got 116 fresh cases while no deaths were reported. Also, the state is left with 1,581 active cases out of which at least 80% are under home quarantine.Senior doctors who are part of the core team of Covid treatment at SMS hospital stated that the number of patients with severe symptoms have also gone down in the past one month.“We are no longer using remdesivir, tocilizumab and other injections like dexona since patients are with very mild symptoms. We are now following the protocols which we had fixed for patients having mild symptoms,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, Superintendent of RUHS.Jaipur witnessed only 17 cases out of which four came from Jhotwara, three from Bassi, two cases from Jawahar Nagar and one case each from Agra Road, Chandpole, Gopalpura, Govindgarh, Kothputli and Sanganer. Out of 116 cases, Kota got 34 cases followed by 17 in Jaipur, 12 in Alwar and 11 in Jodhpur.“Also, Churu, Jhunjhunu and Sawai Madhopur are left with no active cases. Still people should follow social distancing and wear masks,” said an officer. Till Friday, the state witnessed 2,771 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minimal-use-of-remdesivir-as-many-have-mild-symptoms/articleshow/80714379.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Boeing 737’s vertical fins to be made at Hyd plant||Hyderabad: US-based aerospace biggie Boeing on Friday said it will be adding a new production line at the Hyderabad facility of its joint venture with the Tata Group, Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited (TBAL), to manufacture complex vertical fin structures for its 737 family of airplanes. The vertical fin is a complex structural part of the aircraft and the new production line will utilise cutting-edge robotics and automation for its manufacturing, it said. The vertical fin is a stabiliser that helps aircraft fly straight and prevents the nose of the plane from swinging from side to side. According to Boeing, the expansion marks a significant milestone for the joint venture, which currently manufactures aero-structures for the Boeing AH-64 Apache helicopters, including fuselages, secondary structures, and vertical spar boxes for global customers, at a 14,000 sq meters facility at Adibatla near Hyderabad’s international airport. The expansion will create additional employment opportunities and enable skill development as well, it added. Boeing India president Salil Gupte said the availability of skilled talent, robust infrastructure, ease of doing business, and a highly responsive government administration make Telangana an ideal destination for the aerospace and defence sector. “TBAL is an example of Boeing’s commitment towards co-development of integrated systems in aerospace and defence in India, for the world, and a reflection of the country’s Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative,” Gupte said. Telangana’s industries & IT minister KT Rama Rao said Telangana is an established hotbed for India’s defence and aerospace industry, supported as it is by a robust ecosystem, including a large pool of skilled and industry-ready workforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boeing-737s-vertical-fins-to-be-made-at-hyd-plant/articleshow/80714376.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC gets over 4,000 files in DCR portal||Hyderabad: The Development Control Regulations (DCR) portal received 4,073 files since the time it was launched on November 16, 2020. The online portal is a sever-based scrutiny system to verify drawing compliances before submitting it to any institution including urban local bodies (ULB). The server-based scrutiny system for citizens was introduced to verify building/layout drawing plans before submitting it to authorities. The portal scrutinizes the submitted drawings automatically notifies the applicants regarding the status of the submitted drawings. “The portal is transparent to the applicant’s understanding of report scrutiny and entities. There is zero to minimal manual intervention in report generation,” GHMC statement said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-gets-over-4000-files-in-dcr-portal/articleshow/80714380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Chakka jam: Delhi braces for logjam, cops finalise diversions||NEW DELHI: Police are on their toes to ensure the fallout of the three-hour, nationwide chakka jam, or road blockade, called by the protesting farmers for Saturday does not throw the capital into chaos. A senior Delhi Police officer said personnel have been deployed in strength on select roads to prevent the agitationists at Singhu, Tikri and other protest sites from breaching Delhi streets. “There is apprehension that a large number of protesters will take part in the chakka jam and they are being supported by the opposition political parties. We have to, therefore, make elaborate traffic arrangements, including diversions and regulation of traffic,” the officer said. Emergency vehicles will be given free passage as also transporters of essential goods. In coordination with the neighbouring states, Delhi Police will stop unauthorised entry and plying of buses and trucks in the city. Another traffic police officer said that quick response teams have been briefed and are on hold for immediate deployment at the border points in case of an emergent situation. Motorbike staff have also been sensitised to keep vigil on vehicular movement both during day and the night. The Kalindi Kunj border is closed for traffic movement. On Mathura Road, traffic will move straight to Apollo flyover for going to Faridabad or take a U-Turn at Apollo Hospital to return to Ashram instead of taking the left turn to Kalindi Kunj. If traffic is affected on NH-24 and NH-9, it will be diverted to Ring Road, with motorists coming from ITO and going towards Akshardham on NH-24 or NH-9 sent towards DND Flway. If DND has to close, traffic will be diverted to the Barapullah corridor or to Ring Road towards Ashram. Vehicles from Ashram will be diverted to Kilokri or Ring Road to Sarai Kale Khan. Traffic from Sarai Kale Khan towards NH-24 and NH-9 will be diverted on Ring Road towards ITO for accessing Ring Road bypass, Raja Ram Kohli Marg (Geeta Colony Pusta Road) or GT Road. An officer said that Delhi and Ghaziabad would likely suffer traffic jams because the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border has been closed. Vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative routes in Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND and Kalindi Kunj. NH-24 will be kept open for traffic coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad. Apart from the UP Gate border, those at Singhu, Tikri, Saboli and Piau Maniyari are also closed. As traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44, traffic police have asked motorists to avoid these routes on Saturday and keep to alternative passages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-braces-for-logjam-cops-finalise-diversions/articleshow/80714413.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid patients’ kin complain of inflated hospital bills, lack of subsidised treatment||MUMBAI: Many families in the state had to pay medical bills of Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 14 lakh in private hospitals that were empanelled with the state insurance scheme and mandated to provide subsidised treatment for Covid-19 patients, said NGO Jan Arogya Abhiyan on Friday. A handful of affected relatives spoke at a ‘hybrid’ public hearing, organised partially online and from Pune, about inflated hospital bills and refusal by hospitals to release bodies without full payment. “Many private hospitals across the state clearly violated the capping of rates for Covid-19 patients introduced by the state government,” said senior health activist Dr Anant Phadke of the Abhiyan. The NGO received over 30 testimonies and over 100 calls from people wishing to share their experiences.“Many patients reported their inability to access public insurance schemes such as MPJAY (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana) due to lack of co-operation from hospitals, and incurred heavy debt to pay bills,” said the Abhiyan’s co-convenor Shakuntala Bhalerao. When Kolhapur resident Manisha Palekar’s husband passed away after a 24-day stay in a MPJAY empanelled hospital, she was asked to pay Rs 14 lakh as treatment charges. Not only was her husband’s body not released for 10 hours till the dues were settled, she had to wait for three months to get bills and medical records. A kidney failure patient from Bhiwandi died as he couldn’t access treatment right at the start of the pandemic. Yavatmal resident Sandeep Dhande admitted his 80-year-old mother at a private hospital that demanded Rs 80,000 deposit. “My mother passed away after five days and the hospital refused to release her body till we paid Rs 1.5 lakh of the bill,” said Dhande. Dr Phadke said these instances of overcharging by private hospitals amounted to violation of the Disaster Management Act which had been invoked by Maharashtra government, hence action should be taken against such hospitals. City lawyer advocate Lara Jesani, who was a part of the panel, said legal assistance could be provided to enable such a group of patients to make a collective demand for refund of excessive amounts charged by private hospitals. Public health specialist Dr Abhay Shukla said regulation of private healthcare sector is the need of the hour and the state should pass the Clinical Establishments Act soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-patients-kin-complain-of-inflated-hosp-bills-lack-of-subsidised-treatment/articleshow/80714399.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Varanasi||ACS letter brings relief for weavers running powerlooms||Varanasi: A missive by additional chief secretary (ACS) Navneet Sehgal, who also holds the charge of handloom and textiles department, has brought the hope of relaxation in power tariff for weavers operating powerlooms in the district. The drive for realization of dues and disconnection of power supply of powerloom weavers has been put on hold by the electricity department after the copy of a letter (no. 188/63-vu-2021), written by the ACS (handloom and textiles department) to ACS (energy and additional energy department) Alok Sinha regarding the same was received here on Thursday. Talking to TOI, superintending engineer Varanasi urban-II Deepal Agrawal said, “We have received the copy of letter written by ACS (handloom and textile industries). Through this letter it has been expected from the electricity department that realization of pending power tariffs of powerloom weavers and disconnection of their power supplies should be avoided till the state cabinet issues an order after submission of a proposal before it on relaxations in power tariffs to be given to them.” Agrawal said that after receiving this letter, he had convened a meeting with executive engineers in which it was decided that no power supply disconnection drive would be conducted against the weavers and their powerloom units till UP Power Corporation Limited and energy department circulate new orders after clearing all the points concerned. The provision of realizing power tariff on fixed charges basis had been introduced through a government order issued in 2006 during the regime of then chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav. However, in 2019 a new GO was issued to ensure that old provision is replaced by realizing power tariff on the basis of meter reading from January 1, 2020. Another GO issued in October last ensured that old provisions prescribed in 2006 would continue till July 31, 2020 and the norms prescribed in the 2019 GO would become effective from August 1, 2020. Agrawal said, “Till the time GO issued in 2006 remained effective by 2019 end, the weavers were paying Rs 143 per HP per month. But since January 1, 2020 the new charges became effective after which the powerloom weavers had to pay the tariff on commercial rates after consuming the limit of subsidised units from 120 to 240.” The dues of over 19,000 connections to powerloom units have gone above the mark of Rs 285 crores till July 2020 end, said power officials mentioning that as weavers leaders were claiming that their talks are continuing with the state government, the power disconnection drive had been avoided. The power officials said that hundreds of weavers had even applied for disconnection of power supply mentioning that they can’t survive with the current tariff plan. The city had also witnessed ‘murri bandh’ (closure of weaving machines) strikes by weavers for several days from August to November. The opposition parties also extended support to their agitation. Many weaving units were also closed while many powerloom machines were dumped in scrap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/acs-letter-brings-relief-for-weavers-running-powerlooms/articleshow/80712934.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||More arrests likely in Papla case||Jaipur: The police team interrogating notorious fugitive Papla Gujjar on Friday stated that they have identified some persons of Haryana and Maharastra who were facilitating him through money and accommodation during his escape.Senior police officers monitoring the case stated more arrests are likely for harbouring the criminal Papla Gujjar.Officials stated that there were a few people in Haryana and some in Maharashtra who were harbouring him. “As it was established that Rs 10 lakh in two different accounts were deposited, we have got some details on those who were sending money to Papla during his escape. Thus, they too would be booked,” said Hawa Singh Ghumaria, IGP, Jaipur Range.Senior officers further stated that as the days are passing, Papla is gradually letting down his guard. “He is broken and has confessed that he never thought that while Haryana police failed to nab him since 2017, Rajasthan police arrested him. Also, after he would be sent to jail, the other state’s police are likely to seek his custody for interrogation in their cases of murder and extortion,” said a senior officer.Since police remand of Papla has started, the team comprising Ghumaria and additional SP Siddhant Sharma are into interrogation for eight to 10 hours per day. “Initially, he was portraying himself as a victim as he said he just took revenge of his wrestling Guru. We have also got some finer details on the areas where he spent his days and months while he was on the run for the past 14 months,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-arrests-likely-in-papla-case/articleshow/80714397.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Former Dausa SP suspended, sent to jail till Feb 17||Jaipur: An ACB court here on Friday sent Manish Agarwal, former Dausa SP, to jail till February 17 as his police remand was over.Also, the state government suspended him following his arrest and alleged involvement in a corruption racket during his stint as Dausa SP. A team of ACB is likely to visit Dausa to collect more evidences against the officer.Agarwal was arrested by ACB on February 2 following his alleged involvement in the corruption racket of extortion of contractors engaged in road construction. Prior to his arrest, the ACB had arrested two SDMs and a middleman Neeraj Meena, who was allegedly demanding Rs 38 lakh from the contractors on behalf of Agarwal.“He was produced in the court from where he was sent in judicial custody till February 17. We have enough evidences against him and will now focus on filling a strong charge-sheet against him. He was not cooperating in the investigation so far during his police remand. Also, we will soon apply for his prosecution sanction,” B L Soni, Director General, ACB, said on Friday.Meanwhile in another development, the state government suspended the officer as he was arrested by the ACB in a case under Section 7, 7A of Prevention of Corruption Act and also against Section 384 and Section 120-B of IPC. “Since he was kept in police custody for over 48 hours, he is suspended,” the order stated.ACB in the investigation, so far, claimed that they have got incriminating evidences, including 164 CrPC statements of the victims of his corruption and extortion nexus. “We will not divulge the details of the 164 CrPC statements, but these statements are very strong evidence against him,” Soni said.Sleuths also claimed that they have got some diaries and some other incriminating documents from the house of the suspended IPS officer which clearly indicate his involvement in the deep-rooted corruption during his stint as Dausa SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-dausa-sp-suspended-sent-to-jail-till-feb-17/articleshow/80714390.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Fire at three-storied building in Abids||Hyderabad: Fire broke out in a three-storied building located in Troop Bazar, Abids on Friday. No casualties or injuries were reported. The godown, which was locked, caught fire due to a short circuit around 8pm, police said. Though injuries were not reported, there was property damage. People from surrounding commercial establishments noticed sparks and altered the police. “Four fire tenders have been pressed into service, no injuries have been reported,” Subbiram Reddy, sub-inspector of Sultan Bazar police station, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-three-storied-building-in-abids/articleshow/80714396.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Rajkot||Take vaccine or resign, anganwadi workers told||Rajkot: The Kutch district administration has ordered a probe against a child development project officer (CDPO) for allegedly forcing anganwadi workers into taking Covid-19 vaccine and threatening them with dire consequence, if they refused to take the shot. The incident came to light after an audio clip of the woman CDPO went viral on social media on Friday.The woman, whose name was not revealed by the district officials, is heard saying that she wanted list of all anganwadi workers including pregnant women who have been advised not to take the Covid-19 vaccine. In the clip, the woman is heard giving instructions to workers in Nana Assamiya village of Mandvi taluka.The female officer is heard saying that all women must take the vaccine. “I want all the workers and helpers to be vaccinated. You either take the vaccine or give your resignations,” the CDPO is heard saying. She also instructs her assistant or colleague named Pragya to prepare a list of all those who have not taken the jab.“It (vaccine) is compulsory for everybody. I attended a video conference where the DDO (district development officer) sir rebuked us and asked why the worker were not taking the vaccine?” the officer is heard saying. She also told anganwadi workers who did not take vaccine shot on Friday to come and take it on Saturday or their supervisor will also face action. She goes on to give an example of a supervisor in Abdasa who got suspended for not taking the vaccine. “If you do not follow the instructions, all the supervisors will be suspended. I have got instructions,” she adds.When contacted Kutch DDO Bhavya Varma said, “We have already ordered an inquiry into the audio clip. The woman officer has gone a little overboard. She was there to review who had taken the vaccine and who are still left out. The way she talked is absolutely incorrect. One cannot force anybody to take the vaccine.”He said the CDPO was there to collect data. “We need to plan how many frontline workers will take vaccines in the coming days and coordinate with other departments. I believe that her intention was to review progress,” said Varma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/take-vaccine-or-resign-anganwadi-workers-told/articleshow/80712937.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Central Railway to double no. of lifts, escalators at stations by 2022||MUMBAI: Central Railway (CR) plans to improve passenger amenities across the suburban network in the next financial year, by doubling the number of escalators and elevators at several stations. The escalators can carry 9,000 commuters per hour, and thus ensure a smooth flow of passengers from stations to foot over-bridges (FOBs). There are 76 escalators across all CR stations in Mumbai. The number will touch 86 before the end of March 2021. Similarly, the number of lifts will be 45. CR general mangaer Sanjeev Mittal said, “We plan to install 80 more escalators and 50 more lifts at various stations in the Mumbai division.” Thus, there will be 166 escalators and 95 lifts in Mumbai divison by 2022. The escalators are proposed at stations on the Harbour line and CR Main line between CSMT to Karjat/Kasara. Thane was the first station on the Mumbai suburban network to get an escalator in June 2013. A month later in August 2013, Vile Parle become the first on WR to get this facility. The emphasis on escalators has increased after the Elphinston Road tragedy on September 29, in which 23 people died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-to-double-no-of-lifts-escalators-at-stns-by-2022/articleshow/80714433.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||History sleeps in this Kal Bangla||Near the magnificent Stonehouse in Ooty is a miniature version of it, which though small is marvellous enough to cast a spell on the onlookers. The structure, originally known as the Connemara Cottage, today houses the government museum, which is a treasure trove of the Nilgiri’s art and culture. On display is art, craft, sculpture and other items related to the tribal communities, especially that of Toda, in the hill retreat. Built by John Sullivan, the architect of modern Nilgiris, the structure today stands testimonial to the fine architecture styling of the British Raj era. While construction of the single-storey building began in 1882, it was completed only in 1885. Located atop a hillock, the building was set up to accommodate married clerks, who worked in the secretariat, which was then housed in the majestic Stonehouse. Named after Robert Bourke, Baron of Connemara (Governor of Madras) in 1889, the Connemara Cottage, today tells the vivid tale of the different tribal communities in the hill town. In his book Ootacamund: A History, Fredrick Price says work on the one-storey building was commenced in 1882 and completed in 1884-85 at a cost of Rs22,676, inclusive of the cost of furniture. Erected on the east side of the secretariat building, he says, it was originally meant to be quarters for married clerks. Till February 2013, the bungalow was used as the official residence of the principal of the Ooty Government Arts College, which was started in 1955. In 2013, then chief minister J Jayalalithaa had ordered to restore the heritage building. Later in the year, the government also proposed to convert the building into the government museum. Subsequently, higher officials with the tourism, and art and culture departments inspected the building and instructed the Public Works Department (PWD) to renovate the structure without making any changes to the original architecture. The PWD then revamped the building over a period of four years at a cost of Rs45 lakh under the Hill Area Development Programme. Finally, the Connemara Cottage was ready to house the government museum in 2017. The government museum was functioning out of a private building on Ooty-Mysuru road until then. The museum showcases the tradition and culture of tribals such as Toda, Irula, Kurumba, Kotha and the Badagas. It also houses 2,000-year-old megalithic articles and palm and bamboo manuscripts found in the Nilgiris. K A Murugavel, curator of the museum, said, “The interior and the display facilities were done at a cost of Rs58 lakh from the Rs1.15 crore that was sanctioned by the Union government for the development of the museum in 2018.” Geetha Srinivasan, patron, district chapter of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, said the museum, which was housed in the historic heritage building, should showcase more of the rare artefacts of tribal culture, tradition and the history of the Nilgiris. “It should be made a learning centre for students.” According to her special care was taken during the restoration work not to make structural changes to the building and preserve the heritage value of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/history-sleeps-in-this-kal-bangla/articleshow/80714408.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 67% of frontline health workers vaccinated||JAIPUR: On the second day of the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday, workers of various municipal corporations, Nagar Palika and other local bodies got vaccinated as frontline workers. Though vaccination for health care workers was not planned in many districts, 82.3% of them got vaccinated. On the other hand, 67.0 % of frontline workers were vaccinated. Sawai Madhopur achieved a target of 93% of the total target while Banswara recording only 47%. Since January 16, 4,14,422 people have been vaccinated out of the total target of 6,17,920. “Out of these 3,66,416 health care workers and 48,006 frontline workers were vaccinated. Very few adverse effects of vaccination have been reported so far,” said a senior doctor who is also a part of the planning and distribution of vaccines in the state. However, chaos prevailed at many centres were sanitation workers were waiting to get vaccinated as the vaccines arrived late at these centres. “I am sitting here since 9am. One hour has passed and there is no intimation,” said Ghanshyam Lonwal, a sanitation worker at Vidhyadhar Nagar locality. On Saturday authorities are planning to cover police personnel for the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/67-of-frontline-health-workers-vaccinated/articleshow/80714404.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 67% of frontline health workers vaccinated||JAIPUR: On the second day of the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday, workers of various municipal corporations, Nagar Palika and other local bodies got vaccinated as frontline workers. Though vaccination for health care workers was not planned in many districts, 82.3% of them got vaccinated. On the other hand, 67.0 % of frontline workers were vaccinated. Sawai Madhopur achieved a target of 93% of the total target while Banswara recording only 47%. Since January 16, 4,14,422 people have been vaccinated out of the total target of 6,17,920. “Out of these 3,66,416 health care workers and 48,006 frontline workers were vaccinated. Very few adverse effects of vaccination have been reported so far,” said a senior doctor who is also a part of the planning and distribution of vaccines in the state. However, chaos prevailed at many centres were sanitation workers were waiting to get vaccinated as the vaccines arrived late at these centres. “I am sitting here since 9am. One hour has passed and there is no intimation,” said Ghanshyam Lonwal, a sanitation worker at Vidhyadhar Nagar locality. On Saturday authorities are planning to cover police personnel for the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/67-of-frontline-health-workers-vaccinated/articleshow/80722317.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 67% of frontline health workers vaccinated||JAIPUR: On the second day of the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday, workers of various municipal corporations, Nagar Palika and other local bodies got vaccinated as frontline workers. Though vaccination for health care workers was not planned in many districts, 82.3% of them got vaccinated. On the other hand, 67.0 % of frontline workers were vaccinated. Sawai Madhopur achieved a target of 93% of the total target while Banswara recording only 47%. Since January 16, 4,14,422 people have been vaccinated out of the total target of 6,17,920. “Out of these 3,66,416 health care workers and 48,006 frontline workers were vaccinated. Very few adverse effects of vaccination have been reported so far,” said a senior doctor who is also a part of the planning and distribution of vaccines in the state. However, chaos prevailed at many centres were sanitation workers were waiting to get vaccinated as the vaccines arrived late at these centres. “I am sitting here since 9am. One hour has passed and there is no intimation,” said Ghanshyam Lonwal, a sanitation worker at Vidhyadhar Nagar locality. On Saturday authorities are planning to cover police personnel for the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/67-of-frontline-health-workers-vaccinated/articleshow/80722318.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Schools in Kolkata may seek CM nod to reopen classes V to VIII||KOLKATA: Principals of several schools in Kolkata will meet next week and draw up a plan to write to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her for permission for phased reopening of classes VI to VIII. The education department on Thursday released the standard operating procedure (SOP) that schools will have to follow to resume classes on campus for board-year students from February 12. Sujoy Biswas, Ram Mohan Mission School principal and secretary of the Bengal chapter of Association of Heads of ICSE Schools, confirmed the plan for the meeting. “We will present the idea to member principals for their views. We would like to request the government to allow us to resume lessons on campus for classes VI, VII and VIII in a phased way. But before we approach the government, we would like to make sure all schools are ready to follow the guidelines and take precautionary measures if we are granted the permission,” Biswas said. Over 100 private schools had recently written to the chief minister, requesting her to allow reopening of campuses so that board-year students could attend practical classes in the labs. “We will draw up our own SOP before approaching the government. Schools in other states are reopening and the mood is positive, given the dip in the Covid cases across the state,” said Biswas. Principals are aware that handling students and maintaining social distance in junior classes will not be easy as kids might share food and huddle together. “In most schools, every class has close to 45 children. It won’t be possible to make sure all of them sit apart and don’t share food. It will also be difficult to stop them from touching and playing with each others’ masks. These things have to be kept in mind before approaching the government,” said the principal of a south Kolkata school. Principals have been having a dialogue with parents on safety measures. Some schools have even prepared audio-visual presentations, explaining the measures adopted. “Our focus is definitely on senior-class students who are going to take board exams this year. But we are prepared to reopen even for the middle section in a phased manner if the government allows us to. We will follow the SOP suggested by the government,” said Sharmishtha Banerjee, principal of Vivekananda Mission School in Joka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-may-seek-cm-nod-to-reopen-classes-v-to-viii/articleshow/80714432.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||‘Cops must give progress report in private complaint against Kangana Ranaut’||MUMBAI: A magistrate court on Friday directed Amboli police to submit a progress report on the inquiry it had ordered into a private complaint made by a lawyer alleging that actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, had posted defamatory and hateful statements against a community. The court’s directions came after the police had sought an extension of time to submit the inquiry report. The matter will be heard on March 4. In October 2020, the Andheri magistrate court directed the police to conduct an inquiry. Last month, Amboli police had asked the magistrate court for time to complete their investigation. The court had granted them time as a “last chance”. The complainant, advocate Ali Kaashif Deshmukh, had submitted on April 15, Chandel allegedly posted a defamatory statement against a community on Twitter. The plea said her account was subsequently suspended. The plea accused Ranaut of supporting Chandel. It added on April 18, Ranaut too posted a video on her social media platforms, labelling a religious sect as “terrorists”. Deshmukh told the court no police action was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-must-give-progress-report-in-pvt-complaint-against-ranaut/articleshow/80712962.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Varanasi||UP CM fumes on property grab complaint, orders eviction||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath scolded an official when one Rajendra Yadav met him during Janata Darshan on Thursday and complained that his house has been forcibly occupied by mafia. Yogi ordered officials to take instant action following which Yadav got possession of his land within an hour. During Janata Darshan, Rajendra Yadav of Khoya Mandi told the CM that he had got a plot registered in 1983 and constructed a house, but it had been grabbed by mafia. CM instantly recalled that he had himself got the house vacated 10 years ago and ensured possession to Yadav. CM Yogi scolded an official and asked how mafia is growing again. “I had helped in providing possession of the house to Yadav 10 years ago. How was it given to a mafia without checking facts. How was the house demolished and who is giving shelter to the mafia?,” Yogi thundered. Yadav said that the encroacher misled officials by getting the map altered fraudulently and got his house demolished. After CM’s instructions, ADM city Rakesh Kumar Srivastav reached the spot with police and revenue team and demolished the construction. Nagar Nigam vehicles carried away the bricks, sand and construction material while the accused ran away from the spot. Rajender Yadav and his family thanked the chief minister. CM Yogi heard the complaints of 200 people during Janata Darshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-fumes-on-property-grabcomplaint-orders-eviction/articleshow/80712961.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Thane||A ‘frugal’ Thane civic budget; no tax hikes, no new projects||THANE: Attributing the strained revenue inflow to the pandemic and civic elections scheduled next year, Thane municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma on Friday tabled a ‘frugal’ budget outlay of Rs 2,755 crore for 2021-22, a 30% drop from the previous fiscal. While citizens were spared any tax hike, the administration refrained from announcing any fresh projects. The focus, said Sharma, was on improving revenue and maintaining the assets already created in Thane. Sharma said the budget has been scaled down considering the impact of Covid-19 on its revenue sources—so far, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has managed to rake in barely Rs 2,807 crore of the Rs 4,086 crore target for 2020-21, a shortfall of Rs 1,279 crore. TMC’s financial position is likely to be reviewed in the next six months, the civic chief added. “We have faced a challenging year. Despite no revenue especially from major contributing sources like property tax, we continued to operate till mid-August,” he said. Sharma said they have managed to allot adequate budget for undertaking crucial infrastructure works like improving water supply connectivity, connecting underground sewers and drains, and road and footpath repairs. However, funding for big-ticket projects like the internal Metro and waterfront development remains to be allocated in the initial phase. Despite the pandemic exposing the poor health infrastructure in Thane city, the budget failed to outline any corrective measures. As per the allocations, the budget for clinics and health centres has shrunk to Rs 76 crore in 2021-22 from Rs 84 crore in the previous fiscal. Meanwhile, corporators and standing committee members from Congress, NCP and BJP staged a protest ahead of the special meeting for the budget presentation and refused to allow it to be presented for nearly 45 minutes. They demanded that the Shiv Sena-ruled TMC first table the report on Covid expenditure and implementation of the previous budget, and also clarify the curtailment of expenditure without informing the standing committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/a-frugal-thane-civic-budget-no-tax-hikes-no-new-projects/articleshow/80715743.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Pocso charge in Jorabagan case for ‘most heinous crime’||Kolkata: A sessions court on Saturday remanded the 45-year-old security guard of a Jorabagan building, arrested for sexual assault and murder of a nine-year-old girl, to 13 days’ police custody even as the state counsel demanded harshest punishment, terming it “the most heinous crime”. Ram Kumar, alias Lambu, has been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 apart from other charges. Presented before the magistrate at Bankshall court, no lawyer agreed to appear on Ram’s behalf. He will be next produced before court on February 18. “The accused has committed an offence of the highest order by inflicting sexual torture and murdering a nine-year-old child. It is the most heinous of all crimes and we sought his full-term police custody,” said public prosecutor Tamal Kanti Mukherjee. Police said although Ram had initially accepted his crime, he kept changing his statements. “He had not been to his hometown in Bihar for several years and none of his friends or relatives from there visited him. A team is checking if he had any criminal antecedent in his village,” said an officer. Ram allegedly lured the child into his room with biryani and chips when she had strayed into the old building around 8.45pm on Wednesday. The officer said they were awaiting a viscera report to find out whether the girl was drugged or not before being tortured. “According to initial investigations, the girl seemed to have spent a substantial amount of time in the guard’s room. It is difficult to restrain a child for such a long time without drawing attention. So, we are checking whether he had drugged her or not,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pocso-charge-in-jorabagan-case-for-most-heinous-crime/articleshow/80727118.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Chakka jam: Markets to stay open in Delhi, traders on high alert||NEW DELHI: Traders in Delhi are alert ahead of the nationwide chakka jam called by farmers on February 6. New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA) recently had a meeting with police officers where it was assured of additional forces at Connaught Place on Saturday. “Taking note of the January 26 incident when the protesters came till ITO and we had to close our shops haphazardly, we have decided to play safe this time. We met the cops and they told us that police personnel would be deployed in large numbers on Saturday,” said Amit Gupta, executive member of NDTA. Traders’ associations said markets would remain open on Saturday. “We will keep shopkeepers informed about any development,” said NDTA president Atul Bhargava. Traders of Khan Market also had a similar meeting with the cops. “Police officers told us that everything was in control and we could open our shops without any worry,” said Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ Association. Confederation of All India Traders on Friday wrote to the LG, urging for better security arrangements in markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/markets-to-stay-open-traders-on-high-alert/articleshow/80714434.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Information assistant, tout held for taking bribe||Kota: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Kota arrested an information assistant (Suchna Sahayak) of sub-division magistrate office of Kota and a tout on Friday for bribe. They had allegedly taken a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a villager of Mandana area of the district. Another accused in the matter, also an information assistant, posted at assistant collector’s office has fled. ASP, Kota, Chandrasheel Thakur said that Hemraj Balai had lodged a complaint with the ACB. He alleged that Ekant Upadhayay, an information assistant was demanding Rs 1 lakh as bribe through Balram Meena (tout). The bribe was for a stay order on release of compensation amount of Rs 2 crore to his cousin as per the decree by court. Further probe is underway. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/information-assistant-tout-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80714439.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Doubts over flow of funds||Kolkata: A whole lot of new schemes and welfare projects announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee have raised questions on where the fund will come from. Bengal’s projected revenue receipts in 2021-22 Budget is Rs 1,94,035 crore, of which the state’s share of Union taxes and duties and grants is Rs 1,14,007 crore. The state’s own generation is Rs 80,027 crore. Even as state’s share to Union tax forms the major component of the state revenue as it is true for all states, Bengal has shown a steady growth in tax generation even during the pandemic under the three heads — state excise, stamps and registration fees and sales tax. Tax generation under these heads showed a marginal dip in the 2020-21 revised estimates compared to the budgetary estimates and it was higher than the 2020-21 actuals. Taken together, the two components have helped the state roll out an ambitious infrastructure development plan after an outgo of Rs 2,24,000 crore over the last 10 years on loan repayment. Yet, market borrowings by the state has increased over the years with a projected public debt of Rs 99,282 crore. But the increased public debt estimates do not raise a concern as long as it is commensurate with the increase in income. The state, despite the huge borrowings, has managed finances in a way that the debt as percentage of GSDP has declined over the years from 40.65% in 2010-11 to 34.57% in 2019-20. The trend is similar with state’s fiscal deficit as percentage of GSDP. It has slid from 4.24% in 2010-11 to 2.94% in 2019-20. The state’s capital expenditure has taken a quantum jump about seven times from 2010-11 to 2019-20. Capital expenditure stood at Rs 17,237 crores compared to Rs 2633 crores in 2010-11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doubts-over-flow-of-funds/articleshow/80712974.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||HC summons Sikar DM over order on underpass||Jaipur: High court has summoned Sikar district collector and SDO, Fatehpur on February 19. It has sought a reply from them as to why the order on January 31, 2018 on construction of an under bridge at Harsawa Bada to Alakhpura (Sikar-Churu Marg) at Railway Crossing Gate No.32 was not complied with.Due to closure of gate no. 32 between Harsawa Bada to Alakhpura (Sikar-Churu Railway Line Marg), around 10 people died while crossing the railway line. It is because the nearest crossing for village Harsawa Bada and Alakhpura is at a distance of 2.5 km.It was also stated that the state government had agreed to bear the cost for the under bridge and the railways had agreed to construct it, provided the cost is borne by the state. The court directed the government to assess the number of persons who would use the under bridge if it is built at gate no.32 apart from its feasibility after conversion of meter to broad gauge.It said that if the answer is in the affirmative then the railways would construct and under bridge and the cost would be borne by the state. The directions would be complied with at the earliest and not later than a period of six months, said Anoop Dhand counsel for petitioner Deda Ram. The court again on December 11, 2019 had given direction to form a team consisting of assistant divisional engineer, Sikar and the officials of the state government to carry out assessment for construction of the under bridge. The report of the inspection team was to be placed on record before this court within a period of 20 days.The feasibility report dated January 8, 2020 clearly reveals that an under bridge is required but the authorities did not act on the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-summons-sikar-dm-over-order-on-underpass/articleshow/80714445.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Andal airport gets Rs 150 crore for upgrade; Bengal Budget bounty for road connectivity||KOLKATA: The state government has proposed a slew of new roads and bridges and upgrade of airports to improve connectivity. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who presented the state budget on Friday, laid out the vision to transform the greenfield domestic airport at Andal near Durgapur into an international airport within two years so that it could serve as an alternative to Kolkata airport. The allocation made for the improvement in the airport's infrastructure is Rs 150 crore. Banerjee also iterated the state's efforts to start regional flights from Balurghat, Malda and Cooch Behar and allocated Rs 50 crore for it. Reconstituting the West Bengal Highway Corporation into West Bengal Highway & Bridge Corporation for construction and maintenance of new bridges and flyovers, Banerjee outlined several road and bridge projects as well. The existing two-lane Basanti Highway is to be upgraded to a four-lane road between Kolkata and Basanti. The four-lane road at Ghatakpur on Kolkata-Basanti Highway (NH-117) will be developed further from Baruipur to Amtala. Banerjee also announced a flyover from Sonarpur Bantala Road to Sonarpur Chakraberia Road. A bridge is proposed on Haldi river connecting Nandigram with Haldia. In north Bengal, a 9.5km two-lane bridge will be constructed on Raidak-1 river on Baxirhat Jorai Road in Cooch Behar, the CM said. She further announced a bridge on Balason river near Dhudhiya on State Highway 12 in place of the old bridge connecting Siliguri and Darjeeling via Mirik. "The Changrabanda-Jamaldaha-Mathabangha-Cooch Behar Road on State Highway 16 will be extended by 75km. The 60-km-long road connecting Batalbari and Dhantala on NH-31 will be widened to a two-lane road," she announced. In all, Rs 2,475 crore has been allocated for the next financial year for these road projects as well as multiple flyovers. Over the next five years, Banerjee announced the plan to construct 46,000km new rural roads. Of this, 10,000km will be constructed and repaired in the next year under Pathasree scheme. A sum of Rs 500 crore has been allocated for the purpose in the next financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/andal-airport-gets-rs-150cr-for-upgrade-budget-bounty-for-road-connectivity/articleshow/80712969.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Varanasi||IIT-BHU to focus on road safety, operation of highways||Times News Network Varanasi: The Indian Institute of Technology-Banaras Hindu University and ministry of road transport and highways, Government of India, on Wednesday, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in New Delhi to establish ministry’s professional chair for 10 years focusing on research & development, teaching and training in the area of development of highway sector and technical upgradation, introduction of new technology in the field of road safety engineering, development, maintenance and operation of highways. The MoU was signed by IIT-BHU director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain and director general (road development) and special secretary Indresh Kumar Pandey in the presence of minister of state for RT&H Gen (retired) Vijay Kumar Singh. After signing the MoU, Jain said that IIT-BHU and MoRTH have join hands to focus on research and development, teaching and training in the area of development of highway sector. This MoU will strengthen R&D activities and act as a centre of excellence in transport engineering, he said adding that the creation of MoRTH professorial chair at the institute will also act as a strategic advisor to the ministry in new areas relevant to road transport and highway. Jain further said that the institute and Indian academia will simultaneously conduct studies related to road safety, environment and social impacts under the highway safety development project. The institute will facilitate or undertake dissemination of technology upgrades in planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance for highway development through standards, guidelines, training etc, he said adding that the institute will provide input to development as well as amendment of standards to be adopted on safety, new materials, technology and support for the preparation of the codes and manuals of IRC on behalf of the ministry. He further informed that the institute will assist in evaluation and introduction of new technology on recycling, equipment and materials for improving road safety and operational efficiencies, undertake PhD research programme on the topics selected by MoRTH. Institute will also provide technical guidance to the ministry in any area related to highway engineering, highway research board of IRC for identification and monitoring of R&D activities and also organize workshops, symposium on awareness related to highway related topic. Apart from this, to undertake PhD research programme on the topics selected by consulting ministry, he said, the IIT-BHU will take 8-10 research scholars including officers nominated by the ministry in the field of highway engineering. Since a PhD thesis takes 3-4 years, institute may take 2 students each year, so that awarding PhD schemes remains a continuous process. The institute will a also propose the ministry to nominate its officers to take part in PG courses, said Jain adding the outcome of the MTech and PhD programmes will be utilized for preparation of state of art report, revision, development of IRC guidelines and code of practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-to-focus-on-road-safety-operation-of-highways/articleshow/80712975.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police knock on Google’s doors over Greta Thunberg document||NEW DELHI: A day after TOI reported that Delhi Police would write to Google seeking details of the document tweeted by Swedish environment activist Greta Thunberg, the cyber cell confirmed on Friday that a notice had been sent. An official probing the case said Delhi Police had asked for “registration details” and “activity log” of the account through which the toolkit was uploaded. Police have also sought the document uploaded originally by Thunberg as it was edited almost immediately after she tweeted it. In the notice to Google and others, the cops have sought the details of two email IDs, an Instagram account and a URL mentioned in the toolkit. “The police have asked for details from the respective platforms,” said an official. A probe is being conducted to ascertain the antecedents and roles of two people — M O Dhaliwal, one of the founders of PJF, and one Marina Patterson who was reportedly editing the document shortly after it was tweeted, a senior officer said. The history of and people associated with a UK-based website, askindiawhy.com, are also under scanner, the officer confirmed. The website, created in January, has allegedly been posting provocative propaganda about the farmers’ agitation, a source said. The toolkit predates the January 26 violence and indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind it, claimed police. “Specific plans about January 26 were mentioned in it,” said an official. Meanwhile, Delhi Police has denied reports of firing by its personnel at rioters at the Red Fort on January 26. A video went viral on Friday claiming a protester had been shot at on the foot. It reportedly shows rioters challenging police to fire at them and claiming a paramilitary staffer had fired a gunshot. A person named Akash, who is currently in Tihar, claimed injury to his leg as a bullet had brushed past it. The cops said they would enquire if any outsider was involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-knock-on-googles-doors-over-thunberg-docu/articleshow/80714457.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal ‘unmasked’ though it tops daily corona count||BHOPAL: In the Trilanga branch of a nationalised bank, a group of employees, who had perhaps won the union election, surged in on Thursday morning, exchanging greetings and garlands with branch staff. None of them were wearing masks or used sanitiser and, of course, social distancing was furthest from their minds. This, when several customers were waiting — most of them elderly people. This was the same branch, where at the peak of the Coronavirus pandemic, the guard would not only sanitise customers’ hands, but deter them from entering unless essential. Staff of the branch not only wore masks, which they still do, but also gloves and counters used to be segregated with ropes. But, the manner in which a group of their colleagues from other branches were conducting themselves on Thursday — without any protest from either the staff or customers — reflected the receding “consciousness” on the deadly infection as Covid cases dip. What’s being missed in the belief that Covid is waning is that Bhopal not only has the highest number of active cases — at 667 on Friday, over twice that of Indore — but has been topping the daily count in MP almost since the beginning of the year. Experts say it is imperative to adhere to Covid-19 protocol as nothing is worse than contracting the infection at a time when the pandemic is on the back foot. State coordinator for coronavirus, Dr Lokendra Dave, said, “It is essential not to lower guards till most of the people get vaccinated. People should continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing as before.” But, even those who were particular about observing the Covid-19 norms in their offices or shops are finding it difficult to stick to it as their own friends are asking them to stop ‘fussing over Corona’. “I had a sanitiser machine installed in office and put a note at the gate requesting everyone to wear masks, but now when I ask my friends or clients to use the sanitiser machine or not to take off their mask, they just smile and move on. Since the vaccines arrived and corona cases started declining, people now feel all those precautions are not necessary now,” said Gyandev Mishra, a builder. “Not everyone was wearing masks earlier also, but now many of those who were particular about wearing masks at public places and not getting into crowded places have also stopped the practice. This, despite the fact that the changed caller tune after vaccination clearly says ‘Dawai bhi, kadai bhi’,” said Rajat Agrawal, a shopkeeper. Meanwhile, police, municipal staff and the administration also seem to have become slack in catching and punishing people not wearing masks. Collector Avinash Lavania, however, has been particular in cautioning people to continue sticking to Covid-19 protocol even while talking about falling Corona cases and the improving recovery rate. “My appeal to people has been to wear masks in public places, observe social distancing and not crowd. Frequent washing of hands is vital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-again-unmasked-as-corona-cases-dip/articleshow/80712985.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||SDM, driver held for taking bribe in Barmer district||Jaisalmer: ACB on Friday morning arrested Gudamalani SDM and his driver for taking a bribe of Rs 10,000 in Barmer district. Jodhpur special team additional SP, under the guidance of ACB Jodhpur zone DIG Vishnukant, trapped the culprits. SDM Sunil Katewa took the bribe to give stay in a case. He took the bribe in his office and gave it to his driver. ACB is investigating the case and searching his house. Vishnukant said that the complainant advocate Pappuram gave a report in writing that the case of the land of his client Popatram was in the SDM court and to give temporary stay, SDM Katewa was demanding Rs 10,000. The complaint was verified and it was confirmed that the bribe was being demanded by Katewa. Pappuram was then sent to the SDM as part of a trap. The SDM took money from Pappuram in his room and handed it to his driver Durgaram. Meanwhile, the special team led by additional SP Durgsingh Rajpurohit caught Katewa and Durgaram. The money was recovered from the vehicle. Later, both were arrested and are being enquired. According to the information, Katewa had served two years in the navy. In 2003, he was selected for tehsildar and in 2019, he was promoted to RAS. Being tehsildar, he was posted in Chauhatan and Sedva in Barmer district. Apart from this, he has been tehsildar in Nagaur, Mundwa, Merta and Nasirabad and also in JDA Jaipur. At present, he has the additional charge of SDM of Dhorimanna. Earlier too, many charges of corruption were levelled against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sdm-driver-held-for-taking-bribe-in-barmer-district/articleshow/80714453.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||JeM man arrested at Delhi airport||SRINAGAR: A most-wanted overground worker of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist outfit was arrested on Friday at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi after his deportation from Qatar, police said. Muneeb Ahmad Sofi, a resident of the Bijbehara area in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, was arrested by a police team from Kulgam district, the police said on Twitter. Sofi was a militant associate or overground worker (OGW) for Pakistani militant Waleed Bhai who was killed in an encounter with security forces in Kulgam last year.  A police spokesman said Sofi was involved in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act regarding collection of funds for the terror outfit JeM. “During investigation, one terrorist associate was arrested who revealed that he along with other terrorist associates were collecting money from districts in Kashmir valley for JeM,” he said. The spokesman said the amount was then handed over to Sofi who was staying in Qatar and was in contact with Pakistan-based militant Waleed Bhai for purchasing arms and ammunition from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jem-man-arrested-at-delhi-airport/articleshow/80715767.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Man who impersonated as DRO arrested in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The Salem city police on Thursday arrested a 40-year-old man who impersonated as district revenue officer of Erode district. The arrested person has been identified as N Moorthy, 40, from P Nattamangalam near Kondalampatti in Salem city. He was booked under Section 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of State Emblem of India (prohibition of improper use) Act, 2005. Moorthy came to Kondalampatti police station on Thursday and introduced himself as district revenue officer (DRO) in Erode. He lodged a complaint saying that his motorcycle went missing from his house and suspected the involvement of a staff member of a private finance company for the theft. During the inquiry, the Kondalampatti police found that the vehicle was taken away by Raja of the private finance company as Moorthy failed to pay monthly installment for the vehicle. Police noticed a car belonging to Moorthy with Tamil Nadu government’s emblem and a board mentioning that DRO, Erode, fixed on the bumper. However, police suspected his activities. On inquiring with the Erode district collectorate, police found that Moorthy was a fake officer. Police arrested Moorthy on Thursday evening and remanded him in judicial custody on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-who-impersonated-as-dro-arrested/articleshow/80714462.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Salem||Man who impersonated as DRO arrested in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The Salem city police on Thursday arrested a 40-year-old man who impersonated as district revenue officer of Erode district. The arrested person has been identified as N Moorthy, 40, from P Nattamangalam near Kondalampatti in Salem city. He was booked under Section 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of State Emblem of India (prohibition of improper use) Act, 2005. Moorthy came to Kondalampatti police station on Thursday and introduced himself as district revenue officer (DRO) in Erode. He lodged a complaint saying that his motorcycle went missing from his house and suspected the involvement of a staff member of a private finance company for the theft. During the inquiry, the Kondalampatti police found that the vehicle was taken away by Raja of the private finance company as Moorthy failed to pay monthly installment for the vehicle. Police noticed a car belonging to Moorthy with Tamil Nadu government’s emblem and a board mentioning that DRO, Erode, fixed on the bumper. However, police suspected his activities. On inquiring with the Erode district collectorate, police found that Moorthy was a fake officer. Police arrested Moorthy on Thursday evening and remanded him in judicial custody on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-who-impersonated-as-dro-arrested/articleshow/80718141.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Nine-judge bench for SEBC quota if ’92 order needs relook: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Friday said it may consider referring the Maratha quota case to a nine-judge bench if it comes to the conclusion that its 1992 verdict in the Indra Sawhney case fixing the ceiling of 50% reservation needed to be re-examined. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said the court is bound by the Indra Sawhney judgement but it would consider whether that verdict should be revisited. The court allowed the parties to put forward their arguments for referring the case to larger bench as it was a nine-judge bench which delivered the landmark verdict almost three decades back. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Maharashtra government, contended that there is already a judicial order passed last year to revisit the 1992 verdict. As the state government contended that hearing on important constitutional matters like validity of Maratha reservation must be done through physical hearing and not video-conferencing, the court deferred the hearing for March 8 and said there is likelihood of resumption of physical hearings by then. The court also fixed the timeline for hearings to wrap up the proceedings in a time-bound manner. The hearing will start from March 8 and conclude on March 18.  In a setback to the Maharashtra government, the SC had last year stayed implementation of quota for the Maratha community in government jobs and admission in educational institutions under Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act and referred it to the Constitution bench to decide validity of the law. Meanwhile, Ashok Chavan, chairman of the state cabinet sub-committee on Maratha quota, demanded that the Centre make a constitutional amendment in the ongoing Parliament session to protect Maratha reservation. The Maratha community will continue its protest at Pimpalgaon (Jalna) and other parts of the state till its reservation demand is met, said Vinod Patil, a convenor of Maratha Kranti Morcha. Chavan, after the hearing in SC, said the Union government should give constitutional protection to the SEBC quota on the lines of the EWS quota. — With inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-9-judge-bench-for-sebc-quota-if-92-order-needs-relook/articleshow/80714473.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Erode||Man who impersonated as DRO arrested in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The Salem city police on Thursday arrested a 40-year-old man who impersonated as district revenue officer of Erode district. The arrested person has been identified as N Moorthy, 40, from P Nattamangalam near Kondalampatti in Salem city. He was booked under Section 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of State Emblem of India (prohibition of improper use) Act, 2005. Moorthy came to Kondalampatti police station on Thursday and introduced himself as district revenue officer (DRO) in Erode. He lodged a complaint saying that his motorcycle went missing from his house and suspected the involvement of a staff member of a private finance company for the theft. During the inquiry, the Kondalampatti police found that the vehicle was taken away by Raja of the private finance company as Moorthy failed to pay monthly installment for the vehicle. Police noticed a car belonging to Moorthy with Tamil Nadu government’s emblem and a board mentioning that DRO, Erode, fixed on the bumper. However, police suspected his activities. On inquiring with the Erode district collectorate, police found that Moorthy was a fake officer. Police arrested Moorthy on Thursday evening and remanded him in judicial custody on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-who-impersonated-as-dro-arrested/articleshow/80718140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Swasthya Sathi, other social schemes to continue: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced a host of social schemes in the Budget for different sections of society — SC/STs, senior citizens, farmers, women and construction workers — along with the continuation of Swasthya Sathi and Duare Sarkar schemes. While presenting the state Budget, Banerjee announced opening of 100 new English-medium schools for scheduled caste, scheduled tribes and poor students over the next three year. Banerjee said that there would be 500 new schools for people speaking Alchiki. “I am happy to announce that to extend educational facilities in Alchiki language for these people, 500 new schools will be opened and 1500 para-teachers will be employed in Alchiki language in the next five years,” she said. She proposed to allocate Rs 100 crore for the next financial year. The CM also announced Rs 50 crore for opening of 100 new schools for Nepali, Hindi, Urdu, Kamtapuri and Kurmali languages. “ To ensure educational upliftment of such people, 100 new schools will be opened in these languages in the next five years and 300 para-teachers will be engaged in these languages,” she added. Moreover, she alloted Rs 50 crore for 100 new schools for Sadri language in tea gardens and another Rs 50 crore for 200 schools of Rajbangshi language. The total allocation for schools would be more than Rs 200 crore. Banerjee had proposed construction of 20 lakh houses for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “Our government has already constructed pucca houses for many homeless SCs and STs. Another 20 lakh new pucca houses will be built for them in the next five years. The mud houses will be taken up on a priority basis and converted to pucca houses. “I propose to allocate Rs. 1,500 crore for the next financial year,” Banerjee said. According to her Budget speech, there will be an enhancement of financial aid from Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 and minimum aid from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 for farmers under the ‘Krishak Bandhu’ scheme. The financial aid will be enhanced to all farmers and registered ‘Bargadar’ from the current amount of Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per acre. Also, the current minimum assistance to farmers and registered Bargadar irrespective of quantum of land will be enhanced from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000. The Budget has also proposed financial aid to construction workers and workers connected with transport due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The labourers in the construction and transport industry were badly affected. I am happy to announce that under ‘Binamulye Samajik Suraksha Yojana’, a one-time grant of Rs 1,000 will be given to nearly 45 lakh such labourers. I propose to allocate Rs 450 crore for the next financial year,” she added. The CM has also announced continuation of the Swasthya Sathi scheme. She claimed that Bengal is the only state where comprehensive health coverage has been provided to 10 crore people under the scheme. “I am happy to announce that this scheme will continue throughout the year and people willing to register this scheme will be allowed at any time. The Swasthya Sathi card can be renewed every three years. I propose to allocate Rs. 1,500 crore for the next financial year,” she said. Banerjee also added that ‘Duare Sarkar’ and ‘Paray Samadhan’ will be held twice a year. “This government has held nearly 500 administrative meetings in different districts to ensure that the various government schemes reach common people. We have introduced two novel schemes named ‘Duare Sarkar’ and ‘Paray Samadhan’ to ensure such benefits reach people’s doorsteps. You are all aware about the success of these campaigns,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-swasthya-sathi-other-social-schemes-to-continue/articleshow/80712984.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Injured wild boar dies at Narasipuram||COIMBATORE: A female wild boar, which had been roaming at Narasipuram with injuries to its mouth for the past two days, died without responding to treatment on Friday. Forest department officials suspect that the animal might have suffered injuries after a country-made bomb (avuttukkai) went off in its mouth. A forest officer said the wild boar, which was aged about two years, was found with a damaged lower jaw at Narasipuram Pirivu in the Boluvampatti forest range. “The frontline staff of the forest department took the wild boar to a veterinary hospital at Narasipuram on Friday. However, it died without responding to treatment.” The officer said a team had been formed to check if country-made bombs were planted on farm lands in the surrounding areas. “Avuttukkai is often used to fight crop raiding wild animals. It would go off in the animals’ mouth if they bite it, causing them grievous injuries or death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-wild-boar-dies-at-narasipuram/articleshow/80714474.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Vaccination count touches 1 lakh, but turnout remains low||NEW DELHI: While over 1 lakh people, mostly healthcare workers, have been vaccinated in the capital since the drive began on January 16, the turnout remained low even on Friday, with only 50% of the expected showing up to get the shot. Out of the 18,400 registered health workers and frontline workers for the day, only 9,216 people turned up at 184 vaccination centres, one of these being added on Friday. The turnout was 51.8% the day before and just 40.2% on Wednesday. Officials said some revenue department staffers also took the jab. Only 12 adverse events were reported. The total number of vaccinated people has touched 1,00,058. In the first phase, the Covid vaccines will be given to 51 lakh people, including 2.5 lakh healthcare workers, 6 lakh frontline workers and over 42 lakh people either above 50 or those below 50 but with comorbidities. Officials believe that the count is lower than expected due to the plummeting percentage of Covid infection, which now stands at 0.24% in Delhi. Frontline workers, such as police and civil defence personnel and sanitation workers, will be allowed to get the vaccine on full scale from Saturday. Their vaccination started on Thursday on a pilot basis at some booths. Out of around 6 lakh frontline workers, around 3.5 lakh have registered for getting the shot. “In hospitals where multiple vaccination centres are located, one will be marked for frontline workers, who have been sent an SMS informing them about the venue and the time,” said an official. On Friday, Shahdara district reported five adverse events, followed by North district with three cases. Central, East, North East, South and West districts did not report any case. Officials believe the decline in adverse events will make more people confident about the vaccine. On the first day of the drive, the turnout was 53%, which touched 91.5% before starting to decline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-count-touches-1-lakh-but-turnout-remains-low/articleshow/80714491.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||SC allows Sonu Sood to withdraw plea against BMC||MUMBAI: Supreme Court on Friday allowed actor Sonu Sood to withdraw his petition challenging a notice issued last October by BMC against alleged unauthorized alterations to convert a six-storey residential building in Juhu into a hotel. A three-judge bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian directed the authorities to consider and decide his application on its own merits and in accordance with law. Sood’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi sought withdrawal of his special leave petition before the apex court against an order of Bombay high court, denying him relief, and his suit before city civil court in Mumbai, against BMC. SC, allowing his plea, said both stand dismissed as withdrawn. Last month, Justice P K Chavan of HC said Sood had come to court with “unclean hands’’ to seek protection from civic action against “illegal alterations” to the Juhu property. HC had found no merit in Sood’s plea for protection against demolition on ground of ‘equity’. HC had said he had been “repeatedly committing breach of provisions’’ of civic law and Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act. “Equity cannot supplant law,’’ HC had said, accepting BMC’s claim that the actor was a “habitual offender’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-allows-sonu-sood-to-withdraw-plea-against-bmc/articleshow/80713698.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||2 Egyptian vultures die after hitting high-tension wires in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Two Egyptian vultures of schedule 1 have died after colliding with high-tension electric wires at Rasala border in Degrai pasture land area in Jaisalmer district. One of the birds was male and the other female, which were probably breeding. Including this incident, more than 30 migratory rare birds have died since January. Around 10 days ago, two Cinereous vultures and a tiny eagle had died after hitting high-tension wires. Bird enthusiasts are enraged over such incidents. There has been a continuous demand of either removing the electric wires or putting up bird diverters. Around four months ago, two GIBs had also died after hitting these wires. Confirming the death of two European vultures, Degrai Ustha Sanrakshan president Sumer Singh Bhati said that he went on a routine visit when the two migratory vultures were found dead under a 132kv high-tension pole. He informed the forest department. He said that so far, more than 30 birds have died hitting the wires and the matter is serious. He said Degrai pasture land is spread on around 60,000 sq km area amid four gram panchayats and is the habitat of a large variety of flora and fauna. During winter, a large number of migratory birds come to the area and are facing this threat. ICUN WHSG, WCPA and SAVE vulture community member Dau Lal Bohra said solar farms are developing rapidly in north west Rajasthan as energy hubs. Significant numbers of Egyptian vultures (N.P. Percnopterus) die due to electric wires during migration, including those from species included in endangered list (A2bcde+3bcde) by International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List. Electrocution occurs on poorly crafted electric poles, posing a threat to the vulture population. He said the nominal subspecies N.P. Percnopterus is distributed in southern Europe, Cape Verde Islands, north Africa, Arabia and Sahel zone to north Tanzania, south-west Angola, north-west Namibia (the equatorial zone being avoided), and south-west and central Asia east to Tien Shan and Pakistan. The count of bird continues to decline. The current population of the bird in the world is below 5,000 and in many countries, the population has almost finished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-egyptian-vultures-die-after-hitting-high-tension-wires-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80714470.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||It’s Shiv Sena vs BJP with statewide protests on fuel price hikes, inflated power bills||MUMBAI: It was a political slugfest on Friday as BJP and Shiv Sena leaders and functionaries took to the streets across Maharashtra to target each other’s governments—Sena in the state and BJP at the Centre. The BJP held statewide demonstrations to protest energy minister Nitin Raut’s decision to send disconnection notices to about 75 lakh power bill defaulters across the state, while Sena hit the road with bullock-cart and cycle agitations against the Centre for rising fuel prices—with petrol and diesel rates increasing by Rs 17 in the past 10 months. In a press release, BJP said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government had assured the people a power bill waiver during the Covid-19 lockdown, but was now “arm twisting” consumers to pay up. MSEDCL officials said the pending bill arrears had gone over Rs 63,740 crore. “Poor people have received bills running into lakhs. Instead of rectifying these bills, the government is threatening to cut off their power supply. Even before the outbreak of the pandemic, the energy minister had assured bill waiver for energy consumption upto 100 units. This too has not materialised,” said former energy minister Chandrakant Bawankule, who led the protests in Nagpur. But Raut, who convened a press conference on Friday, claimed that BJP was staging the agitation to cover up for its poor performance in recent elections. He also asked why the party was not protesting against the rise in prices of fuel. Raut said that MSEDCL had recovered 79% of the power bills and would cross 90% by March. “BJP will fall flat on its face.” Protesting the fuel price hikes, Sainiks marched to the district collectors’ office in various districts, including parts of Mumbai and suburban districts, Thane, Pune, Jalna, Aurangabad and Nagpur. In Mumbai, transport minister Anil Parab led the march to the Bandra collector’s office, demanding that “the Centre reduce petrol-diesel prices”. Mayor Kishori Pednekar led a bullock-cart protest along with former MLA Sachin Ahir in Worli, Sena vibhag pramukh Pandurang Sakpal led a protest in Girgaum, Sena MLA Ravindra Waikar led a march in Jogeshwari-Goregaon, and former mayor Vishakha Raut at Shivaji Park. Launching an attack on the Sena, former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said inst-ead of protesting rising fuel pr-ices, the MVA government must reduce its taxes on crude oil. “There is no GST on crude oil. The maximum tax is collected by the state, including VAT. During our tenure we had reduced the tax by Rs 2.” On the power bill issue, Fadnavis said the MVA was backtracking on its promise to people to waive off the excess amount, which was “betrayal”. Countering the claims, Parab, said: “The fuel hikes have put a cascading effect on the other goods due to transportation cost. So, the Centre should first reduce fuel prices, then the state will consider VAT.” Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party activists protested at Dadar against the fuel price hikes by organising a ‘dhakka maaro’ agitation—they pushed scooters and bikes on road. “The continued rise in fuel prices has dealt yet another blow to the aam aadmi,” said AAP spokesperson Preeti Sharma Menon. (Inputs by Ashish Roy from Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-sena-vs-bjp-with-statewide-protests-on-fuel-price-hikes-inflated-power-bills/articleshow/80714531.cms||Clara Lewis
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Extend REET application date till Feb 19: HC to state||Jodhpur: In an interim relief to B.Ed. degree holders aspiring to appear for REET – 2021 (Level 1), the high court on Friday ordered the government to let them apply for the examination and extend the last date of application from February 8 to February 19. While seeking reply from the state government and National Council for Teachers’ Education (NCTE), the division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Manoj Kumar Garg, however, restricted this relief to application for exam only, while keeping their appearance in the examination subject to the final decision of the petitions.Some aspirants had challenged the decision of the state government to restrict B. Ed. degree holders to appear in REET Level 1 despite the NCTE allowing them vide an amendment in its guidelines in June 2018 on the condition of taking a bridge course.“Earlier, the NCTE had reserved the REET Level 1 for BSTC students only and REET Level 2 for B.Ed. students. But it amended this rule in June 2018 and permitted the B.Ed. students also to appear for Level 1 examination along with the BSTC applicants,” said Sushil Bishnoi, one of the counsel for petitioners.“But the state government again barred the B.Ed. students to appear in the REET 2021 (Level 1) in its examination notification,” said Bishnoi adding that some of the aspirants challenged this notification in the high court. Parallelly, some BSTC students challenged the constitutionality of the amendment in rule of June 2018 by the NCTE protesting permission to B.Ed. students to appear in REET Level 1 examination.Clubbing all the petitions pertaining to the matter, the high court on Friday sought reply from the state government and NCTE during hearing of all these petitions.Upon seeking time for submission of reply by them, the division bench, in an interim order, directed the government to allow the B.Ed. applicants to apply for the REET 2021 (Level 1) examination and extend its last date from February 8 to February 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extend-reet-application-date-till-feb-19-hc-to-state/articleshow/80714475.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||UoH placements in 2019-20 better than 2018-19||Hyderabad: Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, placements at University of Hyderabad (UoH) for 2019-20 were higher than that of 2018-19 with several students getting placed in reputed companies. In 2019-20, 348 students were placed in 131 companies as against 347 during 2018-19. The batch of 2019-20 have been placed at many leading organisations such as Tata Consultancy Services, Deloitte, General Electric, HSBC, Synchrony Financial, and Dr.Reddy’s, to name a few. Students were offered salaries ranging from Rs 3 lakhs per annum to Rs 43 lakhs per annum. “There has also been a continuous increase in the placements for the students from humanities and social sciences. The increasing number of placements for students from every school/department is also extremely encouraging,” said Prof Salman Abdul Moiz, chairman, placement guidance and advisory bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-placements-in-2019-20-better-than-2018-19/articleshow/80714480.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar’s Muslims & Jats set aside 2013 divide||MUZAFFARNAGAR/MEERUT: Eight years ago, three deaths and a mahapanchayat had set off a chain of events that led to three weeks of riots in Muzaffarnagar. The communal divide it created ran deep. In the villages of Muzaffarnagar, many Muslims and Jats are putting the bloody history behind them to come together for the farmers’ protest. “It is time to move on,” said Asad Zama, a lawyer who was witness to the riots. “Both communities shape the politics of western UP. Together, we can do a lot.” In 2013, Muslim members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by founding member Ghulam Mohammad Jola, had walked out of the outfit. BKU chief Naresh Tikait and his brother, Rakesh, spokesperson of the outfit, had allegedly attended the mahapanchayat where inflammatory speeches had been made before Muzaffarnagar descended into riots. The Tikait brothers were booked for inciting communal violence and Jola, holding BKU accountable, quit. Recently at another mahapanchayat, Jola shared the stage with Naresh and embraced him. It was a day after Rakesh’s teary-eyed appeal from the Ghazipur border, which led to waves of farmers joining the protests at Delhi borders again. Jola, who had been a close aide to the Tikait brothers’ father and influential farmer leader Mahender, struck a note of reconciliation. “Eight years have passed. Both Jats and Muslims have seen the losses that came with drifting apart, both politically and structurally. Now, we are together. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat was the beginning. I am hopeful that this camaraderie will endure and help build bridges among people,” he said. It is an uneasy truce but one they are firm on. “It’s a good start. The pressing matter is farmers’ welfare, irrespective of faith,” said Ashok Balyan, a Muzaffarnagar-based farmer leader. “We are the biggest farmer communities of western UP. We are all affected. Coming together with a sense of brotherhood is good for the both of us,” said Sharanvir Deshwal, another farmer leader. Some, however, felt it was too soon to read too much into what is essentially an act of solidarity. “The divide that was created in 2013 has been deep. It will take time for the scars to heal,” Ashok said. “Coming together does not mean a political union. It is out of necessity.” Rizwan Ahmad, an activist and riot victim who now lives in Shamli, was also sceptical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/divided-by-riots-united-by-stir-muzaffarnagars-muslims-jats-set-aside-2013-divide-for-farm-protests/articleshow/80712203.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Three foreigners held for drug trafficking in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two Ugandan sisters and a Nigerian man have been arrested for allegedly smuggling drugs and 8 kg of heroin worth around Rs 40 crore and 1kg of cocaine worth Rs 10 crore has been seized. The women, who were flying in on a medical visa, were held at IGI by the Narcotics Control Bureau and the drugs were found in the cavities of their luggage. KPS Malhotra, deputy director (ops) said NCB has arrested five members of this syndicate till now and seized around 13kg of heroin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-foreigners-held-for-drug-trafficking/articleshow/80715819.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||UoH students, faculty protest varsity land encroachment||Hyderabad: The teachers and students of University of Hyderabad (UoH) held a walk as a mark of protest against encroachment of university land by a housing society. Organised by the University of Hyderabad Teachers Association (UHTA), close to 50 students and teachers participated in the walk held against multiple attempts by a housing society to lay roads on the university land. Holding posters that said ‘save university land’ and ‘stop encroachment on university land’, teachers and students raised slogans demanding action against land grabbers. The walk commenced from the administrative building and concluded at the encroachment spot abutting the Indian School of Business in Gachibowli. “Land grabbers have set their eyes on university land. We are doing our protect the university land, which is home to thousands of flora and fauna. We condemn the encroachment and seek action against such illegal activities,” said Prof P Ramulu, UHTA president. In the past year, two attempts were made by the housing society to demolish compound wall and lay road within the university. On both occasions, the attempts by the miscreants were foiled by the university students and employees. Following this, the university had moved the high court which subsequently ordered status quo on road dispute on the varsity land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-faculty-protest-varsity-land-encroachment/articleshow/80714504.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bhopal||Health dept prepares to jab frontline workers||Bhopal: Vaccination of around 3 lakh frontline workers (FLWs) will start from February 8 in Madhya Pradesh. These include police personnel, civic body workers, revenue workers and others. So far, data of around 2.95 lakh frontline workers is available with the health department. This includes police, civic body workers and others, but it is likely to increase to around 3 lakh as there are several auxiliary services also like fire-brigade etc, said sources. The data regarding these frontline workers has been collected by the health department from the departments concerned, said sources. All the other norms and conditions under which the vaccination would be carried out will remain the same as that of the vaccination of health workers, said sources. The vaccination of these frontline workers will start from February 8 in the state. Sources said that the ongoing vaccination of the health workers is likely to end completely by February end or beginning of March. This means both the first and second dose of vaccine which is provided after a gap of 28 days will be complete. It is only after the vaccination of FLWs is also over that the second phase of vaccination may begin in states where those aged above 50 and those with chronic illnesses will be vaccinated, but details regarding the second phase are yet to be finalised, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-dept-prepares-to-jab-frontline-workers/articleshow/80713031.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bhopal||18% of total 4.17L health workers in MP yet to be vaccinated||Bhopal: More than 70,000 out of the total 4.17 lakh health workers—from both government and private sector—are still to be vaccinated.Sources said that the vaccination of these workers will continue on Saturday in the state, however majority of these are such workers who are either in exclusion criteria for vaccination, like already unwell or have been positive in past etc hence, only a few of them will turn out up for vaccination, said sources.It is noteworthy that the vaccination of health workers started in the state on January 16 and so far 6966 sessions have been held across the state and overall a total of 339771 health workers were vaccinated till February 4.Vaccination was already scheduled for all the health workers by February 1, however on February 3 and February 4, catch up round for including those who were left behind was held.Herein the other norms were kept the same, however no vaccination centre wise list was prepared as messages were sent to all the left out health workers and they were allowed to reach any of the designated vaccination centre for vaccination.Now, it will be open for these health workers on February 6 also, and from February 8 onwards the vaccination of frontline workers will start in the state. Approximately 3 lakh frontline workers have been identified so far, said sources. Overall it is expected that the entire vaccination—both doses the first dose and second dose that is administered after 28 days— of health workers and frontline workers will be complete by first half of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/18-of-total-4-17l-health-workers-in-mp-yet-to-be-vaccinated/articleshow/80713008.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Varanasi||IIT-BHU inks MoU for R&D on road safety engineering||VARANASI: The Indian Institute of Technology-Banaras Hindu University and ministry of road transport and highways, Government of India, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in New Delhi on Wednesday to establish the ministry’s professional chair for 10 years focusing on research & development, teaching and training in the area of development of highway sector and technical upgradation, new technology in the field of road safety engineering, development, maintenance and operation of highways. The MoU was signed by IIT-BHU director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain and director general (road development) and special secretary Indresh Kumar Pandey in the presence of minister of state for RT&H Gen (retired) Vijay Kumar Singh. After signing the MoU, Jain said that this MoU will strengthen R&D activities and act as a centre of excellence in transport engineering. He added that the creation of MoRTH professorial chair will also act as a strategic advisor to the ministry in new areas relevant to road transport and highway. Jain further said that the institute and Indian academia will simultaneously conduct studies related to road safety, environment and social impacts under the highway safety development project. The institute will facilitate or undertake dissemination of technology upgrades in planning, design, operation and maintenance for highway, he said adding that the institute will also provide inputs for development as well as amendment of standards to be adopted on safety, new materials, technology and support for preparation of the codes and manuals of IRC on behalf of the ministry. He added that the institute will assist in evaluation and introduction of new technology for improving road safety and operational efficiencies. Institute will also provide technical guidance to the ministry. Besides, to undertake PhD research programme on the topics selected by consulting ministry, he said, the IIT-BHU will take 8-10 research scholars including officers nominated by the ministry in the field of highway engineering. Since a PhD thesis takes 3-4 years, institute may take 2 students each year, so that awarding PhD schemes remains a continuous process. The institute will a also propose the ministry to nominate its officers to take part in PG courses, said Jain adding the outcome of the MTech and PhD programmes will be utilized for preparation of state of art report, revision, development of IRC guidelines and code of practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-inks-mou-for-rd-on-road-safety-engineering/articleshow/80713021.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Salman to appear in court through video conference||Jodhpur: In what can be termed as relief for actor Salman Khan, the high court on Friday allowed him to appear in the sessions court for hearing of his appeal through video conferencing (VC) thereby doing away with the need to appear in person.A division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Dinesh Mehta accepted the argument of Khan while passing this order that travelling from Mumbai to Jodhpur amid pandemic situation would not only pose threat to his safety, but would also be a law and order issue considering the huge gathering on the court premises during his appearance, which was not warranted amid pandemic time. “It would be in the interest of justice, if he was permitted to appear through video conferencing in lieu of physical presence as the sessions court has directed,” he had contended in his application. Khan’s counsel H M Saraswat said that the court has granted us permission to appear in the sessions court for hearing scheduled on Saturday in virtual mode in lieu of personal presence. Khan had been directed by the sessions judge to appear in person in the District & Sessions Court during hearing on his appeal challenging five-year sentence in the black buck poaching case pronounced on April 5, 2018. “We had moved the high court against this order seeking exemption from personal appearance and allowing him to appear instead through video conferencing,” said Saraswat. It may be noted that Khan has availed exemption from personal appearance in the session court 17 times. The district & sessions court, during the previous hearing, had ordered him to make sure that he was present in the court in person on the next hearing, which is scheduled on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/salman-to-appear-in-court-through-video-conference/articleshow/80714487.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Last chance for FYJC admissions||MUMBAI: School education department announced another first come, first serve (FCFS) round of admissions for junior college from February 8. Over four days, nearly 40,000 students not admitted to First Year Junior College (FYJC) can claim vacant seats. This, the department said, would be the last chance this year. The department said out of 2.5 lakh students who applied for centralized online process in Mumbai metropolitan region, 2.1 lakh secured a seat and nearly 1 lakh seats are vacant despite five merit lists and one round of FCFS. “Our data shows 40,000 started the online process but did not secure a seat. Many could have dropped out to pursue a different course or board. But as we have vacancies, we are holding another round,” said an official. Students who have filled up admission forms or want to join afresh can participate in the second FCFS round. Between February 8-12, students can view live vacancies of seats across colleges and claim available seats. Students can confirm admission up to February 13. A similar round of admissions is being conducted in Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati and Aurangabad. * Admission website | https://11thadmission.org.in/ * Up to 11.55pm on February 12 | Students can fill forms * 10 am, Feb 8 to 11.55pm Feb 12 | Students can claim seats and confirm admission * 6 pm, Feb 13 | Confirm admission * Feb 14 | Final vacancy will be published on website||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/last-chance-for-admissions-to-fyjc/articleshow/80713707.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Chittor villagers protest with crocodile carcass||Udaipur: In a bizarre incident, infuriated villagers from Nagri gram panchayat area of Chittorgarh district, carried a carcass of crocodile outside the collectorate and protested against Hindustan Zinc Limited, holding the company responsible for water pollution in Bedach river which is reportedly causing deaths of hundreds of fishes, birds and even their cattle population.The villagers alleged that the toxic elements released by the company’s machinery are polluting the water heavily and in the past, too, mass mortality of avian creatures including fishes and birds had been reported to the officials, however, no stern action has ever been taken. On Friday, residents from Nagri, Aanwal Heda, Aajolia ka Kheda gathered in large numbers when they spotted a dead crocodile in the river. They took the carcass in an autorickshaw to the collectorate junction where they kept it for public view. People were saddened to see the site of the lifeless animal. Police and the forest department staff rushed to the spot on being informed. They had a tough time pacifying the residents who were adamant demanding a police case to be taken against the company for the harm.The forest officials assured that the postmortem would be held and required action would follow. Among the protesters were Kamlesh Purohit, chairman of Bhumi Vikas Bank, Bassi gramin mandal head Bhanwar Singh and sarpanches from Anwal Heda, Nagri etc. Sarpanch Dev Kishan Regar said on earlier occasions, too, the villagers had apprised the district administration of the hazards caused by the water pollution and warned of wildlife threats in the area, but their repeated warnings were unheard of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chittor-villagers-protest-with-crocodile-carcass/articleshow/80714505.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||154 test positive, 2 die of Covid in Delhi||DELHI: On Friday, 154 people were reported to have tested positive for Covid-19, while the death toll rose to 10,873 with two new fatalities. The fatality count on Friday was the same as that on February 2, the lowest in the last nine months. The previous day, 59,964 tests were conducted in the city. The positivity rate stood at 0.26%, according to the latest bulletin issued by Delhi health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/154-test-positive-2-die-of-covid-in-city/articleshow/80714533.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Chetla Lock Gate bridge to be rebuilt||Kolkata: KMDA has finally decided to dismantle the damaged Chetla Lock Gate bridge and reconstruct a new structure over Tolly’s Nullah. The authorities have initiated the process to engage an agency for the project. KMDA officials said the dismantling was expected to start in March-end and the agency would build the new bridge in six months. The agency will maintain the new bridge for two years post construction. The Chitpore bridge near Kolkata station has also been found beyond repairs and KMDA is working on plans to build a new structure near the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chetla-lock-gate-bridge-to-be-rebuilt/articleshow/80727175.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drug peddler held with 20kg opiate syrup, 56 grams MD||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested a drug peddler from Kurla and seized 20kg of Codeine-based cough syrup, 56gms of Mephedrone (MD) and 450gms of ganja. The NCB Mumbai team, led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, arrested Zakir Hussain Abdul Rehman Shaikh alias Bablu Patri and his associate Sahab Ali Mohammad Hanif Mulla. “Bablu got his nickname Patri (railway track) as he made fortune by selling drugs on the railway tracks at Kurla (east). Now, he sells contraband to drug peddlers,” said an official. The police also seized his car. Patri was booked in two NDPS cases in 2010-11, and there are other cases of assault pending against him, said officials. Patri was running a distribution network in Bandra, Kurla and south Mumbai. “He sold the contraband in 1gm packets so he gets bail if caught. He will be booked for consumption, which is a bailable offence,” said an official. Meanwhile, NCB has claimed to have found that celebrity manager Rahila Furniturewala and British national Karan Sajnani were involved in the drugs case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drug-peddler-held-with-20kg-opiate-syrup-56-grams-md/articleshow/80714563.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 6, 2021||Kochi||Once the norm, TPR now falls from grace||Kochi: The vagaries of Covid-19 spread in the state have had officialdom striking a discordant note in explaining the situation. In August, when case numbers plateaued and test positivity rate (TPR) slipped below 5%, the health department, in a report, said that “it [TPR] captures the size of epidemic and scale of testing”. However, now, with TPR going through the roof amid the overreliance on antigen tests, the department, in a new report, says “there is overemphasis on TPR of the day.” Almost 50% of new cases and 19% of deaths in the country are now reported from Kerala. The state’s seven-day average growth rate remains the highest in the country, at 0.61%. TPR is averaging 10.5% in the state, while it is 1.8% nationally. World Health Organization says that to ensure adequacy of testing, test positivity should not exceed 10% and ideally should remain below 5%. Endorsing this in August, when Kerala’s TPR was 3.3%, the health department’s technical report on testing said, “The positivity rate goes up when the epidemic grows and testing lags behind. So as such, it captures the size of the epidemic and the scale of testing in a single number.” In sharp contrast, its latest technical report attempts to justify the high TPR. “The testing strategy clearly says that symptomatic cases to be tested. Out of the general population if the tests are done the rate will be less.” “The most important requirement in fighting an epidemic is honesty. Unfortunately, in Kerala now with cases increasing and TPR high, scientific evidence has been replaced by political face-saving efforts. Any change in a scientific document should be backed by necessary new evidence,” said internal medicine expert Dr Arun N M, who has been analyzing Covid-19 trends in Kerala. Health experts believe only a sero-surveillance study will reveal the extent of the spread of infection. “The only pleasant thing about the whole situation is the ‘surprisingly’ low mortality,” said Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, one of India's leading epidemiologists. “We have to control the spread by testing more and keeping TPR low till a majority of the population is vaccinated,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal, who has previously worked with WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/once-the-norm-tpr-now-falls-from-grace/articleshow/80713093.cms||Preetu Nair
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Firefly diverters to prevent bird deaths an eyewash, allege environmentalists||Jaipur: The firefly bird diverters installed in Pokhran region to prevent collision of birds with overhead powerlines have allegedly failed to defeat the purpose as mortalities of winter migratory were reported in past one week. Environmentalists alleged that two tawny eagles died and one got injured after hitting high-tension lines in Rasla village and installation of reflectors was a mere eyewash. Degrai Oran Samiti main member Sumer Singh Bhati said, “The purpose of installing diverters to save large species of migratory birds, other than Great Indian Bustard (GIB), has miserably failed. On January 22 and 23, deaths of tawny eagles were reported. The companies have also installed the reflectors in a faulty way in this region. These diverters are installed on the top-most power line and dangling bottom ones are excluded. The birds, which lowers flight after witnessing reflectors, hit the bottom lines.” Following the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal’s directions, the private companies installed bird diverters in the GIB habitat area as a pilot project. With an aim to reduce mortality, a total of 1,848 ‘Fire Fly’ bird diverters were installed along two stretches of approximately 6.5 km, selected between Chacha to Dholiya villages in Pokhran tehsil after ground surveys and due consultations with the Rajasthan Forest Department. After witnessing the recent deaths, environmentalists fear threat would continue to prevail in wild GIB habitat. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) member Dau Lal Bohra said, “The migration of GIB will start in March and they could meet the same fate. As we could witness, the experiment has almost failed, the GIB habitat would continue to remain under threat. We cannot take risk with GIB as it is one the most critically threatened species in India, with less than 150 birds left in the wild.” As per the reports, on September 2020 a female GIB was killed in Degrai pasture land after it hit an electricity wire. This was not an isolated case, there have been many instances of GIB being killed due to electricity lines.Environmentalists also apprehend that winter migratory birds may stop coming to the area and change flypath in forthcoming years as these diverters make enormous noise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firefly-diverters-to-prevent-bird-deaths-an-eyewash-allege-environmentalists/articleshow/80714524.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Hyderabad||Emerging tech plays important role: Ranjan||Hyderabad: Rapid adoption of digital can help maintain normalcy and rebound from adversity. Emerging technologies will play an important role & Telangana students must lead this transformation, said Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, industries & commerce, information technology, electronics & communications (ITE&C). He was speaking at the launch of the Future Skills PRIME Platform for the state, by NASSCOM in association with Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) and Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) on Friday. The initiative is supported by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Shrikant Sinha, CEO of TASK, said, “The platform provides courses on emerging technology, free of cost that will be extremely beneficial for everyone in educational institutions.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/emerging-tech-plays-important-role-ranjan/articleshow/80714553.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||State authorities must work with secular mind, says Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Ahmednagar police on Friday evening registered a case of criminal breach of trust, cheating and an offence under the Black Magic Act against then district judge-2 and chairman of the Jagdamba Devi Sarvajanik Trust in Pathardi, the then chief executive officer of the trust and other trustees following a directive by the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court in a case of alleged misappropriation of temple property. “We have registered the FIR on the basis of HC directives and I will personally monitor the investigation to be done by an officer of the rank of deputy superintendent of police,” Ahmednagar SP Manoj Patil told TOI. Punishment under the Black Magic Act is a minimum of six months’ imprisonment and a maximum of seven years. It is a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The HC had on Wednesday directed Ahmednagar police to register an FIR based on a 2017 complaint against then trustees of Mohota Devi Temple. The allegations are that between 2011 and 2016 they attempted to “bury” and “misappropriate” two kg gold and Rs 25 lakh for a ’suvarna yantra’ ceremony. The HC bench of justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar said it was “surprising” that despite a district judge being an ex-officio member of the trust, he had accepted all proposals for the yantra. The HC observed the trust has two judicial officers on its committee “with an expectation that no illegal activity is allowed’’ and that the “trust doesn’t promote superstition, as spreading superstition is an offence in Maharashtra.” The state authorities, including police, must “work with a secular mind’’ and have a “scientific approach”, not fear, when handling matters that “involve religious feelings,” said the HC, observing the authorities had virtually avoiding taking action for years together. In 2017, Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti had filed a complaint alleging illegal activities by some trustees. The police did not act, observed the HC. Former trustee Namdev Garad had petitioned the HC for criminal action against the trustees and an audit of its records. His lawyers A S Kale and SB Talekar said the alleged acts contravened the scheme of the trust—of religious, social and educational purposes. The trust CEO in his reply produced a “huge record’’ to justify the trust’s actions and seek dismissal of the petition. The HC declined the plea of the trust’s counsel for a stay saying, “On many occasions, this court expressed that the counsel appointed by the trust need to protect the interests of the trust. Today also the learned senior counsel is attempting to protect the interest of the trustees and not the trust. Giving stay to the order will amount to giving protection to the accused and it will be against the religious endowment.” The HC observed that in most trusts, the manner of collecting donation and offerings is not proper, giving opportunity to persons in control to misappropriate the property of trust. It added, “If anybody objects to the activity, he is condemned by saying he is hurting religious feelings. Due to increase in such incidents, time has come to teach lesson to such trustees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-authorities-must-work-with-secular-mind-says-hc/articleshow/80714560.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 6, 2021||Kochi||Man found dead after suspected matricide in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a suspected case of matricide followed by suicide, a mother and son were found dead in their house in Ankonam, near Perumkadavila, under Marayamuttam police station limits, in the rural parts of the district. While the body of Mohanakumari, 62, a widow, was found lying on the bed in her bedroom, 32-year-old Vipin’s body’s was found hanging from a noose in his bedroom. According to a handwritten note recovered by police from Vipin’s room, he murdered his mother and then took his own life. Mohanakumari used to pick quarrels with his wife, Maya, and this had adversely affected his marital life, the note said. “I have killed my mother and am taking my own life. Let her [Maya] live in peace,” the note, allegedly written by Vipin, said. Police will send the note to forensic experts to confirm its provenance. Vipin was a driver by profession. Marayamuttam station house office inspector V Prasad said that according to close relatives Vipin was Mohanakumari’s only son. She was concerned about her son’s attention turning towards his wife after marriage. This led to frequent quarrels between her and Maya. Vipin had married Maya around four years ago and the couple has a three-year-old daughter. Maya and Kousalya were not at home when the incident happened. “Maya and Kousalya were at her parents’ home last night,” Prasad said, adding that Vipin and Mohanakumari might have quarrelled on Thursday night. It is suspected that he committed the murder by smothering her. Mohanakumari’s body was lying in a sleeping position. On Friday morning, Maya called Vipin on his cellphone. When there was no answer, she tried Mohanakumari’s mobile. When she too failed to pick up the call after repeated attempts, Maya contacted a neighbour and asked her to check on them. It was the neighbor who saw Vipin’s body hanging through the bedroom window that had been left open. Police conducted inquest procedures and shifted the bodies to the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital mortuary.  Postmortem will be conducted on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-found-dead-after-suspected-matricide/articleshow/80713110.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||JDA to restrict devpt in 1-km periphery of Nahargarh forest||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) plans to earn revenue by developing or approving various schemes in 13 revenue villages near Amer and Delhi Road will turn futile after the area was earmarked as economic sensitive zone (ESZ) of Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary. The state forest department has declared 79.356 sqkm area as ESZ of Nahargarh (WLS) where several activities will be prohibited. An official source said the central government had notified an area to an extent varying from 0 to 13km round the boundary of Nahargarh WLS as ESZ. A forest official informed, “The final notification to declare ESZ of Nahargarh WLS was released on March 11, 2019. Now, within two years, the state government will have to prepare ESZ zonal master plan in consultation with all departments including environment and forest, urban development, tourism, municipal, revenue, agriculture and others. The master plan shall not impose any restriction on the approved existing land use, infrastructure and activities, unless so specified in this notification and the zonal master plan shall factor in improvement of all infrastructure and activities to be more efficient and eco-friendlier.” With this, many new activities including hotel, farmhouses, resorts will not be allowed within one-km area. The JDA has recently incorporated a proposal in the agenda to approve a resort in Building Planning Committee meeting (BPC). An official source said, “As the final notification was issued during lockdown period, the JDA was unaware about the declaration of ESZ. The proposal was soon shelved after learning the fact. The JDA will now examine the distance and status of the project, before giving the nod.” The notification reads, no new commercial hotels and resorts shall be permitted within one-km of the boundary of the protected area except for accommodation for temporary occupation of tourists related to eco-friendly tourism activities. “Beyond 1km and up to the extent of the ESZ, all new tourism activities or expansion of existing activities shall in conformity with the tourism master plan and guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority,” reads the notification. It was further informed, no new commercial construction of any kind shall be permitted within 1-km from the boundary of the protected area, provided that, local people shall be permitted to undertake construction in their land for their residential use including the activities. Also, construction activities related to small scale industries not causing pollution shall be regulated and kept at the minimum, with the prior permission from the competent authority as per applicable rules and regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-restrict-devpt-in-1-km-periphery-of-nahargarh-forest/articleshow/80714544.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Two govt schools in Coimbatore to conduct vocational training programmes for Class IX students||COIMBATORE: Classes are likely to start at the 64 government higher secondary schools selected to offer vocational courses for Class IX students in the state from Monday. The classes will be held at the government higher secondary schools at Alandurai and Annur in Coimbatore. The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) introduced vocational courses in government schools through Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan on pilot basis in 2018-19 to increase the number of entrepreneurs emerging from schools. While as many as 67 higher secondary schools in the state including three in Coimbatore were selected in 2018-19, as many as 53 schools including one in Coimbatore were selected in 2019-20. Students are trained in agriculture, automotive, apparel madeu-ps and home furnishing, beauty and wellness, electronics and hardware and food processing. A school can offer two trades. “While the school in Alandurai will offer training in agriculture and apparel made-ups and home furnishing, that in Annur will offer training in apparel made-ups and home furnishing and electronics and hardware. The schools were selected based on their strength and training, both hands-on and theoretical. Training will be provided to 40 students per trade for an hour every day. The newly selected schools will identify the students from Class IX as soon as they reopen,” an official with the school education department said. Practical and theoretical examinations will be conducted every year and certificates will be provided once in two years, when students are in Class X and Class XII. D Saranya, who teaches apparel made-ups and home furnishing, said teachers have been conducting online classes for Class X and XI students. “Most of the students are attending classes properly. After theory class, we would share a video explaining the procedure and ask students to do it. Most of the students could follow it and they have prepared records. Now that the schools are reopened for Class X students, we are concentrating more on practical sessions,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-govt-schools-in-dist-to-conduct-vocational-training-programmes-for-class-ix-students/articleshow/80714543.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Bhopal||In meet with CM, Nath discusses farm laws||BHOPAL: Former chief minister and LOP Kamal Nath on Friday morning made a courtesy visit to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at his official residence. State Congress office said that during the meeting, Kamal Nath discussed farmers’ ongoing protest, Centre’s three agri-refom laws, issues of state’s development and people’s welfare. The senior Congress leader told Chouhan that the Centre’s three agrarian laws will destroy farmers. Every person who supports farmer welfare should rise above politics and party lines to protest the laws. These laws will have a huge negative impact on both farming and farmers, Kamal Nath told Chouhan. Farmers have been protesting against the three laws for more than two months. It is necessary that we all join and support their struggle. The state PCC said that Kamal Nath discussed multiple issues regarding the state’s development and even gave suggestions to chief minister Chouhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-meet-with-cm-nath-discusses-farm-laws/articleshow/80713105.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Five from Jamtara held for cheating Kolkatans||KOLKATA: The detective department has nabbed five fraudsters for cheating Kolkatans by falsely claiming to help them with KYC form update. The arrests are part of the ongoing crackdown on gangs based out of Jamtara-Madhupur who specialize in financial frauds. So far, 13 arrests have been made in 11 cases since July 2020. “Youths from Bengal and places adjoining Jamtara, like Amravati near Durgapur, are joining the gangs to make a quick buck. They are well conversant in Bengali and Hindi. They pose as tele-callers and dupe unsuspecting bank customers, especially senior citizens,” said an officer from the bank fraud section. Raids in the Jamtara region following leads led to the arrest of Tapan Das (24), Bidhan Das (24), Raju Das (42), Ranjit Das (39) and Bullet Das (23). “The accused called up bank customers and claimed their cards would be blocked if the KYC was not updated. They coaxed their targets into parting with their bank information,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. One of the complainants was Praveen Kumar Agarwal who lost Rs 2.8 lakh from his account that was linked to his phone. “A team from the bank fraud section conducted a raid at Jamtara and arrested the accused. They are in police custody till February 19,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/five-from-jamtara-held-for-kyc-con/articleshow/80727181.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||No deaths from UK variant of virus in Delhi||NEW DELHI: There have been no deaths due to Covid-19 in Delhi among persons found positive for the mutated strain of SARS-CoV-2. Only two people with the mutated strain of the virus required ICU care and the rest recovered well without any aggressive treatment. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, confirmed this to TOI. Delhi reported the first case of Covid-19 caused by mutated strain on December 30 last year. Dr Kumar said in the last 37 days, 18 people have been confirmed positive for the mutated strain that was first identified in the UK. “Most patients were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. Two patients required ICU care. But they also recovered and were discharged on testing negative for the viral infection,” he added. The spread of the mutated strain — considered 70% more transmissible than the original of SARS-CoV-2 — has also been very limited in India. The Lok Nayak hospital director said this was possible due to immediate testing, transfer and isolation of all passengers returning from countries affected by the mutated virus. “We received 106 persons with a history of travel to such countries. Of them 104, including an 11-month-old child, were positive for Covid-19. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing to government accredited labs, but in the meantime, we followed very strict isolation norms,” Dr Kumar said. At present, the hospital has six Covid-19 cases with a history of travel to countries affected by mutated strains of SARS-CoV-2. Of them, one is positive for the UK strain. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts say, the coronavirus that causes the infection has undergone multiple mutations. But the mutation found in the UK in September for the first time had become a cause of concern because it was found to be more infectious than the original strain. Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at CMC Vellore, who is also the vice-chair of the board of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) — a global partnership seeking to proactively develop vaccines for epidemics,— said there is no evidence to show that increases the severity though. In a webinar at AIIMS, Kang, however, warned that when a virus circulates unchecked and immunisation rates are low, the probability of mutations increases. She called for early identification of mutations and mitigation strategies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-deaths-from-uk-variant-of-virus-in-delhi/articleshow/80714545.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Krishna Hegde, Mumbai BJP VP, joins Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: Former Congress Vile Parle legislator and Mumbai BJP vice-president Krishna Hegde joined Shiv Sena on Friday in the presence of CM Uddhav Thackeray, minister for transport Anil Parab and Yuva Sena leader Varun Sardesai at Varsha, the CM’s official residence. MNS functionary Juilee Shende, who had contested from Parle, was also inducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hegde-mum-bjp-vp-joins-sena/articleshow/80715830.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi mortuary mix-up: Man cremates 2 bodies, other’s mom deprived of burial||NEW DELHI: No court could have fixed this emotionally draining drama caused due to a horrible mix-up at the mortuary of a Delhi hospital during the Covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in a Hindu cremating two bodies, first that of the mother of a Christian man, and later his own, while the Christian man was deprived of giving a burial to his mother. The Christian man, G Manohar, was in for a shock when he went to a Dwarka hospital to collect the body of his mother, who had died a non-Covid death. The body handed over to him was not his mother’s, but someone else’s. The hospital authorities denied any mix-up and even attributed it to Manohar’s hallucination. When Manohar’s relatives, too, said that it was not his mother’s body, the hospital authorities called one Puneet Kohli, who had collected his mother’s body from the same hospital. Kohli’s mother had died of Covid-19 and was the reason why he did not even identify it before taking it straight to the cremation ground. On reaching the hospital for the second time, Kohli, too, was in for a surprise. The body being handed over to Manohar was actually his mother’s. He soon realised that he had cremated Manohar’s mother. Manohar overcame the shock and emotional trauma of being deprived of carrying out the last rites of his mother, and permitted Kohli to take the body. Kohli then cremated two bodies, while Manohar was deprived of the right to carry out the last rites of his mother. It took Manohar four months to recover from the trauma. Now, he has filed a PIL in the Supreme Court through advocate Shilpa Liza George for laying down a National/State Mortal Remains Management/Disposal Protocol to avoid similar trauma to others. The real-life incident unfolded like a Bollywood script. On September 14 morning, Manohar’s mother fell in the bathroom of her residence in Dwarka. She was rushed to Manipal Hospital in Dwarka, but was declared dead after medical intervention. She was tested for Covid-19 and was found negative. Manohar asked the hospital to keep the body in the mortuary as his relatives were arriving the next day to attend the burial at Burari cemetery. On entering the mortuary the next morning, Manohar found that his mother's body was kept along with the bodies of those who had died of Covid-19 in utter disregard of the Covid management protocol. A bigger shock awaited him when he found that the body being handed over to him was not of his mother’s. When other relatives insisted that it was not the body of Manohar's mother, the hospital authorities called Kohli, who a few hours ago had taken the body of a woman, supposed to be of his mother. Kohli arrived and admitted to Manohar that he had taken the body straight to the cremation ground. The mystery unravelled when Kohli identified the body, which was being handed over to Manohar as that of his mother. In his petition, Manohar said, “The scene at the time was unimaginable. The petitioner was not just grieving the death of his mother, but the hospital’s negligence deprived him of the chance to give her a proper burial. It left him and his family with no closure in a death, which had emotionally shook them to the core, as their mother, who was not bed-ridden for even a day, died in a matter of hours and was cremated by an unknown man, when all the while, the petitioner and his family were making arrangements to bury her remains at the Burari Christian cemetery. Thereafter, the petitioner was asked by the hospital to see a third body stored in the mortuary, and after ascertaining that it was that of a male, the petitioner filed a formal police complaint regarding the matter, and also issued an NOC to Kohli to allow him to cremate his ‘real’ mother, which was his right.” Manohar said he wanted to highlight the lack of management protocol in the country, as a result of which irreversible harm and agony of this sort was being caused. He requested the SC “to direct the Centre and states to set up a National/State Mortal Remains Management/Disposal Protocol that will be strictly adhered to, so that such trauma and distress can be avoided”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kin-denied-final-goodbyes-due-to-mortuary-mix-up/articleshow/80714583.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Happiness shops for shelter homes||Jaipur: Happiness shops will be opened soon for people in need in the 210 shelter houses of the state. The shop will be known as ‘Being Manav Happiness Shop’. Director and special secretary of local self-government Deepak Nandi has asked the commissioners of all urban bodies to start a ‘Being Manav Happiness Shop’ by integrating the ‘Neki ki Deewaar’ i.e., the wall of righteousness operating inside and outside the shelter sites. Also, a space from 5 feet to 20 feet will be allocated at each shelter site for the Shop and the shelter site manager will be appointed as the nodal officer. This work will be done in collaboration with a private organisation. Chairman of the private organisation Mukesh Madhwani said ‘Being Manav’ would serve as a boon to carry items for the needy from the happiness shop and fulfil their needs. Presently, the ‘Being Manav Happiness Shop’ is being operated in Udaipol Park, Udaipur. Under this, people who have extra items lying in their houses which are not of use to them can deposit them by going to the shop. People who need these items can take it from there for free. This includes general clothing, warm clothes, utensils, toys, stationery, books, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/happiness-shops-for-shelter-homes/articleshow/80714555.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Accused in Khar murder case seeks bail||MUMBAI: Second year college student, Diya Padalkar (18), arrested along with Shree Jogdhankar for the murder of her friend, Jhanvi Kukreja (19), on January 2, moved a bail plea before the sessions court, which ordered Khar police to submit its report. Police said they were probing the case based on circumstantial evidence. The plea was filed by Padalkar’s lawyer Ashok Mishra on February 2. Padalkar is currently at Byculla women’s jail. “The court on February 4 issued a notice on bail. I handed over the notice to police to submit their report on the plea. The hearing will be on February 11,” Mishra told TOI. Kukreja’s lawyer, Trivankumar Karnani, said, “We will oppose the bail application as police investigations are on, and if bail is granted at this premature stage, it could lead to influencing witnesses, destruction and tampering of evidence or absconding and fleeing from justice. The accused’s grounds for bail are devoid of merits and as they committed a brutal murder a wrong message will go out to society if bail is granted.” Police received one Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report last month that they did not find alcohol or drugs in Padalkar and Jogdhankar’s blood. Jogdhankar’s lawyer Mahesh Vaswani said they will move the bail plea soon. “Till today, police could not unravel the mystery how Jogdhankar got injured. Shree had an eight-inch injury on the back of the head, the ribs were fractured spinal cord was dislocated. These injuries cannot be self-inflicted. Possibly something happened which police did not investigate,” said Vaswani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/accused-in-khar-murder-case-seeks-bail/articleshow/80713715.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 6, 2021||Kochi||Nataka Akademi fellowships announced||Thrissur: The Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi on Thursday announced the winners of its 2020 fellowships, annual and Guru Pooja awards. Pirappankode Murali (theatre), Kalamandalam Vasu Pisharody (Kathakali) and Tripunithura Radhakrishnan (ghatam) bagged the fellowships, an akademi press release said. Each fellowship carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000, plaque and citation. Murali, a former CPM MLA, has had a decades-long association with theatre as playwright and lyricist. Pisharody, a renowned Kathakali artiste, was also a teacher and vice principal of Kerala Kalamandalam. Radhakrishnan is a brilliant exponent of ghatam who has performed in several countries, the release said. Among the award winners are six theatre artistes: Rajani Melur, E A Rajendran, Pradeeep Malavika, T Sureshbabu, Gopalan Adat and C N Sree Valsan. The other winners include Manalur Gopinath (Ottanthullal), K Venkitaraman (vocal music), Babu Narayanan (violin), Premkumar Vatakara (music direction), Reena Murali (light music) and Natesh Shankar (light music). Each award consists of a cash prize of Rs 30,000, plaque and citation. The Guru Pooja Award winners include Meena Ganesh, E T Varghese, Cherayi Suresh, Nilambur Mani, Rathnamma Madhavan, Kalamandalam Sreedevi and Babil Perunna. It comprises a cash prize of Rs 30,000, plaque and citation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nataka-akademi-fellowships-announced/articleshow/80713354.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Thief’s arrest solves farmhouse murder||Kolkata: Almost 19 months after a couple was murdered at a farmhouse in Sonarpur’s Kheyada and their bodies were stuffed in two suitcases, a chance detection of a bike theft case led cops to the main accused. The Baruipur district police said they had arrested a bike thief, Sourav Mondal, sometime ago. During interrogation, they learned he was the killer in farmhouse murder case. The CID, which is probing the case, will take Mondal in remand. “We carried out raids and recovered six bikes and arrested Mondal,” said an officer. While the case was cracked by Baruipur district police, they took the help of CID and some former Baruipur division cops to ascertain the motive. “Mondal, who lived barely a kilometre away from the farmhouse, knew the victims — Pradip Biswas (56) and Alpana Biswas (49) — well,” a CID source said. “In mid-July 2019, Mondal hid some arms in the farmhouse. After Pradip and Alpana learnt about it, they refused to give the arms back. During the altercation, Mondal attacked Pradip with a knife and killed him. As Alpana knew about Mondal’s presence in the house, she was murdered as well. It was not a pre-planned murder. We have matched the cell tower locations and detected Mondal’s present at the murder spot. A blood sample match will be carried out,” said a CID source. The couple lived in the farmhouse and took care of it, while the owner lived in Kasba. When the couple did not answer his calls for a few days, he contacted Pradip’s brother Joy on July 30, 2019. Joy went to the farmhouse and discovered the suitcases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/thiefs-arrest-solves-farmhouse-murder/articleshow/80727190.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Rs 93 lakh to inculcate mapping skills in school students||COIMBATORE: The school education department has sanctioned a sum of Rs 92.6 lakh to distribute a toolkit comprising a 3D world physical map, outline blackboard chart, world map, India map, Tamil Nadu map, railway map, toposheets and compass to all high and higher secondary schools in the state. It is to develop mapping skills among the students through practical sessions. According to sources from the department, a sum of Rs 1,500 is allotted for each school and the district has about 193 high and higher secondary schools. After implementing a pilot project in 10 schools per district, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) introduced mapping skills in all the schools for the students of classes between VI and X. Under the project, students would be taught about directions, time zone, GIS/GPS, remote sensing and graphs as learning through digital maps is expected to help students learn easily, the source said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-93l-to-inculcate-mapping-skills-in-school-students/articleshow/80714554.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Idol stolen from Jain temple||ALWAR: An idol of Muni Suvratnath from the Navgrah Jain temple was stolen by unidentified persons in the early morning hours on Friday. The idol is estimated to be in lakhs, said the police.  The incident has been recorded in the CCTV footage and police is looking into the matter. Heavy police was deployed at the temple due to locals gathering there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/idol-stolen-from-jain-temple/articleshow/80714570.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Neighbour molests minor||A 41-year-old man was arrested for allegedly molesting a seven-year-old girl in the Regent Park area on Friday. The girl was playing near her house when the man, Samaresh Pal, a neighbour, tried to molest her.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neighbour-molests-minor/articleshow/80727195.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore gets 3,150 gold coins for marriage assistance scheme||COIMBATORE: The social welfare department has received gold coins under the state government’s marriage assistance scheme and is in the process of identifying beneficiaries. The government had last distributed the coins in December 2019. “The 3,150 one sovereign gold coins were stored in the treasury. We are identifying beneficiaries based on seniority. Distribution will commence at the earliest,” an official said. Under the scheme, the government provides Rs 25,000 and a one sovereign gold coin to women who have completed Class X. Those who completed diploma or degree are given Rs 50,000 and a coin. Women from the scheduled tribes are eligible even if they have completed Class V. To avail the benefits, the annual income of the family should not exceed Rs 72,000. As many as 11,000 applicants in the district are yet to receive the benefit, the official said. “Some of them had applied in March 2018. The scheme was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and rise in gold price,” he said. “About 4,000 to 5,000 women, mostly graduates, had applied. We will shortlist the beneficiaries based on the fund allotted to the district each year. The assistance was distributed to 3,000 beneficiaries in 2018 and 2,000 in 2019.” The delay in distributing the assistance affected some women, who had pinned their hopes on it to repay marriage loans. Even though it was assured that the assistance would be provided within a year after the marriage, it is usually provided only after two or three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-gets-3150-gold-coins-for-marriage-assistance-scheme/articleshow/80714567.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Kidnapped girl rescued||An 11-year-old girl was rescued from her abductor who, cops suspect, wanted to sell her into flesh trade. The girl was abducted from Howrah’s Domjur by a married youth, Sheikh Anarul, on February 3. He lured the girl with a promise of marriage. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kidnapped-girl-rescued/articleshow/80727197.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Faces were covered with soot, say residents; 1 hurt in scrapyard fire||MUMBAI: A fire broke out at ‘Kurla scrap plot’ in Madala, Mankhurd (E) at 2.45pm on Friday. Plumes of black smoke were seen in the area as the level 3 fire raged through the evening. Fireman Harish Nadkar (40), who was injured, was taken to civic-run Shatabdi Hospital, where his condition was “stable”. The fire was covered from all sides around 9.15pm. Fire officials said 19 fire engines and dozens of fire-fighters were pressed into action. The cause was not known till night. The fire led to traffic congestion on Eastern Freeway and other parts of eastern suburbs. Several BEST buses were diverted. The densely populated area has several large slum pockets. Local MLA Abu Asim Azmi said the yard was illegal. “They have encroached into 15 acres of revenue land. Most activities there are illegal and a mafia operates there. They make soap and chemicals are sold there. Hazardous electrical equipment is also broken there. There are fires every year, which lead to severe breathing problems for residents. The government has not taken action despite repeated complaints,” Azmi said. “We could feel the smoke in our mouth. Our faces were covered with soot,” said Vakil Khan, who runs a school there. Commuters said the Freeway was jammed till Wadala on the northbound arm. Fighting the fire was very tough as the flames raged with wind blowing in the evening, a fire official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/faces-were-covered-with-soot-say-residents-1-hurt-in-scrapyard-fire/articleshow/80713726.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 6, 2021||Bhopal||Five-year-old raped, murdered in MP's Morena in ‘revenge crime’||BHOPAL: A five-year-old girl was kidnapped, raped and murdered in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district on Wednesday, allegedly by a man who got out on bail recently in a rape case. The child was a niece of the woman he had raped in July last year, leading police to suspect it's a revenge crime. The accused spent over six months in jail and was let out on bail only a few days ago. Furious villagers blocked highway traffic and demanded that the man be hanged. A large police force has been deployed in the area. The victim lived with her grandparents as her parents work as daily wagers in another state. She was reported missing on Wednesday. Her body was found in a mustard farm, around 150m from her house, the next day. When police arrived on the scene, villagers told them that she had been last seen with the rape accused. He was brought in for questioning. During interrogation, he admitted to the gruesome crime, and said he had lured her with chocolates, said police. Investigators suspect he raped and killed the child to ‘avenge’ the rape complaint filed by her aunt in July. He had threatened the woman with dire consequences when he was being arrested. The child’s body was handed over to her family after autopsy. A case has been registered for rape, murder and under POCSO Act and SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. On Thursday, a 5-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped and raped by a neighbour in Rewa district. Four minors have been raped in MP in the past three weeks, one of them being murdered and another barely surviving being buried alive. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5-year-old-raped-murdered-in-morena-in-revenge-crime/articleshow/80713121.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: MLA refutes charge of wrong edu info||NEW DELHI: AAP MLA Preeti Tomar on Friday refuted allegations that she gave a false declaration regarding her educational qualifications in her nomination form, saying her MSc and BEd degrees were issued in her maiden name, which she changed after her marriage. In an affidavit filed in the Delhi high court, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA has claimed that prior to her marriage to former law minister Jitender Singh Tomar, her maiden name was Kumari Tulsa Solanki. She claimed she was enrolled under that name in Raghunath Girls Degree College, which is affiliated with Chaudhary Charan Singh University, earlier known as Meerut University. Her submissions were filed in response to a petition challenging her election, where she added that she was issued the BSc and MSc degrees in 1988 and 1990, respectively, from Meerut University and the BEd degree from Chaudhary Charan Singh University in 1995. After her marriage in 1998, she had changed her name to Preeti Tomar, the response says, adding that the change was announced in 2017 in two daily newspapers. Subsequently, she again changed her name to Preeti Jitender Tomar in March 2020. Her husband, former AAP MLA Jitender Singh Tomar, was found to have furnished a fake degree in his election nomination of 2015 and his election as AAP MLA that year was set aside. The petition challenging election of Tomar’s wife has been moved by Tri Nagar constituent Naveen Parashar, who has alleged that she has misrepresented herself to be “MSc and BEd passed” and “thus, was successful in exercising undue influence over the voters, which amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of the Representation of the Peoples Act”. The petition by Parashar alleged that Chaudhary Charan Singh University, from where the AAP MLA claimed to have completed her BEd in 1994, did not have that course in that year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mla-refutes-charge-of-wrong-edu-info/articleshow/80715841.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Coimbatore||Hospital staff booked for abetting suicide of sanitary worker||COIMBATORE: The Kuniyamuthur police on Thursday registered a case against three employees of Seethalakshmi Government Maternity Hospital at RS Puram on charges of abetting the suicide of a sanitary worker. P Rangasamy, 38, a resident of BK Pudur near Kuniyamuthur, had consumed aluminum phosphide to kill himself on Wednesday, police said. “Before killing himself, he recorded a video statement, accusing Solomon, Revathi and staff nurse Latha for forcing him to take the extreme step. The trio had lodged a fake complaint against him and portrayed him in bad light. Subsequently, the chief doctor asked him not to report to duty,” a police officer said. Rangasamy’s daughter R Sangeetha, who lodged the police complaint, also submitted the video evidence. Kuniyamuthur police sub-inspector Silambarasan has registered a case against Solomon, Revathi and Latha under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hospital-staff-booked-for-abetting-suicide-of-sanitary-worker/articleshow/80714594.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dalit woman’s husband held on rape charges||UDAIPUR: The Chittorgarh police has arrested Dalla Meghwal, husband of the Dalit woman Sosar Bai who was stripped and thrashed by mother-son duo on January 28 in Alod village. The accused woman Chandi Bai Teli, wife of Shri Lal, had filed a cross complaint against Dalla and Sosar Bai on February 1 and levelled sexual abuse and rape charges against them. The police had arrested Chandi Bai and her son Kishan Singh for abuse and assault of Sosar Bai. “We arrested three persons on February 2 and 3 in connection with both the cases and sent them to judicial custody. The mother-son duo has been released on bail by the court. It was revealed during investigation that illicit relationship between Chandi Bai and Dalla Meghwal had often led to verbal spats between the two women in the past,” said Ashish Kumar, the investigation officer and DSP Badi Sadri. Meanwhile, Sosar Bai’s son Bherulal has put an application at the District Legal Service Authority seeking judicial intervention in the case. Bherulal said police delayed the arrest of the perpetrators intentionally giving them time to file a false case against his father. He also said that police did not register his complaint on time on the pretext of not having the caste certificate. However, the IO said the caste certificate is only a formality now since the case has been registered under the provisions of the SC&ST Act (Prevention of Atrocities) and the accused too have been arrested accordingly after their crime was found proved. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dalit-womans-hubby-held-on-rape-charges/articleshow/80714603.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||‘Avoid shared vehicles, cap occupancy at 50%’||Kolkata: As schools are gearing up to resume on-campus lessons for board-year students from February 12, most institutes are advising parents to send their wards by private vehicles and avoid pooled cars, if possible. Several others are planning to cap the number of students travelling by shared vehicles to 50% of the capacity. Don Bosco School Park Circus principal Fr Bikash Mondal said since carpools were beyond their ambit, he would issue a circular, advising parents of classes IX-XII students to refrain from using shared vehicles and send the kids by private cars, if possible, till the new session begins. Apala Dutta, principal of Birla Bharati School, pointed out they had nine buses. “We have advised them to reduce the number of occupants to 50%. For pooled vehicles, those with 30 seats should not allow more than 15 kids and the rule applies to larger vehicles, too,” Dutta said. School bus and carpool owners said they were training their staff to maintain social distancing. “For the first week or more, we see absolutely no reason why this should be an issue. Only four classes will resume on February 12. Very few students from these classes avail of our services. Moreover, some parents are calling up to say they will not send their kids by bus for some more time,” said Himadri Ganguly, general secretary of West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners’ and Operators’ Association. “For now, we will follow two things: no two students will sit together and that everyone has to wear masks.” With certain tax concessions being offered by the state in the Budget, Ganguly said more buses could now be run. “More buses will mean fewer students travelling together,” he said, adding they were in touch with schools. Arupam Dutta of Poolcar Owners’ Welfare Association, which has contracts with guardians, said they would decide on an SOP only after they watch the response. “We are obliged to guardians and we will provide services at all costs to those who supported us during lockdown. We are taking their feedback. With so few students, distancing would not be a problem. We have asked everyone in the association to keep their cars ready by February 12,” said Dutta. Several individual bus and carpool owners want NOC from parents. “ I have asked parents to share individual school policies with us. An NOC, along with an advance, is a necessity,” said Satrajit Ghosh in Behala. Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point High School that runs seven school buses for students between classes IX and XII pointed out a count was being taken about the routes. “We want to rejig the earlier plan and implement a commuting system, maintaining all health precautions,” Damani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/avoid-shared-vehicles-cap-occupancy-at-50/articleshow/80714617.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||DC latest target of cyber frauds||Kolkata: The deputy commissioner (headquarters) of Howrah City Police, Dyutiman Bhattacharya, has lodged a complaint with the cyber cell, alleging fraudsters created a fake Facebook profile using his photos from the original social media account and sought money from his acquaintances over chats. The incident comes months after the CID’s cyber cell and district cyber investigation units registered multiple cases of cheating and forgery where fake social media accounts of senior police personnel, including that of Howrah police commissioner Kunal Aggarwal, were found to be operated by fraudsters. Kolkata Police had issued an advisory after a few officers from its north and port divisions reported such fake social media profiles in their names. “On Friday evening, I started receiving calls from friends, enquiring if I was in financial distress and needed money. They had received friend requests from a new Facebook profile with my name and photographs. Once they accepted it, the fraudster requested to transfer some money to a digital wallet. Thankfully, awareness level is high now and no one fell in the trap. I immediately asked them to report the profile and lodged a complaint with the cyber cell,” said Bhattacharya. Bhattacharya had received screenshots of conversations from several friends from whom the fraudster had sought money in Hindi using Devnagri script. “The account has been blocked and we have started an inquiry to track the gang. We have alerted other officers,” said a senior officer. TOI had reported last September how several fake social media accounts of senior police officers had surfaced and were being used to dupe people A CID probe had been initiated into the fraud. Cops said they traced a few of the IP addresses to Jharkhand and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dc-latest-target-of-cyber-frauds/articleshow/80727208.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 6, 2021||Chandigarh||During lockdown, NCW got 3-4 complaints in a day from Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Despite the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020, three to four women approached the National Commission for Women every day to report crimes against them. According to data released by the Commission, maximum complaints were reported from Haryana in 2020 as compared to 2018 and 2019. The Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) has been in place in the state since 2012. Both the Haryana Police and the government have been under fire from the opposition over crimes against women. Haryana saw 13,481 cases of crimes against women in 2020, when 1,266 women approached the NCW in person, through mail or through other mode of communication. At 489 complaints, issues related to the right to live with dignity topped the tally. Of the remaining complaints, 235 were related to domestic violence, 134 were related to police inaction or police apathy against women and 126 were related to dowry harassment. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said most complaints are at the final stages of disposal. “Immediate remedy is the only thing which a complainant looks forward too. Like other systems, the Commission cannot ask the complainant to go back. Hence, we give them a patient hearing and deal with their complaints properly. Rest, the state Commission has its own responsibilities and they too are doing their job,’’ she said. On the high mumber of complaints from Haryana, she said it could be due to the Commission’s proximity to the state. A total of 1,144 complaints were reported in 2019 and 1,239 complaints were reported in 2018. When contacted, Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, vice-chairperson, HSWC, who is now officiating as chairperson, admitted that complaints reach the NCW. “Largely, it is due to awareness among women folk, especially due to IT raids. There had been some impact of lockdown on the functioning here. As for complaints, sometimes, there is duplicacy of complaints as well. We normally get 14 to 20 complaints every day through various means. Heads of complaints are the same as NCW,’’ she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/during-lockdown-natl-womens-panel-got-3-4-plaints-a-day-from-haryana/articleshow/80714636.cms||Manvir Saini
February 6, 2021||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan budget will be growth-oriented’||JAIPUR: As part of the pre-Budget consultation meetings, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday took suggestions and feedback from the industry members. They sought tax relief and policy intervention to end legacy disputes that would free up locked funds for MSMEs. In the virtual meeting which was joined by industries minister Prasadilal Meena, power minister BD Kalla and senior officials from the finance department, Gehlot said that Covid has affected the financial condition of the state. However, the government will try to present a Budget which is growth-oriented and will bring in investments, he added. While the Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission’s draft guidelines for rooftop solar industry became a common issue for industry bodies who wanted CM’s intervention, the representatives also drew attention to high electricity charges, pending dues of MSMEs, labour cess and violation of Purchase Preference Policy norms. In its recommendations, CII-Rajasthan said all government and large-scale units should follow the MSME Act for payment within 45 days. It said there was a finance department notification giving directions to departments to pay pending payments in next 15 days and to report to it by July 6. Still most of the payments are stuck. It said refund of around Rs 2,000 crore to MSMEs is stuck because they cannot get said ‘C’ forms of previous years from their buyers like government department and companies. “Finalisation of old cases of sales tax regime are not closed and their receivables are stuck,” it added. The items which are produced in Rajasthan must be purchased by government organisations on priority under the Purchase Preference Policy but some departments are not following, it said. On labour cess it said there was lack of awareness of this Act, now the government should bring an amnesty scheme to help the industry clear the dues and the government will also get the funds. FICCI said that tourism was declared an industry in 1989 but all the facilities such as electricity charges, water charges, urban development taxes, allotment of land, conversion charges, etc. are still being done at commercial rates. It said for lockdown period, the government should waive the fixed electricity charges and consider actual working days’ consumption of electricity for calculating the load factor. Rajasthan Khadya Padarth Vyapar Sangh president Babulal Gupta said that the government should reduce mandi tax to 0.50% from the current 1.60% and also the farmer welfare cess of 1% should be scrapped because the effective tax rate goes up to 2.60%. FORTI executive president Arun Agarwal said that RIICO should allow more space commercial ventures in its industrial areas like Delhi and Haryana. Agarwal said, “Now, many of the industrial areas have come within the city limits. Given the situation, more are for services industry and should be allowed in industrial zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-budget-will-be-growth-oriented/articleshow/80714629.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Mumbai||Frontline vaccination turnout sharply up in Maharashtra, lukewarm in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A day after a dip, Covid-19 vaccination turnout in the city and the state soared on Friday. In Maharashtra, 61% of the intended recipients took the vaccine while in Mumbai the coverage was 71%. Till the 14th day of immunisation, the state had completed vaccinating 4.3 lakh beneficiaries. A total of 42,609 recipients, including 8,729 frontline workers, took the vaccine in the state out of the intended 71,456. More than double the number of frontline workers took the vaccine in the state on Friday compared with Thursday’s 3,925. In Mumbai, 5,883 took the vaccine out of the targeted 8,299. The city saw an increase in the turnout of frontline workers a day after it started with dismal numbers due to Co-Win app glitches. About 753 frontline workers took the vaccine on Friday (Day 2), a significant jump from the Day 1 turnout of 58. Mumbai has finished vaccinating 68,837 people since January 16. According to civic statistics, the turnout of healthcare workers was around 78% while that of frontline workers was 43%. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said issues with Co-win persisted, due to which few frontline recipients got the messages. “We mostly had to rely on the ‘allot beneficiary’ option that allows us to vaccinate those who walk in,” she said, adding less than 1,000 people were among those who had prior intimation and had received the text message from Co-Win. In order to boost the footfall of frontline workers, the corporation has spoken to Mumbai police. Dr Gomare said they are hopeful the number of vaccine takers would increase on Saturday. “We hope more police personnel will come and get vaccinated,” she said. The health department has also planned for some of the senior civic officials to get vaccinated. “It will motivate others too to take the vaccine,” she said. With the addition of two new vaccination centres on Friday, the total number has increased to 20. The two new centres are M W Desai Hospital in Malad and Bhagwati Hospital, Borivli. Western suburbs have a higher number of registered beneficiaries and hence more centres have been added. The number of vaccination teams has increased to 108, of which 85 will vaccinate healthcare workers and 23 frontliners. Across the state, nearly 14,000 frontline workers have taken the vaccine out of the estimated 20 lakh. Sources said less than 50% of the names have been registered. “We are trying to push as many agencies to register names. In another eight days, the second round of doses will start to be administered,” said an official. On Friday, 276 people took Covaxin in the state. Interestingly, Amravati that was carrying out the highest number of vaccinations among six Covaxin centres till a few days back, saw only 20 take the vaccine on Friday while at the Solapur centre only three took it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/frontline-vax-turnout-sharply-up-in-state-lukewarm-in-city/articleshow/80713146.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 6, 2021||Aurangabad||Shift minor convict to jail from special home after he turns 21: Bombay HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad jail authorities on Friday initiated the process for shifting a juvenile in conflict with law, tried as an adult and sentenced for rape, to the Government Special Home at Yerawada in Pune following a recent ruling by the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) that the convict should be sent to jail only after he turns 21 years of age on May 27. “We have requested the Aurangabad city police today to provide us an escort party for shifting the convict to the special home at Yerawada on Saturday,” Jayant Naik, Superintendent of Police, Aurangabad Central Jail, told TOI on Friday. A special court in Jalna on March 4 last year had sentenced the accused, who was 17 at the time of commission of the offence on August 11, 2017, to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a four-year-old girl residing in his neighbourhood at Ashti in Partur taluka of Jalna district. He was in a remand home ever since his arrest and was shifted to the Aurangabad jail following his conviction. In an appeal proceeding, Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the HC observed that the special court did not consider Section 19 of the Juvenile Justice Act of 2015 which provides that a child in conflict with law has to be sent to a place of safety till he attains the age of 21 years and, thereafter, be transferred to a jail. The convict in the instant case turned major during the course of trial. He will turn 21 on May 27, 2021 following which he shall be shifted to jail, the HC ruled. The bench took exception to the special court simultaneously sentencing the convict under Section 376 (2) (i) read with Section 511 of the Indian Penal Code (for rape) and under Sec 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. “The learned Special Judge had totally ignored Section 42 of Pocso Act. He could not have imposed punishment to the child-in-conflict with law under both (IPC and POCSO) provisions,” the bench said. Justice Kankanwadi observed, “It will not be out of place to mention here that the said court was not only the Special Court under the POCSO Act, but also was the Children’s Court under Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 and, therefore, proper consideration ought to have given to all the Acts involved in the case and ultimate operative order ought to have been given. Since the learned Special Judge has failed to do that, being the first Appellate Court, it is required to be done by this court.” The bench cited absence of evidence to establish aggravated penetrative sexual assault and set aside the 10-year sentence under POCSO Act. Instead, the HC convicted the accused under Section 9(m) of the POCSO Act for aggravated sexual assault but said no separate sentence was needed in view of the conviction under the IPC Act. The HC modified the 10-year sentence under the IPC Act to that of five years rigorous jail in view of Section 511 which says bid to commit offence shall attract half of the maximum sentence for such offence. “The child-in-conflict with law is entitled to set off under Section 428 of the Criminal Procedure Code (for the period served so far in custody),” the bench said. ‘Can’t allow challenge to JJB conclusion at appellate stage’ Initially, the Ashti police in Partur had filed a chargesheet relating to the case before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). After a principal magistrate’s order on March 17, 2018, the juvenile was referred to psychology test and counseling. Considering the psychiatry, special incident and counselor’s reports, the JJB concluded that the case be transferred to Children’s Special Court for trial. The court framed the charge on April 4, 2019 and the Special Court pronounced its verdict on March 3 last year. During the appeal hearing, the counsel for the juvenile sought to challenge the JJB’s conclusion but the HC held that “this cannot be allowed” at the appellate stage as the JJB’s conclusion was not challenged during the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shift-minor-convict-to-jail-from-spl-home-after-he-turns-21-hc/articleshow/80712330.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 6, 2021||Goa||Assagao, Anjuna residents protest poor water supply||Saligao: Upset with the irregular water supply, villagers of Assagao and Anjuna on Friday staged a protest outside the PWD assistant engineer’s office in Mapusa. They threatened to block roads if the supply was not normalised within the next 15 days. This is the third such protest outside the PWD office in Mapusa in recent months. Earlier, residents of Mapusa and later Siolim had staged demonstrations outside the office carrying empty utensils to protest the lack of water supply. On finding that the assistant engineer was not present in his office, the protesters resorted to blocking the main road at Mapusa, disrupting the smooth flow of traffic and shouted slogans against the PWD demanding that water supply be restored as soon as possible. Sensing a law and order problem, Mapusa police came to the spot and helped clear the protesters from the road. “For so many years now, the people of Siolim constituency are suffering due to irregular water supply,” former sarpanch of Anjuna Caisua, Shambu Palyekar said. The villagers from Sonar Khed ward of Assagao said that for the last 15 years they were being supplied water by the PWD from a bore well, that too for a maximum of one hour every alternate day. But, over the last three years, this supply too has become infrequent. The villagers said they are now completely dependent on tankers to meet their water supply requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assagao-anjuna-residents-protest-poor-water-supply/articleshow/80715843.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Vadodara||Three evade Rs 80 crore worth taxes, arrested||Vadodara: The central goods and services tax (CGST), Vadodara II, on Friday arrested three men for evading taxes to the tune of Rs 80 crore. All the three were produced before the court that sent them to judicial custody on Friday. GST officials said that they are investigating to ascertain if any more persons are involved in the fraud. According to GST officials, accused identified as Japan Ajmera, Tarak Patel and Karan Patel, all residents of Bhavnagar, had floated 12 bogus firms to commit the fraud. While two firms were registered in Dahod, five in Bhavnagar, two in Ahmedabad, one each in Chhota Udepur, Morbi and Indore in Madhya Pradesh. The accused showed that these firms were dealing in iron and steel. “The accused used these bogus firms to avail of input tax credit (ITC) by making fake invoices on paperwork only without receiving or supplying any physical goods and passed the said credit to different firms. The firms they had floated were small shops only,” said a CGST official. According to CGST officials, the accused used identity documents of their relatives and other persons to start the bogus firms. One of the firms, Vandan Corporation located in Dahod, has defrauded the government exchequer of Rs 16.61 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-evade-rs-80-crore-worth-taxes-arrested/articleshow/80712772.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Hasan’s induction: JMM move ‘outwits’ gathbandhan allies||Ranchi: JMM’s smart and silent move to suddenly announce an expansion of the cabinet and inducting Hafiz Ul Hasan, son of slain JMM minister Haji Hussain Ansari, is like hitting two birds with one stone. On one hand it has silenced the alliance partners who were staking claim over the Madhupur assembly seat, while on the other, it has emboldened the prospects of Hasan, a debutant in electoral politics. Things started getting murkier after RJD suddenly staked claim over the Madhupur seat, even though the party could not perform well in the previous elections. Madhupur has been juggling between BJP and JMM since the formation of Jharkhand, although JMM has been stronger with Haji winning the seat on four occasions — 1995, 2000, 2009 and 2019. BJP’s Raj Paliwar managed to win the seat twice in 2005 and 2009. RJD forwarded the logic that in the previous two bye-elections —Dumka and Bermo — JMM and Congress have respectively fielded candidates in alliance and won them. Now, it is RJD’s turn for the third seat. Clarifying their decision to stake claim over Madhupur, RJD state president Abhay Singh said, “Since we are in alliance, our candidate would have secured victory if supported by JMM and Congress.” When asked about Friday’s induction, although Singh welcomed Hasan’s inclusion, he said decision on RJD’s stand will be taken by its chief Lalu Prasad. Though Congress rejected RJD’s claim over the seat, reminding them of their performance in the 2019 assembly elections, there was difference of opinion within the party. Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon said Congress, with 18 MLAs, is far stronger than RJD with just one in the house. State Congress working president Irfan Ansari, however, expressed surprise over the decision. “It is the CM’s prerogative to appoint his council of ministers and he must have consulted the matter with our party high command in Delhi, but we here were out of the any consultation,” he said. For alliance partners, JMM’s message is strong and clear — Madhupur will be contested by the party, although Hemant still has one more berth in his cabinet to adjust the discontent. The maximum and minimum size of the cabinet in Jharkhand is of 12 members and with six ministers from JMM quota, four from Congress and one from RJD, one berth still remains vacant. BJP finds the decision of inducting Hasan in cabinet ethically wrong. Party’s state president and MP Deepak Prakash said the Hemant Soren government has been misusing its power. “Our allegations have been ratified by the move as the voters will be influenced by the minister and government machinery during the election,” he said, adding instead of seeking votes to elect an MLA, the saffron party will be seeking votes for electing a minister. “Voters are well informed these days and we are sure of winning the seat,” he said. Sources in JMM said apart from pressure for declaration of a candidate for the Madhupur seat, the pressure to appoint a minister has also been put to rest by Hasan’s induction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hasans-induction-jmm-move-outwits-gathbandhan-allies/articleshow/80713308.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Families of crime victims in Ranchi dist get monetary aid||Ranchi: The District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) and the district administration on Friday gave away cheques to family members of victims of rape, murder and other crimes under the Jharkhand Victims Welfare Fund Rules 2014. The cheques were given during a legal service-cum-empowerment camp held in Birsa Munda Central jail premises. According to the rules, one-third of the amount earned by a convict while serving his/her jail term is provided to the family of the victim. The remaining amount would be provided to the convict after his/her release. According to officials, a total of Rs 10.27 lakh earned by prisoners were to be distributed among families of 24 victims through cheques of various amounts ranging from around Rs 12,000 to Rs 1.25 lakh. Even though all beneficiaries were invited to the function some did not turn up. The administration said that cheques worth Rs 4.10 lakh were given away to eight persons in the function and other beneficiaries would get the amount at different functions and through real time gross settlement (RTGS). The jail administration is also thinking of sending the money through RTGS next time to safe the families the hassle of coming to the jail premises for collecting the cheques. Sources said that among the beneficiaries was an 18-year-old girl of Ranchi district whose father had killed her mother. While her father is serving the sentence, she is continuing her studies from the former’s earning inside jail. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar who was present in the function said, “Our organisation will call the girl at its centre and enrol her in a skill development scheme, which falls under the purview of our rehabilitation programme.” Jail inspector general Birendra Bhushan said, “The families are getting the second instalment from the fund. The administration carries out frequent drive to trace relatives of victims to benefit them under the scheme. A section of the affected families simply refuse to take the money.” Jail superintendent Hamid Akhtar was among the officials present on the occasion. Around crores of rupees have been distributed among the affected families over the years in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/families-of-crime-victims-in-ranchi-dist-get-monetary-aid/articleshow/80713033.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC pulls up Rims dir for not furnishing Lalu’s med reports||Ranchi: Annoyed by the lackadaisical approach of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences’ (Rims) director over non-compliance in furnishing medical reports of jailed RJD president Lalu Prasad, the Jharkhand high court on Friday issued a showcause notice to the director. The court gave the director the last opportunity to table Lalu’s medical report and said it will hear the matter again on February 19. The court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh issued the notice while hearing a petition filed for violation of provisions of the jail manual by Lalu. The court had ordered Rims to produce the medical reports of Lalu Prasad earlier, which was not complied with. The matter came under the scanner of the high court when media reports highlighted that Lalu met party workers freely while being at the director’s bungalow despite being in custody. Lalu was also reportedly assisted by an attendant, which is against the provisions of the jail manual. The court had also directed the state government and the Birsa Munda Jail administration to file their affidavits in the matter. The state counsel informed the court that norms and standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed according to the jail manual have been prepared. The SOP has been sent to the home department which has given its provisional approval, the counsel said. Lalu is in custody in connection with fodder scam cases involving fake withdrawals when he was the chief minister of erstwhile unified Bihar. He is in custody since 2017 and was shifted to Rims for his medical condition. In the wake of the pandemic, Lalu, while undergoing treatment, was shifted to Rims director’s bungalow to ensure he does not contract the Covid infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-pulls-up-rims-dir-for-not-furnishing-lalus-med-reports/articleshow/80713370.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Jamshedpur||Uniforms must for JSR auto, bus drivers & helpers from March 1||JAMSHEDPUR: Answering to long-pending demands of the people of Jamshedpur, the East Singhbhum district transport office (DTO) on Friday made it mandatory for bus and auto drivers and helpers to wear uniforms from March 1. District transport officer Dinesh Ranjan said, “Auto drivers will have to wear blue safari suits while bus drivers and helpers will wear khaki safari suits. They will also have to wear badges displaying their names and mobile numbers.” Ranjan said the uniform will be compulsory for inter-city and interstate bus drivers and helpers. Ranjan further informed all buses and auto-rickshaws will have the names of the drivers, licence details and Aadhaar numbers pasted on them, which will be signed by the administration and countersigned by the union in-charges. He also said all transport unions have agreed to the new rules. Ranjan said, “The move was taken in order to ensure safety of women travelling in public transports as it will help track drivers and helpers in case of untoward incidents.” Notably, in the past, there have been several instances when women lodged molestation charges against auto drivers or co-passengers while moving around the city. Welcoming the move, Preity Bhattacharya, a student of Jamshedpur Women’s College, said it will help tracing auto and bus drivers in case of hit and run cases too. Madhushree, another student of the same college, said women will feel safer while travelling in public transports. Sources said the move will also help the administration to find out illegal auto-rickshaws plying without proper documents as a little less than half the number of auto-rickshaws in the city do not have proper papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/uniforms-must-for-jsr-auto-bus-drivers-helpers-from-march-1/articleshow/80713106.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FRC orders school to refund excess fees of Rs 3.1 lakh to parent||AHMEDABAD: In a first, the fee regulatory committee (FRC), Ahmedabad zone, has directed J G International School to grant refund for the excess fee to a parent whose child was enrolled in the school. The committee, in a recent order passed, said that the school had collected excess fees of Rs 3,17,405 from Meena Patel for the academic years 2017-2018 and 2018-19. “After examining the records as well as submissions, the FRC has come to the conclusion that the school has collected excess amount of Rs 3,17,405 from the complainant. The school is therefore directed to grant refund of Rs 3,17,405 being the amount excessively collected by the school, within two weeks from the date of receipt of this order,” the order says. The complainant’s daughter Rudra has already left the school after completion of her study and more than two years have already passed, it further said. If the amount is not paid within two weeks as directed, the school is liable to pay interest at the rate of 12% and the school will have to face further consequences including penal action under Section 14 of the Act for committing breach of order passed by the FRC. As per the complaint filed by the complainant, she paid Rs 12 lakh as fees for two years whereas the school has admitted to have received Rs 9,16,905. Due to lack of documentary evidence to establish her claims, FRC considered the amount of Rs 9,16,905 and not Rs 12 lakh. The amount paid by the complainant included fee charges, food charges, trip charges and transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frc-orders-school-to-refund-excess-fees-of-rs-3-1-lakh-to-parent/articleshow/80714278.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Simdega dist administration uncooperative: Cong unit||Gumla: As many as 150 workers in Congress’s Simdega unit on Friday staged a demonstration against the district administration, claiming that its officials do not invite MLAs in government functions and do not respond to their calls. In Simdega, there are two Congress MLAs — Naman Bixal Kongari from Kolebira and Bhushan Bara from Simdega. “The authorities from different departments organize public functions to distribute assets among beneficiaries but the MLAs are never invited,” Anup Keshri, the Simdega district president of Congress committee, said. “Senior engineers posted in the district even don’t think it is proper to answer our MLAs’ calls,” he added. They alleged that the officials’ ignorance of the MLAs is causing the problems of the locals to linger. “Even locals’ works are not being done timely while the students are facing difficulties in getting their caste, income and other certificates issued,” he said, adding, “The district officials are acting at the behest of BJP.” D D Singh, the assembly representative of Bhushan Bara, claimed, “The quality of developmental works has deteriorated due to the district officials’ ignorance.” He added, “We want them to mend their ways so that development and other welfare works are rolled out properly and their benefits reach the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/simdega-dist-administration-uncooperative-cong-unit/articleshow/80713500.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Vax beneficiaries with AEFI motivate others to get shot||Ranchi: The vaccination drive has entered its second phase and inoculation of health and frontline workers was being carried out seamlessly at more than 150 session sites in the state, but many beneficiaries still have apprehensions over the safety and efficacy of the Covid vaccines. Health experts, though, continued to vouch for the safety of the vaccines and advised beneficiaries to get themselves inoculated as per their turn in order to develop herd immunity and defeat the pandemic. As per data available with the health department, a total of 243 people have reported adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) in the state till date, with capital Ranchi recording the maximum of 167, followed by Ramgarh with 19 cases, Koderma 18 and Dhanbad 10. The other districts have reported such cases in single digits. A majority of AEFIs in the state capital was reported from the state’s lone tertiary care centre Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), however, all of them were in the mild category. “I can assure people that the vaccines are completely safe and every beneficiary should get themselves inoculated. I was inoculated on February 2 and had experienced headache and dizziness within the first 10 minutes after getting vaccinated. But those symptoms didn’t last long and I am perfectly fine,” said a 28-year-old post-graduate medical student of the pathology department of Rims. Another beneficiary from Rims, a nursing student, who had reported an increase in her blood pressure levels following immunisation, said: “I am hypertensive and my blood pressure levels increased a bit post vaccination. However, I haven’t experienced any other complications. So I would like to assure others that the vaccine is safe and they should go for it.” Beneficiaries from Dhanbad who reported AEFI included a 58-year-old sanitation worker and a 25-year-old sahiya and they, too, claimed that the vaccine was safe. “I had experienced body aches for a couple of hours after the vaccination but that was all. I was asked to take proper medication and the next day I could report to work. It has been more than four days now and I am alright,” said a 25-year-old sahiya associated with PMCH Dhanbad. Another beneficiary from PMCH, a 58-year-old sanitation worker, said: “I am going to retire in the next two years and nothing happened to me. So younger people who are doctors and nurses shouldn’t worry about the safety of the vaccine. I just experienced headache for around 30 minutes on the day of inoculation.” The nodal officer for the vaccination drive in the state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said: “We have directed the districts to monitor each and every beneficiary during vaccination and they should be attended to if they experience any adverse reaction. As of now, none of the AEFIs reported in the state was serious in nature.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vax-beneficiaries-with-aefi-motivate-others-to-get-shot/articleshow/80712964.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||RMC to ink MoU with GAIL to set up waste-to-energy plant||Ranchi: The decks have been cleared for a waste-to-energy plant at the Jhiri dumping yard here, after the state cabinet gave its approval to rope in the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) to set up the 300-metric-tonne-capacity unit. According to sources at the urban development department, the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) and GAIL will be signing a memorandum of understanding (MOU) for a period of 22 years under which the central PSU will set up two bio-degradable plants of 150-metric-tonne each at an eight-acre plot that will be handed over to them by the RMC. The deputy municipal commissioner of RMC, Shankar Yadav, said: “As per the arrangement with GAIL, the RMC will allot an eight-acre plot for setting up a plant near Jhiri village and the central PSU will invest the rest of the amount. After the plant gets commissioned, the plot will no longer be used as a dumping site.” Yadav added that the project is likely to start by April this year and it will take around 18 months to complete. “We all know that the residents living near Jhiri are getting affected due to the waste being dumped there and this project will resolve this issue,” Yadav said. GAIL will produce compressed bio gas as well as utilise the garbage to manufacture manure. “As per the agreement, we will provide waste to the plant on a daily basis and they will produce gas and manure,” Yadav said. Meanwhile, those residing near Jhiri were still apprehensive as the project has been delayed by more than half a decade. “We have been hearing about the waste-to-energy plant for more than five years now but nothing has happened on the ground. So until I see some work I wouldn’t believe anyone as we have faced tough times due to the garbage mound,” said Rajan Singh, a resident of Jhiri village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-to-ink-mou-with-gail-to-set-up-waste-to-energy-plant/articleshow/80713147.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Students adhere to new norms, miss old times||Ranchi: After attending offline classes for around a month, most students in the city said they have become accustomed to the new normal of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, among others. Notably, physical classes have resumed for Class X and Class XII batches in the state. Alice Prisca, a Class XII student of Don Bosco Public School, said she misses the earlier times when she and her friends used to walk around the campus and share tiffin with each other during lunch break. She said ,“ We diligently follow Covid protocols on the campus to curb the spread of the pandemic. Like everybody else, I’m also praying for life to return to normal.” A Class XII science student of DAV Kapildeo, Aditya Prakash, said that although following Covid protocols in the school was difficult initially, they have all got used to the new rules. “Now interactions take place only when they are absolutely essential,” he said. He said that offline classes have been particularly useful in preparing for practical examinations. Anupam Adarsh, a Class XII student of Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli, said, “Thermal scanning and sanitising hands have become a routine affair in school. Now students proceed to their classes and sit on benches instead of moving around after entering the campus. The seating arrangement has been made to comply with the social distancing norms.” He said online classes cannot replace on-campus ones as the students can better interact with the teachers during physical classes and remove their doubts if any. While allowing classes to resume, the state government had issued a standard operating procedure to be followed by schools. Thanks to the SOPs, no school has reported any fresh Covid infection among students since the resumption of classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/students-adhere-to-new-norms-miss-old-times/articleshow/80712988.cms||Sanjay Sahay
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||26 of 41 new Cov cases from Ranchi||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Friday recorded 41 fresh Covid-19 infections and 47 recoveries, while there was no death due to the virus for the second consecutive day in the state. Meanwhile, active cases came down to 441. On Friday, only nine of the 24 districts reported new cases, with Ranchi clocking the maximum at 26. Khunti and Pakur, which had become covid-free, had a count of three and one active cases on Friday. As per government data, as many as 1,18,938 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,420 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 98.72%. Meanwhile, a total of 8,962 beneficiaries were inoculated on Friday across 163 session sites in Jharkhand. Of the 8,962, 7,672 were healthcare workers and 1,270 were frontline workers. The overall turnout remained low at 39% as only 8,962 of the 22,971 targeted were inoculated in the state. As per health department data, a total of 84,103 beneficiaries of 3,28,704 scheduled till Friday have been vaccinated. A total of 246 AEFIs have been reported till date. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/26-of-41-new-cov-cases-from-ranchi/articleshow/80713120.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Borio MLA issues 10-day ultimatum to dist admin over illegal quarrying||Dumka: Veteran JMM leader and Borio legislator Lobin Hembrom on Friday issued a 10-day ultimatum to the Sahibganj district authorities asking it to close all illegal stone quarries and crusher units operating in the district. Hembrom said the locals will close the quarries and units if the administration does not do so within the stipulated time. The district administration has agreed to shut the illegal units. In a show of strength to drive home his point, the Borio MLA took out a rally which was participated by thousands of locals in areas where illegal stone quarrying is rampant and later held a public meeting in Mirjachouki’s Badtalla railway siding.  Addressing the gathering, Hembrom said, "Under no circumstances, illegal mining will be allowed to take place in the district any longer as it has devastated the life of the indigenous tribal population here." He further said, "There have been instances of several illegal stone mining units running with one valid lease, leading to mushrooming of illegal crusher units. The sheer number of such units has ruined the life of the local populace by damaging their farms with the stone dust and polluted the air." Hembrom added, "The mining department should identify all such units and take legal action against them. If it fails to do so, the locals will do it themselves. The checkpoints along the interstate roads should also be digitized to prevent illegal transport of stone chips and other minerals. I will raise these issues in the assembly during the upcoming budget session.” Later, an administrative team led by the SDO (civil) met Hembrom at the meeting venue and assured him that the administration would fulfil his demands for action against those units violating the rules and said inspection of the mining areas and transportation of illegal minerals would be conducted soon. Meanwhile, Sahebganj deputy commissioner Srinivas Yadav downplayed the situation and said that the district-level mining task force continues to take action against those violating the norms. Talking to TOI over the phone, Yadav said, "Actions are taken by the task force on a regular basis whenever instances of violation of norms are detected. Fines were also imposed on trucks found carrying illegal stone chips."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/borio-mla-issues-10-day-ultimatum-to-dist-admin-over-illegal-quarrying/articleshow/80713159.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Chakka Jam today: JMM to hit national highways, Cong extends moral support||Ranchi: JMM on Friday said it will hit the national highways in the state to support Saturday’s three-hour nation-wide ‘chakka jam’ call by pro-farmer groups demanding rollback of the farm laws. The party also pledged to rally strongly behind all future protests and demonstrations. Addressing the media, the party’s general secretary, Supriyo Bhattacharya, said, “We had vehemently opposed the farm bills which were brought in through an ordinance last year and passed in Parliament. On Saturday, our leaders and party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers when they carry out their ‘chakka jam’ on the national highways.” As many as six farmers’ outfits, under the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti (JRKSSS), will hit the national highways crisscrossing through Jharkhand on Saturday. Sufal Mahto, the convener of JRKSSS and vice-president of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, said the blockade will be held in as many as 16 spots across the state. “Left-backed farmer unions and trade unions will also join the programme. RJD’s Kisan Morcha has also pledged its participation. We are expecting a good turnout.” In a statement, Congress also extended its moral support to the ‘chakka jam’. Congress spokesperson Rakesh Sinha said, “Congress’ Jharkhand unit president Rameshwar Oraon has directed all district units of the party to ensure their participation in the protest in a peaceful manner. Congress stands strongly behind the country’s farmers.” Notably, Oraon and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh recently met the farmers protesting at the border of Delhi besides initiating a tractor rally in Santhal Pargana recently. Now, the party is gearing up to hold a mega farmers’ convention in Hazaribag on February 20 to whip up support for the repeal of the farm laws. As many as nine Congress legislators and two MPs were appointed as conveners for the programme during a meeting on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chakka-jam-today-jmm-to-hit-national-highways-cong-extends-moral-support/articleshow/80713353.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Haji’s son takes oath as min in Hemant cabinet||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Friday administered the oath of office and secrecy to Hafiz Ul Hasan, the eldest son of deceased JMM minister Haji Hussain Ansari at the Durbar Hall of the Raj Bhavan. Hasan is the 11th minister in chief minister Hemant Soren’s cabinet. He will hold the portfolios of tourism, arts and culture, youth affairs and sports and minorities affairs. Since Hasan is not a member of the assembly, he must win from a seat within six months from taking oath to retain the post. He is likely to fight the bypoll, expected in April along with West Bengal assembly election, from the Madhupur constituency, which fell vacant following the death of his father. Haji, who held the charge of minority affairs, died in October last year from post-recovery complications after getting infected by Covid-19. The decision to induct Hasan in the cabinet was taken in a sudden turn of events taken on Thursday night. With Hasan’s induction into the cabinet, JMM has silenced its alliance partners who recently started making claims for the seat. The tribal party hopes to garner enough support to get Hasan elected by giving him the post apart from expecting sympathy votes in huge numbers. It is the fifth time in the history of Jharkhand when a non-MLA has been inducted into the government. The first chief minister of the state, Babulal Marandi, was an MP when he was administered the oath of CM on November 15, 2000. He later contested from the Ramgarh seat in a bye-election and won. In the second instance, Lal Hemandra Pratap Dehati was appointed a minister in the Madhu Koda cabinet replacing his son Bhanu Pratap Shahi — who was elected from Bhavnathpur but was in jail. Dehati later vacated the berth when his son came out of jail. JMM chief Shibu Soren had also taken oath as CM in August 2008 and tried to get elected to the assembly from Tamar but lost the bypoll to Gopal Krishna Patar leading to the collpase of the then JMM government. The fourth person was Arjun Munda, who was appointed as the CM in September 2010 while he was an MP. He later resigned from Parliament and contested from the Kharsawan constituency successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hajis-son-takes-oath-as-min-in-hemant-cabinet/articleshow/80713247.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 6, 2021||Ranchi||Trekking, cycling at Dalma sanctuary to ramp up tourism||Jamshedpur: The Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) management said it is working on a comprehensive plan to increase tourism at the sanctuary. Detailing initiatives, officials said they are planning to introduce trekking, a dedicated cycling lane, bamboo huts that will serve as homestays and a snacks corner. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and DWS officials visited the sanctuary premises earlier this week to explore possible ways to ramp up tourism activities. Kumar and the officials huddled into a meeting subsequently and the DWS management was directed to prepare a draft report in this regard. “We have started working on the plan for the visitors and will soon submit it,” said DWS divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar. Iterating that it is early to set a timeframe for the commencement of the new facilities, the DFO said the focus is to promote eco-tourism in Dalma. Three trekking routes have been identified for the adventure-loving people, besides three cycling lanes have been planned. The DFO said eco-tourism will aim to provide earning opportunities for the youths living in Dalma forest area and also woo nature lovers to the sanctuary. An official said if visitors get a place to stay, there will be a scope to host traditional cultural plays and shows that demonstrate the rich culture and heritage of the state. Meanwhile, the forester said the department is waiting for an approval from the state government to resume tourism in the sanctuary. Notably, the footfall at Dalma has been on the rise for a few years now. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the annual visitors count to the sanctuary has been 33,000, 36,000 and 40,000, respectively. Spread across 192 square km area, DWS is home to elephants, wild pigs, sloth bears, barking deer, porcupines, mongoose and different species of birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trekking-cycling-at-dalma-sanctuary-to-ramp-up-tourism/articleshow/80713432.cms||B Sridhar
February 6, 2021||India||I won’t be intimidated, I won’t be silenced: US vice-prez’s niece||Meena Harris’s full-throated support to the farm protest has made her a darling & a villainThe US state department on Thursday issued a carefully-worded statement on the farmer protests where it spoke of "peaceful protests" and "unhindered access to information, including the internet" as "hallmarks of a thriving democracy" even as it, "in general", supported the new laws that have led the months-long stand-off between the Centre and the unions. Meena Harris, the niece of the new US vice-president, Kamala Harris - who is of Chennai origin from her mother's side - was nowhere near as diplomatic. Just the day before, she'd tweeted, "It's no coincidence that the world's oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters." Not surprisingly, she came under severe fire from the right-wing troll army. But there was no backing down. "I won't be intimidated, and I won't be silenced," she shot back on Twitter on Friday. Meena, who has over 600k followers on the microblogging platform, pinned this tweet on her timeline, making it the top tweet users see when they go to her handle. It had over 27k retweets and 231k likes by 7.30pm. She also tweeted, "I spoke out in support of human rights for Indian farmers and look at the response" - along with an image of members of the 'United Hindu Front' as they were about to burn a poster of hers for "interfering in internal matters at the behest of seperatists (sic)". Late Friday (India time), she tweeted again: "Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you - 23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days." Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'… https://t.co/VsiMVsdtOD— Meena Harris (@meenaharris) 1612552387000And in another of her tweets, Meena, tongue firmly in cheek, responded to a troll who had called her a member of Rihanna's band of propagandists: "Someone PLEASE make an album cover." She also retweeted actor Tapsee Pannu, who wrote, "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become 'propaganda teacher' for others." Till a couple of days ago, Meena Harris was a largely unknown name in India. Now, her full-throated support of the farmers' agitation has made her a darling of the pro-protests brigade and a villain on the other side of the barricades. So, who is she? Her social media posts indicate she's close to her aunt, Kamala. There are many pictures of them hugging, kissing, and having fun together. In June 2019, along with a picture of her with her mother, aunt and grandmother, she wrote on Instagram, "I joke that my household was like the opening of a Wonder Woman movie, where brilliant women run around an all-female island helping each other succeed." Meena Harris’s social media posts indicate she’s close to her aunt, Kamala. In June 2019, along with a picture of her with her mother, aunt and grandmother (above right), she wrote on Instagram, ‘I joke that my household was like the opening of a Wonder Woman movie, where brilliant women run around an all-female island helping each other succeed’Meena, 36, boasts of degrees from two of the most storied universities in the world - first, Stanford, followed by Harvard Law. She then worked on data privacy and cyber security as an attorney. She is a New York Times bestselling writer. Her picture book, 'Kamala and Maya's Big Idea,' was inspired by the story of her mother, Maya Harris, and aunt Kamala. Her most recent book, 'Ambitious Girl', with Marissa Valdez, was released weeks ago. Meena has also amplified farmers' voices on Instagram, where she has over 779k followers. On Friday, she posted a screenshot of a tweet by Rupi Kaur, where the young poet wrote, "This week @rihanna, @GretaThunberg & @meenaharris brought awareness to India's #farmersprotest and look at the response. Misogyny and right-wing regime go hand in hand." "Love you rupikaur. Thank you for your voice and leadership, including helping me to better understand this global issue," Meena wrote. She shared several pro-farmer "stories", which remain on a user's profile for 24 hours. Harris has been a supporter of social justice causes and founded the "Phenomenal Women Action Campaign" in 2016, "disenchanted" with American politics. She has condemned white supremacy, promoted grassroots activism, and supported gender equality. On Instagram, her company, which has over 597k followers, describes itself as a "female-powered lifestyle brand bringing awareness to causes and culture", and one that is "100% black and brown owned + women led." Her LinkedIn profile lists 35 publications under her name, most of which deal with promoting diversity, women empowerment and advancing pay parity. In a 2018 Vogue article, Harris listed a 5-step guide to "change the world", where she mentioned "online activism" as one of the ways to drive progressive causes. Although she's only now shot into the limelight, her support for the protesters isn't of Rihanna vintage. On December 14, 2020, she shared a picture of some women protestors along with a placard that says "Don't cut the hands that feed you." And she wrote a long caption in support of the farmers on Instagram. She wrote about her great grandparents and great aunt Sarala living in Chandigarh. "Farmers from this same city, and more broadly across the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, are now leading massive nationwide protests against proposed laws that would threaten the livelihoods of small farmers in favor of big corporations. Protesters have been met with violence from police and paramilitary forces, including tear gas and water cannons." She added that as a "political issue, this is super complicated and involves not only complex agricultural policy, but also targeted attacks against vocal religious minorities, and the legitimization of militant nationalism and fascism." "I stand with the farmers, and I stand with peaceful protesters, ALWAYS. Finally, I want to highlight the many courageous women who are also leading these protests. They're on the frontlines and deserve recognition too," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-wont-be-intimidated-i-wont-be-silenced-us-vice-prezs-niece/articleshow/80716740.cms||Anam Ajmal
February 6, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt slashes circle rates by 20% for 6 months||NEW DELHI: In a much-needed boost to the real estate sector, the Delhi government has decided to slash circle rates by 20% for all categories of properties for the next six months. The move was hailed by property consultants and real estate experts, who said the decision augurs well for homebuyers and reflects the market sentiment. "While we are slowly recovering from economic contraction in the post-Covid era, it is the duty of our government to take all steps to further reduce the financial burden on the common man," chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said. The reduced rates will come into effect from the date of notification. The Delhi government said the reduction will impact stamp duty or registration charges by 1%. Lower circle rates will benefit city’s big resale property market: ExpertsThe revenue department has been directed to perform the exercise accordingly, a statement from Delhi government said. Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, "We are facing tough times. As an accountable government, we understand it is our duty to give the maximum impetus to ensure the economy bounces back. This would require infrastructure, which is our biggest immovable asset, to pick pace. The reduction in circle rates is a welcome step by the CM. I hope this encourages more people to transact in real estate and avoid the stagnancy that would have occurred otherwise." Following the decision, deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted: "This would be a big relief for people willing to buy property and a big boost for the real estate sector." Delhi government believes the decision will make it substantially cheaper for people to do property transactions, revive the real estate sector, which has been hit severely by the pandemic, and create jobs. Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research of real estate consultancy firm JLL India, said, "This is a great move starting from the luxury to the mid-segment and even the affordable housing section. In fact, in the luxury and mid-segments, we are looking for some sort of a price rationalisation." Das added that the real estate market in Delhi for primary sales was not as big as compared to neighbouring Gurgaon and Noida. "Delhi has a big resale market. This decision will percolate down and augurs well for buyers. When you reduce the circle rate, what you pay as stamp duty will be reduced too. It is a very important way by which Delhi government can make residential property relatively affordable as there has hardly been any increase in prices of properties of late. It’s better that the circle rate reflects the market sentiment," he said. Rohit Chopra, founder of boutique real estate consultancy firm southdelhiprime.com, said that fence-sitters would definitely use this opportunity to buy property and many locations that had been witnessing stagnation would see more transactions taking place. "Transactions in areas like Panchsheel, New Friends Colony, Siri Fort, etc were stuck because the market rate was lower than the circle rate. Sales will start happening in areas like these and buyers looking at NCR towns would start choosing them again," said Chopra. In Delhi, the stamp duty is 6% of the consideration amount or the circle rate if the property is registered in the name of a man and 4% in case of a woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-slashes-circle-rates-by-20-for-6-months/articleshow/80716781.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 6, 2021||Goa||5 Newton Congress fuel hike||Panaji: Criticising the chief minister Pramod Sawant for increasing fuel prices, the Congress party demanded that the government should roll back the VAT and reduce prices of petrol and diesel. Pointing out that the poor face the biggest brunt of the fuel price hike, the Congress party said that the BJP government should provide people relief by subsidising fuel prices. Sawant’s move to increase taxes on fuel only strengthens the Congress party’s claims that the BJP government is anti-people, insensitive and pro-capitalist. “The people of Goa are actually expecting relief from the government as the Covid pandemic has severely affected each and every household budget. The government should have given subsidies in fuel prices, but instead the insensitive government has hiked the VAT leading to steep hike in fuel prices,” said Sankalp Amonkar, the state Congress party vice president. Amonkar said that the increase in fuel prices will have a ripple effect leading to an increase in essential commodities and thus strain household budgets of the poor. The Congress party also reminded the BJP that former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had promised to never let the price of Petrol breach the Rs 60 per litre mark. Amonkar also pointed out that BJP had kept fuel prices high even when international crude oil prices were sharply down. He said that under the UPA government, taxes levied on fuel were lower than what the Narendra Modi government is levying presently. “The Union Budget did not give any relief either. In fact, the finance minister has levied an agriculture infrastructure and development cess of Rs 2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs 4 per litre on Diesel,” said Amonkar. “This government has brought the farmers on roads but has no shame in collecting revenue in the name of farmers and agriculture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-newton-congress-fuel-hike/articleshow/80715091.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Goa||Amended MV Act to be implemented after roads are repaired: Godinho||Panaji: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Friday said that once the roads are repaired, the amended Motor Vehicle Act with high penalties will be enforced. “We are very conscious that the roads are not as good as they should be. When the roads are good we will implement the act as soon as possible,” the minister said. He said that the issue of bad roads was discussed during the cabinet and that repair works have started. Godinho said that Union road transport and highway minister Nitin Gadkari said that people should learn to follow road discipline to reduce accidents. That is the exact reason this act has been introduced with huge penalties — to bring about discipline on roads by dissuading people from indulging in violations, he said. Reacting to the lashback faced over the increased VAT on the already high fuel prices, Godinho said that it is not an ideal time to increase fuel prices, but the measure was a temporary one aimed at revenue collection. Once the economy picks up, fuel prices will be reduced, he said after the cabinet meeting. Godinho said that when there is no alternative, money has to come from somewhere. If the government stops spending then also there will be criticism, he said. The state government on Thursday hiked the VAT on petrol to 27% and on diesel to 23%. This made petrol dearer by Rs 1.3 per litre and diesel by 60 paise per litre. The price of petrol in North Goa currently hovers around Rs 83.13 per litre, while diesel costs around Rs 80.13 per litre, depending on the distance from the oil marketing company’s tanks Godinho said that these are pandemic times and a lot of schemes have been given to the people by the central government. “The hike was necessitated as a consequence of that, money has to come from somewhere to fund the infrastructure, schemes for the people as well as various other expenditures of the government,” he said. When asked about the failure to compensate families of those who have died in road accidents, the transport minister said that the scheme has an income limit and is only for those families that do not have any support. Referring to the GST collection in January, Godinho said that there is a clear indication that things are looking up and that in due course collections will improve due to greater compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amended-mv-act-to-be-implemented-after-roads-are-repaired-godinho/articleshow/80715156.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Commercial tax department cracks down on defaulters in Goa||PANAJI: The department of commercial taxes has launched a crackdown on tax evaders in the state with multiple raids being conducted on defaulters. Based on tip-offs and data, the department searched the premises of various GST and VAT taxpayers and seized evidence where evasion was noticed. The department also conducted simultaneous search and seizure operations on various taxpayers situated in Vasco from 10am to 5.30pm. “The operations were conducted by the department upon scrutinising available data and specific tip-offs where it was found that various dealers are selling goods without proper invoices, such invoices were often issued without tax details, complete description of goods, quantities sold, etc,” the department in a statement said. The department’s team has been actively pursuing GST and VAT defaulters to ensure compliance and filing of returns by visiting dealers premises and issuing notices to non filers. “It is informed that various discrepancies were noticed during such visits, which were documented, and books of accounts, including sales and purchase register, kaccha bills and other books, were seized,” the officials said. The operations were conducted by commercial tax officers and monitored by deputy commissioner, state tax (Vasco) under the overall supervision of additional commissioner, state tax (South). The department recently initiated action against 77 firms for recovery of tax dues amounting to Rs 120 crore. The amount recoverable from them is in the form of tax, interest and penalty and have been outstanding under various categories such as VAT, luxury tax, entertainment tax and entry tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commercial-tax-dept-cracks-down-on-defaulters/articleshow/80715223.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||DGP, chief secy get ST panel notice over Melauli clash||Panaji: The National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, New Delhi, has issued a notice to the Goa chief secretary, DGP and North Goa collector in the case involving the clash between police and the Scheduled Tribes of Melauli, Sattari, on January 6. On January 7, the Gawada Kunbi Velip & Dhangar Federation (Gakuved) general secretary, Rupesh Velip, filed a petition before the commission’s chairman, Nandkumar Sai over the incident. Gakuved had said that inhuman treatment was meted out to the tribals in Melauli by the Goa government in connivance with the police. “Goa police have abused their powers and have incited violence against the tribal people who were protesting peacefully by lying down on their ancestral land on January 6. The land is being illegally occupied for the proposed IIT. An FIR has been lodged under various sections of IPC against Melauli villagers for attempt to murder, etc,” Gakuved had told the national commission. “No action has been initiated on the complaints filed by the tribals. The Goa Commission of SC/ST has also refused to take cognisance despite repeatedly making the chairperson aware of the situation,” Velip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dgp-chief-secy-get-st-panel-notice-over-melauli-clash/articleshow/80715249.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Budget: CM consults with depts, firms||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said he has begun conducting meetings with various departments and private organisations to prepare a budget for the state which he is likely to present next month. Sawant, who is also the state finance minister, had earlier said that the budget for the new financial year would aim to make Goa self-sufficient. Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh has already arrived in Goa, the chief minister said, and added he will hold meetings with officials of the state fisheries department to explain the benefits of the Union Budget for the state. Singh will also throw light on the schemes that Goa can avail of, Sawant said. Fisheries stakeholders, who were expecting subsidies for traditional fishermen, had recently expressed their disappointment that the Union Budget had made no such provision for them. Their hopes were dashed further when they realised that Goa did not feature among the five states selected for the setting up of fisheries hubs. The chief minister, who is also the state finance minister, had earlier said that the budget for the new financial year would aim to make Goa self-sufficient||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/budget-cm-consults-with-depts-firms/articleshow/80715259.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Goa||Goa: Mines dept begins process to recover illegal mining dues||PANAJI: The mines department has started issuing orders for recovery of money from illegal mining, based on the audit report submitted by the team of chartered accounts, and is likely to complete the task by end of February. The exact amount to be recovered will be ascertained once the total orders are issued, a senior mines department officer said. In October 2020, the department had started the final hearing, based on the audit report, to recover money lost to illegal mining. Earlier, the department had evaluated the replies filed by holders of 118 mining leases to the audit report submitted by the team of chartered accountants. In 2015, the state government had appointed 15 chartered accountants to undertake a comprehensive audit of lease holders and traders of mineral ore in Goa during the last five years, when exports touched peak figures. The accountants had submitted an audit report of 118 mining leases to the mines department. Subsequently, the department analysed the report to ascertain the exact loss to the state owing to illegal mining. Last month, an extension of two months was granted by the high court of Bombay at Goa to decide on the showcause notices issued to mining companies for recovery of over Rs 3,000 crore. Goa Foundation had approached the court through a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to recover Rs 3,431 crore from mining companies within a time-bound period. It had filed the PIL when it became apparent that the government was not pursuing the recovery with zeal. Director of Goa Foundation, Claude Alvares had said that the demand notices worth Rs 1,580 crore were issued in 2016 on the basis of a report by a team of chartered accountants. Notices pursuant to the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report were issued in 2017 and were worth Rs 1,922 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mines-dept-begins-process-to-recover-illegal-mining-dues/articleshow/80715263.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||05 Denver_Assagao, Anjuna villagers protest lack of water supply, attempt to block road at Mapusa||PHOTOS EMAILED TO VALENCIA, ANURADHA, RAKESH, SHARMILA Saligao: Upset with the irregular water supply, villagers of Assagao and Anjuna on Friday staged a protest outside PWD assistant engineer’s office in Mapusa. The villagers have threatened the officials that if the water supply does not normalize within the next 15 days, they would hold a road blockade. This is the third such protest outside the PWD office in Mapusa in recent months. Earlier, the residents of Mapusa and later Siolim had staged demonstrations outside the office carrying empty utensils to protest the lack of water supply. On Friday, the agitated villagers from Assagao and Anjuna too banged pots together to draw attention to their plight. The protestors, however, found that the assistant engineer was not present in his office to listen to their grievances. The agitated residents then resorted to blocking the main road at Mapusa, disrupting the smooth flow of traffic and shouted slogans against the PWD demanding that water supply be restored to the villagers as soon as possible. Sensing a law and order problem, the Mapusa police personnel rushed to the spot and helped clear the protestors from the road. “For so many years now, the people of Siolim constituency are suffering due to irregular water supply and there is not a drop of water coming from the taps, which has made life miserable for the people,” said former sarpanch of Anjuna Caisua Shambu Palyekar. The villagers from Sonar Khed ward of Assagao said that for the last 15 years they were being supplied water by the PWD from a bore well. The water was being supplied to them for a maximum of one hour every alternate day. But, over the last three years, this supply too has become infrequent. The villagers said they are now completely dependent on tankers to meet their water supply requirement. The villagers said despite of all several requests made to officers of the water supply department there has been no improvement in the supply. “The basic human need of water should be supplied to the people immediately and this is a blatant violation of human rights,” said Aishwarya Salgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/05-denver_assagao-anjuna-villagers-protest-lack-of-water-supply-attempt-to-block-road-at-mapusa/articleshow/80715267.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Noida||Kamal Nath’s cousin, wife found murdered in Greater Noida house||NOIDA: A 70-year-old man and his wife (65) were found murdered in their Greater Noida house on Friday morning. The injuries showed both were attacked brutally – Narendra Nath was tied up, gagged, battered with a blunt object, and then strangled while Suman was beaten and then shot in the chest. Narendra, who had a spare parts business in Delhi and had been leading a retired life in the Alpha II house, was a cousin of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath. Suman was a yoga practitioner with a Delhi-based group, said police and family sources. Narendra’s body lay crumpled under a pile of clothes inside a cramped storage room in the basement when the police reached the scene. His face was clotted and bruised. Suman’s body was found on the first floor, on the drawing room floor. The house has three levels – a basement, and the ground and first floors. Suman’s jewellery and Rs 25,000 in cash was stolen and the ransacked cupboards indicated the assailants had combed the house for valuables. Four glasses of wine and noodles and momos on plates in the basement indicated there were guests in the house on Thursday evening. The murders happened after 10.55pm on Thursday, when Suman last spoke on the phone. The guests who had come to see Narendra on Thursday evening – at least 3, based on the number of glasses – and were chatting with him in the basement are the prime suspects for the police, who have recovered footage from at least six CCTV cameras installed in two houses in the vicinity. “We have gathered some strong clues from CCTV footage and some of the accused have been identified,” a senior police officer told TOI. According to the family, the last conversation Suman had was with her daughter and son-in-law on the phone around 10.55pm when she allegedly complained to them about the people her husband was entertaining in the basement. Narendra was friendly and liked a conversation. Sources said he would also lend money to local vendors or acquaintances in the locality. The basement was a place where he often met people who worked in the neighbourhood, like vendors, electricians and masons, for a chat, police said. Suman allegedly did not like this. Late on Thursday, when she spoke to her daughter, she had expressed her displeasure. “She said she was angered by it but could not go downstairs and complain. We advised her to ignore them and go to sleep,” her son-in-law Jatin Thankappan told TOI. “After that, I called her around 5.15am since she had some medical tests slated for Friday, but she did not take the call. We got worried. When I went to the house, the side door was open and my mother-in-law’s body was on the floor of the drawing room, under a quilt. Blood had oozed from her body and she had injuries on the head and chest,” he added. Doors of all the closets were open and clothes were strewn all around. Jatin said he called police and went around the house looking for Narendra. It was only after police arrived and began a thorough search of the house that Narendra’s body was discovered in the basement storage. “His hands and legs were tied and his mouth had tape on it. His face was blackened. There was a head injury too,” Jatin said. Other than the food and wine glasses, police found a liquor bottle and pieces of cigarette and bidi. Police said it seemed prima facie that Narendra was killed first. The assailants then went to the ground and first floors. They broke open an inner door on the first floor that Suman had latched before going to bed, her brother Vijay Singh said. “The door had been broken by the accused. Its latch had come off. It seems my sister struggled, but was dragged by the attackers, who shot her dead,” he said. Suman had a head injury, possibly from a pistol butt. The gunshot wound was on the left side of her chest. Narendra and Suman’s son Rohit, who is married and lives in a housing society in Greater Noida, had also shared information with police about four-people persons from the nearby market who would frequently visit the house or to whom Narendra had lent money. “Narendra Nath would allow them into the house but always in the basement. He would often lend them money. He also gave them cash to buy liquor, which they consumed together in the basement. It seems it was someone who he knew that orchestrated the crime,” additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/70-year-old-man-his-wife-65-found-murdered-guests-main-suspects/articleshow/80715275.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 6, 2021||Goa||Dy director of education new Goa Board chairman||Panaji: Deputy director of the directorate of education Bhagirath Shetye was on Friday appointed chairperson of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Shetye will serve in office for a four-year term. His appointed comes as Ramkrishna Samant’s term as the chairman came to an end early last month. Shetye has served twice before as secretary of the Goa Board. Samant as chairman and Shetye as secretary were instrumental in overseeing the safe conduct of the Class X and XII public examination during the height of the pandemic. Both helped conduct the exam against growing public and parents’ sentiments towards physical conduct of the exam for fear of Covid-19 infection among students. The duo steered the board through a difficult phase when the pandemic delayed the public exams much beyond the usual schedule. Under their watch, the syllabus was also truncated for the academic year 2020-21 to make up for the days lost to the pandemic. With Samant as chairperson, Goa Board effected some important changes like introduction of ‘mathematics 2’ option, where a student can choose to answer a maths paper of a lower difficulty level at Class X public exam, if he or she does not wish to pursue mathematics at the higher education level. The board, under Samant, also introduced a penalty for teachers involved in Goa Board examination work if the teacher was found erring during his or her duties as supervisor, paper setter, paper corrector etc at the public exams. “The officer shall serve in the board as chairman for a period of four years from date on which he assumes the charge of the office or till he completes the age of 60 years, whichever is earlier,” states the order of Shetye’s appointment issued on Friday by director of education Santosh Amonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dy-director-of-education-new-goa-board-chairman/articleshow/80715273.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||05 Gauree_Admission to GU Portuguese certificate course open||Panaji: Goa University’s department of Portuguese and Lusophone Studies will be offering a Portuguese certificate course for beginners with an intake of 25 students from mid-February. Any student who has completed Class XII can apply for the course, which will begin from February 15. The course will be of a duration of 100 hours with classes conducted three times a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 6pm to 8pm. While students of Goa Board or Goa University will be charged a subsidised fee of Rs 4,800 for the course, those from other boards or universities will have to pay Rs 7,700 for the same. To be able to qualify for the certificate at the end of the programme, however, students have to score a minimum of 50% marks. Students wanting to join the course will have to apply online by February 12, 2021, the department has said. Goa University’s department of Portuguese and Lusophone Studies is the only one offering the master’s programme in Portuguese in the country and therefore attracts students from different states of India. The certificate course of the department has grown popular among students since its introduction in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/05-gauree_admission-to-gu-portuguese-certificate-course-open/articleshow/80715277.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Will ask SC for names to select Lokayukta: CM||Panaji: After amending the Goa Lokayukta Act to facilitate appointment of retired high court judges as Lokayukta, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government will approach the Supreme Court to seek names of judges to select a new Lokayukta. Before amending the act, only retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices could be appointed as Goa Lokayukta. Last month, the high court of Bombay at Goa had granted the state government an extension of two months to appoint a new Lokayukta. The state government had approached the high court seeking an extension after being unable to find retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices willing to move to Goa to take up the post. The state government later amended the act in the recently concluded assembly session to appoint a retired high court judge as Lokayukta. The term of the previous Lokayukta P K Misra ended on September 17. There are at least 75 cases pending before the office of the Goa Lokayukta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-ask-sc-for-names-to-select-lokayukta-cm/articleshow/80715289.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Shiv Sena opposes fuel price hike with bullock cart, 2-wheeler rally||Chandrapur: Shiv Sena district unit on Friday organized a bullock cart and two-wheeler rally in the city to protest fuel price hike. District President Sandeep Girhe said the Central government had raised petrol prices 20 times since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in the country. Girhe, who led the protest, claimed that the fuel and domestic gas price have escalated manifold in the recent months. He said the PM Narendra Modi’s government had come to power by promising reduction in fuel prices but now it is duping people. The rally started from Jatpura Gate and concluded at district collectorate. Protesters raised slogans against the Central government and later a delegation submitted a memorandum to the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shiv-sena-opposes-fuel-price-hike-with-bullock-cart-2-wheeler-rally/articleshow/80712578.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Goa||Amit Shah likely to be in Goa tomorrow||PANAJI: Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to arrive in Goa on Sunday and will travel to Sindhudurg, Maharashtra, to inaugurate a hospital there. Sindhudurg is approximately 138km away from Goa’s capital, Panaji. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said after attending the function, Shah will return to Delhi via Goa. He is also likely to visit Ayush minister Shripad Naik at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, where the latter is recuperating after having met with an accident in Ankola, Karnataka last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amit-shah-likely-to-be-in-goa-tomorrow/articleshow/80715305.cms||---
February 6, 2021||India||Vaccination of those above 50 yrs set to start in March: Vardhan||NEW DELHI: The third phase of vaccination against Covid-19, for citizens who are above the age of 50 years and those who are younger but with serious co-morbidities, is likely to begin in March, possibly around the middle of the month, health minister Harsh Vardhan said in the Lok Sabha on Friday. Vardhan was replying to a bunch of questions on vaccination during question hour that lasted barely 15 minutes, with the opposition members protesting against the contentious farm bills. The government had recently indicated that the over-50 group would receive shots soon and there might be an initial preference for persons over 60 years. Health minister Harsh Vardhan said so far 22 countries have asked India for the vaccine to be provided. "Of them, the government has provided 15 countries with the vaccine either as aid or through an agreement. Till February 1, 56 lakh doses of grant assistance and 105 lakh doses on contract basis have been sent to these nations," he said. So far, over five million beneficiaries have been vaccinated. The government plans to inoculate around three crore health and frontline workers by April, followed by the "priority" population group of those above 50 years and those younger but with severe co-morbidities. With adequate supplies of vaccines, it is possible that multiple priority groups may be covered simultaneously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-of-those-above-50-yrs-set-to-start-in-march-vardhan/articleshow/80716879.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Rajkot||Kin denied ticket, Jamnagar deputy mayor joins AAP||Rajkot: BJP leader and Jamnagar’s deputy mayor Karsan Karmur resigned from the party and joined AAP on Friday. Karmur claimed he was the only councillor, whose relatives were not chosen to the contest. “When we were told that according to the new criteria, we will not get tickets, it was decided to chose our relatives. All other councillors who suggested names of their relatives got ticket and I was the only one ignored.” A group of workers from ward 10 also created ruckus a the BJP office after mayor Hasmukh Jethva’s son Parth was given ticket. Four other senior workers- Hansa Trivedi, Usha Tankaraiya, her son Aashish and Jyoti Bharwadia also resigned from the party. Karmur was BJP councillor since 1995 and chairman of the standing committee twice. Vimal Kagathra, city BJP president said, “The resentment will not affect the party’s performance at all.” In Jamnagar municipal corporation BJP got 38 seats out of 64 in 2015. In Bhavnagar, there was severe anger over selection of Geeta Mer for ward five as she had resigned from the Congress just a day before the candidatures were announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kin-denied-ticket-jamnagar-deputy-mayor-joins-aap/articleshow/80713117.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Seizures of rip-offs rockets this January||AHMEDABAD: If you buy clothes and accessories of prominent brands, be wary and check if the product you are buying is original and not a rip-off, because there is a flood of counterfeit goods in the market. This is apparent from recent raids by CID (crime), with counterfeit goods worth Rs 6.71 crore seized in January 2021. The figure for January 2021, is higher than the seizures made in each of the past four years. For instance, in 2018, such goods worth Rs 2.31 crore were seized. According to figures from the counterfeit currency cell of CID (crime), which also covers violation of copyright, seven cases regarding the seizure of counterfeit branded goods have been reported in January 2021, and goods worth Rs 6.71 crore have been seized. CID officials said most of these cases were reported in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar where traders and shopkeepers were selling these articles as original. “These businessmen were not only cheating people who were buying goods from them but were also causing a loss to the exchequer, as all their transactions were unbilled,” said an officer. In all of 2020, a large chunk of which was under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown, CID (crime) registered 14 cases where in worth of seized counterfeit goods was Rs 4.73 crore. However, CID (crime) has recently come under a cloud, with traders crying foul over such raids, alleging that cops have been harassing them and even seizing their mobile phones and digital video recorders of their CCTV systems, to cover up their operations. An audio clip went viral recently, in which a putative cop is heard intimidating a trader from Ahmedabad, saying he does not need to show his police identity card and tells the trader that he has a revolver with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seizures-of-rip-offs-rockets-this-january/articleshow/80714355.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Vadodara||Guj IPS wins Covid Women Warriors’ award||Vadodara: Saroj Kumari (IPS) has been recognised for her exemplary work during the lockdown by the National Commission for Women (NCW). Kumari, who is now posted as DCP (headquarters) in Surat, won the Covid Women Warriors’ award during NCW’s 29th Foundation Day in New Delhi recently. During the lockdown, she ensured that hundreds of homeless didn’t go hungry every night. “The award was a recognition of the work that our team did during the lockdown,” said Kumari, who was posted as DCP (headquarters) in the city last year. “Our team of eight women cops used to complete their eight-hour duty and then turn up at the city police headquarters at Pratapnagar,” said Kumari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/guj-ips-wins-covid-women-warriors-award/articleshow/80712846.cms||Tushar Tere
February 6, 2021||Vijayawada||AP govt plans internet libraries across villages||VIJAYAWADA: The government plans to establish a new university to adopt and promote new technologies, announced chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy during the review on IT and technology at his Tadepalli camp office on Friday. The chief minister emphasised the need to promote technology in everyday life across the state. He told officials to focus on introducing technology, extend mobile technology and mobile network coverage in villages. Officials were also told to open internet libraries in the villages within the next three years. The chief minister asked officials to construct in every village a separate building that could be used as an internet library. The technology provided by this library should help the youth start working online, including a work-from-home option, he said. The library should also connect the village secretariat and Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and ensure uninterrupted network supply. These libraries should also provide network facility to every house on demand, the chief minister said. The chief minister directed officials to plan an integrated technology park in Visakhapatnam. The park should comprise a high-end skill university, incubation centre, laboratories, IT towers, data centres and other facilities. The proposed emerging technologies university should also have robotics, artificial intelligence, cloud computing, black chain technologies, data analytics science, advanced electronics, application of science and technology in teaching, medical and health, agriculture, water resources and other sectors. The chief minister asked officials to engage experts from across the country to prepare proposals for the university. Jagan Mohan Reddy also asked officials to plan IT concept cities in the state. These concept cities should come up at Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and any place close to Bengaluru, he said. Each concept city should be established on a minimum extent of 2,000 acres of land. The chief minister told officials to identify the land for the concept cities and provide world-class infrastructure before inviting IT firms. A master plan for the concept cities should be developed and every building proposed should have a unique architecture, the chief minister said. Minister for IT Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, principal advisor to the chief minister Nilam Sahwney, senior officials Satish Chandra, G Jayalakshmi, B Sundar, N Srikanth, M M Nayak, M Madhusudhan Reddy and others were present at the review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-plans-internet-libraries-across-villages/articleshow/80712699.cms||Gopi Dara
February 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Six arrested for bank fraud||ELURU: Eluru One-Town police on have arrested six people, including a branch manager of District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB), for allegedly taking loans in the name of other people. Speaking to the media on Friday, Eluru DSP O Dileep Kiran said that the arrests were made on the basis of a complaint by a woman named Kalingapatnam Kanaka from Chanakyapuri who alleged that some people took loans from the bank in the name of other people. According to the DSP, police investigated the complaint and found that a few people obtained loans from DCCB in the name of the complainant and several others. The four main accused are alleged to have cheated the bank of Rs30 lakh. The DSP said that the incident came to light after some people, including the complainant, received notices from the bank demanding repayment of loans. The accused were identified as: DCCB Satrampadu branch manager Mullapudi Muralikrishna, DCCB retired field officer PSB Naga Kumar, DCCB assistant manager Varanasi Sri Ramagopal, Eluru municipality revenue officer Nallamilli Vijayabhaskar Rao and two guarantors — Kota Atchuthar Rama Rao and Nasaka Srinivasa Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-arrested-for-bank-fraud/articleshow/80712706.cms||Samson Raj
February 6, 2021||Vijayawada||Med student dies in accident||Vijayawada: A 22-year-old medical student died on the spot after an unidentified vehicle rammed into her Scooty at Chinna Avutapalli village under Gannavaram mandal in Krishna district on Friday. The deceased was identified as Sowmya, a final-year student at Pinnamaneni Siddhartha College and a house surgeon. According to Atkur police, the incident happened in the morning when Sowmya was returning home after visiting a local temple to offer prayers. Cops said that no one was present at the spot when the incident happened and passersby informed the police after finding her lying dead in a pool of blood. Upon information, traffic and Atkuru police officials reached the spot and identified the victim and informed her family. Cops said that they are examining local CCTV footage to ascertain the vehicle details in the hit-and-run case. Meanwhile, a case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) was registered at Atkuru police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/med-student-dies-in-accident/articleshow/80712718.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Car thief held, vehicle recovered||Visakhapatnam: Police on Friday arrested a D Vinod Kumar for allegedly stealing a car in Vizianagaram district. Vizianagaram DSP P Anil said that a B Ravi Kumar from Venkatarayudupeta village under Bobbili mandal runs a taxi business at Jammu Narayanapuram. The accused allegedly approached Ravi Kumar posing as a village revenue officer (VRO), hired a car but did not return it. When Ravi called the accused, he found the accused’s phone switched off. Police, with the help of CCTV footage, found that Vinod had allegedly stolen the car and recovered it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/car-thief-held-vehicle-recovered/articleshow/80712727.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Will stay Karnataka CM till Modi has faith in me: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: BS Yediyurappa said on Friday that he would continue to serve as the chief minister as long as he enjoyed Narendra Modi and Amit Shah’s confidence. The statement, made in the assembly, assumes significance in the backdrop of the discord in BJP over his style of functioning and the Congress demand that he should step down over a land denotification case against him. While responding to a debate on the motion of thanks to governor Vajubhai Vala’s recent address, Yediyurappa took on Siddaramaiah for repeatedly suggesting that his time in office was ticking down. “The opposition leader has been daydreaming that I will resign today or tomorrow. Let me clarify here: if I enjoy the confidence of the prime minister and Union home minister along with the blessings of the people of Karnataka, I will continue to remain the chief minister,” he said. Siddaramaiah said that his statements on Yediyurappa were based on reports he had received and on BJP legislators’ remarks. “Even now I am being told by your MLAs that you will resign after Ugadi,” the Congress veteran claimed. Commenting on his legal troubles, Yediyurappa said that anyone could file applications under the RTI Act and level allegations against public representatives these days. He hit back at Congress, saying its members were also facing cases. “Your national leaders are out on bail. When you were the chief minister, your ministers faced allegations of corruption, but you were smart enough to create a separate Anti-Corruption Bureau and hand over all the cases to it. You used the concept of ‘re-do’ instead of claiming it was denotification and took umbrage under it. I admit I am not smarter than you,” Yediyurappa said. He challenged Siddaramaiah to win the upcoming bypolls. “Under your leadership, Congress has fared badly in elections. This is because people have lost faith in Congress,” he said. The Maski, Basavakalyan and Sindagi assembly segments and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency will see bypolls this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-stay-karnataka-cm-till-modi-has-faith-in-me-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/80716926.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||YSRC, TDP join protest against VSP privatisation||Visakhapatnam: Trade unions and political parties on Friday raised their voice against the central government’s decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Workers and leaders of all major political parties in the state, including YSRC and TDP participated in the ‘mahadharna’ and ‘maha bike rally’ organised by trade unions. The rally started at Kurmannapalem and went to GVMC Gandhi Statue. YSRC MPs of Visakhapatnam and Anakapalli extended their support to the protest. Even BJP ally Jana Sena participated in the agitation. Visakhapatnam MP MVV Satyanarayana of the YSRC said that they would raise the issue in Parliament and also bring it to the notice of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. YSRC MLA from Gajuwaka, Tippala Nagireddy said that they would protect the steel plant that was set up by the central government after 32 people sacrificed their lives. TDP state president Palla Srinivasa Rao said that the party will bring in N Chandrababu Naidu and turn it into a severe agitation. CITU state president Ch Narasinga Rao alleged that ‘the BJP government was conspiring to sell the steel plant at cheap price to private parties when it is on the path to profit’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ysrc-tdp-join-protest-against-vsp-privatisation/articleshow/80712735.cms||Siva G
February 6, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Young, educated village volunteers taking the panchayat poll plunge||Visakhapatnam: Several village and ward volunteers are throwing in their hat in the Andhra Pradesh panchayat elections. These youngsters, actively taking government schemes to people’s doorsteps, have now decided to compete with experienced politicians in the polls for 3,249 gram panchayats across the state. Yerlanki Dharma Rao, one such village volunteer, has filed nomination for the Metturu-2 gram panchayat sarpanch post in Srikakulam district. Speaking to TOI, Yerlanki said, “I worked here as a volunteer for the last one year. Then the villagers suggested that I try my luck in the polls. So I resigned my post and filed nomination.” Another such volunteer, Anusha, has filed nomination for the Nadendla gram panchayat sarpanch post in Guntur district. “I discontinued by BSc and joined as a volunteer. Now, with the support of villagers, I am contesting for the sarpanch post. We have 14 wards,” said Anusha, who is contesting for an SC reserved post. P Srinivasulu, a BTech graduate from Chittoor, is also contesting the polls. While the salaries of a volunteer and of a sarpanch are the same — Rs 5,000 per month — the difference is in power. While the entire village secretariat is held by the sarpanch, the volunteer is only a last category service provider. Local body polls usually see contestants backed by various political parties. But these volunteers, new to politics, are competing relying on support of villagers. Most of these volunteers in the fray are young, educated and already well versed in government schemes. State tourism minister Muttamsetty Srinivasa Rao said that it’s a good sign that educated youngsters are joining politics. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy encouraged the youth and created the volunteer post, the first such step in the country,” the tourism minister said. Sources inform that almost all district election teams are witnessing a flurry of activity among volunteers. They say that it is likely that more volunteers may throw in their hat in subsequent phases of the panchayat polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/young-educated-village-volunteers-taking-the-panchayat-poll-plunge/articleshow/80712747.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 6, 2021||Business||RBI makes it easy for you to invest in govt bonds||MUMBAI: The RBI said on Friday that retail investors would very soon be able to directly buy and sell government securities (G-Secs).  A difficult proposition now, once it is allowed, it could open up another avenue for retail investors to look at government-guaranteed, low-risk products for long-term investment. For the government, it means another set of investors to support its borrowing plan over the long run, though it would take time to pick up, industry players said. G-Secs can help govt borrow big, deepen mktOn Friday, RBI said that along with the government, it would encourage retail investment in GSecs, also called gilts. “This includes introduction of noncompetitive bidding in primary auctions, permitting stock exchanges to route primary purchases and allowing a specific retail segment in the secondary market…to provide retail investors with online access to the G-Sec market—both primary and secondary—directly through the RBI (Retail Direct),” the policy statement said. RBI sources said the platform could be launched as early as April. In July last year, Sebi chief Ajay Tyagi had also proposed opening up of this market to retail investors. Tyagi had proposed to first handhold the new demat account holders into the less-risky G-Secs and then, once they familiarised themselves with investing in these guaranteed assets, they could be helped to invest in other securities like stocks and commodities as well. “The issuance of GSecs in demat form, apart from easing the process of making investments by non-institutional participants in these securities, may also ease the government’s borrowing process,” he had said. According to Ujjwal Jain, CEO & founder, WealthDesk, a tech-enabler for the broking industry, the government’s large borrowing plan has got a new source, which will also help deepen this market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-makes-it-easy-for-you-to-invest-in-govt-bonds/articleshow/80716940.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||CM announces Rs 205 crore action plan for developing Lonar crater||NAGPUR: An overall Rs 205.12 crore action plan has been prepared for conservation and development of world-famous Lonar crater in Buldhana district and out of this works of Rs7.5 crore have already been completed, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday while taking a view of the historical site from Van Kuti point. He vowed not to have any fund crisis for the project. The crater is a result of the meteorite impact that occurred 50,000 years ago. During his 45-minute stay at the site, the chief minister stressed the need for developing it as an international tourist destination and directed the officials present at a review meeting not to develop the site at the cost of its rich biodiversity and forest in the area. “There are many ancient temples near the crater area and an option should be chosen whether to promote the forest or the temple tourism. We should also explore whether the area can be developed on the lines of Ranthambore in Rajasthan,” the chief minister said. Earlier, Thackeray had visited Lonar as a wildlife photographer long back when he didn’t hold any party posts. His pictures of the crater were exhibited and had won accolades. One of his books cover has an image of the crater. “Lonar has always been close to my heart. While appreciating my pictures, people used to ask where is Lonar and whether there were any facilities to stay,” Thackeray told officials at the meeting. The Lonar crater has been added to Ramsar sites, getting international protection. The lake is a part of Lonar wildlife sanctuary which was notified on June 8, 2000, with an area of 3.65 sqkm. The area of the lake is 77.69 hectares. Thackeray said places like Lonar are Maharashtra’s assets. Its development will be done with the help of community participation by understanding their problems. The action plan will be implemented to solve problems being faced by locals. “Our first priority will be to protect what has been gifted by nature,” he said and suggested the authorities to hold Lonar Festival to highlight its importance. The district officials said, “Out of Rs205 crore plan, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation will give Rs91.29 crore. This will include an interpretation centre, laboratory, museum, planetarium, roads, sewage disposal facility, parking, conservation of dilapidated temples.” They said Rs61 crore will be spent on a sewage treatment plant to be established by Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran. Besides, Rs3 crore will be spent to remove ‘babool’ plants in 54 hectares by the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-announces-rs-205-crore-action-plan-for-developing-lonar-crater/articleshow/80712785.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Patent for two from city a shot in arm for glaucoma treatment||Nagpur: The government of India has granted two researchers in Nagpur a patent on ‘a novel controlled release ophthalmic formulation with a unique combination of drugs using in situ polymeric gel’. This new formulation, once successful in human trials, has the potential to become a game-changer in treatment of glaucoma.Dr Mitali Bodhankar, associate professor at Gurunanak College of Pharmacy, Nagpur, and Gajanan Panpatte, Pharmacovigilance Associate, have received this patent in January. They have been conducting research on the formulation from last six years and had applied for the patent in 2014. “In glaucoma, there is specific damage to the head of optic nerve and visual field due to death of nerve cells. Medications introduced into eye are quickly washed out of the pre-corneal area by lacrimal fluid (tears),” said Dr Mitali Bodhankar. The new formulation not only uses the latest situ gel technique but also best combination of drugs for better treatment. “Eye drops require frequent instillation as the medicine washes out by tears. To overcome this, the in situ gels have been developed in recent years. In our formulation, drugs are basically in liquid form at the time of instilling. It later changes itself into gel in some time,” added Dr Bodhankar.The researchers have claimed that the novel formulation will increase bioavailability of drugs, which otherwise is a common drawback of ophthalmic formulations. The commercialization process for the said patent is going on as animal trials have been completed successfully.“This invention will be of great help to patients with glaucoma having increased intraocular pressure in the eye, particularly those suffering from diabetes and hypertension,” said Panpatte, adding that many ophthalmologists have already appreciated the formulation and are looking forward to it. Dr Puja Bang, professor at department of ophthalmology at AIIMS Nagpur, said that the research is promising. “If it clears human trials, this formulation can prove to have a promising role in the treatment of glaucoma,” she said. According to Dr Bang, the frequency of dosing could be reduced with this formulation. Also, the drug availability is likely to increase within the eye and hence the dose itself could be minimized. “The combination, if consisting of synergistic drugs, can treat even more severe stages of glaucoma by achieving a greater intraocular pressure drop, thereby delaying or completely alleviating the need for glaucoma surgery,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patent-for-two-from-city-a-shot-in-arm-for-glaucoma-treatment/articleshow/80712815.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||7 of a family booked for duping investors||Nagpur: Two separate offences were registered against seven members of a family for allegedly enticing people to invest in their foreign tours and international currency trades. In view of the gravity of the allegations, city police chief Amitesh Kumar has transferred the cases to the crime branch. It’s learnt that Enforcement directorate (ED) too may be referred the cases in coming days to assess whether the provisions of money laundering have been violated. Police sources said the fraudsters had also prepared RBI remittance licence for their firm Shree Holidays whose authenticity is now being scrutinized. The family was booked for duping investors of crores of rupees after the matter was highlighted before state home minister Anil Deshmukh during a grievance redressal camp at police gymkhana this year. In the two cases, Suresh Agrawal was duped to the tune of Rs 59 lakh while Ashish Jain got cheated by Rs 1.13 crore. Police have registered offences against Devendra Goyal, his younger brother Ritesh, their father Govind, Devendra’s wife Nikita, Devendra’s uncle Jeetendra, mother Anita and their close family friend Payal Somani. The offences against the seven persons were registered at Ambazari and Tehsil police stations. Crime branch has already kickstarted the probe. Sources said several top businessmen from city, Jabalpur, Raipur and other places has been partners of these so-called travel planners and currency agents. Agrawal and Jain were lured by the Goyals to invest in their holiday destination tour packages, foreign currency exchanges and national and international ticketing as well as hotel booking. Lured by the offers, Jain invested Rs 2.29 crore between 2014 and 2018 in their several plans. Initially, the Goyals returned Rs 1.16 crore but have not been settling the rest of the dues leading to the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-of-a-family-booked-for-duping-investors/articleshow/80712799.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka council will elect new chairman on February 9||BENGALURU: The legislative council session has been extended by three days to facilitate the  of a new chairman, while the assembly session concluded on Friday. The chairman’s post fell vacant after senior Congress MLC K Pratapchandra Shetty resigned on Thursday to pre-empt a bid by BJP and JD(S) to vote him out through a no-confidence motion. The election for the post will be held on February 9. The decisions to extend the council session and support JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti’s candidacy for the chairman’s role were taken during a cabinet meeting called by chief minister BS Yediyurappa. In the 75-member house, the combined strength of BJP and JD(S) is 44. Push for anti-cow slaughter billAfter the poll, the government is expected to table the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill in the council. The bill was passed in the assembly during the winter session last year. It was listed in the previous session, but BJP didn’t press for its tabling as it was outnumbered by Congress and JD(S). With JD(S) moving away from Congress now, BJP believes it may be able to push the bill through. JD(S) had earlier said that it would only offer issue-based support to BJP and that it was against the bill. If JD(S) holds this position, BJP has two options: persuade JD(S) to walk out without participating in the vote or ask it to defeat the bill without referring it to a joint select committee for a review. In the latter scenario, BJP will be able to pass the bill again in the assembly. Last month, the government had promulgated an ordinance to implement the cow slaughter ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-council-will-elect-new-chairman-on-february-9/articleshow/80716946.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||No death in city for 4th time since Jan 26||Nagpur: Vidarbha reported 764 new cases of Covid-19 while 574 patients recovered in on Friday. This was highest number of new cases in a day and lowest recoveries in February. For the first time this month, the number of cases was more than recoveries. But, the good news is that the deaths due to Covid are well under control. Only 4 deaths were reported in Vidarbha. These include 3 from Nagpur district and 1 from Buldhana. Of the three deaths in Nagpur district, 2 were of the patients who were referred in critical condition from other states/divisions. One death was of a resident of rural Nagpur. No death was reported from Nagpur city, which was for the first time in February and fourth time since January 26. This took Vidarbha’s death toll to 7,014. But the case fatality rate is still 2.54% which is higher than state’s 2.51% and national average of 1.44%. Sudden rise in new patients can be credited to the rise in cases at Amravati district. On Friday, Amravati reported 233 new cases, a three-figure rise for the 9th consecutive day. Nagpur (288) and Buldhana (64) were the other two districts in Vidarbha reporting more than 50 cases. All other districts — Akola (39), Yavatmal (38), Wardha (33), Bhandara (22), Washim (20), Chandrapur (13), Gondia (10), Gadchiroli (4) — reported less than 50 new cases. The number of cases reached 2,76,138. Number of recovered patients reduced for the third day in a row. On Friday, 574 patients recovered. They were from Nagpur (204), Amravati (204), Buldhana (41), Wardha (25), Washim (25), Yavatmal (23), Chandrapur (22), Bhandara (14), Gondia (9), and Akola (7). No patient recovered from Gadchiroli. Now, 2,63,093 patients have recovered from Vidarbha. As the new cases were high and recoveries less, the number of patients under treatment once again saw a rise and surpassed the 6,000-mark. Now, 6,030 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha. Amravati: The Covid situation is assuming serious proportions once again as the district posted a spike of 233 cases on Friday. This is the sixth 100-plus spike in the last nine days and the first 200-plus one since January 28. It took the caseload to 22,667. On the recovery front, 204 were discharged, taking the count to 21,863 (96.45%). This left 381 active cases under treatment. Yavatmal: Out of the 284 reports, 38 were positive. Currently, there are 448 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. Wardha: In all, 33 tested positive. The caseload of the district reached 10,231. Total recoveries are now 9,558 with 25 getting discharged on Friday. At present, 363 active positive are undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: While 13 tested positive, 23 recovered. There were no deaths on Friday. Now, there are 101 active patients under treatment. The toll is stable at 392. The Covid total has climbed to 23,118. Akola: Total 39 tested positive on Friday while seven patients recovered. No death was reported. Now, the district has 11,746 cases, including 10,662 recoveries, 338 deaths and 746 patients under treatment. Akola has highest number of under-treatment patients in Vidarbha after Nagpur (3,213). Buldhana: Total 467 tests were conducted of which 64 tested positive. This increased the number of cases in the district to 14,213. Total 41 patients recovered. A 60-year-old man died on Friday. This took the death toll to 171. Now, 353 patients are under treatment here. Washim: The district reported 20 new cases and 25 recoveries. No death was reported. This took the number of cases to 7,209 and recoveries to 6921. With 155 deaths till date, 132 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: No patient recovered from Gadchiroli. Four new cases were detected. Now, the district has 9,383 cases, 9,229 recoveries and 105 deaths. Only 49 patients are under treatment here which is the lowest not only In Vidarbha but also in entire Maharashtra. Bhandara: The district reported 22 new cases, 14 recoveries and no death. The district now has 13,287 cases, 12,822 recoveries and 323 deaths. Now, 142 patients are under treatment here. Gondia: Ten new cases and nine recoveries were reported. Till now, 14,223 cases have been reported here. Of them, 13,937 have recovered while 183 patients died . Now, 103 patients are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-death-in-city-for-4th-time-since-jan-26/articleshow/80712837.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||85k healthcare staff take jab in 21 days, 75k pending||Nagpur: First dose of Covid-19 vaccination of registered health care workers is unlikely to be completed within deadline of February 14 set by the state government. Around 85,000 (53.12%) of 1.60 lakh have taken the jab in 21 days with 75,000 remaining and just nine days left. Vaccination of front-line workers also started in 11 districts of Vidarbha from Friday. The government had set deadline for beginning of second dose of health care staff from February 15, for which first dose needs to be finished off by February 14. All districts will be facing an uphill task as over 40% of scheduled doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc working in hospitals run by the government and private institutions did not turn up for the inoculation between January 16 and February 5. They will have to be vaccinated in last round starting from Monday. In 21 days, vaccination actually happened only on 13 days. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Zilla Parishad ran the programme on 14 days. In next nine days, vaccination is likely to be conducted on six days, with holidays on two Sundays and Tuesday reserved for regular immunization of children. Bhandara district had launched vaccination of front-line workers on Wednesday. Some more districts, including Nagpur ZP, started on Thursday. Deputy directors of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal (Nagpur division) and Dr Rajkumar Chavan (Amravati division) told TOI vaccination of registered front-line workers from departments falling under ministry of housing and urban affairs, revenue and home affairs has been started in all districts. Health care and front-line workers should avail the benefit, they said. In six districts of Nagpur division, 2,234 (60.64%) of targeted 3,684 front-line workers have turned up for inoculation on Friday. NMC has kicked-off vaccination of front-line workers at two centres — Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) and Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, on Friday. Employees of the civic body were scheduled on the first day with 98 (49%) of targeted 200 taking the jab. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, deputy commissioners Nirbhay Jain, Milind Meshram, and Mahesh Moroney took the jab first to encourage others. All the four officials have been working in pandemic since city registered first case on March 11. On the lines of Chandrapur, NMC also facilitated selfie points at IGR and Pachpaoli so beneficiaries could capture the moment, preserve it for themselves and also spread awareness about importance of vaccination programme. For the first time, the number of beneficiaries surpassed 10,000 mark on Friday. Of targeted 14,973 beneficiaries, 10,951 (73.14%) turned up which is highest for a single day. Though the turnout was not a record, number of beneficiaries has increased with vaccination of health care and front-line workers at a time. Earlier highest in a single day was 9,249 on January 27. The highest turnout was 95.3% on January 23. Total 89,159 have been vaccinated in the region as on Friday. In city, six of 17 centres achieved target of 100% or above. Turnout at NMC’s Isolation Hospital was 157% followed by Alexis Hospital 145%, Orange City 140%, CIIMS 110%, IGGMCH and Dande 100%. Orange City and Alexis Hospitals have continued to maintain record of zero wastage of doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/85k-healthcare-staff-take-jab-in-21-days-75k-pending/articleshow/80712865.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 6, 2021||India||Farm unions, Oppn failed to point out any lacuna in agri laws: Tomar in RS||NEW DELHI: The farm unions and opposition parties have failed to point out any lacuna in the three new farm laws while as many as 22 states have passed laws on contract farming, with some like Punjab providing for jail terms for defaulting farmers, said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday. Tomar said the government's offer to amend the laws to assuage sentiments of protesting farmers did not mean they were flawed. The new laws will usher in a "revolutionary change" in the lives of farmers by increasing their incomes, said Tomar, intervening during the discussion in Rajya Sabha on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address. He attacked Congress for playing around with lives, using an expression that was later expunged, saying the laws didn't have any harsh provisions like jail for farmers in the context of contract farming. Under the new laws, farmers also get the option to sell their produce outside 'mandis', with such sales not attracting any tax, unlike the state government notified market places. "The agitation should have been against the tax levied (by state governments) on sale made in 'mandis' but strangely the protests are against freeing of the system from such taxes," said Tomar, who added that the Haryana contract law was passed when Congress was in office. PM Narendra Modi is slated to reply to the marathon 15-hour discussion, which lasted over three days, on Monday. Tomar said the protests were largely limited to only one state, in a reference to Congress-governed Punjab, with farmers being misled that they would lose their land. . Slamming the opposition for instigating the protests and calling the farm laws "kala kanoon (black laws)", Tomar said he had repeatedly asked what was 'black" about the laws but neither the farmer unions, nor opposition parties could specify the shortcomings in them. The farmers are apprehensive that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price mechanism, with big corporations jumping in to usurp their land under the contract farming terms. Tomar said the Modi-led government is committed to the welfare of farmers and to the continuation of the MSP-based mechanism. "Our efforts are towards doubling farmers' incomes and rapidly increasing the contribution of agriculture to GDP," he said. The laws also empower farmers to exit agreements with traders, while as per the provisions of the Punjab contract farming law, a farmer can be sent to jail or face a penalty of up to Rs 5 lakh for violation of agreement, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-unions-oppn-failed-to-point-out-any-lacuna-in-agri-laws-tomar-in-rs/articleshow/80716953.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Farmers gain as traders pile up tur||Nagpur: Farmers finally have a reason to smile as traders including corporates are eyeing profit in tur — the common source of protein for masses. Rates of tur whole have crossed the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs6,000 by over a thousand. A rate up to Rs7,100 a quintal is being quoted in farm produce markets across the state. Tur whole is milled into tur dal, which is the edible form. There is a general sentiment in the market that even the government would prefer that prices of commodity remain high, so that farmers can be appeased. With imports already stopped, traders are expecting that there may be no intervention till the prices reach Rs9,000 a quintal at least. This makes them bullish on the commodity leading to mopping up of tur, said trade sources. Market sources say big traders including corporates are buying tur in large quantities, which is moving up the prices. Eyeing the trend, even the smaller businessmen dealing in tur are stocking up the commodity. If farmers may be getting good price for their produce, the consumers may end up shelling a higher amount in the coming days. Traders expect that rates of tur dal may again touch Rs120-130 a kg in the retail market. Prices have already crossed Rs100, say traders. In two days the rates of tur whole have gone up by than Rs400 to Rs500 a quintal in the wholesale market. Imported tur from Myanmar is also costlier by Rs300 at Rs6,700 a quintal. Traders do not rule out a 2014 like situation when tur dal prices had touched Rs200 a kg. Secretary of the Itwari Grain and Seeds Merchants Association said, “Domestic rates have gone up by Rs500 a quintal in markets at Akola, Latur, Ahmednagar and Gulbarga. The average arrivals are at 8,000 bags a day. It is the peak season and arrival should be in the range of 15,000 to 20,000 bags in a day.” Vijay Jawandhia, a farm activist from Wardha, said that there were reports of a major fall in tur crop, which is driving the prices even among the importers. A section of farmer TOI talked to say the domestic output in the region has dropped but it is marginal and not enough to impact the rates. BOX Cotton touches Rs6.1k per quintal Rates of cotton, the main crop of the region, have touched a peak crossing Rs6,100 a quintal. Sudhir Kothari, a director of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) at Hinganghat, said this was due to a bullish trend in the international prices of the commodity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-gain-as-traders-pile-up-tur/articleshow/80712888.cms||Shishir Arya
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Farm outfit bats for ousting MSP system||Nagpur: Shetkari Sanghatana, the farmers’ outfit from Maharashtra, has put up a strong case for dismantling Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism before the Supreme Court appointed committee on the three farm laws. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have also been demanding that government should make purchase at MSP mandatory even for private traders. The Sanghatana’s former president Anil Ghanawat is now a member of the committee. He quit the post of president after taking over as a committee member. In last one week, the committee took views from different farmers’ outfits and farmer producers organizations (FPO) on the laws. The Sanghatana was represented by Lalit Bahalle, who has taken over as the new president. The Sanghatana’s presentation says “it’s time that farmer of the country are convinced to say good bye to the era of restrictions, MSP, FCI, APMC etc.” The Sanghatana has said before the committee that it would be immoral and undemocratic to make it mandatory for private traders to buy at MSP. Referring to farmers from Punjab and Haryana, the presentation says “MSP procurement by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has damaged the true and long term cause of the states’ farmers, by eroding water tables, soil health and fertilizer use. This is already unsustainable but farmers of the two states are blackmailed into producing the same crops despite invisible losses”. For the contract farming laws, the Sanghatana has said it is heavily biased towards farmers. Such unilateralism may discourage sponsors who may want to engage farmers in contract farming. Bahalle told TOI he has also gone on record before the committee that there should be no protectionism in the farm sector, as it should be open to global trade. The committee, meanwhile, has issued a terse press release saying that it has interacted with members of 32 different farmers’ outfits and FPOs from states like Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Telangana, Bengal and Maharashtra. Meetings were also held with officials of state marketing boards, private mandis and food parks from, Gujarat, Haryana, J&K, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tripura, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farm-outfit-bats-for-ousting-msp-system/articleshow/80712916.cms||Shishir Arya
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||BJP, Raut in war of words over power bills||Nagpur: BJP activists on Friday staged agitations at each assembly constituency of the city to protest energy minister Nitin Raut’s decision to send disconnection notices to about 75 lakh power bill defaulters. Raut, on the other hand, convened a press conference and claimed that BJP was staging the agitation to cover up for its poor performance in recent elections. He also asked why the party was not protesting against rise in prices of fuel. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena has announced that it will stage a statewide agitation against fuel price hike. BJP leaders, including city president Pravin Datke, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, its MLAs, MLCs and other leaders claimed that MSEDCL had sent inflated bills to consumers during Covid and was now threatening to disconnect those who refused to pay them. They said that BJP workers would prevent MSEDCL staffers from disconnecting any one. Raut claimed that BJP was responsible for MSEDCL’s poor condition. “Dues owed by consumers to MSEDCL rose from Rs14,145 crore in March 2014 to Rs51,146 crore in March 2020. The government did not take any steps to recover bills,” he said. However, MSEDCL’s arrears have continued to rise at an alarming pace under Raut too. By December 2020, the arrears had reached Rs71,506 crore, an increase of over Rs20,000 crore in nine months. The minister said that MSEDCL had recovered 79% of the power bills and would cross 90% by March. “BJP will fall flat on its face,” he added. Raut had promised to provide 100 units free power to state power consumers. However, this promise has not been fulfilled and BJP is continuously attacking the minister over this. When he was reminded of this, Raut slammed BJP for increasing fuel prices. The Congress minister charged that BJP wanted to privatize MSEDCL, which was the reason for not keeping arrears in check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-raut-in-war-of-words-over-power-bills/articleshow/80712925.cms||Ashish Roy
February 6, 2021||Ahmedabad||Arvind Kejriwal unlikely to campaign in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal is not likely to campaign in Gujarat for the local body elections due to the farmer’s stand-off on the borders of Delhi, AAP leaders said in Ahmedabad on Friday. The AAP has made a forceful entry into Gujarat’s electoral politics by fielding a sizable number of candidates for the first time in elections to municipal corporations, municipalities, and other local bodies. “Kejriwal was very eager to campaign in Gujarat and we had made all arrangements for this. As you know, farmers have been protesting in Delhi for about 70 days now. The borders of Delhi have been sealed. As CM, it would not be prudent for him to leave Delhi,” Gulab Singh, AAP co- incharge, Gujarat said. Asked about AIMIM jumping into Gujarat’s election fray, Singh said the relationship between BJP and Asaduddin Owaisi is well-known. “Yatin Oza, a former BJP MLA, had openly said how BJP leaders and Owaisi meet to chalk out strategies for states where the BJP wants to win elections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kejriwal-unlikely-to-campaign-in-gujarat/articleshow/80714421.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Malur villagers want out of Melghat forest||Nagpur: Once again attempts are being made to stall the voluntary relocation of villages from inside the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati district. Even as two trucks were standing loaded with household goods of a family willing to move out on Monday, orders from divisional commissioner asking to stall relocation created ripples among villagers. On learning of the commissioner’s orders, villagers rushed to Amravati to submit their representation on Monday. While the villagers want to move out, due to the complexities of living in the core area of a tiger reserve, local NGOs spearheading forest rights are opposing the move. Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh on December 18, 2020, had requested the MTR field director to stall relocation of Malur following a representation by Omkar Bhayalal Kasdekar and 151 others, based on a complaint that their community forest rights (CFR) claim were pending with the district-level committee (DLC). Singh was not available for comments. The divisional commissioner, in his letter to MTR officials, admits that though the SDLC rejected the CFR claims, the notification for the relocation of Malur was issued by the divisional office on March 18, 2020, even as the CFR claim was pending with the district-level committee (DLC) since September 27, 2019. However, MTR officials have said ‘no’ to stall relocation as the claim of the said villagers was first rejected on August 1, 2019, by the sub-divisional level committee (SDLC). The district level committee (DLC) on November 18, 2020, backed the SDLC decision, as it did not receive any appeal against the rejection. The district collector, who is also chairman of the DLC, on January 13, 2020, had issued a certificate that no CFR claim from the said village was pending. The MTR officials have replied to the divisional commissioner that the DLC has already issued a certificate that no claims were pending, and hence voluntary relocation process has started. On July 14, 2020, the district collector has reiterated that no CFR claims have been filed with the committee. “If the villagers had appealed before the DLC then a decision should have been taken earlier. The relocation process cannot be stalled as the Bombay high court too, on December 18, 2019, in a PIL, had asked the authorities to settle all claims in three months, the deadline for which ended long back. We did not ask the people to go during Covid-19. It would be contempt of court if relocation is stalled. There is no forceful eviction,” they said. Based on the divisional commissioner’s order to stay relocation, on Monday, the villagers met Singh and submitted a memorandum (copy with TOI) demanding expediting relocation. “For the last 70 years, there are no schools, roads, water, electricity, and transport in the village. We live under constant fear of wild animals. In case of a medical emergency, we have to travel 40km to Dharni for treatment. Those who have been relocated are leading a peaceful life and enjoy all facilities.” “Our relocation started after Diwali and several families have already relocated to Bahiram and Wagholi. Suddenly, the process has stopped. This is a conspiracy to stop relocation by NGO Khoj working in Melghat. Our signatures were taken on blank papers on the pretext of providing benefits of various schemes,” the villagers said. Khoj founder Purnima Upadhyay said, “Since I haven’t seen the memorandum by the villagers, I cannot comment on the issue. But let me tell you the divisional commissioner has stayed relocation process. Malur villagers, who have been demarcating their grazing areas, seeking recognition of CFR, have raised alarm over the so-called ‘voluntary relocation’ from Melghat sanctuary.” She said, “Villagers willing to relocate are felling trees under the nose of forest staff. This timber is passed away under the garb of relocation through three forest check-posts of Harisal, Semadoh, and Bihali falling under three different forest and wildlife divisions.” However, villagers said, “We have only taken the wooden material of our dismantled houses to the new place for constructing new houses. Khoj is making false allegations just to stop our resettlement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/malur-villagers-want-out-of-melghat-forest/articleshow/80712931.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||NIT cancels land lease of cold storage||Nagpur: Nine years after collapse of a cold storage claimed the lives of 18 labourers, the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) has cancelled the lease of Pravesh Cold Storage’s land situated at mouza Chikhli (deosthan). No inquiry or action has been initiated against concerned officials despite the loss of life and series of complaints from activists. NIT chairman Sheetal Teli-Ugale on January 11 passed an order cancelling the lease of land measuring 1,208.56 sq m. The action came to fore in a RTI reply received by activist Kamlesh Shah a couple of days ago. Shah is also one of the traders who incurred financial loss of crores due to the incident on January 30, 2012. As per NIT chairman’s order, Pravesh Enterprises through proprietor Pratibha Khandelwal was allotted the industrial plot on September 13, 2007. “Lessee has not complied with building bylaws and development control regulations (DCR), and also used material not confirming to the specifications of Indian Standard (I.S) Code and National Building Code (NBC). She also breached the terms and conditions of lease. Therefore, the lease needs to be terminated,” Ugale ordered. In the order, Ugale referred to reports of VNIT and geotechnical investigation and stated, “Apart from failure of structural design, foundation was grossly inadequate which led to excessive settlement. Structural steel samples were not confirmed with IS Code and also indicated low strength concrete. Strength of the steel was low, diameter of the bars was on lower side than required for the structure and inadequate steel provided in many beams.” Ugale also revealed Pravesh Enterprises started construction of cold storage before NIT sanctioned building plan. The firm had completed construction up to 1st floor before the sanction. Shah said, “Apart from death of 18 people and some injured, many incurred financial loss from the incident which was the result of violations and negligence of Pravesh Enterprises and officials of NIT, fire department, industrial safety and other agencies. My annual turnover from dal mill was Rs10.50 crore. I lost dal mill worth over Rs4 crore apart from materials worth Rs3.30 crore stored in the cold storage. Me and my entire family are suffering for last nine years. No inquiry or action has been initiated against the concerned officials despite series of complaints lodged by me in last nine years.” Shah said, “There is no provision for building plan sanction of cold storage in DCR. Cold storage cannot be above 15 meters height as per NBC and Fire Act. Still, 22.35 meter high cold storage was constructed. Construction was started before obtaining building plan sanction and cold storage brought into use without fire compliance and occupancy certificate. There are various such things and no action initiated against concerned officials.” IAN * NIT auctioned industrial plot of 1,208.56 sq m to Pravesh Enterprises on Sept 13, 2007 * Construction of cold storage started before approval of building plan * Cold storage brought into use without fire compliance, completion and occupancy certificates * Cold storage collapsed on Jan 30, 2012, killing 18 labourers and injuring some * NIT and VNIT conducted structural and geotechnical investigations * Reports exposed brazen violations and low quality construction * NIT decided to cancel lease of land in 2013 * Khandelwal and PNB filed appeal with state’s urban development department * UDD asked NIT chairman to take decision on August 5, 2019 * NIT chairman passed order cancelling lease on January 11, 2021 * No action against officials of NIT, fire department, industrial safety and other agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nit-cancels-land-lease-of-cold-storage/articleshow/80712936.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 6, 2021||Bengaluru||Beyond planes: Focus on strategy and self-reliance||BENGALURU: As curtains came down on the world’s first hybrid air show on Friday, the message India wanted to send through the global event was more than apparent: New India will thrive to be self-reliant, build futuristic technologies and enable friendly countries as part of its strategy to become the net security provider in the region. Among the major takeaways from Aero India 2021 was the kind of strategic importance India managed to attach to the show even as air display and participation remained apparently muted compared to previous years. Notwithstanding the pandemic, trade delegations from 43 countries participated, while defence ministers or their representatives from 27 of the 28 Indian Ocean Region (IOR) region and chiefs of air staff (CAS) or their representatives from 40 nations participated in strategic dialogue with India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh and service chiefs. The show centring around India’s Atmanirbhar initiative showcased the country’s capabilities to friendly countries. Augmenting this were a range of futuristic technologies that were both displayed and discussed. President Ram Nath Kovind, the first Indian president to visit the air show, said: “That so many nations participated in the IOR conclave is a matter of great significance. India has always been an advocate of universal peace and development and cooperation in IOR is key. There must be political, economic, cultural and defence ties...” Kovind also highlighted multiple reforms introduced by the government in six years and said Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of self-reliance received a new impetus through Modi’s Atmanirbhar. Singh said: “When we say we want to be self-reliant, it shouldn’t be confused with us wanting to be isolated from the rest of the world. India wants to be a globally competitive player and will achieve that through self-reliance.” From drone and anti-drone technologies to new communication systems, and from multiple fighter aircraft and helicopter concepts to radars and electronic warfare technologies, the show had a range of futuristic technologies. HAL’s Combat Air Teaming System was among the top draws, while DRDO’s twinengine deck-based naval aircraft also caught attention. While the new naval aircraft is still at an initial design stage, the Advanced Medium Combat Aircraf, which IAF is keen on acquiring, has made significant progress. BOX: 4.6 lakh visitors, 201 trade featsThe three-day show witnessed more than 100 MoUs being signed, apart from other trade-related announcements. While stating that the event had 4.5 lakh virtual participants and 16,000 physical visitors, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “We have signed 128 MoUs, 19 ToTs (transfer of technologies), four handing overs (of products, including aircraft), 18 product launches and 32 major announcements, totalling a grand figure of 201 feats.” He said India has a great potential to emerge as a global and regional MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub, given the cost competitiveness of its manpower resources, availability of abundant, specialist capabilities and geographical advantages. Further, he said of the 45 MSMEs participating, 21 have already bagged orders worth Rs 203 crore. “This is a major achievement,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/beyond-planes-focus-on-strategy-and-self-reliance/articleshow/80716961.cms||Chethan Kumar
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||2 pvt hospitals under police lens for hushing up accident||Nagpur: Two reputed private hospitals have come under crime branch scanner for failure to report treatment of accident victims to the nearest police stations as per the protocol of medico-legal case.One hospital at Dhantoli had preliminary treated the victims while the other had admitted one of the victims with a fractured hand on January 25. Three friends had a miraculous escape after their car rammed a divider near Dhantoli police station at hight speed. Two were injured in the incident. It’s learnt that the CCTV footage of the car reflected the manner in which it had been driven at breakneck speed. Prior to the accident at Dhantoli, it rammed a sidewall too under a railway bridge.Though there were no casualties, the controversy around the accident took a serious turn as city police chief Amitesh Kumar transferred the case to the crime branch after registering an offence at Dhantoli police station. It’s learnt that the decision of the top brass to conduct a thorough probe came after serious lapses were noticed in the role of the hospitals and attempts made to hush up the incident.Police sources said three friends had gone to a mall for dinner. After leaving the place, they drove the car on Great Nag Road towards Dhantoli before meeting with accident in which the vehicle was heavily damaged.Sources said an offence has been registered at the Dhantoli police station against the driver of the vehicle. Cops are now verifying who was behind the wheels with the help of eye-witnesses and technical details. “Our investigation is at the preliminary stage at this point. We are collecting corroborative evidences including electronic findings. Statements of the persons concerned, including doctors, are being recorded,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-pvt-hospitals-under-police-lens-for-hushing-up-accident/articleshow/80712955.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||Washim, Gadchiroli to get Mission Poshan 2.0 benefits||Nagpur: The Central government has decided to merge two nutrition-related schemes — supplementary nutrition programme and the Poshan Abhiyan (Nutrition mission) — into Mission Poshan 2.0 and launch it in 112 aspirational districts in the country. As far as Maharashtra is concerned, Nandurbar (north Maharashtra), Osmanabad (Marathwada), Gadchiroli and Washim (Vidarbha) figure in the list. The new scheme will focus on the overall health and well-being of the beneficiary and adopt an integrated approach in the delivery of nutrition services. Officials from Washim, where expecting mothers and newborns are already getting benefits of Mission Poshan, said the situation has improved since the launch of the programme in 2017. “The number of underweight or stunted children was higher in Washim and Gadchiroli compared to the overall average of the state. Hence, these two districts were selected for the nutrition mission. In the last four year, Washim has shown significant improvement in its nutrition profile,” said Dr Sudhakar Jadhav, civil surgeon of the district. Nutrition expert Pritish Patil told TOI that the new scheme will have a more comprehensive approach. “It’s time for us to move from mere food security to nutrition. WHO has been repeatedly stressing the importance of clean water, sanitation and clean environment. Hence, the new mission will have an advanced complete health-related approach,” he said. Ration is given at anganwadi centres under the supplementary nutrition programme. Every beneficiary is given nutritional support for 300 days in a year. The support includes morning snacks, hot cooked meals and take home ration. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the take home ration system continued. POSHAN 2.0 FOR WASHIM AND GADCHIROLI * Will nurture health, wellness and immunity of children and pregnant women * Will eradicate malnutrition from roots * Focus on overall health and well-being of kids & women * Will adopt integrated approach in delivery of nutrition services||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/washim-gadchiroli-to-get-mission-poshan-2-0-benefits/articleshow/80713113.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 6, 2021||Lucknow||UP schools to function normally with Covid-19 protocol from March 1||LUCKNOW: All schools in UP would get back to function normally from March 1, almost a year after the rampaging coronavirus enforced the closure. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday issued directives to restart regular school for classes 6 to 8 from February 10 and for classes 1 to 5 from March 1. The government has already allowed classes 9 to 12 from October 19 last year. A government order issued by additional chief secretary (basic education) Renuka Kumar will be applicable on private schools as well and has advised schools to strictly follow Covid norms. As per government records, 1.8 crore children are enrolled in 1.5 lakh primary and upper primary government schools while close to 2 crore are admitted in private schools across the state. ‘Sanitisation of classes to take place after every shift’After the approval from the chief minister’s office, the education department is finalising SOPs which will be announced on Saturday. “We are working on intricacies like the number of shifts to be conducted and students to be permitted on one day,” said director general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand. Officials said safety of students would be ensured as classes would be sanitized before the schools reopen and regular sanitation would take place after every shift. Schools will have to ensure arrangements for thermal scanning, masks, social distancing and first aid before students walk in. The lockdown caused a massive blow to the education sector. Students were not only deprived of basic classroom learning but also failed to be a part of co-curricular and recreational activities. To bring back the academic session on track, the government has decided to reopen schools as well as higher educational institutions in a proper way. Schools, particularly those run by the government, have undergone a transformation. Officials said over 80% primary schools now have improved washrooms and proper handwashing facilities. “In most schools, washrooms have multiple handwash dispensers. Schools have been made appealing with vibrant paintings. Teaching-learning material has been made available,” said basic shiksha adhikari, Lucknow, Dinesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-schools-to-function-normally-with-covid-19-protocol-from-march-1/articleshow/80716974.cms||Isha Jain
February 6, 2021||India||Agri unions gear up but BKU takes its foot off chakka jam||As the 32-strong conglomerate of farm unions revved up for Saturday's three-hour nationwide "chakka jam", Rakesh Tikait's Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday slammed the brakes on its road-blockade plans for UP and Uttarakhand, citing inconvenience to sugarcane farmers there and the possibility of unruly elements infiltrating the stir again. "During this time of the year, sugarcane farmers, mostly in UP and Uttarakhand, move their produce to mills and a chakka jam would delay them by at least two days. Our decision was also guided by information that a few people might attempt to trigger violence," said Tikait, who has been credited with keeping the farm flock together in the wake of the Republic Day tractor parade fiasco in Delhi. The national capital will be spared a farmer blockade this time because it is "already in chakka jam mode", the BKU said. Farmers elsewhere will block state and national highways between 12pm and 3pm. In UP and Uttarakhand, the union plans to submit memoranda against the new farm laws to the local administration in various districts. "Our protests have been peaceful for more than two months. As far as the events of January 26 are concerned, farmers did not indulge in violence. Those were anti-social elements," Tikait said. With all farmers' groups treating the Republic Day rioting as a cautionary tale, the agitation leadership appeared to make an extra effort to plug any potential breach in the plan to keep things peaceful. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha issued an advisory and appealed to the public to "cooperate" for three hours and all motorists to honk for a minute from 3pm in solidarity with the farmers. Roads leading to Delhi will remain open, barring those where farmers have assembled. Nobody will stop emergency and essential transport, the union said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/agri-unions-gear-up-but-bku-takes-its-foot-off-chakka-jam/articleshow/80716977.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Nagpur||CBI blames jail SP for not releasing accused despite HC’s orders||Nagpur: After the high drama of the last two days where Central Jail superintendent Anup Kumre came under fire from the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court for not complying with its orders, the CBI on Friday blamed him for not releasing the accused even after its officials apprised him of the directives.A division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Amit Borkar then reserved the case for judgement, which is likely to be pronounced by Monday. Accused Ravishekhar Londekar’s relatives had knocked HC’s doors through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar assisted by Saurabh Bhende for his release.CBI sub-inspector Chetan Chauhan in an affidavit through counsel Mugdha Chandurkar stated that he was present in the HC when orders to release the accused was issued by HC on February 2. Chauhan had in fact arrested him after sessions’ court order on the same day. After Londhekar’s relatives rushed to HC, the judges had asked CBI to present him in court. The agency was told to release him on a PR bond of Rs50,000 and one solvent surety of Rs20,000.The CBI team then took back Londhekar to the jail for completion of formalities at 6pm on the same day. They apprised the jail authorities about HC’s orders. However, the authorities told them that the accused can't be released after 5pm and they were told to come the next day. Chauhan then went to meet Kumre, who too, gave the same reply. Moreover, there was no facility for providing food to the accused and the CBI team had to inform his cousin to bring it from his home.While defending his decision of not releasing the convict, Kumre also filed another affidavit clarifying that since Londhekar was kept at a temporary jail facility at Mangalmurti Lawn where new inmates who need quarantine facility are lodged. Citing a case at Aurangabad prison, the SP said an attempt was made there to release a MCOCA accused by submitting forged documents and therefore, he didn’t want to take any risk. Londhekar was released the next day on getting a bond from the sessions’ judge, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbi-blames-jail-sp-for-not-releasing-accused-despite-hcs-orders/articleshow/80713127.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||4 artistes join TMC, farm tweet war echoes at event||KOLKATA: The Twitter war over farmers’ protest came up when artistes Dipankar De, Bharat Kaul, Lovely Maitra and Shaona Khan formally joined Trinamool Congress in the presence of minister Bratya Basu at Trinamool Bhavan on Friday. Calling it a “token joining”, Basu said countless youngsters such as Shaona, both in Kolkata and the districts, wanted to join TMC. De said he was “grateful” to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “She has conferred Banga Bhushan and Banga Bibhushan awards on me. I have been hospitalized twice in recent times. She had sent across (minister) Aroop Biswas to meet me. Hospital bills on both occasions were funded by the government,” he said. For Ustad Rashid Khan’s daughter Shaona, since childhood she has found Banerjee “special”. “I have seen the changes her government has brought in Kolkata. As a practising Muslim, I feel TMC has worked hard to make lives of people from my community better. In the current political scenario, I feel more secure in Bengal than in any other state.” “My father,” she added, “is an artiste and has no political colour. That’s why he is a favourite with all parties. But he extended all his support to my independent choice of joining TMC.” Kaul, who has acted in 60 serials and 130 films, is from a Kashmiri Pandit family that has had close ties with Congress. “I am a Hindu Brahmin who remains a minority in a country where the majority population is Hindu. I want my liberal space. Don’t stifle me and tell me what to do and avoid. I’ve joined TMC because I want to work,” he said. Maitra, popular for her roles in ‘Mohar’ and ‘Jolnupur’, said her decision to join TMC was to ensure that “rights of women” and “freedom of expression” were protected. “Look at the way (actors) Debleena Dutt Mukherjee and Saayoni Ghosh have been trolled. This is not the culture we grew up in,” she said. Basu cautioned Trinamool turncoats and celebrities who had either joined or were thinking of joining BJP. He said: “Though artistes have the liberty to join any party, I personally feel that those joining BJP are making a big mistake. They are welcome to join TMC again.” Pointing to celebrities’ use of identical words such as “amicable” and “reasonable” while expressing their resentment of foreign intervention in India’s “internal matter”, Basu spoke about the politics of fear-mongering. He referred to Tapan Sinha’s ‘Atanka’, where an aged teacher, played by Soumitra Chatterjee, who witnesses a murder is threatened to keep mum with the words, “Apni kintu kichhui dyakhen ni, mastermoshai (You haven’t seen anything, Sir)”. Shaona told TOI she found the tweets’ similarity “very weird”. “Artistes are often forced to talk in favour of political powers. I also wonder if they had done so under some strong compulsion,” she said. Kaul said there could be “some compulsions”. “However, these stars are too big for me to understand what those compulsions could be,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-artistes-join-tmc-farm-tweet-war-echoes-at-event/articleshow/80715579.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Vadodara||4 Vadodara schools fined Rs 2 crore for overcharging pupils||Vadodara: Four prominent schools in the city will have to cough up over Rs 1 crore after the Fee Regulation Committee (FRC) in Vadodara ruled against them on complaints of overcharging fees and taking charges or fees under heads that were not included in their approved fee structure.The orders were issued by the FRC after it received complaints from a section of parents against Podar World School, Podar International School, Delhi Public School (DPS) at Harni and DPS at Kalali.The committee passed an order asking Podar World School to pay Rs 2 lakh as fine as it came to light that it was charging late fees from students. The school used to charge Rs 300 per week for delay in paying the fees.A fine of Rs 1 lakh was imposed on the Podar International which has been directed to refund fees of around 1,500 students. It was revealed that the school had charged more money than the fees fixed. Member of the FRC Keyur Rokadia said that the refund would amount to around Rs 27 lakh.Around 2,900 students of DPS, Kalali, will benefit with the FRC ruling that the school had charged higher fees including term fees that were not allowed. Rokadia said that the refund ordered by the committee to the students of the school would amount to around Rs 52 lakh including both term and tuition fees. In the case of about 2,100 students from the DPS, Harni, the school has been asked to refund the excess fees charged. This would amount to around Rs 28 lakh, said Rokadia. The schools can appeal against the decision of the FRC in the revision committee or the court.Recently, the committee had taken similar action against St Kabir School and Global Discovery Academy.Rokadia tendered his resignation on Friday morning itself as he had been granted a ticket by the BJP for the ensuing civic polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/4-vadodara-schools-fined-rs-2-crore-for-overcharging-pupils/articleshow/80714479.cms||---
February 6, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP team meets EC, seeks central force in all booths||KOLKATA: The Bengal BJP delegation that met the Election Commission on Friday has sought paramilitary force in all booths during the state assembly polls due in the next couple of months. It has also requested the panel to ensure that state government officials refrain from showing a partisan approach during the multi-phase polls. The eight-member team led by BJP’s national general secretary Bhupender Yadav placed three demands before the EC. “Primarily, the poll has to be conducted in multiple phases. The officers who show partisan attitude and work for the party in office should be changed. We have also demanded that paramilitary force should be deployed during the polls,” Yadav said, coming out of the ECI office. Earlier last month, a PIL was filed in Supreme Court where the petitioner sought a directive to the central and state governments, apart from the ECI, to ensure free and fair elections. Dismissing the plea, the Supreme Court asked the petitioner to “take other remedies under the law”. On Friday, the delegation requested the ECI to deploy central forces immediately after the model code of conduct comes into force. “We have highlighted the incidents of violence in the past few elections. There should be enough central force to instil confidence among voters. We have requested that central forces should be deployed immediately after the model code of conduct is in force,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. “No tainted officer should be allowed to take part in the process,” he added. Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta sought area domination in sensitive places at least 10 days prior to the polls. “Normally, central force is deployed 48 hours before the poll. We have requested that central forces should be sent at least 10 days before that, especially in sensitive areas, and area domination should be conducted well ahead. The ECI will also have to look into the chain of command of the central forces,” he said. BJP also conveyed its concerns over postal ballots the ECI is mulling for senior citizens above 80 years, persons with disabilities and Covid-19 suspects. It has asked the ECI to make special arrangements for senior citizens and persons with disabilities. “Senior citizens and disabled persons are sizable in number. They even constitute 3% of voters in a constituency. The booths are large these days and special arrangements can be made for them,” Dasgupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-team-meets-ec-seeks-central-force-in-all-booths/articleshow/80715635.cms||Rohit Khanna
