February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Church Street traders say weekend fortunes have seen turnaround||BENGALURU: When Church Street was converted into a ‘pedestrian-only stretch during weekends’ three months ago, business establishments which were trying to recover from the pandemic-induced crisis were sceptical about the move. Cut to the present: The stretch is bustling with activity with shopper footfall having increased considerably. The nearly 1km street, which was given a facelift at Rs 18 crore and is the costliest road in the city, has seen changes on three parameters – increase in visitor numbers, improvement in retail sales and changes in perception – after the weekend traffic ban was introduced by the directorate of urban land transport (DULT) as part of the Clean Air Initiative. Irfan Noor, secretary of Church Street Traders’ Association, told STOI: “Crowds have definitely increased ever since the initiative was implemented in November. It’s very encouraging for artists and visitors also are relaxed as they don’t have to worry about traffic or incessant honking. People like spending their evening here.” At least two dozen artists and musicians have made the street their stage for the last 12 weekends and have managed to gain traction on social media platforms too. Stores and restaurants have started getting new customers. Mayi Gowda, owner of Blossom Book House on Church Street, said, “We used to see only our regular customers but that is no longer the case. Church Street is the talk of the town every weekend. The response is overwhelming and considering that the initiative has reduced pollution, they should definitely extend it.” Gowda, who has been in the area for two decades, said: “I would have never imagined the street to be so lively, clean and illuminated.” Rajesh Harjani, who has had a pop culture store on the street for nearly three years, said, “The last eight months were not easy for me as the rents are on the higher side here. However, the initiative has increased footfall by a big margin.” Initially, the road saw mostly youngsters coming in to cheer music bands performing on the pavement and to chat in coffee shops. But now, even family crowd and tourists have started thronging it. C Ravi, owner of a garment store, said, “Our store is over 15 years old and we have started seeing so many new customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/church-st-traders-say-weekend-fortunes-have-seen-turnaround/articleshow/80727263.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Thousands of snails found dead at lake in Bengaluru; residents blame sewage inflow||BENGALURU: Morning walkers and locals frequenting Kudlu Doddakere were on Friday shocked to see tens of thousands of snails dead on the lake bund. The 40-acre water body located near Parappana Agrahara, adopted and maintained by United Way Bengaluru since 2017, is part of a series of lakes, including Parappana Agrahara, Kudlu Chikka Kere, Haraluru, Kasavanahalli, Kaikondarahalli and Sowl Kere. Residents claim increasing sewage inflow is to blame for the snail deaths. “There is a sewage pipe leading into the lake, which is discharging dirty water into it. Lack of oxygen is the primary reason for the snails to die,” said Shripathi Prabhu, resident, and Kudlu Doddakere activist. The water body has a walking track, lake bund, trees and benches. “About a year ago, there would be dead fish during summer. It’s only now that we’re seeing dead snails, which is shocking,” added Prabhu. David Kumar, programming head of United Way Bengaluru, an NGO working for reviving water bodies in Bengaluru, said direct entry of sewage from the jail campus into the lake is the problem. “We are doing everything within our scope to maintain it. The lack of coordination between BWSSB, BBMP and PWD is causing a problem,” he explained. Kavitha Reddy, a civic activist, said poor maintenance of the lake is leading to its destruction. “Inflow of raw sewage into the lake, excess algae and depletion of oxygen levels are the causes for dead snails floating in the water body,” said Reddy. “BBMP has to complete the sewage-diversion project that is pending for long and KSPCB should check the water quality and suggest solutions. It’s time Bengaluru lakes had a conservation-focused standard operating procedure,” she added. Another resident, Shantikrupa K, said when the wind blows at night, the smell of dead snails forces them to shut their windows. “The snails float on the surface and reach the bund, and people mistake them for pebbles,” Shantikrupa added. A senior water resources engineering professor said sewage inlets are the primary cause for such a disaster. BBMP officials were unavailable for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thousands-of-snails-found-dead-at-lake-residents-blame-sewage-inflow/articleshow/80727266.cms||Nithya Mandyam
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Farmer pays Rs 15 lakh for daughter’s medical seat, woman dupes him||BENGALURU: A 59-year-old farmer accused a woman of cheating him of Rs 15 lakh on the pretext of paying fee for his daughter’s medical seat. Mico Layout police registered a case of cheating against Sana Khan, based on a complaint from Pampagouda Basavanagouda. Basavanagouda from Haveri in north Karnataka said his daughter had cleared NEET and was waiting for a medical seat in 2019. Sana contacted him and promised one in a prestigious medical college in Bengaluru, and demanded Rs 1.3 crore for it. When Basavanagouda said he could pay only Rs 1 crore, Sana said she would arrange a seat in a medical college in Davanagere. “I gave Sana Rs 15 lakh and she promised to pay the amount to the college management. But when I came to know that Sana hadn’t done so, I asked her and she threatened to take rowdies’ help to kill me,” Basavanagouda told police. Police sources said Sana had got his daughter an MBBS seat in a college but hadn’t paid the Rs 15 lakh she took from him. They are trying to trace her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/farmer-pays-15l-for-daughters-medical-seat-woman-dupes-him/articleshow/80727270.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||US Army contingent arrives in India for military exercise 'Yudh Abhyas 20'||CHANDIGARH: The US Army contingent on Saturday arrived at the Indian Air Force office in Suratgarh, Rajasthan, to participate in the 16th edition of the joint military exercise ''Yudh Abhyas 20'', which will begin from February 8 to 21. The Indian Army extended a warm welcome as per military etiquettes to the US Army contingent, followed by an exchange of pleasantries between contingent commanders and soldiers of both armies. Started in 2004, Exercise YUDH ABHYAS-20 is the sixteenth edition in the series of bilateral exercises under this banner. The last edition of the joint exercise was held at Seattle, USA. The joint exercise would focus on counter-terrorism operations under United Nations mandate. The defence spokesperson looking after Rajasthan area stated that during the exercise, participants will engage in missions ranging from joint planning, operations, joint tactical drills and will provide field commanders and troops with an opportunity to interact with each other in matters professional. “The exercise would contribute immensely in promoting bilateral Army to Army relations, enhance interoperability, exchange best practices and experiences between the Indian Army and the US Army. Exercise YudhAbhyas is one of the largest running military training and defence cooperation endeavours between India and US,” the spokesperson added. A senior army officer related to organizing the exercise informed that the joint exercise is another step forward in the growing Military to Military cooperation between two countries, indicating steady growth in the India-US relations. The joint bilateral exercise is indicative that both India and the US understand the common threat of terrorism and stand shoulder to shoulder in countering the same, said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-army-contingent-arrives-in-india-for-military-exercise-yudh-abhyas-20/articleshow/80726937.cms||Ajay Sura
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Suburban rail may be extended to outskirts through existing tracks||BENGALURU: While the Centre has approved the 149km suburban rail project within the city on dedicated tracks, the state government wants an additional 165km to be extended to nearby satellite towns through existing tracks. The Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP), approved by the government recently, suggests a 314km network, including dedicated and shared tracks, by 2031. The 149km suburban rail on dedicated tracks is likely to be completed in six years. The CMP report recommended utilisation of the existing railway network for running robust suburban rail services, connecting peripheral areas and settlements around Bengaluru. The extension of suburban rail is expected to benefit those living on the outskirts and commuting to the city for work. “The well-planned suburban rail network integrated with Metro and bus-based public transport for multi-modal mobility has the potential to provide affordable and reliable mass transit services that greatly improve ease of connectivity within the city and from suburban towns,” the report said. While a new dedicated track will be provided in city limits, existing tracks on the outskirts will be used to operate suburban services. The CMP suggested several steps to improve suburban rail system — fast-tracking works such as track doubling, electrification and automatic signalling; connecting nearby areas such as Bidadi, Ramanagara, Tumakuru, Hosur, Bangarpet, Doddaballapur and Devanahalli; improving access-road connectivity to suburban rail stations; ensuring integration with Metro stations and inter-city rail lines; promoting high-quality first- and last-mile connectivity. Rs 300cr to be allocated to suburban railSouth Western Railway said a minimum of Rs 300 crore will be allocated to the Rs 15,657-crore suburban rail project in 2021-22. “Bengaluru suburban rail project is being executed by K-Ride, a joint venture of the railway ministry and Karnataka government. A minimum of Rs 300 crore will be allotted by the railway ministry, and an equivalent amount from the Karnataka government is expected, apart from loans from the market,” said an SWR release. In Northern Railway’s pink book, Rs 800 crore has been set aside for equity infusion into JVs with state governments. At present, two JVs are executing major works in the country: Bengaluru suburban rail (Rs 15,000 crore) and Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor (Rs 5,000 crore), officials said. Of this, Bengaluru suburban rail project is likely to get a major share. “As emphasised by railway minister Piyush Goyal, Bengaluru suburban rail is one of the top-priority projects of the railways and will be given tremendous thrust,” the note said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/existing-tracks-may-be-used-to-extend-suburban-trains/articleshow/80727454.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka-RERA to crack the whip on builders of 512 delayed projects||BENGALURU: Hundreds of apartment projects have come under the scanner of Karnataka Real Estate Authority (K-RERA) for not adhering to the deadline and not submitting status reports regularly. Data says completion date has expired for 512 projects, but their builders have neither applied for extension nor have they submitted the mandatory quarterly updates.  RERA rules mandate builders to declare the date of completion while signing agreement with buyers at the initial stage. Also, they must upload the project status once in three months on the web portal of K-RERA. They are liable to pay penalty up to 10% of the project cost for non-compliance of rules, and the authorities can even attach assets of the promoters to recover the penalty and compensation to be paid for buyers. “We want to implement the rules strictly. The step will ensure justice to home- buyers and help in streamlining projects that may be stuck at different stages for multiole reasons,” said K-RERA secretary KS Latha Kumari. About 30% of 3,778 registered projects have defaulted on commitment, with failure to deliver flats on time being the most common problem. The rules allow developers to apply for extension of date for an year or so. But not a single quarterly update of 413 projects has been uploaded. Developers have to give all project details in their quarterly update, which include the amount of money collected from buyers and spent on what component. The report should give a clear picture about the status of the project and what are the pending works. “There may be technical reasons for failure to submit quarterly updates in some cases. We’ll be considerate towards such projects, but stringent action will be taken against wilful defaulters,” said Kumari. The authorities have imposed penalty to the tune of Rs 1.8.7 crore on 908 projects for different lapses. Action was initiated to attach the assets of an entire apartment project in Bengaluru last year to pay for compensation to buyers as the developer had failed to deliver the flat on time. K-RERA in December imposed penalty on a developer of a villa project near Mysuru and ordered to pay Rs 10 lakh to each of the 400 buyers for falsely declaring completion of the project and collecting maintenance charge from them. “The order was reassuring for homebuyers and we expect more such action,” said Raj Gopal, CEO of a software company and buyer of the villa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/k-rera-to-crack-the-whip-on-builders-of-512-delayed-projects/articleshow/80727456.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
February 7, 2021||India||Gaganyaan astronauts may splash off Gujarat coast after space flight||MUMBAI: Gujarat may have the honour of welcoming back the Gaganyaan astronauts when they return after their seven-day mission in space. Nilesh Desai, director of Isro’s Ahmedabad-based Space Application Centre (SAC), said this at a presentation on Saturday organized by Space Geeks Mumbai and other organisations. "As of now, the mission is expected to splashdown off Veraval in Gujarat in the Arabian Sea, and as a contingency measure even a zone in the Bay of Bengal is being considered. The exact place will be finalized soon,’’ he said in the webinar. The crew will be recovered in 15 to 20 minutes and, thereafter, they will be placed under quarantine. "Only after they complete their quarantine period and get back to work, can we declare the mission over,’’ he said. Veraval is known as a hub of fishing industries in India and is 6km away from the famous Somnath temple. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had underscored the importance of the Gaganyaan mission for the nation in her Budget speech on February 1. The unmanned test mission of Gaganyaan is slated, provisionally, towards the end of the year, and the manned flight next year. The much-awaited lift off will be from Sriharikota. The programme suffered a slight set back because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Desai said the size of the crew module has been slightly reduced because of the weight constraints on the GSLV Mark 3 rocket. With a crew of either two or three, who underwent training in Russia, the flight will operate in the 275-400 km low-earth orbit, passing over India two times in the morning and two times in the evening. Thoughout the weeklong mission, Isro’s Master Control Facility at Hassan in Karnataka and the Telemetry, Tracking and Command Network at Bengalaru will be communicating with the crew, in addition to different channels of communication through satellites. With considerable emphasis on safety of the crew, Isro is human rating all the sub systems in the orbiter module in which the crew will fly, as well as the launch vehicle and the launch pad. Desai also announced that the mission span of the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter has been extended to 7.5 years because of excellent fuel management. "The extended life will give an opportunity for lunar mapping and the science payloads will generate new knowledge about the moon,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gaganyaan-astronauts-may-splash-off-gujarat-coast-after-space-flight/articleshow/80727536.cms||Srinivas Laxman
February 7, 2021||Goa||ISL: Hyderabad, NorthEast in crucial battle for playoff spot||Hyderabad FC coach Manolo Marquez knows how challenging it is to face NorthEast United FC under Khalid Jamil, who has got the better of the top two teams in the Indian Super League (ISL) since taking over midway into the season. Hyderabad are unbeaten in seven games and Marquez believes his side has nothing to worry when they face NorthEast at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Sunday. Three teams are level on 22 points after 15 matches. FC Goa are third and Hyderabad fourth for their better goal average than NorthEast. They now have a chance to extend their lead. “There is no tactical change. Every game, we know we play against a different team. Every team has different style. We need to know their strong points, weak points and prepare for these kind of things,” said Marquez during an online interaction on Saturday. Hyderabad started the new year with a resounding 4-1 win over Chennaiyin FC and then defeated NorthEast 4-2 in the first leg tie, thanks to a stunning brace from Liston Colaco. They have since managed four draws, but a 2-0 win over Chennaiyin in the last match put them back among the top four. “Now we enter into last quarter of the competition. All the teams have four, five or six games depending on who you play until the end of the competition. You lose this game and win other four, you will (still) be in top four,” said Marquez. Hyderabad have most of their players fit, with the exception of Joel Chianese who scored in the last game but picked up an injury. NorthEast interim coach Jamil is not taking any team lightly despite getting the better of stronger opponents like Mumbai City and ATK Mohun Bagan. “Hyderabad is a good team. All the teams in ISL are good. They have prepared well. We have played with them earlier, so our preparation has to be the same. But tomorrow is one of the crucial matches,” said Jamil. The I-League winning coach with Aizawl FC knows how to get the best out of his Indian players. Since taking charge, Jamil has been unbeaten with three wins and held Goa to a 2-2 draw in the last game. Against Hyderabad, he will have to do without defender Ashutosh Mehta and Khassa Camara, both of whom are suspended. “We are thinking just to play this match how we played the last games. So, we are not thinking about playing (for) goal difference or anything. We are thinking about playing positive. We need a positive result,” said Jamil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-hyderabad-northeast-in-crucial-battle-for-playoff-spot/articleshow/80727660.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||New museum celebrates Gen Thimayya’s legacy||MADIKERI: The memorial museum celebrating the life of Kodandera Subayya Thimayya, who was the Chief of Army Staff from 1957 to 1961, was dedicated to the nation on Saturday by President Ram Nath Kovind. It houses a variety of antique weaponry and war relics. ‘Sunny Side’, the erstwhile ancestral residence of General Thimayya, has been renovated and converted into a museum that also showcases Kodagu district’s immense contribution to the defence sector.  Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, ministers and officers from the armed forces were present. “Gen Thimayya’s museum preserves special aspects of the extraordinary character and contribution of one of the finest soldiers in the Army’s history. It also highlights sterling features of our brave force. Kodagu has the honour of having enriched our armed forces with stalwarts like Field Marshal Cariappa and Gen Thimayya. I am sure the museum will inspire our youth to carry forward the legacy,” the President wrote in the visitors’ book. Many recalled Gen. Thimayya’s role in the crucial years leading up to the conflict with China in 1962. “He inspired soldiers to carry parts of Army tanks up to a height of 12,000ft to the snow-clad mountains of Zojila Pass when Pakistan planned to annex Kashmir by force in 1947-48. It was a daring move and the Pakistan army retracted after seeing the tanks at such a height,” some noted. The museum’s key attractions include battle tank ‘Himmat’ that was transported by road from Kirkee War Cemetery at Khadki near Pune and a decommissioned MiG-21 fighter jet that had played a vital role in the 1971 India-Pakistan war. A collection of artworks, books and articles is also on display. There’s a mural that shows Field Marshal Claude John Eyre Auchinleck, who was a British Army Commander during the Second World War, coming down to ‘Sunny Side’ to meet the General. The museum acknowledges the contribution of Gen. Thimayya’s wife Nina, who was bestowed with ‘Kaiser-e-Hind’ award for social service. The museum earlier housed the office of the regional transport officer that has now been shifted after a decade-long campaign. There was a delay in the work due to fund shortage and lack of a concrete plan, though the government had proposed it in 2006. Earlier in the day, the President and family visited Talacauvery, the birthplace of river Cauvery .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-museum-celebrates-gen-thimayyas-legacy/articleshow/80727751.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Now, Vokkaligas demand quota under 2A category||BENGALURU: After Lingayats and Kurubas, the Vokkaliga community has joined the bandwagon to seek reservation under 2A category. JD(S) Bengaluru city district president R Prakash has written to chief minister BS Yediyurappa seeking reservation in education and employment. “Majority of people in the community are poor and depend on agriculture for livelihood. Their socio-economic status is also not good. The government should give reservation to the community,” he said. Panchamasalis, a sub-sect of Lingayats, and Kurubas are already protesting for reservation under 2A and ST quotas, respectively. The Kurubas, who walked from Kaginele to Bengaluru under the leadership of Niranjananadpuri Swami, are holding a rally in the state capital on Sunday. The Panchamasalis are also on a padayatra from Kudala Sangama to Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-vokkaligas-demand-quota-under-2a-category/articleshow/80727753.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hubballi||Tumakuru trucker thrashed in Maharashtra for speaking in Kannada||BELAGAVI: Barely weeks after the Shiv Sena raked up the border dispute, a truck driver from Tumakuru was allegedly thrashed for speaking in Kannada at the Maharashtra border. Govinda was waylaid late Friday night near the Satara tollgate in Maharashtra by six persons when he was ferrying goods from Ahmedabad to Bengaluru. He fled for safety, leaving behind the vehicle after informing its owner. Athani DySP Girish, on the instructions of Belagavi SP, went with Govinda when he filed a complaint at Satara police station. Girish said: “Four of the six men were arrested on Saturday evening.” Posing as policemen, the six men stopped the vehicle. They asked Govinda to get down and demanded to see his documents. He spoke in Kannada while taking out the vehicle documents. “The men shouted at me in Marathi and told me to speak in their language,” he said. Govinda told them he knew only Kannada. The men insisted he speak in Marathi and started beating him. They tore his shirt and inflicted bruises, Govinda alleged. He ran away and reached Kolhapur. Ashok Chandaragi, a Kannada activist, said after Govinda contacted him for help, he informed the media and police about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tumakuru-trucker-thrashed-inmaha-for-speaking-in-kannada/articleshow/80727761.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Banks can sell mortgaged plantation lands to recover dues: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Any land used for raising a plantation crop, if mortgaged to a financial firm even if for non-agricultural purposes, can be sold for enforcement of the said security. The high court made this observation while disposing of writ appeals filed by coffee plantations/ estates from Chikkamagaluru district. It said the expression ‘agricultural land’ in section 31(i) of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, does not include land on which plantation crops — cardamom, coffee, pepper, rubber and tea, as defined in section 2(A)(25) of the Land Reforms Act — are grown.  “In the instant case, the securities created in coffee plantations can be enforced for realisation of debts,” it added. In 1998-2004, the appellants were extended agricultural cash-credit loans, agricultural term loans and mortgage loans for coffee plantations at Hirekolale, Yelagudige and Aldur villages. Thereafter, Corporation Bank sent a demand notice in 2019. After a bout of litigation at the Debt Recovery Tribunal, the bank put the assets for sale in November 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-banks-can-sell-mortgaged-plantation-lands-to-recover-dues/articleshow/80727768.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||Mission Purvodaya: BJP looks to expand footprint in the East||NEW DELHI: In a bid to consolidate BJP's gains in the eastern region of the country, the Modi dispensation is poised to give more wings to its "look east" (Purvodaya) policy. After winning the crucial Bihar polls and establishing itself in the north eastern region besides making sizeable gains in Odisha, the party is now focussed on poll-bound West Bengal where it feels being on the verge of gathering the critical mass to oust the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, whose ministry's "Ujjawala" scheme has been one of the mainstays of the Modi government since 2014, recently gave an elaborate account in Rajya Sabha about how the government has been giving a push to "Purvodaya". "From Kashi to Kohima, more than 50 crore people of India live in eastern India. PM Narendra Modi has given unprecedented stress on the development of eastern India and gave the mantra of Purvodaya," Pradhan said in Rajya Sabha last Thursday, while participating in the debate on the Vote of Thanks to the President's address. The minister said this is not merely a slogan for the government but a 'mantra' for governance. "Whether it's Ujjwala Yojana, toilets construction, Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Awas Yojana, Urja Ganga, UDAN Yojana or other schemes of the government, people of eastern India have been major beneficiaries," he claimed. The party also got encouraging response in the eastern region, including the northeast and West Bengal, and also eastern UP. BJP's focus on development of the region as well as the political dividends can be gauged from the fact that the PM will be visiting poll-bound West Bengal and Assam on Sunday, his second visit in less than a month. Before his visit, the PM shared his entire itinerary on twitter in regional languages including Bengali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mission-purvodaya-bjp-looks-to-expand-footprint-in-the-east/articleshow/80728094.cms||Akhilesh Singh
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Health department reduces daily testing target from 1L to 70K||BENGALURU: The health and family welfare department has reduced the daily, statewide Covid testing target from 1 lakh to 70,000. A circular in this regard was issued on January 30 and it cites suggestions of the state technical advisory committee on Covid-19. STOI has a copy of the circular, which lists revised targets for all districts. Bengaluru Urban district will aim for 23,135 tests a day. The new guidelines prescribe RT-PCR tests through a pooling method for everyone barring those with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and asymptomatic primary contacts of Covid-19 patients. Primary health centres (PHCs) across Bengaluru have reduced the number of RTPCR tests from 1,000 to 100. STOI visited some PHCs in Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Bommanahalli zones, where testing numbers have dropped. Madhukar, a lab technician at the Konanakunte PHC, said that the focus had shifted towards vaccination. “Till November, we used to collect nearly 300 swab samples at our PHC. The number has now dropped below 100. There are two reasons: the vaccination drive and the decreasing number of patients,” he added. Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner for health, said that Covid-19 tests were largely sought by students and teaching and nonteaching staff. “Very few people are exhibiting the symptoms of Covid-19. Many people have developed antibodies after recovering from the infection,” he said. According to the data accessed by STOI, of the more than 23,000 tests conducted in Bengaluru every day, 2,571 are rapid antigen ones and 20,564 are RT-PCR ones. “Except for ILI and SARI cases, swab samples will be sent for pool testing,” confirmed Bhaskar Rajakumar, nodal officer, BBMP Covid war room. “There will be a delay in the results because of pooling. Our focus is divided between the vax drive and Covid-19 testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-test-target-cut-from-1l-to-70k/articleshow/80727797.cms||Nithya Mandyam
February 7, 2021||India||As India greys, govt plans midday meals, startups to help the elderly||NEW DELHI: Pictures and reports of down and out elders being left on the highway by the Indore municipality shocked the nation, but the struggle for existence is a daily fight for many of India's seniors. Recognising their plight, the government is set to launch a mid-day meal scheme for indigent elders, support start ups prepared to work for welfare of the old and self help groups will offer reskilling for seniors as part of a comprehensive outreach. A fast growing elderly population expected to touch 300 million by 2050 has prompted the government to draw a roadmap for five years setting targets for existing schemes and planning new ones including a "Poshan Abhiyan for Elderly." Malnourished elderly, mostly destitutes, who are not in any old age home will be identified and provided a hot cooked meal daily. To begin with the meals will be offered in 2,000 panchayats and 200 municiplaities. A modest start will see hot cooked meals provided to 55,000 identified elderly every day from centres equipped with a capacity for catering to 25 persons daily. The outreach will be scaled up each year to reach 2,75,000 elderly persons through 10,000 gram panchayats and 1,000 municipalities by 2024-25. The plans were approved by the inter ministerial committee (IMC) for the senior citizens welfare fund (SCWF) chaired by secretary for social justice and empowerment R Subrahmanyam on February 4. "The scheme will focus on procuring locally available healthy food material and serving hot-cooked meals mid-day," Subrahmanyam told TOI. The ministry will write to states to identify the panchayats and municipalities. As per the approved plan the gram panchayat/municipality would be the implementing agency and will be tasked to identify the elders. The cost per day is Rs 20. An expenditure of Rs 39.6 crore will be incurred and priority given to aspirational districts and the scheme shall be run only in those gram panchayats where there is no old age home. The IMC meeting attended by senior functionaries from the ministries of social justice, health and family welfare, housing and urban affairs and the departments of economic affairs and financial services also approved a plan for promoting the silver economy through equity participation in "Start Ups" for elderly care. "Under this plan equity support will be provided to out-of-the-box and innovative start-ups that have come up for providing products, processes and services for the welfare of the elderly. The selection of the start-ups will be steered by the National Institute of Social Defence," Subrahmanyam explained. The fund will be provided as equity, subject to government investment not exceeding 49% of the total equity of the firm. An expenditure of Rs 20 cr from SCWF for 2021-22 on this programme. Under the livelihood and skilling initiatives for senior citizens, it has been decided to set-up 5000 self help groups (Action Groups Aimed at Social Reconstruction) to cover 1.25 lakh beneficiaries in 2021-22. These groups will provide the elderly a platform to share their time constructively for carrying out activities that may result in marketable products. This is proposed to be scaled up to 40,000 AGRASR groups covering 10 lakh beneficiaries by 2025-26. The ministry of social justice has also decided to set in motion the process of setting up an employment exchange for senior citizens under the banner “Senior Able Citizens for Re-Employment in Dignity”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-india-greys-govt-plans-midday-meals-startups-to-help-the-elderly/articleshow/80728640.cms||Ambika Pandit
February 7, 2021||India||Farmers protest: 'Not moving, govt has till Oct to repeal laws,' says Tikait||GHAZIABAD: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said farmers protesting against the three central laws on Delhi’s borders since November “are not going anywhere” and would intensify their agitation in the coming days with a ‘tractor kranti’ — a mega rally that would not be restricted to Delhi but held nationwide. “We will neither leave the protest, nor the government,” said Tikait. “We give time to the Centre till October to take back the farm laws and ensure guaranteed MSP. If our demands are not met, we will plan and intensify our agitation elsewhere in the country from October 2,” said Tikait. The BKU did not enforce a chakka jam at UP Gate on Saturday so that it doesn’t inconvenience sugarcane farmers but protesters at UP Gate on the Ghazipur border blared horns for a few minutes to mark the end of the transport blockade farmer unions had announced on Saturday. The blaring of horns began just after 3pm, the official time for the ‘chakka jam’ to end. Later, some BKU men went to the office of the ADM (city) in Ghaziabad and submitted a memorandum listing their demands. But though the UP Gate protesters did not make any attempt to enforce the ‘chakka jam’, they kept Delhi Police engaged at the border, sapling in hand. Delhi Police reclaimed the part of the highway where Tikait and a few other farmers had planted saplings on Friday, next to a sheet of iron spikes that the cops installed there as tyre killers. But as Delhi Police removed the mound of soil the farmers had heaped there and barricaded the spot again, the farmers 'claimed' an adjacent piece of land to again plant saplings. "They have also increased police presence in the area. But we will keep growing our crops even if you sow nails in our path," Tikait said. Asked about the resumption of talks with the Centre, Tikait said, "We will not talk under duress. Talks this time will be conditional. Apart from repealing of farm laws, we will also focus on guaranteed MSP for farmers." Stressing the importance of the farmers' coordination committee, he clarified, "The coordination committee is our only platform. The decision regarding our crops will be taken by the farmers, the decisions on the protest by the committee." Watch Centre has time till October to repeal farm laws: Rakesh Tikait||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-not-moving-govt-has-till-oct-to-repeal-laws-says-tikait/articleshow/80728908.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 7, 2021||India||Call from SC prods jail to release Faruqui 36 hours after bail order||INDORE: Thirty-six hours after the Supreme Court's Friday morning order to release stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui on interim bail, and after dragging their feet all through Saturday, jail authorities finally let him out around 11pm. Indore Central Jail superintendent Rakesh Bhangare, who had all evening said they couldn't release Munawar until they got a certified copy of the SC stay on his production warrant in a case in Prayagraj, finally confirmed his release after midnight. "We got a call from the Supreme Court telling us that the order is uploaded on the website. We were told to check the order and release Faruqui," he said, adding that Munawar left the prison "in the vehicle of a city SP around 11pm". He had CCTV grabs to prove it, he said. Mediapersons standing at the jail's main gates till 12.30am had not seen any such vehicle, leading to speculation that he may have been taken out by another gate. Earlier in the evening, jail officials had said Faruqui might be "transferred to UP" as there was a production warrant for him in the Prayagraj case - despite the fact that the warrant had been stayed by SC. "Faruqui has been released by an Indore court in the local case. But we have a production warrant issued by a Prayagraj court, asking us to produce him there before February 18. We have not officially received any stay order on the warrant," Indore Central Jail superintendent Rakesh Bhangre said. On Saturday, his lawyers submitted a certified copy of the SC bail order in the court of chief judicial magistrate Aman Singh Bhuria around 1pm. They furnished the bail bond, got the release order in the post-lunch session, and headed for the prison with it, only to run into a wall. The administration’s move to stonewall the comedian’s release had left his lawyers bewildered and his family members — who were on vigil outside the prison — on tenterhooks. They spent all of Saturday waiting for the jail doors to open and Faruqui — who was arrested on New Year’s Day on allegations of hurting religious sentiments — to walk out. Senior advocate Vivek Tankha, who represented Faruqui for bail in MP HC, told TOI, “The jailor can’t do that (withhold release) once the SC has stayed the production warrant. The advocate on record can inform SC and begin contempt procedure against the jailor and authorities. All such persons should be punished for not respecting SC order.” Former deputy advocate general Abhinav Dhanodkar said, “Once SC has stayed all production warrants while granting interim bail, the jailor has no authority to restrain the accused. He can’t deny his release. This is because Right to Life and Liberty is a Fundamental Right enshrined in Constitution.” Advocate Sourav Kripal, who had argued Munawar’s bail plea in SC, said, “The jailor has no authority to do this. He is nobody to sit on an SC order.” Asked if it was a matter of contempt, Kripal said: “I’m not aware of the entire matter. I was engaged in arguing the case before SC. His lawyers will look into it.” “Our family is hurt,” said Faruqui’s cousin Zaid Pathan on Saturday, as the wait at the prison gates dragged on. “He has spent 35 days in prison. You can understand what the family is going through. He had to fight till SC to get the justice he deserved. We’re and hurt that jail authorities are refusing to release him.” “People’s confidence, our confidence, in the judicial system had grown stronger after the SC order,” he said, adding that the family was waiting for lawyers to decide the next course of action. Watch Comedian Munawar Faruqui released from Indore prison||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/call-from-sc-prods-jail-to-release-faruqui-36-hours-after-bail-order/articleshow/80729069.cms||Karishma Kotwal
February 7, 2021||India||Covaxin trials for kids likely soon in Nagpur, Bharat Biotech awaits nod||NAGPUR: For parents concerned about sending their children, especially primary students, to school due to Covid-19, and wanting to know when vaccine will be approved for those below 18 years, here's something that will give them a sense of safety. Bharat Biotech, makers of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, is expected to start vaccine trial for the paediatric population by February-end or early March this year. Sources confirmed that a leading children's hospital in the city has been earmarked as one of the sites for trials to be done on children and youngsters in the age group 2 to 18 years. The trials will start as soon as Bharat Biotech, a company from Hyderabad, gets formal go ahead from Government of India. In January, Bharat Biotech MD Krishna Ella had stated that the vaccine for children will be ready in the next four months - by May 2021. Read Also25 countries in queue for 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccine, says JaishankarIndia has so far supplied Covid-19 vaccine to 15 countries and another 25 nations are in the queue at different levels for the jab, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. He said there are three categories of countries which are keen to get the vaccine from India- poor, price"It will be the first such trial in the world in which paediatric population right from toddlers to teens will be tested for the Covid-19 vaccine," said coordinator for these trials, Dr Ashish Tajne. Dr Tajne further said Nagpur was one of the sites for Covaxin's phase I, II and III human trials. "Trials for Covaxin through intradermal route are under way in the city. Soon, Covaxin trials through nasal route will also commence. However, the paediatric trial has a special importance," he said. Read AlsoRamp up vaccination drive: Centre to states, UTsThe Centre on Saturday asked states and UTs to "exponentially increase" the pace of vaccination as there is still a substantial scope for increasing the numbers per session. The second dose is scheduled to start from February 13, whereas the government plans to start inoculating the elderly fromAccording to him, these trials will be conducted in age slabs like 2 to 5 years, 6 to 12 years and 12 to 18 years. "Special protocol will be maintained. It will be the crucial trial in fight against Covid-19," he said. As per international regulations, only vaccines based on inactivated virus can be administered to children under the age of 16 years. Hence, Covaxin is the only suitable option for children in India. Other Made-in-India vaccines are based on mRNA and chimpanzee adenovirus vector platforms. Earlier in January, the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) had given conditional approval for administering Covaxin to children above 12 years of age. But later in the month, the government disapproved this authorization. After this, Bharat Biotech declared that it will be submitting a proposal for Covaxin trials for children between 2-12 years. A senior paediatrician from the city, who is most likely to be the principle coordinator of these trials at Nagpur site, said that formal announcement about the trials will be done only after receiving government's final nod. Watch Nagpur: Covaxin may start vaccine trial for kids soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covaxin-trials-for-kids-likely-soon-in-nagpur/articleshow/80729155.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||Ramp up vaccination drive: Centre to states, UTs||NEW DELHI: Even as India inoculated over 56 lakh health and frontline workers in nearly 22 days of its vaccination drive, the Centre on Saturday asked states and UTs to "exponentially increase" the pace of vaccination as there is still a substantial scope for increasing the numbers per session. So far, 1,14,548 sessions have been conducted across the country. Of the total vaccinated beneficiaries, 52,66,175 were healthcare workers and 3,70,693 frontline workers. India started vaccinating frontline workers from February 2 and so far only around 4.5% of the targeted beneficiaries have been inoculated in this category. However, among healthcare workers, nearly 55% were vaccinated till Saturday evening. In a review meeting with states health secretaries and National Health Mission MDs on Saturday, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked them to improve the momentum and accelerate the coverage. Every state and UT must schedule all healthcare workers for vaccination at least once before February 20 and immediately thereafter organise mop-up rounds for them. Similarly, all frontline workers must be scheduled for vaccination at least once before March 6 and immediately thereafter mop-up rounds should be organised for them, the health ministry said. "The failure of potential beneficiaries to get vaccinated in the mop-up round would automatically push them to age-appropriate vaccination category," it added. The second dose is scheduled to start from February 13, whereas the government plans to start inoculating the elderly from March. Bhushan asked state health secretaries to analyse the daily variation in the number of average vaccinations and take steps to increase them. States and UTs have also been advised to ensure 100% saturation of people who have already been registered on the Co-Win digital platform. "The overall vaccination numbers are driven by only a few states. To accelerate the drive, all states have to perform on this parameter," a senior official said. On Saturday, 12 states accounted for 85% of the total 2,20,019 beneficiaries vaccinated till evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ramp-up-vaccination-drive-centre-to-states-uts/articleshow/80729179.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 7, 2021||India||New guidelines soon on TRP, OTT norms: Govt||NEW DELHI: Responding to a string of questions by Lok Sabha MPs on TRP manipulation and regulation of OTT content, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the government is taking affirmative action and will notify new guidelines in each case. Javadekar said assurances given to the ministry by the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) to develop a self-regulatory mechanism for Over The Top (OTT) digital content "did not give adequate cognisance to content prohibited under law and there were issues of conflict of interest". He also said the ministry held several consultations with OTT platforms and IAMAI following complaints. On TRP manipulations, Javadekar said while the BARC Disciplinary Council said it took action to maintain panel sanctity and filed 11 FIRs against those who manipulated samples, the ministry appointed a committee that made recommendations on measurement methodology, and structural changes in the composition of rating agencies and audits, among other things. "Existing guidelines have provisions like methodology for audience measurement, panel selection, viewing platform secrecy and privacy, data analysis, transparency and complaint redressal mechanism... essential for a robust, transparent and accountable rating system in India. Notwithstanding, based on the report of the committee headed by CEO, Prasar Bharati along with recommendations of TRAI, present guidelines are being analysed/evaluated vis-a-vis shortcomings, if any," he said. The minister also said government will notify new uplinking and downlinking guidelines for private channels soon. "Reference was received from Prasar Bharati regarding reception of some channels of private broadcasters on Set Top Boxes of DD Free Dish subscribers which were not part of channels downlinkable from that platform. "This situation has arisen due to co-location of signals and non-mandatory requirement for encryption of signals of a Free-to-Air TV Channel," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-guidelines-soon-on-trp-ott-norms-govt/articleshow/80729199.cms||Swati Mathur
February 7, 2021||India||Conspiracy theories absurd, no hand in stars' tweets: Mo Dhaliwal||Canada-based Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) has issued a statement claiming that it neither coordinated any protest activities within India nor coordinated with Rihanna, Greta Thunberg or any other celebrity to make them tweet in support of the farmers' protests. PJF is being investigated by the Delhi Police for being part of an alleged conspiracy to create disharmony and for creating the toolkit shared by Greta Thunberg. The statement issued by Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal, co-founders of PJF, held that information being spread about their organisation "is in many cases incorrect and, too often, entirely invented". They said that it was a "concerted effort and a purposeful distraction" from the story about over 200 lives lost in the farmers protest. "The complex and absurd conspiracies being constructed to link Poetic Justice Foundation to any number of actors worldwide are entirely fiction. Poetic Justice Foundation did not coordinate any protest activities occurring within India," they said. "Poetic Justice Foundation did not coordinate Rihanna, Greta Thunberg or any number of specific celebrities to tweet about the #FarmersProtest. We didn't pay anyone to tweet - and certainly didn't pay anyone $2.5m to do so," the statement said. The statement added: "However, we did generally encourage the entire world to share this issue. Through the international collective of organisers we encouraged the world to pay attention and amplify this message." "We were drawn to the farmers' protest due to our connection and love for our people" the statement read. "We decided to bring a question to the democracy of India. We would ask India 'Why?' We developed key messages that were researched and fact-based. We gathered up all of this thinking and made it publicly available on a website called AskIndiaWhy.com," it read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/conspiracy-theories-absurd-no-hand-in-stars-tweets-mo-dhaliwal/articleshow/80729207.cms||IP Singh
February 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Milk, LPG price hike adds to people’s woes||PATNA: The growing prices of essential commodities have added to the woes of common people already hit hard financially due to the Covid-19 and the following lockdown last year. While the COMFED, which sells its products in the state and outside under the brand name ‘Sudha’, has decided to increase the prices of the available varieties of milk by Rs2 per litre, the government has also hiked the LPG price by Rs25 per cylinder. Executive director and state head of Indian Oil Corporation, Vibhash Kumar, said the fuel pricing is linked to various aspects like import parity, international crude oil prices plus the local taxes. “The fluctuation in prices from the past few months is due to the change in international crude prices. Since there is a substantial price rise in international market and it cannot be applied in one go, a percentage of it is raised every month,” he explained. Rajiv Verma, general manager of Bihar State Milk Cooperative Federation Ltd (COMFED), said the new prices will be effective from Sunday. “The rate of milk procurement has also been increased by Rs2.43 per litre on the farmers’ demands. They were demanding hike due to the increase in production cost,” he said. However, he justified the price hike saying that the farmers would benefit from it. “Other states have already increased the rate of milk and its products. Due to increase in various operational costs, the consumer price of milk has been revised,” Verma said. The price hike of such basic commodities has disappointed common people. “This past year, we have incurred additional charges from frequent visits to hospitals, regular check-ups for Covid, medications and other things. The government should not increase the price of basic commodities as the pandemic has already affected we the middle class people,” said Shashi Sinha, a 54-year-old homemaker. Tripti Prakash, a resident of Krishna Nagar, echoed similar views. “The government should listen to the common people and offer some respite. Instead of increasing the prices of milk and LPG, government should come up with other plans to stabilize the economy,” she said. Expressing concern over her personal finances, Vandana Singh of Boring Road area said, “Being a homemaker, it’s becoming difficult for me to manage my household budget. The increased prices will further burden the household expenses.” Amrendra Kumar, state LPG head of Bharat Petroleum, said, “The constant price hike is now a routine phenomenon which the people have to adjust to. Nothing can be done about it from our side.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/milk-lpg-price-hike-adds-to-peoples-woes/articleshow/80726863.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Kaimur spurious liquor case: Key accused held||SASARAM: Kaimur SP Rakesh Kumar on Saturday said medical reports confirmed that two people, and not three, had died after consuming spurious liquor at Kudason village under the Bhabhua police station area in Kaimur district on Friday. “The third person had lost his life because of prolonged illness,” he added. The SP said the main accused, Munna Musahar, who had allegedly supplied liquor to the deceased and the five others who fell ill, has been arrested. “Munna has admitted that he had supplied the liquor to the villagers. Munna was indulged in illegal liquor trade. He used to bring liquor from Chandauli district in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. He was earlier sent to jail twice in 2018 for violation of prohibition laws,” the SP said He added Chandrika Paswan of Shivpur village, who also died on Friday, was a daily-wage worker at Guwahati in Assam. “He had returned to his village recently. Paswan was ill and undergoing treatment in a private nursing home at Bhabua. His last rites were performed by his family members in Varanasi,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kaimur-spurious-liquor-case-key-accused-held/articleshow/80726886.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Allahabad||AU bars teachers from filingpolice plaint sans approval||Prayagraj: Now, no teaching faculty member of Allahabad University is allowed to approach police for lodging FIR against a fellow teacher over any official dispute without prior permission of the competent authority. An order in this regard has been issued by the university administration on the instruction of the vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava, making it mandatory for teachers to first intimate the proctor through the head of department and dean. The order, dated February 2, signed by assistant registrar Dewesh Kumar Goswami has been marked to all deans, head of departments, director and coordinator of all institutes and centres. ‘It has come to the notice of the VC that faculty members file FIR against coworkers in official matters without taking prior approval of competent authority and without intimation to concerned head, dean. It has been decided by the VC that, if there is any grievance or dispute, matter shall be routed through proper channel to the proctor. The proctor shall examine it and put it up before competent authority for necessary action. If there is a requirement to file FIR, the same shall be filed by the proctor or other authorized officials of the university,” it says. The order bears significance since in the past, some teaching and non-teaching employees have approached police and lodged FIRs, said a faculty member, requesting anonymity. When contacted, AU’s public relation officer Jaya Kapoor said, “This is an internal matter. We will not comment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-bars-teachers-from-filingpolice-plaint-sans-approval/articleshow/80726313.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||MVA will be careful for nod to events like Elgar: Sanjay Raut||NASHIK: The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will be more careful in the future while granting permission to organisations like Elgar Parishad for holding events and won’t allow anybody to tarnish the image of the state, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Saturday. The Rajya Sabha MP was reacting to allegations that former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student leader Sharjeel Usmani had hurt religious sentiments during his speech at the Elgar Parishad in Pune on January 30. The Pune police have booked Usmani under relevant charges and are investigating the case. The Shiv Sena leader was in the city to attend a party event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/raut-mva-will-be-careful-for-nod-to-events-like-elgar/articleshow/80727214.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 7, 2021||Patna||‘Congress to raise issues of Bihar farmers’||PATNA: Congress will launch a movement soon to highlight the deplorable condition of farmers in the state, said the party’s Bihar incharge Bhakta Charan Das on Saturday. Talking to the media after his tour of 14 districts, Das said the state farmers were being denied fair price for their crops. “Bihar is set to become a centre of farmers’ agitation in the days to come. We will go to panchayats and villages to create awareness about their rights and also the adverse impact of the three new farm laws of the central government,” he said. Assailing the state government for low paddy and wheat procurement, he said only 01% of the wheat has been procured by the government agencies. “There is no takers of maize crops in the state and the cultivators have been left in the lurch,” he alleged. Referring to the poor procurement target set in Bihar, the former Union minister said the state government’s target is to procure only 30-40 % of paddy from the farmers while the Chhattisgarh government has procured 90% of the crop. He said the Nitish Kumar government strongly backed the farms bills because it had abolished the Agriculture Marketing Committee Act (AMCA) in 2006, bringing the ‘mandi’ system to an end. Highlighting the problems faced by the sugar cane growers in the state, Das said the minimum support price (MSP) of sugar cane has not been revised in the last four years. The MSP of sugar cane was fixed at Rs130 per quintal, he lamented. Accusing the state government of being apathetic towards sugar cane growers, Das said all the sugarmills in the state were closed and the government didn’t take any initiative for their revival. When asked about the little impact of the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the state, Das said it couldn’t gain momentum as adequate preparations were not made for the purpose. “We have lent moral support to the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws,” he asserted. Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma said the farmers would leave no stone unturned to force the central government to repeal the farms laws. “The prolonged agitation of the farmers has exposed the Narendra Modi government at the Centre,” he added. Earlier, Congress MLC and principal spokesperson Prem Chandra Mishra congratulated Das for his endeavour to enthuse party workers and leaders during his tour of 14 districts. He also praised Das for being a good taskmaster in the party. State Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha, former state president Anil Sharma, spokespersons Harkhu Jha, H K Verma and Rajesh Rathorre were also present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-to-raise-issues-of-bihar-farmers/articleshow/80727037.cms||Ramashankar
February 7, 2021||Allahabad||AU to hold final exams in online mode||Prayagraj: Allahabad University (AU) would be conducting its year ending theory as well as practical exams through online mode and the students will have sit in front of a webcam throughout the exam, with the webcam on during the paper. This was decided in a virtual meeting held on the campus and chaired by the AU vice-chancellor, Prof Sangita Srivastava. According to public relation officer of AU, Jaya Kapoor, several important decisions were taken in the meeting regarding examination of session 20-21. “It has been decided to conduct the theory and practical exam in online mode after March 15, 2021. The detailed schedule of the examination will be uploaded on the university website shortly”, she said. As the practical exams would also be conducted in online mode, it has been decided that the viva voce exams will be conducted through online platform like Zoom or Google Meet. At the same time, the answer sheets for the theory papers would be evaluated by examiners through online mode only. The students will be required to answer four questions in the duration of two hours. The maximum marks of which would be allocated by the respective departments, separately and the same would be mentioned in the question paper. The students are allowed to use maximum of 12 pages to answer all the four questions. Apart from these two hours, students would also be given an extra 30 minutes of time to convert the answer sheets into PDF format and upload the same on the website. Marks for practical will be based on the assignments given to the students. Students would also advised to take a screenshot after finally uploading the PDF file of their answer sheets and they are advised to upload the sheets in proper sequence as they will not be allowed to upload the PDF, twice. Moreover, would also be mandatory for the students to keep their webcam on during the entire duration of exam. However, AU administrations has not spelled out the mechanism as to how the student, who does not have the access of a computer system or the attached webcam, would be ‘watched’ by the varsity authorities. The exams will be conducted under the supervision of the controller of exams of AU, said the PRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-hold-final-exams-in-online-mode/articleshow/80724479.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 300 shops, houses to be removed for Chhapra flyover||CHHAPRA: Altogether 300 shops and houses located between Rajendra Sarowar, Municipal Chowk, Salempur, Mouna Chowk and Gandhi Chowk will have to be razed to pave way for the construction of a double-decker flyover in the town. While the Saran district administration has to remove the existing structures, sources said Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL), the nodal agency for the project, has initiated steps for estimating monetary compensation to be paid to the house and shop owners. As per the project details, the lower deck of the 7.5 metres wide flyover will be 2,500 metres while its upper deck will be 3,520 metres long. The district administration officials said both sides of Salempur road have topo land (government land). Thus, compensation against such land is not permissible. However, the land on which shops and houses have been constructed would be considered for the payment of compensation. District magistrate Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said: “As the road passing through Salempur is a government property, compensation is possible only for the loss of shops or houses and not the land. A proposal to this effect is being sent to the state government.” The foundation stone for the double-decker flyover was laid by CM Nitish Kumar in July, 2018. BRPNNL sources said the construction of the flyover pillars is under way and about 14 metres wide land is required for the same. As per the proposed alignment and details, the lower deck of the flyover would start from Police Lines and culminate near Rajendra Sarowar on the western side of the town, passing through Gandhi Chowk and Rajendra Chowk. Its lower deck is to be used by vehicles coming from the eastern side, including Patna and Hajipur. The upper deck will end near the bus stand and would be utilized by the vehicles coming to Siwan, Baniapur and Uttar Pradesh among others. The ambitious project being executed by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs411.32 crore is scheduled to be completed by June, 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/300-shops-houses-to-be-removed-for-chhapra-flyover/articleshow/80726914.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi releases postage stamp on Gujarat HC’s diamond jubilee||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday released a commemorative postage stamp on Gujarat high court’s diamond jubilee celebrations in a virtual event and praised Indian judiciary as an institution for standing for people's rights and for prioritising national interest. While unveiling the stamp on Gujarat HC’s completing 60 years of establishment in May 2020, Modi said, “Our judiciary has always interpreted the Constitution positively and in constructive manner to strengthen it further. Be it safeguarding the rights of people of the country or when any situation arose where national interest needed to be prioritised, the judiciary has always performed its duty.” Modi further said that for Indian society, the rule of law has always been the basis of civilization. “Our ancient texts say that the root of good governance lies in providing justice. Bar and judiciary should work towards building the world-class judicious system in the country,” he said. Modi insisted on adopting modern technology for better justice delivery including artificial intelligence. “To make the judiciary future-ready, the possibility of use of artificial intelligence is being explored in the judicial processes. The use of AI can enhance judiciary’s efficiency and expedite the process,” he said. Modi praised the judiciary for conducting cases through virtual proceedings during the Covid-19 pandemic. “It makes us proud that our Supreme Court has heard the most number of cases through video conferencing in the world. Our high courts and district courts have also carried out a large number of e-proceedings during Covid,” he said. The Union law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and the solicitor general of India, Tushar Mehta talked about Gujarat judiciary and how it stood up to protect human rights during the time of emergency in 1970s. Prasad also asserted that the separation of powers between the judiciary, executive and legislature must not be forgotten and the responsibility to make laws should be left to the people who are elected by the people. Gujarat HC’s chief justice Vikram Nath said that a three-day elaborate function was planned last year, but it could not take place due to the pandemic. The virtual programme was attended by the sitting and retired judges of the high court, lawyers and Justice M R Shah of the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-releases-postage-stamp-on-guj-hcs-diamond-jubilee/articleshow/80727586.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Farmers’ stir evokes partial response in Bihar||PATNA: The nationwide ‘chakka jam’ called by the farmer unions agitating against the Centre’s new farm laws evoked partial response in the state on Saturday. Roads were blocked at some places in the state only for one hour instead of three hours keeping in mind the ongoing Intermediate examinations being conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board. Apart from farmers, protests in most districts witnessed participation of opposition parties, including CPI (ML), RJD and Congress. In Bhojpur, the farmers blocked roads in Ara and other blocks under the joint banner of CPI(ML) and RJD. CPI (ML) town secretary Dilraj Pritam said the Ara-Patna main road was blocked near Ara bus stand and Kayamnagar at Koilwar. Similarly, Ara-Sasaram main road was blocked at two places – Charpokhari and Gadhani. The Ara-Arwal main road, on the other hand, was blocked at Agiyaon. Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha national leader Raju Yadav, Tarari MLA Sudama Prasad and RJD district president Birbal Yadav addressed the farmers at various places in Bhojpur district. In Biharsharif, hundreds of farmers, political activists and members of social organisations blocked Hospital Mor, the busiest thoroughfare of the town, for around an hour. District secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha Pal Bihari, who led a procession to Hospital Mor, said the policies of the Centre are repressive. In Gaya, Congress functionaries, including the district president of the party’s farmer cell Yugal Kishore Singh, participated in the ‘chakka jam’ at Tower Chowk and railway station. Congress workers led by its district president Chandrika Prasad Yadav also blocked GT Road near Barachattia. In Sitamarhi, the protesters blocked NH-77 at Kanta Chowk and shouted anti-government slogans. The supporters of Left parties and RJD also participated in the protest. The roadblock proved a nightmare for daily passengers, examinees and commuters. The agitation evoked mixed response in Bhagalpur and Banka districts too. The protesters unsuccessfully tried to disrupt movement of traffic in the two districts. The agitation found few takers in Saran and Nawada districts. In Bagaha, opposition parties and Bihar Rajya Kisan Sabha members blocked NH-727 at Bettiah Station Chowk and paralysed traffic. Sugarcane growers also participated in the agitation. In Purnia, around 22 members of Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) blocked R N Shah Chowk near Collectorate for around half-an-hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-stir-evokes-partial-response-in-bihar/articleshow/80726935.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Trailer tips over, chokes VIP Rd traffic till afternoon||Kolkata: Airport-bound traffic movement was disrupted for a large part of Saturday after a trailer carrying lead bricks lost control and overturned on VIP Road near Kestopur crossing, blocking one-third of the carriageway. Police said the trailer lost control around 3.30am and fell on its left, blocking a major part of the thoroughfare near Kestopur crossing. At least two boxes of lead fell into the canal while the rest toppled on the road. Cops reached the area sometime later to find the driver and helper safe, but the vehicle choking traffic movement. “We called in breakdown vans to remove the vehicle. But, because of the lead, it was too heavy. We had to call in a crane and then an earthmover to first remove the lead boxes from the vehicle, recover some more from the water, before we could pull the trailer on its wheels and set it moving around 12.30pm on Saturday. Meanwhile, we diverted traffic through the service road,” said an officer. Motorists said traffic flow was slow for a 1km stretch between Dum Dum Park and Kestopur crossing during the morning peak hour. “It took me around 15 minutes to cross the stretch instead of the usual three minutes,” said Bidyut Das, who was travelling in an auto from Ultadanga to Baguiati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trailer-tips-over-chokes-vip-rd-traffic-till-afternoon/articleshow/80727161.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Missing girl’s body found in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF: The body of a 17-year-old girl, who had gone missing on Friday, was found along a railway track near Biharsharif railway station on Saturday. Police sources said injury marks were found on the body. The girl’s father told police that his daughter, a student of BA first year, had left home for her coaching institute on Friday. “When she didn’t return home till late in the evening, we started looking for her and later informed police. The police told us about recovery of the body on Saturday,” he said. Nalanda SP Hari Prasath S said the case would be investigated from several angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/missing-girls-body-found-in-nalanda/articleshow/80726919.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch Rs 4,700cr Haldia projects today||KOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate four projects worth Rs 4,700 crore in Haldia on Sunday. During his second Bengal visit in a fortnight, Modi will also address the first rally in Haldia since Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP. The PM will set the ball rolling for a second catalytic dewaxing unit at state-owned Haldia refinery. The unit, constructed with an investment of Rs 1,019 crore, will help reduce costly imports of base oil required for the refinery. He will also inaugurate an LPG terminal in Haldia, which will cater to the increasing demand in the region. Modi is expected to dedicate the 347km Dobhi-Durgapur pipeline for natural gas to Sindri fertiliser plant and Durgapur’s Matix fertiliser plant. The project is part of Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project. He will dedicate a Rs 190-crore road overbridge-cum-flyover at Ranichak in Haldia for seamless traffic movement at port gate. The PM’s Haldia itinerary has a political dimension. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a host of lawmakers — namely Trinamool’s Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari, Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari, Ghatal MP Deepak Adhikari (Dev) — are among the invitees. All eyes are on members of the Adhikari family because Sisir didn’t attend CM Banerjee’s Midnapore meeting. While she might stay away from the PM’s programme after the Victoria Memorial episode, Ghatal MP Dev confirmed that he wouldn’t attend the event. “My sincere apologies. I won’t be able to make it to this event, but I’m touched to have received the invite,” Dev wrote on his Twitter handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-to-launch-rs-4700cr-haldia-projects-today/articleshow/80728629.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Over Rs 32 crore fraudulent transactions from bank accounts: NHAI||PATNA: The amount of fraudulent transactions from the NHAI accounts with Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Exhibition Road branch in Patna has increased to Rs 32 crore and may be more against the initial claim of Rs15 crore by Patna police, sources said. However, Patna police officers are tight-lipped on the matter. More than a month have passed since the fraud was detected on January 2. Only four persons, including former manager of Exhibition Road branch, Sumit Kumar, have been arrested so far. The fraudulent transactions came to light after one Shubham Kumar Gupta (28) of Jehanabad the branch on January 2 to make an RTGS transfer of Rs11.73 crore from the NHAI account to another bank account. But the Patna police is still not clear about the total amount of fraudulent withdrawal or the time period of the fraud. When asked, Town DSP Suresh Kumar told TOI over the phone on Saturday that as per his information, the amount transacted fraudulently from the NHAI bank account is Rs28 crore. “Bank authorities are conducting internal audit after which police will get to know the complete details. However, I have asked the bank to provide a report by Monday,” he said, adding that the bank authorities are expert of audit and not the police. NHAI regional officer Colonel (retired) Chanda Vats told TOI that fraudulent transactions of Rs32 crore from NHAI accounts have come to light. He said Rs32 crore might only be a tip of the total amount withdrawn fraudulently and more could come to light in future. “The bank authorities are not cooperating with us. They have not provided us reconciliation statement yet, even though we have sought it,” he said. Vats also said the fraudulent transactions had taken place actually from two separate NHAI accounts, both with Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Exhibition Road branch. He said one account is for Mokama-Bakhtiyarpur national highways project and another is for Patna-Gaya NH project. “These bank accounts are opened by joint signature of the project director and the district land acquisition officer (DLAO) concerned. The account is later handled by the DLAO. All disbursals to the beneficiaries concerned against their acquired land are made by the DLAO’s signature,” Vats said. Vats said he will call the bank’s higher authorities to cooperate with NHAI and give details of all transactions or “we would write to NHAI headquarters urging not to do business with them in future”. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh, when contacted, had found no discrepancies from the district administration side. “DLAO transferred from the bank account only to the beneficiaries against land acquisition,” he had said and added: “Report could be taken from NHAI. Only they can tell what has happened with the accounts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-rs-32-crore-fraudulent-transactions-from-bank-accounts-nhai/articleshow/80726799.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 7, 2021||Allahabad||Combined state engineering services result declared by UPPSC||Prayagraj: Authorities of Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) have declared the results of the written exam conducted for Combined State Engineering Services (General/Special Recruitment)-2019. A total of 1,284 candidates have been declared successful for the interview round of the recruitment process being held to fill up 627 vacant posts under general recruitment and another 21 posts under special recruitment, informed UPPSC secretary Jagdish. The results have been made available on the official website of the commission— http://uppsc.up.nic.in/ for the benefit of the candidates, he added. The interviews of the qualified candidates will begin from February 22, he said. The online application process for the recruitment of assistant engineers against 712 vacant posts of 22 different departments to be undertaken through Combined State Engineering Services (General Recruitment/Special Recruitment) Examination-2019 has kick-started from Monday. UPPSC had started accepting online applications from aspirants for this recruitment exam from December 30, 2019, with the last date of applications being January 30, 2020, through its official website. A total of 1,37,605 candidates had applied. However, following the outbreak of the pandemic, the exam could finally be held only on December 13, 2020. For it, the centres were set up at Prayagraj, Agra, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur and Lucknow. However, in the times of Covid-19 pandemic, a mere 41 per cent of the total applicants appeared in the written exam. In the advertisement for the exam issued in December 2019, a total of 712 posts including 692 general recruitment posts and 20 special recruitment posts reserved for SC/ST and OBC categories were advertised. The UPPSC in its notification had however made plain that the number of posts against which the recruitments would be made could increase or decrease on request of the state government. As per it, a maximum of 244 posts of assistant engineers was on offer in the irrigation department including 171 posts of Civil engineers and 73 posts of Mechanical engineers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/combined-state-engineering-services-result-declared-by-uppsc/articleshow/80726342.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||One more chance a boon for civil service aspirants||PATNA: Civil services aspirants welcomed the central government’s decision on Friday to give an extra chance to UPSC candidates, who had their last attempt in 2020 but could not take it owing to the Covid pandemic. The decision would certainly prove a boon for the candidates who had lost all hopes of becoming a civil servant. The central government agreed to give an extra chance during the Supreme Court’s hearing on the plea of civil services aspirant Rachna Singh seeking an extra attempt in the UPSC exam. However, the government clearly stated that no relaxation shall be granted to those candidates who have crossed the permissible age limits of different categories, or to any other candidate for any other reason whatsoever. Kusum Kumari of Boring Canal Road was elated over the government decision for providing an extra chance for taking the UPSC examination this year for which the notification is scheduled to be released on February 10. “I could not take the civil services prelims last year owing to the pandemic and it was my last chance. I had lost all hopes of becoming an IAS officer. But, this decision has instilled new hopes and aspirations in me and I would try my best to score maximum marks in the civil services examination this year,” she said. Some aspirants are, however, not much pleased with this decision as the candidates have not been given any age relaxation. The upper age limit for general category candidates is 32 years and that for OBC candidates is 35 years. Candidates who have crossed their upper age limit won’t be able to avail this extra chance for taking the CSE, 2021. “ I belong to the OBC category and have completed 37 years in December last year. Hence, I cannot take another chance this year, ” bemoaned Ashok Mahto of Mahendru locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-chance-a-boon-for-civil-service-aspirants/articleshow/80726782.cms||B K Mishra
February 7, 2021||Patna||Bihar records 88 fresh Covid cases||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally increased to 2,61,246 on Saturday with 88 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Altogether 74,464 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. With 84 more people recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours, the state’s recovery rate has touched 99.08%. As 2,58,841 people have so far recovered from the virus in the state, there were 888 active cases on Saturday. As per the State Health Society, the virus claimed the life of a man in Patna on Saturday. With this, the state’s toll has now reached 1515. At AIIMS-Patna, three Covid-19 positive patients were admitted and three discharged in the last 24 hours. There were 45 Covid patients at the hospital on Saturday. No fresh death was reported at AIIMS-P on Saturday. Covid-19 cases were recorded in 21 districts on Saturday with Patna topping the chart with 33 new cases. The tally in Patna has reached 52,452. However, with 51,551 recoveries and 425 deaths, there were 476 active cases in Patna on Saturday. Other districts reported less than 10 new cases on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-88-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/80726837.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Varanasi||Banaras Hindu University to reopen from February 22; classes to run in hybrid mode||VARANASI: The Banaras Hindu University administration is gearing up to reopen the university and start regular classes from February 22, after a long gap due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. However, the varsity hostels are all set to open for the last year students from February 17. The BHU authorities held a meeting in this regard and vice chancellor, Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar, also met the students, who had been demanding to reopen the university. BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh said the VC held a meeting with the directors of the institutes, deans, registrar, dean of student welfare, chief proctor and other officials on Friday. It was decided that the hostels will open for the last year students from February 17. The classes will start running in hybrid mode (offline along with online) from February 22. He said the time table of the classes will be uploaded on the university's website shortly. All measures for the sanitization and maintenance will be taken care of before opening the hostels. All the students will have to follow the prescribed Covid protocol. He said the capacity of the central library has been increased in view of Covid protocol. About 200 students can avail the facility of central and cyber libraries at a time. The canteens and other shops on the campus will also be opened soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-to-reopen-from-feb-22-classes-to-run-in-hybrid-mode/articleshow/80726347.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||28 DMs among 53% of beneficiaries get vaccine||PATNA: The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive for frontline workers was rolled out in the state with 53% of the targeted beneficiaries taking the shots on the first day on Saturday. Among the beneficiaries who received the shots were 28 district magistrates. The 28 DMs apart, six ADMs, one SSP, 16 SPs and three ASPs took the Covid-19 vaccine. Altogether 4471 out of the 8,507 frontline workers listed for Saturday vaccination turned up at their respective centres and received Covishield shots. Saran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore, after taking the vaccine, called it a ‘Ram baan’ to defeat coronavirus. Bhagalpur DM Subrat Kumar Sen was the first in his district to get immunized. Other senior officials who came forward included Naugachia SP Sushant Kumar Saroj, ADM Rajesh Jha Raj and district transport officer (DTO) Firoz Akhtar. Even in Nalanda, DM Yogendra Kumar Singh was the first among the 640 frontline and health workers in the district to get vaccinated on Saturday. Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar made an appeal to others to come forward and take the shot. Navin said 220 beneficiaries were vaccinated in his district on Saturday and everyone was fit and fine after observation. Health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said around 2.11 lakh frontline workers have been registered for the second phase till Saturday. Sunday is the last day of registration for the second phase. While vaccination for frontline workers was rolled out on Saturday, it got closed for healthcare workers the same day. Altogether 30.8% of the registered healthcare beneficiaries for the last day took vaccine shots. However, cumulative figure shows that 3.69 lakh out of 4.46 lakh registered healthcare workers in Bihar have taken the jab. (With inputs from Kumar Rajesh, Farrukh Nadim and H K Verma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/28-dms-among-53-of-beneficiaries-get-vaccine/articleshow/80726857.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 7, 2021||Patna||Patna University online classes for freshers from February 8||PATNA: The online classes of newly admitted undergraduate students in different colleges of Patna University (PU) will start from Monday. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said admission of students to BA, BSc and BCom Part I honours courses for 2020-23 session has already been completed and the university has decided to start their academic programmes from Monday. For the time being, classes would be held online, but offline teaching would start on the state education department’s instructions. The education department had permitted the universities to hold the classes of final year undergraduate and postgraduate students in offline mode, but with full safety norms. Consequently, all the classes of final year UG and PG students are being held offline. But, no fresh instructions have yet been issued by the government for starting classes of other students in offline mode, said Jha. The dean further pointed out that the college principals have been asked to renew the allotment of hostels to second and third year students as their classes are likely to start soon. They have also been asked to allot hostel accommodation to the newly admitted first year undergraduate students on the basis of merit. PU would be sending the final list of students selected for hostel accommodation to the colleges concerned. Earlier, all the students had applied online for hostel allotment. However, the last date for completion of all admissions, including those on quota, to MA, MSc and MCom Part I courses of PU has been extended till February 20. The induction meet of these newly admitted PG students would be held from February 23 to 25 and their classes would be held thereafter, Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-online-classes-for-freshers-from-feb-8/articleshow/80726974.cms||B K Mishra
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Swachhta advocate cyclist & global traveler joins SP||LUCKNOW: International cyclist and global traveler Abhishek Kumar Sharma, who had started a nationwide cycle tour to spread awareness about Swachch Bharat Mission (SBM) and had earned words of praise from the Union government for his efforts, joined Samajwadi Party after meeting meeting party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday. “Akhilesh is a youth icon. His humility and vision for development had drawn me to join SP and to work to bring him back to power in 2022,” said Sharma, who has travelled across 1,600 cities, including 450 in India, 46 countries in four continents from 2014 till January 2020, peddling over 60,000 km. Talking to TOI at SP headquarters after joining the party, Sharma, who hails from Fatehgarh, Farrukhabad, said, “I have been meeting Akhilesh Yadav since October 2020 and had expressed my desire to join his party. After a series of meetings with him and on being impressed by development projects he undertook in the state and his popularity among youth, I formally decided to devote myself for contributing to his return to power.” “I have made more than 6,000 friends outside India during my travel across 46 countries,” he added. Sharma said he never joined any political party and chose to join SP to fulfil the dream of establishing equality in society. “I am pained by the ill treatment being meted to agitating farmers, and this acted as a catalyst,” he added. Sharma had got inspired by Swachch Bharat Mission launched by the NDA government and had decided to spread the message of the cleanliness programme among the people across the country and had embarked on a nationwide cycle tour. Bollywood icon Amitabh Bachchan had also interviewed Sharma and praised him for his campaign fpr cleanliness and preserving the environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swachhta-advocate-cyclist-global-traveler-joins-sp/articleshow/80728256.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 7, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: She ditched medical for agri, bags 12 gold medals!||VADODARA/ANAND: Clinching the highest number of 12 gold medals at Anand Agricultural University’s 17th annual convocation, this student showcased why she preferred a not-so-popular course for farmers’ prosperity, when she could have easily got into any of the choicest medical colleges after Class XII. Meet Radhika Ghetiya, a native of Rajkot, whose cap of feathers is shini ng bright from her brilliant performance on Thursday. Currently, she is studying agricultural statistics at AAU. “I could have become a doctor but chose agricultural sciences as I want to pursue further research in the field and use it for the benefits of farmers,” said Ghetiya. Forty other students of AAU too received gold medals and cash prizes. In all 686 students received their graduation, post-graduation and doctorates degree at the convocation. “As the environment is fast changing, the young minds should conduct more research for its protection,” said Acharya Devvrat, Gujarat governor and chancellor of the university, in his convocational address. He also added that traditional Indian methods of agricultural methods should be used for farming to bring the change. “The young generation should come forward and strengthen agri supply chains to overcome changes and problems in the sector,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) who was the chief guest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/student-who-ditched-medicine-for-agricultural-science-gets-12-gold-medals/articleshow/80727227.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||IRCTC launches online bus ticket booking facility||PATNA: The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has started online bus ticket booking services in 22 states, including Bihar, and three union territories. People can book their bus tickets online on www.bus.irctc.co.in for state and interstate travel. Senior public relations officer of IRCTC A K Jha said the corporation, which is already offering rail and flight ticket booking facilities to people, has launched the bus ticket booking service in a bid to provide holistic travel experience to its customers. “The IRCTC has tied up with at least 50,000 bus operators, including Bihar State Road Transport Corporation (BSRTC), to provide online bus ticket booking services to people,” Jha added. The IRCTC is likely to integrate this facility by launching a mobile app in the first week of March so that passengers can book their tickets easily on their cellphones. “The greatest advantage is that passengers can view a variety of bus services with exact fare to choose their routes, amenities and bus images while booking online tickets,” Jha said, adding the IRCTC allows passengers to book their online bus tickets with the ongoing bank accounts and e-wallet discounts. The new facility will prove a boon for all those who have been using IRCTC site to book their rail and air tickets. “The IRCTC is regarded as one of the leading sites for booking rail and air tickets in the Asia Pacific region,” Jha said. IRCTC had achieved a record of nine lakh online rail ticket bookings per day during pre-Covid pandemic period. Meanwhile, the e-catering services which have been resumed by the IRCTC has evoked good response from passengers. “On an average, 700 to 800 meals are being booked online per day by passengers. Most passengers travelling from Bihar to places like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Pune are availing e-catering services on board the trains,” Jha said, adding regional delicacies are finding many takers when it comes to selecting food items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/irctc-launches-online-bus-ticket-booking-facility/articleshow/80727053.cms||Kumod Verma
February 7, 2021||Patna||45k villages in Bihar to get high-speed internet connectivity: Minister||PATNA: Union electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said around 45,000 villages in state would be connected through optical fibres to provide high-speed internet connectivity under the central government’s Bharatnet project. Prasad said the ambitious Rs1,000-crore project would start from Bihar soon. “PM Narendra Modi had made an announcement to provide high-speed internet connectivity to gram panchayats through optical fibres during his address on the Independence Day,” he said. Now, the central government has decided to provide high-speed internet connectivity to around six lakh villages as well, the IT minister said, adding it was a matter of great pride for him that the project would be launched from Bihar soon. Prasad is an MP from Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency. Referring to the provisions for Bihar in the Union Budget, the minister said, “There is an allocation of about Rs.5,150 crore for Bihar in the Union Budget for railways for fiscal 2021-22. Moreover, 87 new projects worth Rs 78,000 crore are underway in the state.” Prasad said there has been a hike of around 355% in budget allocation for Bihar when compared to period between 2009 and 2014. “During 2009-14, the allocation for railways for Bihar was only Rs 1,132 crore,” he claimed. He said around Rs 3,061 crore was allocated to Bihar by the Centre every year for railway projects during 2014-19. The minister said the smartphone users in the country would soon avail the facility of Indian languages, including regional ones, as work on the project was under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/45k-villages-in-bihar-to-get-high-speed-internet-connectivity-minister/articleshow/80726993.cms||Ramashankar
February 7, 2021||Kozhikode||Panchayat passes resolution against ESZ around Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary||KOZHIKODE: Amid intensifying protests against the draft notification issued by Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) – declaring eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of up to 3.4km around Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary – the district panchayat passed a unanimous resolution on Saturday against the notification. The resolution, presented by district panchayat president Shamsad Marakkar, was seconded by district panchayat member Suresh Thaloor. It was passed at an emergency meeting and Marakkar said the resolution will be forwarded to MoEFCC. “The district panchayat will direct all panchayats to initiate discussion on the resolution in grama sabhas and forward minutes of the meeting to MoEFCC. We will undertake a mass mailing campaign with the cooperation of political parties, youth organizations and socio-cultural groups,” he said. Mananthavady block panchayat has also, through a resolution, urged MoEFCC to revoke the draft resolution stating that the notification of 118.5 sq km of ESZ around WWS would make people’s life more miserable at a time when they are reeling under the collapse of agri sector. LDF district committee will organize a one-hour road blockade stir at four locations in the district on Sunday in protest against the draft notification. UDF district committee has called for a dawn-to-dusk hartal in Wayanad on Monday in protest against the draft notification. Various social and political organizations, including Catholic Church, have come out in protest against the draft notification saying that ESZ will cripple the lives of people living in the forest fringes. As per the draft notification issued by MoEFCC, 118.5 sq km has been earmarked as ESZ of which 99.5 sq km is outside the sanctuary. The remaining 19 sq km comprises revenue villages falling within the sanctuary. The notification imposes restrictions on several human activities in ESZ, including a ban on all new and existing mining, stone quarrying and crushing units and new industries causing pollution, apart from establishment of major hydroelectric project and new saw mills, brick kilns. It also opposed commercial use of firewood and imposes restrictions on setting up new resorts and commercial buildings within 1km boundary of the protected area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/panchayat-passes-resolution-against-esz-around-wws/articleshow/80727233.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Man with criminal antecedents shot dead in Patna||PATNA: A 28-year-old man with criminal antecedents was shot dead on Makhanpuri Idgah Road under the Alamganj police station area in Patna City around 8.30am on Saturday. The victim was identified as Lallan Gop alias Lalla. Police said the incident took place near a peepal tree in front of Lallan’s house. “Two criminals were waiting for Lallan near the tree and they shot him in head from a close range. An empty cartridge was recovered from the spot,” the police said, adding Lallan was rushed to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma also reached Alamganj to investigate the case. Patna City additional superintendent of police Amit Sharan said police were on the lookout for Lallan’s brother-in-law Vicky in connection with the case. He said Vicky earlier used to run a mobile repairing shop in Alamganj. “Vicky and Lallan had a land dispute. The family members of Lallan have named six people in the FIR. All of them are absconding,” Sharan said. He added nine criminal cases, including murder, are registered against Lallan with Alamganj police station alone. “Vicky is also accused in several criminal cases registered with Alamganj and other neighbouring police stations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-with-criminal-antecedents-shot-dead-in-patna/articleshow/80726822.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Warm Jan saw 12 sub-15°C days, cold spell may return||Kolkata: January turned out to be the warmest in Kolkata in five years with the city recording a minimum temperature of 15°C and above on 15 days of the month. The average minimum temperature was clocked at 15.5°C last month, the highest since 2016 when it had touched 15.8°C degrees. Since January 15, though, the minimum has touched 15°C just thrice. While the mercury reached 15.2°C on Saturday and could remain above 15°C on Sunday as well, another plunge is imminent on Monday when the minimum temperature is expected to drop to around 13°C. While the first half of January was warmer with western disturbances (WD) originating in the north-western part of the country blocking the chill-carrying northwesterly wind, it got cooler during the latter half of the month with the WDs receding and paving the way for the winds to return and the mercury to plunge. Minimum temperature shot up to 20.9°C on January 11, which was termed unusual by the Met office. “January is the coldest month for the city, but it has been different this time. We had frequent WDs during the first half of the month, which changed the wind pattern. The northwesterly winds, that carry chill from the snow-capped peaks of Jammu and Kashmir and help to lower the temperature, were blocked and flew towards the western part of the country. As a result, the mercury shot up and remained higher than normal consistently,” said Regional Meteorological Centre director G K Das. The second half of January, though, was much cooler with the minimum temperature never crossing 16.6°C and staying below 15°C on 12 out of the last 15 days. On January 31, the mercury had plunged to 12.1°C — the lowest recorded during the month. “With the WDs receding, the northwesterly flowed in more consistently and pushed the temperature down appreciably towards the end of the month. The conditions, in fact, had turned favourable for a cold-wave in Kolkata, which eventually didn’t happen,” said Das. On Saturday, the mercury shot up to 15.2°C with a low-pressure trough forming over central India and moving towards Gangetic Bengal. It could trigger thunderstorms and rain across districts adjoining Jharkhand. “We expect a light drizzle in Kolkata from late on Saturday evening. The rain could continue on Sunday morning, but the clouds should recede by the second half of the day,” said Das. He added that once the skies clear up, the mercury will tumble again. “The minimum temperature is set to drop to around 12°C-13°C on Monday. Once the clouds recede, the northwesterly will start flowing in again,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/warm-jan-saw-12-sub-15c-days-cold-spell-may-return/articleshow/80727092.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Covid cases on rise in Amravati division, deaths under control||Nagpur: New cases of Covid-19 are witnessing a fresh rise in Amravati division. On Saturday, Yavatmal, Buldhana, and Amravati reported 50+ cases with Amravati once again reporting just one case short of 200 mark. On the other hand, no district barring Nagpur reported 50+ cases in Nagpur division. This development hints at new surge in Amravati division, where conditions were in good control till January. Overall, 753 new cases were reported on Saturday. Five districts of Amravati division accounted 382 of them while six districts in Nagpur division reported 371. These include 268 from Nagpur district alone. Overall, with Nagpur (268), Amravati (199), Yavatmal (73), Buldhana (61), Wardha (46), Akola (38), Gondia (24), Bhandara (15), Chandrapur (14), Washim (11), and Gadchiroli (4) — Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 caseload reached 2,76,891 on Saturday. Recoveries continued to be fewer than the new cases for the second day in a row. Total 577 patients recovered in the day. Now, February has 3,631 new cases and 3,629 recoveries in first six days. Saturday’s 577 recoveries include Nagpur (187), Amravati (160), Yavatmal (64), Buldhana (47), Wardha (33), Gondia (32), Bhandara (15), Chandrapur (15), Akola (11), Washim (9), Gadchiroli (4) which took total to 2,63,670. Now, recovery rate of Vidarbha is 95.2% which is less than state and national average. Deaths, however, are under control. Nine deaths were reported on Saturday. These include 5 from Nagpur, 3 from Yavatmal and 1 from Bhandara. Nagpur’s 5 deaths include 2 from Nagpur city, 1 from Nagpur rural and 2 from other state/districts. Overall, Vidarbha’s death toll reached 7,023 on Saturday. Case fatality rate is 2.53%. Akola: Near 400 tests were conducted in Akola in last 24 hours and 38 of them tested positive. This took total Covid-19 cases to 11,784. With 11 patients recovering in the day, 10,673 patients recovered in Akola. No death was reported. Akola now has 773 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The district conducted 677 tests of Covid-19 on Saturday, reported 61 new cases and 47 recoveries. No death was reported in Buldhana. Now, the district has 14,274 total cases, 13,736 recoveries and 171 deaths due to Covid-19. Total 367 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 11 cases and 9 recoveries, Washim’s Covid-19 case count reached 7,220 and recoveries reached 6,930 on Saturday. Total 155 deaths have been reported till date. Now, 135 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Four new patients were detected while the same number of under-treatment patients recovered from Gadchiroli district on Saturday. No death was reported. The district now has 9,387 total cases of Covid-19, including 9,233 recoveries and 105 deaths. Total 49 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: 15 new patients were detected and 15 recovered on Saturday in Bhandara. A patient died during treatment which took the death toll of district to 324. Now, Bhandara has 13,302 total cases, 12,837 cases and 141 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district became second only district in Vidarbha to have less than 100 patients under treatment. With 24 new patients and 32 recoveries in last 48 hours, Gondia now has 14,247 patients and 13,969 recoveries. No death was reported on Saturday. Gondia has 95 patients under treatment. Amravati: The addition of 199 cases on Saturday added to the worries of the administration even as the caseload went up to 22,866. Though no death was reported, the day saw 160 recoveries, taking the total to 22,023. This left 420 active cases. In the last ten days, the district has recorded 1,427 cases at an average of 142.7 cases a day. Yavatmal: The district recorded three deaths taking the death toll to 434. The administration has received 415 test reports during the last 24 hours of which 73 were found positive. Currently there are 454 active patients in the district. Out of the 14,664 Covid-19 patients treated in the district so far, 13,779 including 64 of Saturday have recovered. Chandrapur: There were 14 new cases and 15 recoveries on Sunday, leaving 100 active patients in the district. No death was reported during the day and the death toll was stable at 392. Cumulative Covid figure has now climbed to 23,132, while total recoveries amount to 22,640. Wardha: Out of 555 test reports, 46 patients were found positive for coronavirus and the caseload reached 10,277, while 33 patients were discharged and recoveries increased to 9,591. Active patients in the district are 376, while toll remains at 310 as no death was reported on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-on-rise-in-amravati-division-deaths-under-control/articleshow/80727212.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 7, 2021||Patna||Met predicts fall in minimum temperature in Bihar||PATNA: Weathermen on Saturday predicted fall in minimum temperature by two to five notches during the next three to four days while the maximum or day temperature is expected to slightly increase. Alert has also been issued for dense fog at one or two places in all 38 districts owing to remnant moisture from the rain. However, the weathermen have ruled out the possibility of extreme cold conditions. A Patna Metereological Centre bulletin stated that fall in night temperature was expected in western parts of Bihar in the next two to three days, but no major change in the remaining parts of the state in the next 24 hours. Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said the minimum temperature is likely to plunge owing to cold northwesterly and northerly winds. “The clear skies from Sunday evening will pave way for cold winds from the Himalayan region, which has witnessed snowfall over the last few days. The minimum temperature may plunge by two to four notches, especially at those places which received showers in the last 48 hours,” Patel said. He said the minimum temperature increased slightly and maximum temperature plunged in many parts of the state owing to the cloud cover, but skies to get clear by Sunday evening. Another weatherman Sudhanshu Kumar said places along the Ganga and near other water bodies may witness moderate to dense fog over the next couple of days. India Meteorological Department (IMD) also predicted dense fog in the morning hours at isolated places in Bihar on Monday and Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-predicts-fall-in-minimum-temp-in-bihar/articleshow/80726956.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||At 25, lowest death toll in Maharashtra since April 26, 2020||MUMBAI: While the new Covid cases increased marginally in the state on Saturday, the death toll was the lowest in last nine months and more. The state added 2,768 cases and 25 deaths, taking the total cases to 20,41,398 and toll to 51,280. The state recorded the lowest fatalities in 285 days since April 26, when the state reported 19 deaths. Mumbai’s Covid tally of 414 new cases on Saturday was only one less than Friday’s tally of 415. The toll on both days was four, taking the total death toll since March 2020 to 11,388. “The Covid situation has been stable in Mumbai,’’ said a city health officer. “If one considers the deaths in the last one month alone, the case fatality rate is lower than 1.5%,’’ said the officer. No deaths were recorded in the eight other civic corporation areas around Mumbai, according to the state update. However, the Thane Municipal Corporation reported 95 Covid cases and two deaths on Saturday. The satellite city’s current tally is 59,479 and the toll is 1,311. The total cases in these areas, including Kalyan-Dombivli and Thane, stood at 383. Many of the BMC hospitals treating Covid-19 cases are wounding up their Covid wards to admit non-Covid patients. “The number of Covid-19 patients admitted in our hospital has been between 25 and 35 on most days. Some patients get severe but are manageable,” said the dean of KEM Hospital, Parel, Dr Hemant Deshmukh. Deaths in most hospitals is zero on most days. A total of 1,739 patients were discharged from hospitals across Maharashtra on Saturday taking the total discharges to over 19.5 lakh while the rate of recovery stood at 95.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lowest-daily-toll-in-state-since-april-2020/articleshow/80728119.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Love in air at Patna hangouts as Valentine’s Week begins||PATNA: Cafés and restaurants in the city are all decked up with heart-shaped balloons, roses and other decorations as Valentine’s Week begins on Sunday. Not just V-Day, but the week that leads to it has special significance. The Rose Day on Sunday will be followed by Propose Day, Chocolate Day, Teddy Day, Promise Day, Hug Day, Kiss Day and finally the much-awaited Valentine’s Day on February 14. “Valentine’s Day denotes the importance of love and our loved ones in our lives. I celebrate the day at home with my wife every year. This time, we will probably watch a movie and have dinner at a restaurant,” said Utkarsh Kumar, a resident of Kankarbagh. During the week, people serenade their partners with roses, chocolates, teddy bears, gifts and other items. “My husband loves to receive gifts. This time, I have decided to gift him one small item per day for the entire week. The grand gift will be a watch that he has been eyeing for quite some time now,” said 32-year-old Shreya Singh, an IT professional. Yashil Anand Singh, manager of a popular café on Boring Road, said like every year, the place will be decorated aptly according to valentine’s theme and special items will be added to the menu. “Apart from the general arrangements, we also offer specific pre-booked time slots for a romantic experience. We have especially curated 2-course, 3-course and 4-course menus for couples and student-friendly combo meals for young people,” he said. With the business taking a hit due to the Covid pandemic, restaurant and gift shop owners around the city are determined to make the most of the valentine’s season. Pradeep Kumar, owner of a prominent gift shop on Boring Road, said, “We have added a number of new assortment of chocolates to our stocks. People can choose from little homemade chocolate delights to chocolate bouquet and other items.” Mohammed Wasim, manager of a restaurant on Fraser Road, said, “As normal life has returned to the city following substantial drop in Covid cases, we are expecting a large number of visitors during the week. We will offer candlelight dinner with live music and 5% cash back on the bill amount to our customers this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/love-in-air-at-patna-hangouts-as-valentines-week-begins/articleshow/80726774.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Patna||Nobel laureates, Nitish recall life and legacy of Shaibal||PATNA: Nobel laureates, social scientists and politicians cutting across party lines on Saturday remembered the contributions of Shaibal Gupta to different fields in Bihar. At a condolence meeting on ‘Sharing life and legacy of Shaibal Gupta’, chief minister Nitish Kumar stressed the need to compile Shaibal’s articles and works for the benefit of the coming generations. “The young generation should know about his works. We will provide all possible help to get them printed. He was a great personality and a highly placed scholar,” said Nitish while participating in the meeting through videoconference. Shaibal died on January 28. Nobel laureate Amartya Sen said Shaibal’s perspective for development in Bihar took into account not only the standard books but also a great deal of his own experience. He also appreciated Shaibal’s quality to know more. Another Nobel laureate, Abhijit Banerjee, lauded Shaibal’s passion for doing the best for the people of Bihar. Lord Meghnad Desai highlighted the fact that the late founder of Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) had ideas to throw about and then to follow them up. Nitish recalled Shaibal’s contribution in preparing Bihar’s Economic Survey, establishment of Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance, his role in the committee formed in 2013 for special status of Bihar and many international conferences organized in Patna at his behest. The CM advised other ADRI members to keep going with their research work. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh said he had learnt from Shaibal how important it was to have the knowledge of history in order to understand the economy and social issues. Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) praised Shaibal for branding Bihar across the globe. “His important contributions will find a place in the history of Bihar,” SuMo said and recalled Shaibal’s ability to bring people from different political backgrounds to the same platform and how he used to attend important meetings with oxygen pipe despite not keeping well. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari praised Shaibal’s soft nature and attitude to help every person. “We Biharis lack the ability to form and run an institution, but he made ADRI,” Tiwari said. RJD’s national secretary general Abdul Bari Siddiqui called Shaibal a ‘true politician’ for having the quality of an economist as well as a sociologist. Siddiqui also recalled the role played by Shaibal in bringing legislators from all parties on the same line and getting a resolution passed in the House demanding special status for Bihar. “Nothing can be a bigger tribute to him than getting special status for Bihar,” Siddiqui said. Finance department principal secretary S Siddhartha announced that lectures in the memory of Shaibal Gupta will be organized in future. Among other senior bureaucrats who shared their experiences were education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar and Chanchal Kumar, principal secretary to CM Nitish. The event was coordinated by Shaibal’s longtime friend and colleague Prabhat P Ghosh. His daughter Ashmita Gupta proposed a vote of thanks. Other dignitaries who spoke either through videoconference or physical presence were Muchkund Dubey, Anjan Mukherjee, Jonathan Leape and Robin Burges, Abhijit Sarkar, Dr A A Hai, Col. Anil Sinha, Prakash Jha, Ravindra Rai, Vikash Jaipuriar, Debarshi Bhattacharya, Anand Kumar, Dharmendra Nagar, Pronab Sen, Rathin Roy, Kathinka Sinha Kerkhoff, Gerry Rodgers, Alakh Narayan Sharma and Ghanshyam Tiwary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nobel-laureates-nitish-recall-life-and-legacy-of-shaibal/articleshow/80727006.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 7, 2021||Patna||Chirag to Nitish: Start bidding for proposed medical college in Jamui||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Saturday alleged that bidding for a government medical college and hospital in his parliamentary constituency, Jamui, is being “deliberately” delayed by the state government due to “political differences”. In a letter written to Nitish on the issue, Chirag said the Centre had approved construction of a government medical college and hospital at Bela in Khaira block of Jamui after much persuasion. “However, the bidding process for the same has been cancelled twice by Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL),” he said. “The work on Jamui Medical College and Hospital has not started yet even though process has already been started for establishment of several other medical college and hospitals in other districts,” Chirag wrote. He said the managing director of BMSICL informed him over phone that the bidding process for medical college and hospital at Jamui was cancelled twice and the third attempt would be made soon. Chirag concluded the letter by requesting CM Nitish Kumar to ensure completion of the project “gifted” by PM Narendra Modi at the earliest. The JD(U) has, however, rebuffed the claims made by Chirag. “Nitish ji has always worked for development of Bihar. He has never ignored or shown biasness for any particular region. Chirag’s claims are baseless,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said, adding the LJP chief should rather talk about development done by him in his parliamentary constituency. Meanwhile, Chirag held a meeting with senior functionaries of the party at his Srikrishnapuri residence here. He is scheduled to visit Nalanda and Jehanabad on Sunday and return to Delhi by the night to attend the budget session of the Parliament on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-to-nitish-start-bidding-for-proposed-medical-college-in-jamui/articleshow/80727030.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Electronic Media, Digital Media book berth in T20 final||Lucknow: Electronic Media and Digital Media won their respective matches against the Times of India and Combined Media to storm into the finals of the Inter-Media T20 Cricket Tournament. In the first semi-final, Electronic Media edged past TOI registering a 20-run victory to qualify for the title clash. Batting first, Electronic Media skipper Rajiv Srivastava (20 off 29 balls) and Vishal Raghuvanchi (28 off 33 balls) consolidated their team's position. The team scored 128/5 in the stipulated 20 overs. TOI skipper Abbas Rizvi claimed two scalps whil Anil Mishra and Pranchal Srivastava bagged one wicket each. Chasing the target, TOI could garner just 108 runs in 20 overs at a loss of nine wickets despite impressive performances by Anish Oberoi (33 off 29 balls) and Abbas Rizvi (21 off 21 balls). Electronic Media's Mayur Shukla, who was adjudged the man of the match, claimed three crucial wickets giving away only in 17 runs in overs.  In the second match, Digital Media registered a comprehensive 8-wicket victory over Combined Media. Aided by Abhishek Mishra's 43 (39 balls) and 25 runs by Dinesh Combined Media scored 115/4 in the stipulated 20 overs. Digital Media's Vivek, Subodh and Asim claimed one wicket each. Leading the fightback, Satyaprakash and Praveen Sharma of Digital Media scored 49 runs and 40 runs (not out) to take their team to victory in the 13th over at the loss of two wickets. Brief scores: 1st Semi-Final: Electronic Media: 128/5 (Vishal 28, Rajiv 20; Abbas 2-21, Pranchal 1-20, Anil 1-21) TOI: 108/9 (Anish 33, Abbas 21, Rishi 18; Mayur 3-17, Rajiv 1-13) Man of the match: Mayur Shukla 2nd Semi-Final: Combined Media: 115/4 (Abhishek 43, Dinesh 25; Asim 1-15) Digital Media: 116/2 in 12.3 overs (Satyaprakash 49, Praveen 40 (no); Vikram 1-14) Man of the match: Praveen Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/electronic-media-digital-media-book-berth-in-t20-final/articleshow/80728132.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Safety concerns shift Chinese New Yr celebrations to school campus||Kolkata: After Victoria Memorial Hall, it’s the turn of Pei May Chinese High School in Tangra to wow the audience with a projection mapping light-and-sound show. This will be the show-stopper at a multi-event programme scheduled on February 13 and 14 at the school grounds to welcome the Chinese New Year. “For the past 29 years, we have organized a carnival in Tangra to usher in the new year. But given the pandemic and need for social distancing, we have decided not to organize it this year to prevent crowd build-up. Instead, we will hold a festival at the Pei May school ground where access can be controlled to ensure social distancing,” said Monica Lieu, owner of multiple restaurants in Tangra and the rest of Kolkata. This year, the Chinese New Year’s day falls on February 12. On the second and the third day of the new year, Chinatown traditionally hosts a carnival that witnesses a large turnout. While the 2,300-odd community members who live in Tangra participate in the carnival, they are joined in by 400-500 family members who are now settled in Canada, the US, Australia and other countries. But with these relatives not flying down this year due to international travel restrictions and the elderly in the community staying confined to homes since March, the call to cancel any celebrations was vetoed by Lieu who felt the need to celebrate to break the gloom. A group of youngsters thus came up with the idea of the festival. “Last year, New Year’s Day was on January 23 and the carnival was held on the next two days. At that time, the world was unaware about the virus. The lockdown was enforced within days to control the spread of the disease. For the Chinese community here, the New Year is the only festival that is celebrated. For the rest of the year, we are engaged in business with hardly any time to socialize. The last year has been particularly dismal. So Monica aunty urged us to do something that would ensure a spirit of festivity without crowding,” said Joseph Chen, who is in the leather business. He, along with resta-urateur Walter Chen and Dominic Hsish, who has a bottled water business, chalked out the two-day event that will include a food festival in a carnival atmosphere. Singer Francis Lepcha will perform on both days. Tangra Inc will organize the dragon dance while visual jockey Philip Gordon will put up the projection mapping show that will bring to life Chinese culture and art on the school’s facade. A life-size statue of an ox will welcome guests since this is the Chinese year of Metal Ox. “It is like the charging Wall Street bull in Manhattan. We hope it will revive the business that has taken a beating last year and bring prosperity to all,” said Hsish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safety-concerns-shift-chinese-new-yr-celebrations-to-school-campus/articleshow/80727105.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Man arrested for pledging fake gold||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Rural district crime branch police have arrested a man who was wanted in connection with a fraud activity through which he duped Rs 20 lakh from Canara Bank’s branch at Venjarammoodu by pledging fake gold ornaments. Police identified the accused as Arun Jolly Kamalan, 38, of Muthuvila near Kallara. Police said the accused was arrested after his anticipatory bail was rejected by high court. The case against Kamalan is that he pledged spurious gold ornaments equivalent to 75.66 sovereigns at the Venjarammoodu branch of Canara Bank and obtained a loan of Rs 20.40 lakh in July last year. A month later, the bank manager was contacted by the manager of another bank and was warned about the accused. Apparently, the accused had committed a similar fraud at that bank too. Following this, Canara Bank manager Vishnu Chandran filed a complaint before the Venjarammoodu police. But, the investigation by the local police dragged at a slow pace and another complaint was filed before the rural district police chief. It was following this, the case was handed over to the rural district crime branch. The accused was taken into custody and his arrest was recorded on Friday. Kamalan is a former expatriate who used to work in Abu Dhabi. He had claimed in his anticipatory bail plea that he was innocent. He had pledged the ornaments with a private finance firm first and later transferred it to the bank as the interest rate of the private firm was high. The accused said in his bail plea that had the gold been spurious, the staff of both private firm and the bank would have found out during the appraisal procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-arrested-for-pledging-fake-gold/articleshow/80727230.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Allahabad||Academic council of Prof. Rajendra Singh state university reconstituted||Prayagraj:Prof. Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) State University’s academic council has been reconstituted by the officiating vice-chancellor of the university, Prof KN Singh. In all, 39 members have been made the members of this all-important body which takes decisions about the academic matters of the university. Among the members of the council, three former and present teaching faculty members have been included as members of the council for two years. These include the former head of the Department of Botany, Allahabad University, Prof Anupam Dikshit, who has also been the director, faculty recruitment cell (FRC) of AU. Likewise, former HoD of the department of English and former dean Arts, Prof RK Singh have also been nominated as a member of the council. Along with him, present HoD of the Department of Geography, Prof AR Siddiqui has also the member of this reconstituted AC. Principal, Iswar Saran PG college, Anand Shankar Singh is also the members in the 39 member body headed by the officiating VC, Prof KN Singh, informs public relation officer of the state university and HoD of the Department of Philosophy, Dr Avinash Kumar Srivastava. The AC held its first meeting recently and has given its approval for holding the third convocation of the university on March 5 at the new campus of the university at Naini. The convocation would be held in an offline mode. “The Academic Council is an august body of any university system and has the responsibility of taking the university ahead in the field of academics, the hallmark of any educational institution. We have tried our best to include prominent members of their respective fields and hope that PRSSU would reach new heights under their guidance”, said Prof Singh, regular VC of the UP Rajashri Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/academic-council-of-prof-rajendra-singh-state-university-reconstituted/articleshow/80726319.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Wardha’s second sero survey shows near 30% prevalence of Covid-19||Nagpur: A fresh sero-survey for Covid-19 prevalence conducted in Wardha district has reported nearly 30% prevalence of Covid-19 in the district. This includes 39% in urban areas and nearly 26% in rural parts which means, 39% urban population in Wardha district already has Covid-19 antibodies. The survey was conducted by district health department with technical assistance from the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) in Sevagram. This is the most recent sero survey of Vidarbha as all earlier surveys were conducted between August and November 2020. This was the second survey in Wardha district, with first conducted in August 2020. With this, Wardha has become only district in Vidarbha to conduct two surveys and present comparative data of the sero prevalence of Covid-19. Dr Nitin Gangane, dean of the MGIMS told TOI that blood samples of 3,063 citizens of Wardha district were tested for Covid-19 antibodies during this survey. “In August, the overall sero prevalence in Wardha district was 1.5% which increased up to 30% in December 2020. This means, Covid-19 infection spread up to 20 times in 4 months,” Dr Gangane said. In Vidarbha, sero surveys have been conducted only in Nagpur, Wardha, Chandrapur and Akola districts. Out of them, only Wardha has comparative figures as no other district conducted second survey. On February 5, ICMR released outcomes of the third national sero survey, but no district in Vidarbha was included in this survey. Even Maharashtra state hasn’t conducted any statewide survey so far. As a result, the figures available about the Covid-19 sero prevalence are very limited in Vidarbha. Analysis of the available figures shows that Vidarbha’s rural population is still at risk and people need to be careful. No survey in Vidarbha has seen more than 40% prevalence in rural population. Even in urban population, only Nagpur city has shown about 50% prevalence and some parts of Nagpur have seen up to 75% prevalence of Covid-19. Experts have said that people must continue to follow Covid restrictions or the virus will continue to infect people for long time. “Even at national level, the overall figure of seropositivity in India is 21.7%. This clearly shows that a large population is still uninfected in India. Unfortunately, a majority of people in both urban and rural areas are becoming casual about Covid-19 thinking that we will develop herd immunity,” said Dr Nitin Thatte, epidemiologist from Akola adding that herd immunity is not an option for India. “Responsible behaviour and vaccination whenever your turn comes is the best way to get protected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardhas-second-sero-survey-shows-near-30-prevalence-of-covid-19/articleshow/80727246.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Leopards spotted fighting for territory in Jhalana||JAIPUR: Two leopards were spotted on a tree throwing everything at each other as they fought at Jhalana Leopard Safari Park. The wild cats were identified as Rana and Kajod. These sub-adult leopards were seen clawing and biting each other as they fought in mid-air. Video: Two leopards fight mid-air for territory in #Jhalana #Rajasthan https://t.co/gBfSjmug3n— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1612672812000A forest staff said, “The territorial fight occurred at park’s zone number-1 where grassland was developed recently. Both are sub-adults. Rana is son of leopardess Mrs Khan and Kajod alias Simba was born to Flora,” he said. On Saturday morning, Kajod climbed the tree where Rana was already sitting. The fight happened for at least 45 seconds and ended after Kajod fell from the tree. “The tourists were thrilled to see two wild cats during the morning safari, growling loud on a tree,” added the forest staff. Jhalana is spread over 22 square kilometre and the big cat population is higher than its carrying capacity. There are four dominant males (Rambo, Bahadur, Bageehra and Sultan) in Jhalana and two (Bluethunder and Prince) in Galta region. The young leopards do not have any territory and possibilities of straying into residential areas is high. Currently, there are approximately 35 leopards, including the young offsprings, in the safari park which means less than one square kilometre per animal once they grow up. Watch On cam: Leopards spotted fighting for territory on a tree||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopards-spotted-fighting-for-territory-in-jhalana/articleshow/80727234.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Citizens join Kham river restoration drive||AURANGABAD: Every Saturday, citizens will join hands with the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in its ongoing ambitious drive for the restoration of the Kham river that flows through the city. The AMC has announced the weekly public participation drive to clean different stretches of the river with the maiden joint effort organised from 7am to 10am on Saturday. It evoked good response from citizens, social groups and NGOs. Gathered in large numbers, citizens and volunteer groups also planted saplings along the banks of the river. Arjun, Ashwagandha, Shirish, Kanchan, Karanj, Khair and Adulsa saplings among other identified 34 indigenous variety of trees were planted. Nandkishore Bhombe, the head of AMC’s solid waste management cell, said that polythene bags, plastic bottles and other garbage dumped into the river at the stretch near the income-tax office were collected during the drive. “We started the restoration drive on January 25. The early phase involves putting an effective check on garbage dumping into the riverbed and removal of existing solid waste. Since the participation of public is crucial in restoring the past glory of the river, we have been roping in citizens and different voluntary groups to clean the river,” he said. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said the ecological health of the Kham river would be restored soon through public participation under the ‘Majhi Vasundhara’ drive — an initiative taken up by the department of environment and climate change of the Maharashtra government with the help of corporate entities for the cause of sustainable development. As per the official survey, the Kham river, which originates in the Jatwada hills on the outskirts of the city and flows through parts of the Aurangabad city before merging into the Godavari near Yesgavhan in Gangapur taluka, is getting contaminated due to the direct release of waste water at 249 points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-join-kham-river-restoration-drive/articleshow/80727223.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kozhikode||People from Kerala flood Ghana president’s Facebook page||KOZHIKODE: Many people– mostly Congress and UDF supporters– flooded the official Facebook page of the president of the Republic of Ghana demanding the ‘release’ of Nilambur MLA P V Anvar, who is now in an African country. The FB page of Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo became the site of a targeted troll attack on assumption that Anvar was in that country with many posting comments saying that he was in jail and they demanded his ‘release’ and immediate return to the constituency. The FB page attracted over 3,000 comments, most of them trolls in Malayalam and English. Anvar then responded with a FB post on Friday night saying, “They say I am in jail in Ghana. They can wish for that. But they are mistaken,” he said ending the post with a dialogue from Rajinikanth-starrer Baba, ‘Even if I come late, I’ll be the latest’. He asked people to wait. Anvar had, in an earlier FB post on January 28, said that it is well known that apart from being an MLA, he was also a businessman and that politics was not his source of income. “All those who know me personally know that that I have to spend more than the allowance I receive as MLA each month. I had to travel abroad for business purposes and am currently in Africa. Though I had planned to return on January 12 for the budget session of the assembly, I contracted Covid and couldn’t reach the assembly,” he said. He adding that his absence has not affected people in any way as his MLA office has been effectively functioning on all days and his private secretary was coordinating everything from Thiruvananthapuram. Earlier, Congress activists had filed a case with Nilambur police saying that the MLA was missing following which Anvar had clarified in a FB post that he had gone abroad after the local body polls on a business visit and was in Africa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mla-anvar-stays-back-ghanian-prez-gets-a-taste-of-malayali-humour/articleshow/80727261.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Deesa CA insures wife for Rs 60 lakh, stages murder as road accident||PALANPUR: It could very well be termed as a cold-blooded murder. A chartered accountant (CA) in Deesa town of Banaskantha was arrested on Friday for killing his wife with help of his friend and making it appear as an accident to claim Rs 60 lakh insurance money. The accused Lalit Mali (29) was on Saturday remanded to six days in police custody for killing Daksha (27), whom he had got insured just three months before she was brutally killed. Daksha is survived by her four-year-old son and 18-month-old daughter. Police said that Lalit had meticulously planned the murder by first insuring his wife for Rs 60 lakh and then getting her killed in what would look like a road accident. “Lalit’s friend Kirit Mali and his driver were also accomplices to the murder”, said sub-inspector A B Shah of Bhildi police station in Deesa. Shah added that Lalit had paid Rs 2 lakh to Kirit to kill his wife with his car and make it look like an accident. “The motive behind the murder primarily appears to insurance money of Rs 60 lakh. But Lalit has been saying that he killed his wife of 10 years because of frequent domestic quarrels,” said Shah, adding that police investigating further as Lalit was not talking much. According to police, on December 26, 2020, Lalit took Daksha in his car to visit the Hanuman temple in Deesa at around 5am. At Geda railway crossing, which lies on Deesa-Tharad road, Lalit parked his car and asked his wife to walk towards the temple with him. While walking briskly, Daksha got left behind. Meanwhile, Lalit called Kirit, who was waiting nearby as planned, to come with his car. Kirit’s driver who was driving the car knocked down Daksha killing her on the spot, said Shah. Lalit called up the police and informed them about the accident. Initially, a case of accidental death was filed. But Daksha’s parents and relatives doubted Lalit’s version of the incident and sought an investigation. “Based of phone call records and other circumstantial evidence, we detained Lalit and during questioning he confessed to his crime and named others involved,” added Shah. Two accused Kirit Mali and his driver are still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/deesa-ca-insures-wife-for-rs-60l-stages-murder-as-road-accident/articleshow/80727269.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Woman stabbed by husband, critical||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A woman was critically injured after she was stabbed outside her workplace by her husband at Vizhinjam on Saturday. C K Sini, 49, who works as a messenger at State Bank of India’s Vizhinjam branch is the one who faced the attack. Police have taken her husband Sugadheeshan, 52, into custody shortly after the incident. The woman’s condition is critical and has been admitted to intensive care unit of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital following the attack. According to police, the attack happened around 5.15pm when Sini was coming out of the bank after completing her shift. Sugadheeshan, who was waiting outside, stabbed her helter-skelter using a knife. Vizhinjam sub-inspector S S Saji said the accused stabbed her several times. Three injuries on chest, abdomen and right hand were deep and serious in nature. “The accused is a chronic alcoholic and the couple were living separately owing to this reason,’’ the sub-inspector said. Both Sini and Sugadheeshan belong to Kallambalam outside the city. She requested a transfer to Vizhinjam and shifted to a rented house at Venganoor here along with her two children a year ago after she could no longer suffer torture at the hands of her drunk husband. After sometime, they reconciled after he claimed that he has stopped alcohol consumption. But, over a month ago, problems arise again when the accused allegedly consumed alcohol again and tortured her. Following this, she approached the local police with a complaint. “After we intervened, he agreed to leave her alone and returned to Kallambalam,’’ the SI said, adding the attack on Saturday was unexpected. According to sources close to the family, the attack was related to a legal move taken by Sini to prevent Sugadheeshan from selling off a family property at Kallambalam. She had secured a stay order from court against the sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/woman-stabbed-by-husband-critical/articleshow/80727256.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Blocked highways lead to long queues of trucks during ‘chakka jaam’||JAIPUR: Farmers in Rajasthan blocked the national and state highways for three hours on Saturday at many places demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws and protesting the internet ban near their protest sites and alleged harassment by authorities, among other issues. The national highways witnessed long queues of trucks as the farmers blocked highways to press their demand for the repeal of the three farm bills passed by the Centre. But there is no news of any untoward incident reported. The Congress government had already extended its support to the farmers. Following orders from AICC, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra on Friday directed all party members to fully cooperate in making the highway jaam a success, after which Congress leaders took to the streets in large numbers for the protest. “The Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee supports the farmer unions’ call to block national and state highways from 12 noon to 3pm today (Saturday). All Congressmen are requested to take necessary steps to make this blockade successful and ensure it is peaceful,” Dotasra said in a tweet. The protests started around 12noon. In Jaipur, tractors were placed on roads to block the traffic while in Alwar, stones and thorny shrubs were placed on roads to check traffic. Farmers at many places took out protest marches and blocked roads including Ajmer, Udaipur, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar and blocked the highways and main roads, police said. In Kota, a massive tractor rally was taken out. The Delhi-Jaipur highway was completely blocked as the lane passing through the Shahjahanapur border (Alwar) was also closed around 11am. It remained closed till 3pm, said farmer leaders. Former deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who started a kisan mahapanchayat on Friday from Dausa, reached Bharapur on Saturday to address a farmers’ gathering as part of this chakka jaam protest. Many associations extended their support in making the chakka jaam a success in Rajasthan. A 50-member delegation of advocates came at the protest site from Sri Ganganagar and donated Rs 80,000 for the langar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/blocked-highways-lead-to-long-queues-of-trucks-during-chakka-jaam/articleshow/80727255.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Great crested Grebe sighted for first time in Amravati||AMRAVATI: In a rare sighting, city wildlife photographers Dr Tushar Ambadkar and Vinay Badhe have, for the first time in the city, spotted Great crested Grebe at Chhatri lake. The duo saw these migratory birds, popularly known as 'mothi tibukali' in Marathi, on January 28 last. "It is a very rare sighting," state wildlife board member Yadav Tarte Patil told TOI. The bird, scientifically known as podiceps cristatus, is a winter guest here. Of the size of a duck, the bird doesn't have a tail. This water bird has a long neck and sharp beak. Barring Nagpur, the bird has been sighted in the rest of central Maharashtra for the first time in Amravati. This bird is also known as 'dubki' in Marathi. After its mating season from June to August in Baluchistan and Ladakh regions, the water bird has arrived here as winter guest for the first time. Forty-five to 50cm in size, it feeds on fish, frogs and insects in water. Scientist Linaus was the first to classify these birds in 1758. Its sighting is considered very rare in this region. It normally migrates to north and Central India, Sindh to Assam, Manipur and Kutch and Orissa. "It has come here for the first time," Yadav Tarte Patil said, adding, “they are on their return journey after migration and were sighted at Chhatri lake close to Pohra forest here. “Chhatri lake is a home to 235 species of birds and many rare birds have made their presence here in the past. Great crested Grebe has made its maiden presence here. It is necessary to preserve water bodies and land bodies in the vicinity of Chhatri lake and Pohra-Malkhed forest as unnecessary developmental works here are proving harmful, said Tarte Patil. "The sighting of Great Crested Grebe is a heartening thing for us. It is a great achievement for Amravati. Chhatri lake and Pohra-Malkhed forest are rich in wildlife and birds. Local administration should conserve this place," said wildlife lensman Dr Tushar Ambadkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/great-crested-grebe-sighted-for-first-time-in-amravati/articleshow/80727259.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||CID-CB begins probe against BJP MLA||Jaipur: The CID-CB begun investigating rape charges against BJP MLA Pratap Lal Gameti (54) on Saturday. The investigating agency has learnt that the MLA has switched off all his cell numbers and is not present at his government residence in Jaipur or his native village near Gogunda in Udaipur district. “The case has been taken up by the CID-CB and they have started the investigation,” said Ravi Prakash, ADGP, Crime Branch. The MLA was slapped with a rape charge by a woman from Neemuch. She alleged that Gameti repeatedly raped her on pretext of marrying her for the last four years. Gameti is married and has four children. The complainant was aware of his marital status and alleged that the MLA convinced her that he has as per the tribal customs separated from his wife. Sources said that the victim will be called for recording statements followed by the collection of evidences like phone call details and spot visit to the places where the crime took place. Her medical test has been done in Udaipur and the report will be submitted to the officials in a sealed envelope. TOI called up the MLA on his cell and landline number but got no response. Sources said that he was spotted last in Jaipur and was here to attend the assembly session starting from February 10. BJP is silent over the issue and its leaders have not yet commented on the issue. “He is a public representative and cannot hide for long. We are sure as and when he is required by us, he will be available,” said a senior officer, who added that as per the book, the accused will be called for questioning against the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cid-cb-begins-probe-against-bjp-mla/articleshow/80727241.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Op Dastavez on MI tipoff: Classified military study docus seized in Faizabad Cantt||Ayodhya: Based on specific inputs from Military Intelligence (MI), UP Police on Thursday aided by Central agencies launched a secret mission code-named ‘Operation Dastavez’ to seize classified military study material mostly in digital form from a civilian in Faizabad Cantonment. Early January, the Lucknow-based unit of Military Intelligence received credible inputs that restricted military study documents were in possession of a few traders in Faizabad Cantonment. MI sleuths worked on clues and subsequently shared intelligence with local police and central intelligence agencies. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar, said, “We zeroed in on two shops in Sadar Bazar area of Faizabad Cantonment and seized restricted military study material after launching coordinated raids. Ayodhya police team arrested a stationery shop owner, Arif Hussain, and seized four pen-drives and a laptop along with documents and books with classified military content. The accused, Hussain, who was booked for forgery and cheating, had been secretly stashing away digital copies of study material from army personnel, who would visit his shop for photocopies and printouts of their study material. Then he would compile booklets from classified information and sell them to buyers without verifying their credentials. The seized documents are being examined, said police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/op-dastavez-on-mi-tipoff-classified-military-study-docus-seized-in-faizabad-cantt/articleshow/80726597.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Budget will take care of prosperity of farmers: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said agriculture, animal husbandry and its allied sectors have an important contribution to the state’s economy. “Despite the difficult geographical condition and lack of water, farmers have made a meaningful effort to keep the state at the forefront in the field of agriculture with their hard work. It is our endeavour to make such provisions in the budget, so that the income of farmers and livestock farmers of the state will increase and they will be happy,” he said. Gehlot was holding a pre-budget meeting with farmers, livestock owners, dairy association officials and representatives of tribal areas through video conference from the chief minister's residence on Saturday. He said there were huge possibilities of agriculture and dairy development in Rajasthan. “These areas could be developed rapidly through technology and innovations. The suggestions of progressive farmers will be important in this,” he added. Gehlot said to create a conducive environment for growth of agricultural industries and to promote agricultural exports, the state government had implemented the ‘Rajasthan Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agri Export Promotion Policy-2019’. “This policy is a major step towards making the farmers prosperous. Farmers should take advantage of these policies and move towards agricultural industries and exports. The state government will provide all possible support to them,” he added. Earlier, interacting with representatives of voluntary organisations and civil society, Gehlot said the participation of all sections of society was necessary for coordinated development of the state. The government will make every effort to increase their participation in the development of the state by making appropriate provisions in the budget for each section of society, including suggestions from various sections in preparing the budget. He said during the pandemic, voluntary organisations had fully supported the state government in helping the needy. Various organisations were instrumental in fulfilling our resolve to ‘no one sleeps in hunger.” The CM said that in work related to social security, the state government has always taken decisions with progressive thinking. Several steps were taken to raise the standard of living of the poor and deprived sections by keeping them at the centre of decision making. In 2020-21, under NREGA, 37.19 crore man days were created and employment was provided to 70. 93 lakh families in the state. Timely payment to NREGA workers ensured, he said. Energy minister B D Kalla, medical and health minister Raghu Sharma, minister of state for education Govind Singh Dotasra were among those present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/budget-will-take-care-of-prosperity-of-farmers-chief-minister/articleshow/80727257.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Antigen test for International Film Festival of Kerala delegates begins on Monday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Antigen test to detect Covid-19 in delegates of International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) will begin on Monday. The testing has been arranged at Tagore Theatre. Delegates, officials, volunteers and duty staff can get tested at the facility. The testing, arranged by Kerala State Chalachithra Academy and state health department, will continue from Monday to Wednesday. The 25th IFFK begins on Wednesday. The messages regarding date of test for all those who have registered for IFFK will be sent to registered mobile phone numbers. Academy secretary Ajoy Chandran said 150 people can get tested in an hour and the delegates may present themselves for test depending upon messages received. The delegates who test negative can receive delegate kits using negative certificates. Those who present Covid-19 negative certificates independently will also be allowed entry to the festival. This certificate shall be valid only if test has been conducted in authorised labs or hospitals 48 hours prior to the commencement of IFFK. The academy is implementing stringent Covid-19 preventive measures at the time of conducting tests, distribution of delegate passes and conduct of the film festival. This year, IFFK will have four Indian films vying with each other for the prestigious Suvarna Chakoram (Golden Crow Pheasant Award), the laurel for the best film of the festival. Among the two Malayalam films in this category, Lijo Jose Pellissery’s ‘Churuli’ will have its World Premiere at the festival. Jayaraj’s ‘Hasyam’, the other Malayalam film in the competition category, had been screened at various other film festivals, including the Shanghai International Film Festival. Kosa and Sthalpuran are the other two Indian films that are up for competition. Writer-director Mohit Priyadarshi’s debut film ‘Kosa’ portrays the human rights violations faced by the tribal communities in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/antigen-test-for-iffk-delegates-begins-on-monday/articleshow/80727283.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||RHB to select company by March 15 to build MLA flats in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) has initiated the process to select the developer for constructing luxurious flats for MLAs project near assembly in Jyoti Nagar. For the estimated Rs 250 crore project, 17 firms participated in the pre-bid meeting and expressed to construct flats. A senior RHB official said, “The process to finalise the firm will be completed by mid–March. The final date to submit the bid is March 2. Following this, on March 8, the technical bid will be evaluated. The financial bid of qualified firms will be opened on March 15. The appointed firm will have to complete the construction work in 30 months,” the official said. The RHB has also started acclaiming the land on which these apartments will be constructed. Out of 54, the board has taken possession and demolished 50 bungalows of MLAs. The RHB has proposed to construct an eight-storey building in the periphery of the legislative assembly to accommodate 160 MLAs. Each flat will measure 3,200 square feet and comprise four bedrooms, one drawing room, a kitchen and a one room for domestic help. As per the previous design, the JDA had proposed 176 flats. However, the idea did not go well with the committee which is overseeing the project as the open area was less. Now, 16 flats have been reduced in the project to develop a central lawn measuring 36,000 square metre. In the project, the RHB has earmarked parking for 1,200 vehicles and a 12-room guest house. RHB has been appointed as the nodal agency for constructing MLA apartments. An official said the revenue earned after selling the land at Lal Kothi and Jalupura will be utilised to construct the apartments. Sources said, considering the project as a special case, the 28-metre building has been proposed against the 15-metre rule mentioned in the building bylaws. “The design has received in-principal approval and a meeting was called to discuss on the proposal. Any decision will now be taken on the UDH minister’s call,” sources said. At present, the RHB has proposed to construct the apartment till the base height of the dome. This proposal needs a clearance from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhb-to-select-firm-by-march-15-to-build-mla-flats/articleshow/80727274.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Even after 2 years of Congress govt, no women commission board in Rajasthan yet||JAIPUR: The woman who filed a rape case against BJP MLA Pratap Lal Gameti claimed that she wrote multiple times to the state women commission but got no response. The incident again brought to limelight the fact that even though the state government has repeatedly claimed to be sensitive to crimes against women, it has failed to constitute a board or appoint a chairperson for Rajasthan Women Commission for the same ever since Congress came to power in 2018. The opposition alleged that due to infighting among top Congress leaders, the state government is unable to come to consensus about appointing board members. This, in turn, is leading to women issues remaining unaddressed in the state. The complainant alleged that the BJP MLA allegedly raped her with the promise to marry her and as she had a tough time lodging a FIR, she had written to the women commission but it proved to be futile. BJP’s Suman Sharma, erstwhile chairperson of the state’s women commission, calling it lack of decisiveness on part of the ruling party, told TOI, “When I was the chairperson, we had brought down the pendency of cases with the commission to zero, but now national data indicates that Rajasthan is leading when it comes to crime against women. It appears that the present government is not at all serious about forming the women commission board that such crimes can be curbed.” Meanwhile Mamta Bhupesh, current minister of women and child development, had previously told TOI that the board would be constituted soon. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019 paints a dismal picture of the condition of women in Rajasthan with the state topping the list when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempt to rape. While 6,977 cases were registered of assault on women which is the highest in the country, the desert state had 18,432 cases of domestic violence.While Rajasthan is leading in the number of rape cases with 5997 incidents, it is also on top with 1,019 attempt to rape cases. Citing differences within the party for the lack of an operational women commission, Sharma added, “Despite me leaving the position, I still get 15-20 calls from women asking for help and while I do my best, it is difficult at times since am in no power of authority. The basic reason for delay in formation of the board is that the state Congress is divided into two groups and they each want to oblige their own supporters without realising that it is in turn harming women.” A government official said that the onus in selecting the board lies with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-has-no-women-commission-board-even-more-than-2-years-of-new-government/articleshow/80727260.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Canacona delimitation: 2 BJP councillors unhappy||Poinguinim: After the notification was issued for delimitation and reservations of seats for the upcoming municipal elections, two prominent former councillors of Canacona Municipal Council (CMC), affiliated to the BJP, have been left aggrieved. The two, Ramakant Naik Gaonkar and Dayanand Pagi, said that the new arrangement has prevented them from contesting from their existing wards - Kindlem and Pansulem – as they have been reserved for OBC women. Gaonkar, a former CMC chairperson, said that both these wards have a lesser number of other backward class (OBC) voters as compared to areas like Patnem and Tarir, where 80% and 95% voters respectively belong to OBC. Both Patnem and Tarir have, however, been left untouched, he said. “After working for BJP, I have been used and thrown away. What has happened is unfortunate. Yes, others too have a right to a chance to contest, but making Kindlem reserved for OBC ladies is something painful as it was not required as it has a lesser percentage of OBCs,” he said. Pagi, a councillor from ward 9, who has served as vice-chairperson, also expressed unhappiness over the delimitation. “After I learnt of the possible delimitation of the wards 9 and 10, to create a new ward, I met chief minister Pramod Sawant and party chief Sadanand Shet Tanawade, who promised me that my ward won’t be touched. It is sad that the CM hasn’t kept his word,” Pagi said. Ramakant Naik Gaonkar and Dayanand Pagi, said that the new arrangement has prevented them from contesting from their existing wards as they have been reserved for OBC women||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-delimitation-2-bjp-councillors-unhappy/articleshow/80728124.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Allahabad||UP’s R-Day tableau on Ayodhya to feature on special postal cover||Prayagraj: The tableau of Uttar Pradesh on the theme of Ram temple in Ayodhya, which won the first prize at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi this year, would be soon visible on a special postal cover. The Sangam Philatelic Club and the postal department have joined hands to come up with the special postal cover. The tableau on the theme ‘Ayodhya: Cultural Heritage of Uttar Pradesh’ depicting the Ram Temple was adjudged the best among 32 tableaux. The cultural heritage of Ayodhya, replica of Ram temple, glimpse of ‘Deepotsav’ and stories from the epic Ramayana were depicted in it. Union minister Kiren Rijiju had handed the award to UP officials on January 28. “Our plan is to issue the special postal cover by March 2021 and donate the funds generated through its sale for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya,” said M Gulrez, general secretary of Sangam Philatelic Club. “The design of the postal cover is being prepared by our team. The documents will be sent to Chief Post Master General, Lucknow for approval,” he added. Gulrez said the plan is to print 5,000 to 10,000 special postal covers, but the final number and cost of cover would be decided after approval from the department of posts. This will not be the first time when Sangam Philatelic Club and department of posts are coming up with a special postal cover on Lord Ram. A special postal cover on Shri Ramlala Temple in Ayodhya was released at the head post office, Civil Lines, on the eve of Diwali in November 2020. The cover had the picture of the temple of the Baal Roop Ramlala in Ayodhya. The special cover was conceived by Gulrez and designed by Rajiv Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ups-r-day-tableau-on-ayodhya-to-feature-on-special-postal-cover/articleshow/80726326.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||200 cops get message for jab, but only 55 turn up||NAGPUR: Addl CPs, Navinchandra Reddy and Dilip Zalke, both direct DySPs of the 1995 batch, were the first to take Covidshield jabs at the police hospital at the Takli-based headquarters on Saturday. Though 200 received the CoWIN message to turn up for the jab on the first day between 9am and 5pm, the low turn out of only 55 was surprising considering the heavy toll Corona had taken on the department. Though the fear factor kept most cops away, there was no adverse event following immunization (AEFI) reported, much to the relief of the khaki department. Nagpur city police had witnessed 17 deaths due to Corona last year and around 1,800 tested positive. Statewide, more than 300 cops had died due to Covid. On Friday, around seven officers and 53 personnel from rural police too had taken jabs. Cops from Bhiwapur, Ramtek and Kalmeshwar were the first ones to get the shots, stated SP Rakesh Ola. DCP, headquarters, Sandeep Pakhale, who was the third personnel to take the jab, said cops would be going to any of the 16 nearest NMC clinic or hospitals as per the pincode of their postal address. “Cops on duty would be relieved after getting adequate time so that they can take the shots and return to their job after the observation period,” he said. Pakhale, a qualified doctor, who practised at Sion Hospital in Mumbai before joining the police department, said the vaccine would be administered on the basis of willingness. “The vaccine does not hurt when it is being injected,” said the DCP. Batchmates Reddy and Zalke, who were allotted IPS cadre in 2005, appealed to police personnel to come forward to take the jab and rely on scientific information rather than rumours. “It’s safe and we felt no uneasiness of any kind after the shots,” said Reddy. A team from the urban primary health centre (UPHC) comprising nurses, Pramila Borkar and Varsha Khandate, under medical officer Dr Akshay Sajjanwar and zonal medical officer Dr Atik Khan conducted the drive on the first day. “The next dose would be administered after 28 days,” said Dr Sajjanwar. It’s learnt that 20 vials of covishield were brought for the first day vaccination. Around six vials were used. Experienced nurse Borkar took her time to explain the aims and objectives of the vaccines before administering the dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/200-cops-get-message-for-jab-but-only-55-turn-up/articleshow/80727289.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 7, 2021||Rajkot||Female prisoner attempts suicide||Rajkot: A woman prisoner who is facing trial in a murder case, tried to kill herself in Rajkot central jail on Friday evening. According to jail staff, Bilkis Motani (37) was upset as she was not getting bail and was also suffering from kidney stone. She was being treated in the jail and was also taken to the civil hospital for check up. The last time when she was taken for a check up, Motani had requested the police to let her talk to her son over phone but was denied. After coming back from the hospital, she tried to hang herself with her dupatta. However, the jail staff reached on time and saved her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/female-prisoner-attempts-suicide/articleshow/80727304.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Abducted bizman rescued in 6 hours from Gonda, 3 arrested||Lucknow: A businessman who had been abducted from Lucknow in the wee hours of Saturday was rescued in Gonda within six hours. Rajiiuallah, who owns a travel agency, was abducted by a group of men from 1090 crossing. He was taken to Gonda because the abductors wanted to recover from him money that the victim allegedly owed them. He was in his car with his driver when some men in a car overtook them and forced them to stop at 1090 crossing. “They dragged Rajjiullah out of the car and forcibly took him with them. Rajjiullah’s driver instantly called police and a team reached the scene,” said DCP, central zone, Somen Barma, who had received the SOS call. Along with the surveillance cell, crime branch sleuths worked on the case and located the miscreants’ car through registration number by scanning CCTV footage. Police trailed the car to Gonda and reached the location. “With the help of Gonda police, Lucknow police recovered Rajjiullah and arrested Nankan Tiwari, Vijay Shanker and Sushil Kumar in the case,” said the DCP. He added that the accused had abducted Rajjiullah for Rs 3 lakh which he owed to Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abducted-bizman-rescued-in-6-hours-from-gonda-3-arrested/articleshow/80728262.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||ACB charge-sheet shows govt apathy in prosecuting Rao||Kota: The 565-page charge-sheet against former Baran collector Inder Singh Rao and his personal assistant Mahveer Nagar filed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) before a local court here on Friday in connection with a bribery case revealed that the state government showed no inclination to prosecute the corrupt official in his 31-year-long career facing at least nine graft cases.He was placed under awaited posting order (APO) six times. Final Report (FR) was submitted in eight of the nine graft cases while the state government did not grant ACB permission for prosecution in one case.The ACB in the charge-sheet attempts to prove that Rao is a master in dumping the cases against him by use of his influence and removal of evidence. So, to avoid the same fate in the current case, ACB decided to produce transcript of WhatsApp chats as evidence. The forensic report of the hand sample of Rao and his PA is also positive.Rao has been in jail under judicial custody since after his arrest on December 23 last year following his personal assistant was held from his office on December 9 for allegedly accepting Rs. 1.40 lakhs from a petrol pump dealer for issuance of No Objection Certificate for petrol pump and Rao had emerged key suspect.Digging into Rao’s record, the ACB found that at least seven graft cases filed against Rao in 2001 were on the ground of absence of evidence, put to conclusion with Final Report and another case of graft against Rao filed in 2006 also faced the same end while the state government did not grant permission to ACB for prosecution in another case against Rao filed in 2005 and eventually the ACB had to close the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-charge-sheet-shows-govt-apathy-in-prosecuting-rao/articleshow/80727284.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||ACB likely to file chargesheet against suspended IPS officer by February 28||Jaipur: ACB sleuths on Saturday said they were aiming at filing the chargesheet against Manish Agarwal, the suspended IPS officer for his alleged involvement in corruption, by February 28. Senior officers of the bureau will monitor that the application of prosecution sanction and will constantly pursue it with state government.ACB officers said earlier investigating officers (IO) were merely into doing paper work and other formalities related to the filing of application for prosecution sanction for government officers arrested in corruption cases, but that practice has been changed. “We are first aiming at filing the chargesheet against Agarwal by February 28. Thereafter, I will myself oversee the process of the prosecution sanction along with additional director general (ADG), ACB MN Dinesh. In this case, we will send the papers to the state government and thereafter the state government will send it to the Centre,” said BL Soni, director general, ACB.Soni said as a matter of practice for every prosecution sanction, senior officers will facilitate the IOs of various cases in filing and further pursuing the applications for prosecution sanction. “We will monitor the process and if needed we will visit the department concerned from where we need prosecution sanction in our cases. Delayed prosecution sanction certainly affect our investigation. Thus, I have directed every senior officer to facilitate the IOs in applying and getting the sanction,” he added. Manish Agarwal was arrested by ACB on February 2 almost a fortnight after arresting middleman Neeraj Meena and two SDMs. With the arrests of two SDMs, a middleman and the former Dausa SP, the ACB had unearthed a corruption racket involvement in fleecing a highway construction company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-likely-to-file-chargesheet-against-suspended-ips-officer-by-february-28/articleshow/80727297.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cold winds revive, air gets cleaner||LUCKNOW: A day after thundershowers lashed the city, cold winds revived on Saturday, leading to drop in temperatures. Similar conditions will prevail for the next few days. Rains and moderate winds also improved air quality in the past 24 hours. State Met director JP Gupta said the western disturbance (WD) that caused snow in the hills and rains in the plains has fizzled out. As a result, cold winds from snowfed mountains have revived. These winds will bring down the temperatures, which were 3-4 degrees above normal for the past three days. “Weather will remain dry for the next few days. Sky will remain clear with bright sunshine during the day. However, cold winds will continue with shallow to moderate fog in the morning hours,” he added. On Saturday, the maximum temperature was 24 degrees Celsius, a unit below normal, and the minimum temperature was 11 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 25 and 10 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday. Meanwhile, with rains and winds dispersing air pollutants in the atmosphere, the air quality turned moderate on Saturday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the city was 178, lower than 210 (poor) on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cold-winds-revive-air-gets-cleaner/articleshow/80728459.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Varanasi||MI, STF bust job racket, arrest four in UP's Sarnath||VARANASI: In a joint action of Special Task Force of UP police and Military Intelligence, a gang of miscreants engaged in duping money from unemployed youths in the name of arranging jobs in government institutions was busted with the arrest of the kingpin and three others from Sarnath area on Saturday. Acting on MI inputs, the STF team led by Inspector Anil Singh succeeded in nabbing Ramanuj Bhardwaj, Ajay Kumar Gautam, Anil Bharti and Vishvesh Mishra from Sinhpur crossing along Ring Road under Sarnath and Matics computer centre in Sundarpur area, said STF officials. They added that apart from laptops, mobile phones cheque books, Rs 6000, eight fake appointment letters of railway and secretariat were recovered from their possession. Following initial investigation the STF handed over them to Sarnath police after lodging an FIR under sections of IPC and IT Act. STF said that MI had collected inputs about this gang milking lakhs of rupees from youths looking for government jobs by giving them lucrative proposals.  This gang was targeting youths of Varanasi and neighbouring district by offering proposals of arranging jobs in government institutions including railway, Banaras Hindu University, Lucknow secretariat and others. This gang was active in the region since 2017 and it had also made fake websites like rac3.org.in and sachivalaya.org.in, said officials mentioning that progress in investigation against the arrested persons so far has cleared that around 60 youths had been duped by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mi-stf-bust-job-racket-arrest-four-in-sarnath/articleshow/80726351.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Woman staffer accuses two IAS officers, nine others of fraud||LUCKNOW: A woman has lodged a case of fraud and dishonesty against two IAS officers and nine officials, employees of the State Planning Institute at Mahanagar police station. The FIR was lodged on the directions of the state women commission. The woman, a senior valuation officer in the institute, has alleged that five employees of her department in connivance with senior officials of the institute were involved in anomalies, corruption and misuse of public money and started torturing her when she raised voice against them. The complainant said that a false inquiry was set up against her when on March 15, 2019 she informed the additional chief secretary of planning department about the anomalies by the deputy director. The woman said the officials involved in the corrupt practices ganged up against her and started working as a syndicate to harass and torment her. “They started harassing me during work and levelled various false allegations against me. A committee was also constituted by them and the panel acquitted the officials and instead accused me. They also started deploying me on duty during lockdown to harass me,” she alleged, adding that she then knocked the doors of state women commission for help. Additional deputy commissioner of police, North Zone, Prachi Singh said an FIR on charges of dishonesty, forgery, forgery of valuable security, criminal intimidation, fraudulently using a genuine document and criminal conspiracy has been registered against the accused. Among those booked, a deputy director has retired, while one of the IAS officers has been transferred to another district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-staffer-accuses-2-ias-officers-nine-others-of-fraud/articleshow/80728380.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Left out 1,000 health workers of private hospitals to get vaccine in mop up round||Lucknow: Nearly 1,000 health workers employed in 80 private hospitals and medical institutions left out from the Covid-19 vaccination process due to lack of communication, will be included in the list of beneficiaries to be inoculated in the mop up round on February 15. The health workers got relief after a delegation of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Lucknow chapter, called on additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad and requested him to direct district health authorities to add their names. Prasad then issued directions to open the CoWin portal for 24 hours to upload names of the left out healthcare workers so that they are vaccinated in the mop up round, said sources. IMA office-bearers said the names of 1,000 heath workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, technical staff and sanitary workers, were not included in the list of beneficiaries for vaccination in phase 1, as many private hospitals submitted their data late or did not submit it in the right format due to lack of communication. IMA Lucknow president Dr Rama Srivastava said, “The private hospitals approached us when names of their employees did not figure among the beneficiaries. They also didn’t know whether the names will be included in the mop up round or not. We then approached ACS health on behalf of these hospitals.” Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “We have written to all the private hospitals to provide data of their employees in the required format by Sunday morning so that it can be uploaded in the CoWin portal for vaccination in the mop up round.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/left-out-1000-health-workers-of-private-hospitals-to-get-vaccine-in-mop-up-round/articleshow/80728284.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Church to oppose if law against SC ruling enacted||KOTTAYAM: The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church has made it clear that they would counter any move by the state government to enact a new law over the ongoing dispute between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of Malankara Church. An article in the latest edition of ‘Malankara Sabha’, the official organ of the Orthodox Church, slams the state government without naming it. “The vain words by some about making a new law is with bad intentions. This is only aimed at deceiving a section of the church,” says the article which is written by the public relations wing of the Orthodox Church. The church once reiterated that the Supreme Court verdict on the dispute is final and the state will have to implement it. The article also says that any move to bring an ordinance will be against the Constitution. The article summarizes that the findings of the Supreme Court in various decisions as to the management of the church and its properties under the 1934 constitution of the church, cannot be brushed aside by any legislature. The article is titled ‘Can the Kerala legislature validly make a law to overpower Supreme Court decisions?’ The article itself begins with a “No” as the answer to this question. The article has been prepared with the help of legal experts associated with the church. It discusses in detail the possibilities of overcoming a Supreme Court verdict by the legislature and concludes that it is impossible and unconstitutional in the verdict on the church dispute. The article cites several previous attempts by the legislature to overpower the court verdicts and discusses the Shiru Mutt case of 1954, where the Supreme Court had found the Act passed by the Madras legislature about the Shirur Mutt unconstitutional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/church-to-oppose-if-law-against-sc-ruling-enacted/articleshow/80727303.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
February 7, 2021||Kanpur||Opposition doing dirty politics over farmers’ stir: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||Kanpur: Taking a dig at the opposition, senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday said ‘gumrahi (misleading) gang’ is conspiring to hijack farmers’ agitation and doing cheap and dirty politics over it. “This ‘gumrahi’ opposition with its ‘conspiracy type suitcase’, is using the shoulders of the farmers to fire its own gun and trying to defame the country,” said Naqvi while addressing reporters at Circuit House here on Saturday. He further said, “such conspiracy contractors are trying to spread misinformation and have always been defeated by the people of this country.” “The people of the country, however, have rejected all such characters comprising of criminal conspiracies and political hypocrisies of some elements having vested interests, and have expressed trust in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Naqvi. He added, “These are the same elements who have been creating ruckus on the so-called intolerance in the country, raising questions on surgical strike on Pakistan, created confusion over CAA, and opposed steps taken for the well-being of people during the Covid-19 pandemic.” He also attacked international Pop star Rihanna’s tweet, wherein she extended support to the protesting farmers. “To prove our honesty, we don’t need a certificate from any international celebrity or organisation,” he said. “It’s people’s mandate which helped win BJP-led NDA in 2014 and then in 2019. The people have supported the policies of the Prime Minister by supporting the BJP in assembly, panchayat and local bodies elections in different states and union territories,” he said. Naqvi said the Union Budget 2021-22 is a gazette of the glorious path of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and will ensure development with dignity of cross-sections of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/oppn-doing-dirty-politics-over-farmers-stir-naqvi/articleshow/80727435.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Organic farming a rich harvest for farmers: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: The three-day Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Show-2021 began at Raj Bhawan on Saturday. It was inaugurated by Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Elaborating on the steps his government and the Centre have taken for the benefit of farmers, Yogi said the two governments have been working towards ensuring that farmers’ incomes double. Currently, farmers are getting minimum support price 1.5 times more than their input cost. “Four years ago when I came to power and attended my first fruit and vegetable exhibition, then farmers and flower growers had displayed products as per the requirements of that time. Four years later, requirements and priorities have both changed. Along with traditional fruits, vegetables and flowers, organic fruits, vegetables and flowers are also on display,” the CM said, emphasizing on the need to encourage organic farming to double farmers’ incomes. He added that diversification in agriculture plays a crucial role in increasing farmers’ incomes. As an example, he quoted the story of a woman who is growing strawberries in Bundelkhand and farmers producing dragon fruit and black rice. “Those farmers who are growing black rice are getting Rs 700 per kg for their produce,” he said. The CM praised farmers for playing an important role in PM Narendra Modi’s vision for an ‘Atmanirbhaar Bharat’. He said that farmers worked tirelessly even during the Covid pandemic and 119 sugar mills were operational during the lockdown due to the efforts of the state’s sugarcane growers because of which there had been a bumper crop of sugarcane in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/organic-farming-a-rich-harvest-for-farmers-yogi/articleshow/80728351.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Book HSRP online, get numberplate installed at your doorstep||Lucknow: You will no longer have to worry about getting the new high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded stickers, which have been made mandatory for all categories of vehicles, as you will have the option of getting it delivered at your doorstep. Deadlines have been fixed for vehicles on the basis of registration numbers and the state transport department has made the booking process for HSRPs simple by getting a portal designed by SIAM (Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers). Applicants may log on to the website (https://www.siam.in/) and click on ‘book HSRP’ link to initiate the process. To avoid any inconvenience, fee payment has also been made online. The government has authorised the dealers for fitting of the plates and colour-coded stickers. Customers will have to enter the pin code to select the city and dealer concerned. People can choose their preferred time and date and contact customer care service in case of any confusion. The customer care number can be obtained from the portal by clicking on ‘Know your customer care’ link. The state government has not yet fixed any cost for the plate and the dealer would charge the amount fixed by the manufacturers for plates in new vehicles. If a person has relocated from the city where he bought the vehicle he may apply from his current location. Also, those who do not have a dealer at their permanent location may apply in the nearest district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/book-hsrp-online-get-numberplate-installed-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/80728520.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||‘Can’t state reason for skipping jab on Co-WIN’||JAIPUR: District collector Antar Singh Nehra appealed to the frontline workers to get vaccinated against Covid-19 without any fear and confusion. Nehra has directed officer in-charge (vaccination) to get in touch with those who have any apprehensions, to encourage them to get the vaccine. Since the Covid vaccine is voluntary, the district administration is spreading awareness that the vaccine is safe and it has no side effects. “I myself got vaccinated two days ago, and have no side-effects, no fever or any other symptoms. I have asked the officer in-charge to resolve them if any frontline worker has any sort of apprehensions towards the vaccine,” said Nehra. However, he added that the coverage of revenue department remained quite high and they have turned up in large numbers at the vaccination sites. The health department claimed that it is quite difficult to know the reason why some healthcare workers or frontline workers are not getting vaccinated. “There is no provision in the Co-WIN app through which a person who is not coming for vaccination can file the reason for it,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). However, there are a lot of women among healthcare workers and frontline workers who are pregnant or lactating mothers, while some are suffering from medical conditions in which the vaccine is contraindicated. “The number of such persons is also not clear as there is no provision of finding out the reason why a person would not get vaccinated, as it is done on voluntary basis. Those who are coming at the vaccination sites are getting vaccinated, while those who are not coming are being left out,” said Dr Sharma. The health department officials claimed that the Covid vaccination drive has now picked up pace, with the state featuring among top states that are leading in Covid vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-provision-in-co-win-app-to-know-reason-for-skipping-vaccination/articleshow/80727322.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Tillari canal breach repaired, water released to Goa||Bicholim: The water supply from the Tillari dam to Goa, which had been cut off last month due to a breach in a canal at Bhedshi, was restored on Saturday morning and the water was released. Water supply from the Tillari reservoir in Maharashtra is crucial for North Goa as it is supplied for drinking water purposes as well as for irrigation. About 10cumec of water has been released on the first day and the farmers are likely to receive the supply from Sunday onwards. After the damage in the canal was noticed, a team of WRD, including chief engineer Shrikant Patil, was formed to closely monitor the work and assist the Maharashtra government officials in repair and reconstruction work of the affected canal area. To ensure work was completed quickly, the contractor, machinery, pipelines and other materials were taken from Goa. Initially, it was estimated that the work would require at least a month to be completed, but as the labour and materials were locally sourced, the wait was much shorter. The state government provided 40 pipes of 900mm diametres along with other required material. The farmers from Bicholim, Pernem and Bardez talukas are heavily dependent on this water for agriculture. In many places, winter crops are cultivated using this water, including chilly and a variety of vegetables. Also, many have grown plants to serve as fodder for their cattle using this water. If water from the Tillari is cut off, agricultural activities come to a standstill in North Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tillari-canal-breach-repaired-water-released-to-goa/articleshow/80728133.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhpur University proposes Chauri Chaura study centre||GORAKHPUR: Many details about the Chauri Chaura incident that took place on February 4, 1922, are still unknown and need a meticulous study for which DDU Gorakhpur University is planning to open a Chauri Chaura study centre and has sent a proposal of Rs 2.5 crore to the state government in this regard. “Several points like the anger and resentment prevailing in the people, those killed and injured in police firing, how the trial was conducted and under what circumstances did over 150 men awarded death penalty were acquitted on appeal, the impact of the incident on the Briish government are not known properly,” said vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh. “We plan to open a study centre and will give research fellowship to four students to study various aspects of the Chauri Chaura incident which are missing from the pages of history and need research,” he added. We plan to set up a gallery, museum and library where things related to the Chauri Chaura incident will be displayed, Singh said. The vice-chancellor praised the government for organizing yearlong centenary celebrations and said the calendar of activities of the university in this regard is in the final stages. Chauri Chaura incident on February 4, 1922 became the turning point in the freedom struggle and was a result of pent-up anger against the British, zamindars and Rajwadas of Paina, Satasi, Badyapar, Narharpur and Mahudabar. Many zamindars and rajwadas who supported the incident were forced to give up their estate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-varsity-proposes-chauri-chaura-study-centre/articleshow/80726360.cms||Arjumand Bano
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Civic body seeks police action against illegal septage carriers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: City corporation has sought action from police against a few operators of septage carriers who have allegedly used fake licence number of the civic body to gain business from households. Mayor Arya Rajendran has communicated to station-house heads of a few police stations about tankers operating with fake licence. In her letter, the mayor pointed out that the corporation has authorised a total of 28 tankers which have been enrolled and registered under corporation’s online septage-collection system. The matter came to the notice after a corporation health squad intercepted a vehicle last week which apparently collected septage without any authorisation from the corporation. Similar instances were also reported by Vizhinjam and Mangalapuram police. The health officials reported that the tankers operated with falsified documents and discharged septage in public places, mostly waterbodies. If this practice is allowed to continue, it would derail an authorised system which ensures that septage is collected at a fair rate and is transported in a scientific manner to centralised sewage-treatment plant at Muttathara, said corporation officials. The health team has also come across web portals that flash contact numbers of unauthorised septage carriers on Google search. One of the numbers was tracked to an operator who held an official account under corporation’s septage-collection system. When questioned, the operator denied of any involvement in unauthorised collection of septage. The corporation is seeking technical assistance to reach out to web portals and flag the malpractice. The frauds are reported at a time when the corporation recently grossed over Rs 5 crore through online septage-collection system. The income from septage collection crossed the milestone of Rs 5 crore in January and the corporation fetched a revenue of Rs 1.35 crore after distributing the share to private tankers enrolled under the scheme. The civic body had collected and transported 8.29 crore litres of septage from houses, apartments and institutions to the sewage- treatment plant at Muttathara till January. Individual houses have so far been the biggest beneficiaries of the project. As many as 9,500 households availed online service of septage collection since it was launched in April 2019. Hotels and restaurants made 4,770 bookings while 1,481 collection trips were booked for flats and apartments. Catering services and government institutions have also availed the service with 349 trips and 129 trips, respectively. However, illegal operators eye households who are unaware of the corporation’s official system. Kazhakootam, where a sewage network is absent, has made the most of online septage-collection system with 1,327 bookings. Its neighbouring wards Attipra, Kulathoor and Kadakampally have also recorded over 400 bookings between 2019 and 21. The system functions based on septage receiving, operation and maintenance bylaw which was approved by the corporation council in 2018. The civic body pitched the bylaw to prevent the practice of private tankers dumping septage in waterbodies and by the roadside. The corporation has been issuing licence for online-based collection of septage to private tankers since 2019. Licensed vehicles will be painted dark brown and will be fitted with GPS. There will be a label in white colour denoting septage-collection vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/civic-body-seeks-police-action-against-illegal-septage-carriers/articleshow/80727313.cms||Aswin J Kumar
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Less than 60% frontline staff take the shot in Nagpur division||NAGPUR: Like in case of healthcare workers (HCW), less than 60% frontline workers (FLW) turned up for Covid-19 vaccination in the last two days in six districts of Nagpur division. In three weeks, 97,434 HCW and FLW have taken the jab in 11 districts of Vidarbha. The vaccination programme was started with HCW on January 16. Less than 60% of scheduled HCW including doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc from the region have turned up for the inoculation. Vaccination of frontline staff working in departments falling under the ministry of housing and urban affairs, revenue and home affairs was started in all districts of the region on February 5. As per data available from the office of deputy director of health services, 2,234 (60.64%) FLW as against targeted 3,684 took the jab in Nagpur division on February 5. The sane day, 4,384 (70.83%) HCW against targeted 6,189 turned up for the inoculation. On Saturday, February 6, 1,703 (54.06%) FLW came for vaccination as against targeted 3,150. In case of HCW, 2,631 (59.12%) turned up against target of 4,450. Thus, 3,937 (57.61%) FLW of total 6,834 took the jab in last two days. In Bhandara district, 58 FLW had taken the vaccine on February 3, taking the total to 3,995. The turnout will be even less as the authorities do scheduling for 120-150 beneficiaries at all centres. The achievement is calculated considering target of 100 per centre. In city, only 223 (44.6%) of targeted 500 FLW turned up in the last two days. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had started vaccination of its FLW at two centres on February 5 when 98 (49%) of targeted 200 beneficiaries took the jab. On Saturday, the FLW turnout was 41.67% as 125 out of 300 turned up for the inoculation. At NMC’s two centres, 70 (35%) of targeted 200 took the jab while 55 (55%) of targeted 100 took vaccine at the centre started separately for policemen at police department-run hospital on Saturday. Officials say Covid vaccination is a voluntary exercise and the turnout will increase in the coming days. “We are creating awareness about vaccination. Sufficient number of centres have started provided. Messages are being sent to beneficiaries followed by calls from control room as well as centres,” they said. The NMC is likely to add one more centre for policemen on Monday. In city, overall turnout was only 43.9% on Saturday out of targeted 1,900, 834 took the jab. The achievement was also less in centres in private hospitals which otherwise had surpassed 100% of the target in the last few days. In a move to also cover those who did not turn up as per schedule, the government has allowed them on-the-spot vaccination. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “Registered HCW can take vaccine at any centre and even in other districts if they are out of city. The government has now made such provisions in Co-WIN application,” they said. Only one week is left for completion of first dose of HCW. Second (booster) dose is supposed to commence from February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-60-frontline-staff-take-the-shot-in-nagpur-division/articleshow/80727334.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Police arrest one member of Sampat Nehra gang in Churu||JAIPUR: A day after the gang war in which a notorious fugitive was among four who killed in indiscriminate firing allegedly by Sampat Nehra Gang, Churu police on Saturday arrested an assailant and detained another. Now police are trying to locate three other henchmen who are on the run. According to police, the assailant identified as Sandeep Dhaka (19) was arrested by police. “He was part of the six-member team that visited Dhani Mauji and indulged into incriminate firing killing four persons including fugitive Pradeep Swami,” said Bikaner Range IG Prafful Kumar. He added that another henchman identified as Bhagirath (32) has been taken into police custody. He is seriously injured and undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital. “He will officially be arrested after his discharge. Our team as guard took him in custody at the hospital in Jaipur,” he added. Senior police officers said that nothing much can be commented until the interrogation of the two accused including one arrested and one detained. Meanwhile, the deadlock over conducting of the post mortem of the four deceased was over on Saturday while a team of senior police officers and also of Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police visited the village. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS also visited the crime spot where firing took place on Friday. “Swami sustained 18 bullet wounds. Doctors removed three bullets from the body of another deceased Ishwar Singh. However, the autopsy of the fourth deceased was yet to be done since he was yet to be identified,” said a senior police officer of Hameerwas police station. On Friday, four persons including a fugitive wanted in a murder case were killed in an alleged gang war at a Dhani Mauji hamlet under Hameerwas police station area in Churu district. Two other villagers got injured in the firing at the village. Pradeep Swami was a police witness: Pradeep Swami was police witness in a case of Ajay Jaitpura murder case. Ajay was killed allegedly by Sampat Nehra Gang on January 17, 2018. Police had given security to Pradeep. But he escaped when his name emerged in a murder case in the month of January this year. Police had announced a reward of Rs 2000 on him. His murder was a big jolt for police investigating the Jaitpura murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrests-one-assailant-of-sampat-nehra-gang/articleshow/80727305.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Second dose of Covid vaccine to be administered from February 13 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The health department will start giving second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13 who have completed the cycle of receiving the first dose 28 days ago. The department is receiving another 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine in two days to give pace to the vaccination drive. The state government has begun Covid-19 vaccination for the police and the municipal staff as frontline workers deployed in containing the virus’s spread. The number of session sites have been increased further to accommodate as many frontline workers as possible because the health department needs to start giving the second dose of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13. Police department officials from IPS and RPS to constables reached the vaccination sites in increased numbers and got the Covid-19 jab. “The second dose of the vaccine is also scheduled to start from February 13 for people who were vaccinated on January 16,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization). As many as 45,177 frontline workers including police and municipal workers got vaccinated against the target of 63,703 achieving 71% of the target. The vaccination of healthcare workers is still continuing simultaneously as 53 of them were vaccinated against Covid-19. Including frontline workers and healthcare work, 45,230 were vaccinated against the target of 63,714 achieving target of 71%. The health department report shows that 4,59,652 have already been vaccinated. Health department officials said that among 45,230 persons vaccinated on Saturday, only one case of adverse event following immunization was reported in the state, the case was reported from Ajmer. So far, 167 such adverse event cases have been reported, but all of them were of minor nature, the officials said. In terms of numbers, Rajasthan is at the third place following Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in Covid-19 vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-dose-of-covid-vax-to-start-from-feb-13/articleshow/80727324.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 2.5 lakh poultry birds likely to be culled in stages||The state animal husbandry department on Saturday hinted at staggered culling of around 2.5 lakh poultry birds in 1km radius of four farms at Navapur in Nandurbar after all samples of dead birds from there tested positive for H5N8 strain of avian influenza. A senior animal husbandry department official told TOI, “We are calculating the number of poultry farms in the 1km infected zone where the deaths occurred, and samples tested positive. Preliminary calculations indicate there are 11-12 layer poultry farms in the 1km area, where poultry birds would have to be culled. The number of poultry birds likely to be culled in the infected zone will be nearly 2.5 lakh.” Eight samples from nearly 5,000 dead poultry birds from the four layer poultry units in Navapur were sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal for avian influenza tests. All samples tested positive. Prasanna Pedgaonkar, general manager at Venkateshwara Hatcheries, said large-scale culling operations besides egg destruction were likely in the infected zone in Navapur, which supplies eggs to Surat and Mumbai. The operations could create a shortage of eggs in these cities if demand stays stable, he said. Maharashtra Poultry Farmers’ and Breeders’ Association president Vasanth Kumar C Shetty said, “There has been a 20-25% drop in sale of chicken and eggs across Maharashtra.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-5l-poultry-birds-likely-to-be-culled-in-stages/articleshow/80729058.cms||Neha Madaan
February 7, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur: SIT records statement of victims’ neighbour||KANPUR: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Kanpur on Saturday recorded the statements of an elderly person, who resides in the neighbourhood of a family whose two members were killed in JK Colony area of Chakeri during the violence. “One Narendra Singh and his brother Surendra Singh were battered to death by an unruly mob in the JK Colony area. Their family members had later migrated to Chennai. Their elderly neighbour had saved the lives of other family members of the deceased brothers. On Saturday, SIT investigators met the elderly person, besides a few other persons of the area and recorded their statements as they were the eyewitness to the case,” said SIT SP Balendu Bhushan. The state government had set up SIT on February 5, 2019, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the apex court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking SIT probe into the riots. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP Atul. The other members are retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary. In November 2020, the state government gave another six-month extension — till May 2021 — to the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-records-statement-of-victims-neighbour/articleshow/80727468.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||13kg ovarian tumour removed in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A city hospital on Friday carried out an operation on a 66-year-old woman to remove an ovarian tumour that weighed 13kg. The woman had been suffering from abdominal pain for the past few months, the surgeons said. According to Dr Divyesh Panchal, associate professor of gynaecology at GCS Medical College, the woman could not sit, sleep or walk due to the pain caused by the tumour. “It was a cancerous growth in the ovary. The operation lasted for about three hours as the 32-cm tumour was removed. The woman is fine now,” said Dr Panchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/13kg-ovarian-tumour-excised/articleshow/80727331.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Leftists, tukde-tukde gang defaming Modi’s achievements in agriculture sector: Giriraj||Panaji: Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh on Saturday said that the Left parties and the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang are trying to defame the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the farm sector. The Budget allocation for agriculture has tremendously increased under the Modi government, Singh told reporters at the state BJP headquarters, here. “From 2009 to 2014, (NDA rule) farm budget was Rs 88.8 crore, whereas during the Modi government from 2014 to 2020, the budgetary allocation increased by 448% to Rs 4.9 lakh crore in the interest of the farmers,” he said. “Some people are trying to let down the country over the farm sector. I’m stressing on agriculture because the Left parties and the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang are trying to defame the achievements of Modi in the farm sector,” Singh said. The Union minister said that “despite the ongoing farmers’ protest, there will be an increase in procurement of food grains”. He said that “paddy procurement has gone up by 120% during the NDA regime and pulses procurement has gone up to 400% during NDA regime”. “During 2009 to 2014 (UPA regime), total budget was Rs 65 lakh crore. From 2014 to 2020 (NDA regime), it was Rs 1,63,000 lakh crore, which means an 150% increase, and this has happened under the leadership of Modi,” Singh said. He also said that for the first time in the history of the country, 106 lakh farmers have got money through the direct bank transfer at the rate of Rs 6,000 per farmer. Singh said that the central government had added 1,000 mandis to e-marketing. “We will have 10,000 Farmers Produce Organisation (FPO) model to help farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/leftists-tukde-tukde-gang-defaming-modis-achievements-in-agriculture-sector-giriraj/articleshow/80728141.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Covid recovery rate nearly 98% in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate of UP reached close to 98% on Saturday even as 145 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours. Briefing reporters, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the Covid-19 situation in the state was improving rapidly. “While less than 150 new cases were recorded in the past 24 hours, the recovery rate has reached 97.8%,” he said. The state’s case count stands at 6,01,272 now. The ACS reiterated that though cases are declining, the risk of infection still exists as a result of which adherence to the prevention protocol is crucial. “The risk of contracting the infection is very much there. In fact, four persons succumbed to complications caused by Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 8,686,” he said. Earlier, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had reviewed the Covid situation in the state and directed officials to ensure that social distancing in public places is followed in letter and spirit. The CM also told health officials to ensure that testing is undertaken in full capacity and hospital infrastructure to manage patients remains in place. Virus takes 2 more lives in LucknowAfter a gap of three days, Covid-19 claimed two more lives in the city on Saturday, taking the death toll to to 1182. Still, the death toll in the first six days of February is lower in comparison to January. Only three deaths have been reported since February 1. Meanwhile, 24 more persons tested Covid-19 positive, taking the city tally to 81,531. The figure was the highest in the state and accounted for 16% of the total new cases. In fact, in all the other districts, new infections dropped to single digits on Saturday. Sixteen patients also recovered in the city in 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 79,261 (97% of the caseload).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-recovery-rate-nearly-98-in-up-but-4-more-die/articleshow/80728484.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Opposition misleading farmers, using them for its politics: UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh||LUCKNOW: UP minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh on Saturday accused the Opposition of misleading farmers and using them to regain lost political ground. He accused the Opposition parties of only pretending to champion the cause of farmers even though they were the real reason for their plight since independence till 2014. It was only when Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, he said, that farmers were given priority. With no resolution to the farmers’ protests in sight, the ongoing budget session of Parliament has also been affected with Opposition parties demanding a discussion on the stand-off between the government and farmers. “The government expedited implementation of projects that were pending for several decades by putting them under irrigation scheme. It was the PM who implemented the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and not Congress that sat over the report for years,” Singh said. Enumerating activities undertaken by the state government for farmers, Singh said that farmers are getting 1.5 times the cost of their crops while procurement of seeds and fertilisers has been made much easier. He added that both the PM and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were committed to doubling the income of farmers and, therefore, farmers were in a much better situation currently than they were in the past when they were exploited by successive governments who used them as vote banks. “In the Union budget, special attention has been given to improving condition of villages and farmers. This year, Rs 40,000 crore has been allotted for rural infrastructure while there is plan to have 1,000 modern mandis. The Prime Minister Ownership Scheme will also ensure that villagers have authentic ownership papers for their properties which will deter the practice of illegal occupation of land or properties and facilitate loans for rightful owners,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-misleading-farmers-using-them-for-its-politics-govt/articleshow/80728498.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kanpur||UP: Accused in murder of village head arrested||KANPUR: The Etawah police on Saturday arrested an accused in the murder of a SP leader and village head of Bhadma Sawran, who was shot dead near a Basic school in his village in Basregar police area on February 4. The accused told investigators that village head was killed in an accidental firing from a country-made pistol, which he was possessing, on February 4 evening. The accused has been identified as Brij Kishore alias Chintu of Nagla Layak who was allegedly accompanying village head Raj Kumar alias Bablu Yadav. According to police, after zeroing in on the accused with the help of E -surveillance, he was arrested from near Ritaili Puliya area of the district on Saturday. “Police have also recovered a country-made pistol which the accused had dumped in Nagla Shikariya area,” ASP of Etawah Om Veer Singh said and added, “The accused during questioning stated that SP leader was killed following accidental firing from a country-made pistol. We are exploring other possible angles and are in touch in this regard with the family members of the deceased.” To recall, Raj Kumar alias Bablu Yadav was shot while he was present with his 5 -6 friends near a basic school in Nagla Layak village under the Bhadma Sawran village panchayat, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/accused-in-murder-of-village-head-arrested/articleshow/80727356.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow is goldmine of traditional craftsmanship, says Anand Mahindra||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh is one of the biggest markets of traditional crafts and Lucknow is the goldmine of craftsmanship, chairman of Mahindra Group Anand Mahindra said. Addressing a virtual audience during Sanatkada Festival on Saturday, Mahindra said there should be a synergy between craftsmen and designers for promotion of traditional craft. Referring to the relationship between the corporate sector and art, he said: “Culture and art are parts of any community. There needs to be more robust engagement and continuing dialogue between craftsmen and different design sensibilities for promotion and commercialisation. If we bridge the gap between the two sectors with real dialogue, globally and internationally, we can achieve better results.” Remembering his mother, late Indira Mahindra, in whose memory the Sanatkada festival is hosted, Mahindra said her stories make him feel connected to Lucknow. “I have grown up listening to stories of the time she spent in the city and as a professor of history at IT College. In one such anecdote, she told me how she and her two close friends, Bina Rai and Asha Mathur, impulsively decided to leave Lucknow and travel to Bombay to achieve their dream of entering Bollywood. Whenever she told me this story I would feel in awe of how strong my mother and her friends were that they didn’t feel any oppression or suppression in those days as women,” he said. “She always said though she didn’t come from a rich family, but her riches came from living in Lucknow,” Mahindra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-is-goldmine-of-traditional-craftsmanship/articleshow/80728410.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC tells college to pay student Rs 25k||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court ordered an ayurveda college to pay Rs 25,000 to a student besides the fees for retaining his admission even after Gujarat Ayurveda University cancelled his admission and ordered that his fees be returned. The case involved Utsav Patel, who cleared his board exams in 2019 with 43.9% and got admission to the Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) course at JS Ayurveda Mahavidhyalaya in Nadiad. Patel cleared the NEET exam and got admission in the all-India quota through the centralized admission process. When the university learned that students had been admitted to BAMS courses despite scoring less than 50% in the board exams, which is the minimum eligibility for admission. In February 2020, the university informed the colleges to cancel such admissions and return their fees to the students. The college did not do this for three months. When Patel learned of the university’s decision to cancel his admission, he moved the high court stating that it was not his fault and that he paid fees and continued to attend classes online during the lockdown. The university as well as the central government reiterated that the admission was cancelled because the student did not fulfill the eligibility criteria. Moreover, Patel was not the only student whose admission was cancelled. The college, on the other hand, expressed ignorance about the affair. This infuriated Justice Biren Vaishnav, who observed, “Much could be said about the recalcitrance and negligence of the college for which the student has suffered but for the college granting admission in the face of him being ineligible and the petitioner being constrained to approach this court and particularly when the petitioner continued to pursue his studies albeit online with the college’s stand being that it only was an executing and implementing authority shows a complete indiscreet response.” The court rejected the student’s petition against admission cancellation, but ordered the college to pay Rs 25,000 to him for forcing him into litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-tells-college-to-pay-student-rs-25k/articleshow/80727337.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Surat||Range Operation Group dissolved after graft case||Surat: Range Operation Group (ROG) of Surat range police was dissolved on Friday after the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) trapped an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) while accepting a bribe of Rs 4.5 lakh. ROG was dissolved by the inspector general of police, Rajkumar Pandian. Total 11 cops were sent back to their district of actual posting. These cops were working in ROG on deputation. Earlier in January, Rapid Response (RR) cells of all IGP offices in the state were dissolved by the state government following arrest of Prakashsinh Raol, an ASI in RR cell of Ahmedabad range IGP office, by ACB while accepting a bribe of Rs 50 lakh near Anand. Surat was the only range office where ROG existed. ROG started in 2016 after the Surat range IGP office was developed as a model office. G R Jadeja, police sub-inspector (PSI) of ROG was relieved and sent to Valsad. He has been posted in Vapi town police station. Jadeja was also holding charge of PSI in RR Cell. Among other cops one woman ASI, four head constables and five constables were sent to different districts of south Gujarat. On Thursday, ACB caught Mahadev Kishan Sevaikar, ASI of ROG, and his aide Vipul Ashok Balar, an oil trader, from the office of Balar while the former was accepting a bribe of Rs 4.5 lakh. The third accused, Dipesh Hasmukh Maisuriya, a head constable in local crime branch (LCB) of Surat district, is yet to get arrested. Both were produced in a court on Saturday and remanded to police custody till Tuesday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/range-operation-group-dissolved-after-graft-case/articleshow/80727240.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Minimum temperature remains above normal in city, state||Ahmedabad: The citizens felt the need to increase speed of the ceiling fan on Saturday as the minimum temperature reached 14.7 degrees celsius, 1.5 degrees higher than the normal. The maximum temperature of the city was 28.1 degrees, which was 1.8 degrees lower than the normal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast mentioned that there could be gradual decrease in minimum temperature during next 48 hours. ‘Thereafter no large change during subsequent three days,’ mentioned the forecast. Except Naliya, all other weather stations recorded minimum temperature above 10 degrees celsius. Naliya recorded minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees. Okha had the highest minimum temperature of 20 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minimum-temperature-remains-above-normal-in-city-state/articleshow/80727338.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||‘Can a teacher enforce Covid protocol in class of 24 kids?’||LUCKNOW: A day after the state government announced the reopening of schools for classes VI to VIII from February 10 and classes I to V from March 1, a number of parents on Saturday said that authorities should not rush with the decision because Covid-19 has not yet subsided. Since children in these classes are not old enough to take necessary precautions against the infection on their own, and round-the-clock vigil in schools is not possible, the administration should wait for transmission rate to drop to negligible level before restarting full-fledged classroom teaching, they added. “When it is difficult for me to make my son and daughter follow Covid-19 safety norms like regular hand washing at home, how will a teacher who has responsibility of over two dozen students look after them. When my kids will see their friends after a long time, they will forget everything and start playing unmindful of the risk,” said Shweta Bhagwani, whose kids are in class I and III. Another parent, Mehtab Rizvi, said, “With all students from class I to XII going to school, it would be difficult to maintain social distance in school vans and buses. We already know how kids are packed in these vehicles. The other option for parents would be to drop kids to schools and pick them up. But, not everyone can do this. Many would have to use public transport, which is unsafe.” Anand Mishra said, “For long, my son had been requesting to play with friends in a park, so I allowed him for a day. He came back after exchanging a cricket kit, water bottle and even a superhero mask with friends. In such a case, how will teachers check children, especially in junior classes”. Renu Verma, whose son is in class II, said “It is tough to make a six-year-old understand social distancing. He is curious about everything and will forget all precautions when in the classroom.” (With inputs from Niharika Ranjan, Yashita Arora and Pragati Shukla)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/can-a-teacher-enforce-covid-protocol-in-class-of-24-kids/articleshow/80728390.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University students promoted to 2nd year without exams||PUNE: First-year undergraduate students of the School of Open Learning at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) were promoted to the next year last year but they haven’t received the complete study material of the first year yet. In fact, many students in BA and BCom courses, have not registered for the second year stating that they do not trust a university that neither gives books on time nor takes examinations. Students said that hardly three or four lectures were conducted at the registered study centre but even the lectures ceased once the lockdown was imposed. With no books or online lectures, the students were left to fend for themselves. Some of the videos uploaded on the official website covered only a few topics in a chapter or two from their syllabus, a student said. A student registered with the School of Open Learning said, “I am a working professional and I sought admission in 2019. There were no books, only few lectures were held initially, no online lectures during the lockdown, no update on exams or books. All we got were empty promises. Finally, they told us that we have been promoted to second year and apparently internal exams were going to be held. Nothing has been communicated to us on that front. I didn’t register for the second year because what is the point of getting a degree without even giving the exams?” Anita Hinduja (52), another student, said, “I have grown up children and I really wanted to complete my education. So, when I heard the promises made by the university, I immediately took admission. I even attended four lectures but that was it. Later, I did not get any books or updates by the university. Even now, I only have books for 4 out of 6 subjects but there is no update on exams.” Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of SPPU promised to hold a meeting with the head of the department on Monday and set up a committee to look into the issue. Varsity officials also hope to resolve a way out for students, who did not register for the second year because of these problems. Karmalkar gave an assurance that he would look into the issues on priority and the academic quality of distance learning programs will be ensured. He further added that printing and distribution of study material had been adversely affected due to the lockdown. However, material for 145 out of 186 subjects has been distributed while the remaining is in the pipeline, the vice chancellor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-students-promoted-to-2nd-year-without-exams/articleshow/80727375.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Spa in Vastrapur mall raided on suspicion of prostitution||Ahmedabad: City police on Friday evening raided a spa being run at a mall in Vastrapur after they got an input that a flesh trade racket was being run there, but police did not find anything and ended up filing a case for violation of the police commissioner’s notification pertaining to maintaining CCTV footage. According to the FIR filed with Vastrapur police, cops got a message from the control room on Friday evening that a person had informed police that a prostitution racket was run from the spa in the mall. A team of Vastrapur police reached the spot and began an inquiry, with the owner of the spa identified as Nilesh Valand, 24, a resident of Suvarna Apartments in Nirnaynagar. Valand told cops that they had got a false message and prostitution racket was being run. Police then told Valand to show CCTV footage of the spa after which he told them the cameras had not been functional for a long time. As the spa owner could not produce the footage and the cameras were not working, police booked him for violation of the city police commissioner’s notification mandating installation and maintenance of CCTV cameras. The notification also states that footage must be given to cops whenever they ask for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spa-in-vastrapur-mall-raided-on-suspicion-of-prostitution/articleshow/80727400.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||‘Trust Ravi Naik to rebuild presence in 5 constituencies’||Panaji: Ponda MLA Ravi Naik remains part of the Congress fold, said Goa desk in-charge and former Karnataka Congress chief Dinesh Gundu Rao on Saturday. He said that “emotions were running high” when Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Congress no longer counts Naik as a party MLA. Rao went further and said that the party has shown trust in Naik’s loyalty and ability by making him responsible for five constituencies where the party is looking to rebuild its presence. “It was a situation when there were some emotions running high,” said Rao. “Ravi Naik has attended today’s meeting and we are giving him responsibilities for five constituencies. He has to do the membership which he is willing to do. I don’t think there is a problem.” In September, Chodankar had burst out against Naik and said that there is a vacuum in the Ponda constituency. Chodankar’s statements came after Naik’s sons – Ritesh and Roy – had formally joined BJP last month in presence of party Goa president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik and others. “Legally speaking, Ravi Naik remains to be Congress MLA but we have stopped counting him as our legislator. We know that he will be quitting the Congress as both his sons are in the BJP and he wont let them be there without him,” Chodankar had said. Rao said that the issue was discussed within the party and settled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trust-ravi-naik-to-rebuild-presence-in-5-constituencies/articleshow/80728195.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Chakka jam across Wardha in support of farmers’ protest||Wardha: In support of the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, farmers outfit of the district staged chakka jam at three places — Nagpur-Wardha highway at Pavnar, Nagpur- Hyderabad national highway at Hinganghat and Nagpur-Amravati highway at Talegaon on Saturday. Farmers have been agitating since last 53 days in the district in support. Taking national flags, farmers demanded repeal of the three farm laws. Due to chakka jam at Pavnar, traffic was affected for half an hour. Police detained leaders of Kisan Andolan Samanavy Samiti including Avinash Kakade, Sudhir Pangul, Manoj Chandurkar, Yashwant Zade, Milind Mohad, and hundreds of others. On Saturday, three minsters were on district tour — Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, district guardian minister Sunil Kedar and state minister Bachu Kadu. At Talegaon, former Congress MLA Amar Kade led the agitation and staged chakka jam for half an hour while some other farmer organizations led the agitation at Hinganghat where traffic on national highway was affected for half an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chakka-jam-across-wardha-in-support-of-farmers-protest/articleshow/80726378.cms||Balwant Dhage
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Registration from February 10 for Abhyudaya Scheme||LUCKNOW: The state government will launch its Abhyudaya scheme from February 16, with registrations beginning from February 10. The scheme will provide free training to students from poor families and rural areas to prepare for competitive exams. Coaching centres will be operated from established colleges and universities. CM Yogi Adityanath has said that the system of the UP Academy of Administration and Management should be used for the classes. The training will help students prepare for exams like civil services, NEET, JEE, etc. Coaching will be provided both online and offline. In offline classes, lectures will also be taken by IAS, police, forest and PCS officials. For NDA and CDS, principals of sainik schools will take classes. “Guest lecturers will also be invited to take classes. These sessions will help address all concerns related to preparations for competitive exams,” said a government spokesperson. ‘Academy to run centres at the division level’“Students will be told how to prepare, with tips on ways to answer questions, important aspects of preparation, etc,” the spokesperson added. The academy will prepare a question bank and make it available on the website. Study material from various coaching institutes will also be made available to students. The academy has also been given the responsibility of running centres at the division level. It will also conduct an eligibility test at a pre-determined time each year for selection of candidates. A state level e-learning content platform is being prepared. The platform will contain videos from various officials on their suggestions for exams. Live study sessions and seminars will also be held online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/registration-from-feb-10-for-abhyudaya-scheme/articleshow/80728578.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||At Rs 18,996 crore, Gujarat third in loans to MSMEs||AHMEDABAD: Loan amount worth Rs 18,996 crore was extended to MSMEs in Gujarat under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till January 21, 2021, according to data tabled in the lower house of the Parliament. This makes Gujarat the third-highest borrower under the scheme, lagging behind Maharashtra (Rs 30,324 crore) and Tamil Nadu (Rs 20,903 crore). However, even as the value of borrowing is higher, merely 2.84 lakh borrowers have availed sanction under this scheme, according to the data by Union ministry of finance. This means, fewer MSMEs have availed loans under ECLGS, rolled out as part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Experts said Gujarat being a manufacturing-heavy state and being home to several MSMEs, which reeled from liquidity crisis, the borrowings in the state were high. Primary borrowers include those from textiles, engineering goods and even chemical sector. “Ticket size of loans availed by industry players in state was significantly higher and therefore, the loan sanction amount was larger in Gujarat,” said a banker, explaining the high amount of borrowing. “Similar trend is also observed in other manufacturing-heavy states such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu,” the banker said. Industry players however, also said that MSMEs in Gujarat were comparatively placed better because the lockdown eased faster in Gujarat as against other states. “Compared to other states, the lockdown eased quicker here. Deferment of various dues by the government helped. Cash flow was restored early and input tax credit dues along with other dues were released on a war footing. This helped ease liquidity faster here,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham – Gujarat state council. Severa; measures taken to boost MSMEs include Rs. 50,000 crore equity infusion through MSME Fund of Funds; new Revised criteria for classification of MSMEs; New Registration of MSMEs through ‘Udyam Registration’ for Ease of Doing Business, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-rs-18996-crore-gujarat-third-in-loans-to-msmes/articleshow/80727366.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 7, 2021||India||J&K hails 4G return with calls, downloads||Excited video calls to kin, frenetic downloading of books and class notes and sharing of memes on social media marked the first 24 hours of 4G being restored in J&K after 550 days. Usually, 20-year-old Munawar Mehraj’s parents would call him once a day to check on their son studying engineering in Chandigarh. On Saturday, Mehraj, who left home in Quilmuqam village, Bandipora district in September last year, was inundated with calls. “I have got at least 20 calls since morning from my parents and relatives. We could see each other’s faces clearly and voices didn’t crack,” he said. He was even affectionately warned for not eating enough and his unruly mop of hair. Twitter reactions ran the gamut of the sombre to the humorous — thanking Rihanna for restoring 4G, creating new versions of the “Utho Anarkali” meme and posting before and after net speeds. Students were among the most relieved. Danish Lone, who is in final year of his medical radiation and imaging technology course, says it was a struggle to log on to class every morning. “I sat up till 3am and downloaded over a dozen YouTube videos that I need for my lessons and a textbook. I have exams in March. Now, I will be able to study for them.” Sourabh Gupta, a 21-year-old Jammu-based law student, faced similar connectivity problems despite a WiFi connection. “The WiFi connection was even worse than 2G at times,” he said. On Friday, as news of 4G coming back began to break, the first thing he did was check the speed to see if it was actually working. “I have missed so many foundational classes. Now, I will have to find a way to make up for it.” While the world was getting real-time updates on Covid, J&K was trailing far behind, says influenza expert and associate professor at Srinagar’s Government Medical college Dr Nasir ul Hassan. “As soon as I could access high speed internet, I checked some medical information online for a patient suffering from a neurological disease under my care for the last four-five days. However, I lost the patient later in the day because it was too late,” he said. Video calls were impossible to make earlier forcing patients to travel up to the hospital even during the pandemic. “Telemedicine became impossible. I had a patient who complained of convulsions but there was no way to tell if it was a seizure. She had a video recording but could not send it. Finally, she had to come to the hospital,” he added. When 4G internet was restored, entrepreneur Sheikh Sami Ullah’s social media feed was filled with screenshots of before and after internet speeds. “The internet is like oxygen for small businesses,” says Sami, co-founder of online logistics firm Fast Beetle that caters to over 500 small businesses. Even after Fast Beetle optimised their apps for 2G networks, it took customers almost 15 minutes just to download the app. “4G is a relief, now we can reach people again,” says the 29-year-old. Srinagar-based Umaira Qayoom Khan and Binish Bashir Khan also hope the reintroduction of 4G will help them rebuild their crochet businesses. The two friends have set up Craft World Kashmir on Instagram, and before the shutdown they were getting around 30 orders a day and had trained and hired 16 local girls from far-flung areas. The shutdown was a big setback and even with 2G, they could only recover 70% of their original business. “It was like being back in the stone age. Each post would take ages to upload and we would curse our fate,” says Umaira. Others are already reaping the benefits of 4G. Insha Rasool, a research scholar turned organic farmer, says she’s already sold over half of her new batch of 500kg pickles in just a few hours since posting it on Friday night. (With inputs from Ketaki Desai) Watch 4G mobile internet services back in J&K, locals express happiness||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-hails-4g-return-with-calls-downloads/articleshow/80729226.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||‘Maharashtra underperformed the most in handling Covid’||MUMBAI: Notwithstanding the claims of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and health minister Rajesh Tope about the state effectively tackling the coronavirus pandemic, the national Economic Survey presented to Parliament last week has stated that Maharashtra has massively underperformed in its containment of the crisis. “Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat have restricted the case spread the best, Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have saved most of the lives, while Maharashtra has underperformed the most in restricting the spread of cases and in saving lives,” the survey has said. According to records of the state’s public health department, a total of 20.3 lakh cases have been reported in the state, and while 19.5 lakh persons have recovered, 51,255 have lost their lives. The survey has compared Maharashtra with Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, noting that these states have the most population. Bihar and Maharashtra have populations almost identical in size, but Maharashtra has a lower population density than Bihar and UP, it has said. Yet UP and Bihar have recorded far fewer cases than Maharashtra, according to the report. The survey says highly populous and densely-populated states like UP and Bihar have managed the pandemic well. “This ultimately held India in good stead. In terms of deaths, Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have managed it (the crisis) effectively. India restricted the Covid-19 spread by 37 lakh cases and saved more than one lakh lives,” the report has stated. According to the survey, early and more stringent lockdowns have been effective in controlling the spread of coronavirus across states. The state’s principal secretary (public health) Pradeep Vyas did not respond to TOI’s query on the report. The state’s task force head Sanjay Oke said he is yet to study the findings of the Economic Survey. “In my opinion, Maharashtra has performed well compared to several states. In fact, our patient tracking record was one of the best. But since the Economic Survey has made critical observations, we will have to study its contents,” Oke said. He said the number of cases and deaths are to be seen in the context of density of population. “We will have to consider the population ratio vis-à-vis the number of cases and deaths,” Oke added. The survey is otherwise silent on the performance of the Maharashtra government during the pandemic. “A comprehensive analysis should have been provided before drawing conclusions on poor performance,” a senior public health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-underperformed-the-most-in-handling-covid/articleshow/80728353.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Confident of Tesla investing in Maharashtra: Industries minister Subhash Desai||PUNE: Scotching rumours that Maharashtra had lost the much-hyped Tesla investment to Karnataka, state industries minister Subhash Desai on Saturday said he was confident about the auto major choosing Maharashtra to set up its manufacturing facility. “Tesla has not gone to Karnataka. This is a misunderstanding. Tesla has decided to set up a workshop and a showroom there. Such a showroom will also open in Mumbai. They want to start a manufacturing facility in the country. However, before launching a full-fledged manufacturing plant, they want to showcase six electric vehicle models in India to see which of them will get maximum response. So, they are first going to sell. These cars on sale will be brought from the US and Europe and sold here. They will select one of the cars to be manufactured in India for the Indian market and then decide where to set up their manufacturing facility,” said Desai. Speaking to reporters after attending the first convocation ceremony of Symbiosis Skills and Professional University as the chief guest, the minister said, “The decision on where this will be set up is still not taken. Our discussions with Tesla representatives is under way. Aaditya Thackeray (cabinet minister of tourism and environment) and I had a video conference with them. I am sure that they are in the know of the industrial ecosystem in the state. Knowing our commitment to businesses, I am confident that they will choose us.” The guest of honour Ravi Gogia, president of Fiat India Automobiles Pvt Ltd, in his address advised students to continue with learning throughout their life and love whatever work they take up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confident-of-tesla-investing-in-state-industries-minister-desai/articleshow/80727406.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 7, 2021||Pune||Virtual Asia Economic Dialogue in month-end||Pune: The fifth edition of the Asia Economic Dialogue, organised by the Pune International Centre and the Ministry of External Affairs, will be held from February 26 to 28. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Union commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan as well as other serving and retired diplomats and trade representatives across the world will be part of various discussion panels at theAsia Economic Dialogue, which will be streamed live on YouTube. The theme of the conference is post-pandemic business and trade dynamics, such as revamped and re-aligned global supply chains, future of global finance, status of the World Trade Organisation, among others. Other guests expected at the virtual event include industrialists Rajiv Bajaj and Naushad Forbes as well as foreign ministers from some of the country’s closest trade and diplomatic allies, such as Maldives’ Abdulla Shahid and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virtual-asia-economic-dialogue-in-month-end/articleshow/80727434.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Adopt new technique for better roads: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the public works department to study the use of full depth reclamation technique for road construction and use it for roads being built under the PM Gramin Sadak Yojana. The technique uses the entire crust of an existing road for relaying it, ensuring that no additional stone aggregate is required. A government spokesperson said this process ensures quick construction and better quality roads. The CM said modern technique has helped in making life comfortable and easy and new technology should be embraced with open mind. He said PWD should immediately study the technique to see how it can be used. Technical experts from IIT Chennai and IIT Roorkee joined the meeting virtually and shared their expertise and opinions on the new technology. Additional chief secretary (rural development and panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh said the Centre has given approval for proposals for 898 roads and five bridges with a cumulative length of more than 6,287 km, costing Rs 4,178 crore under batch-1 of the PM Gram Sadak Yojana Phase-III 2020-21. The construction of 299 roads measuring over 2,416km with estimated cost of Rs 3,046 crore will be done using the full depth reclamation technique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/adopt-new-technique-for-better-roads-cm/articleshow/80728524.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Bollywood spin & quirky one-liners: UP Police blitz a rage on Twitter||LUCKNOW: Buoyed by Bollywood chartbuster songs, sassy one-liners interspersed with bold headers, UP Police’s campaign blitz on twitter to drive home a strong social message has put social media on fire. Taking cue from a popular song — ‘Tu haan kar ya na kar tu hai meri Kiran’ —from Bollywood flick, Darr, the police hammered out a bold message for stalkers and jilted lovers that ‘NO’ from heroine Kiran to her suitor, Rahul Mehra, is the final word. And crossing the line would be treading into crime. More celluloid innovations by UP Police are trending. Clips like the one from Dilwaale Dulhaniya Lejaynge (DDLJ) showing Simran sprinting on a railway platform to catch a train carries a statutory warning — Boarding a moving train can be dangerous. A poster of the film, Jab We Met, where hero Shahid Kapoor and Kareena Kapoor are on a bicycle with a helmet was posted by UP police with a cheeky spin and pun — ‘Jab We Hel-met’. Wordsmiths working on the UP Police twitter handle throw up more surprises with brilliant turn of phrase, making it perhaps the only police handle to launch a campaign against social malaises like patriarchy, workplace harassment, sexual assault and create awareness on road safety. For gender sensitivity, a meme on eve of Makar Sankranti shows a man’s kite soaring above a woman’s kite, but with a strong message that women have bigger responsibilities like looking after children and doing multiple chores. Similarly, a meme of US Senator Bernie Sanders was also used to heighten awareness on crime against women. Likewise, a small clip of the ‘touch-me-not’ plant which shrinks when touched carries a bold caption — Uninvited touch is violence against women and a punishable offence. “UP Police’s social media cell has been adequately equipped to address public grievances & counter rumours to enforce law & order. A dedicated team led by gazetted officers monitor it round-the-clock,” said ADG, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar, in charge of UP police social media cell. ADG women and child safety organisation, Neera Rawat, said, “We are supplementing our offline campaign on gender sensitisation by a concerted online campaign to reach out to more citizens.” Speaking to TOI, UP ATS additional SP, who also looks after UP police/WPL twitter handle, Rahul Srivastava, said, “This is first attempt in the country where the police launched an engaging social media campaign through Bollywood songs, sketches & animations on serious and sensitive issues like patriarchy, sexism, gender prejudice & stereotypes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bwood-spin-quirky-one-liners-up-police-blitz-a-rage-on-twitter/articleshow/80728565.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Engineer beats wife for dowry to buy SUV||Ahmeabad: A woman from the Chandkheda filed a case of domestic violence against her husband and five in-laws on Friday alleging that she was beaten often over a demand to seek dowry from her parents so that her husband could buy an SUV. The woman, 27, states in her FIR with Chandkheda police that she got married to the man, 32, from IOC Road in Chandkheda on May 11, 2018. “Earlier, I was living happily at my in-laws’ place but six months later my husband suddenly began demanding an SUV in dowry. He told me to get Rs 15 lakh from my father so that he could buy an SUV car,” she states in the FIR.She states that her father sought time for some days to arrange the money, but her husband felt offended and created a ruckus at her parents’ home in inebriated condition. After that incident, her father managed around Rs 2 lakh so that he could make the down payment for the SUV and assured the accused that he would pay THE EMI. However, the accused spent all the money in booze parties with friends, she alleges in the FIR. She states that he again began seeking money from her father and as he could not give money again, he drover her away forcing her to stay at her parents’ place. The woman finally approached Chandkheda police and filed a complaint of domestic violence and under dowry prohibition law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/engineer-beats-wife-for-dowry-to-buy-suv/articleshow/80727439.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||MP meets industry association leaders||Gandhinagar: Rajya Sabha MP and BJP’s Gujarat in-charge, Bhupedra Yadav, on Saturday met representatives of over 50 industry and business associations to discuss the benefits of the recently announced Union Budget. Yadav was in the state to attend the state parliamentary board meeting to finalise candidates of the local body elections. Yadav said, “I met representatives of several business and industries associations like Alang ship breaking of Bhavnagar, brass parts of Jamnagar, Surat-based associations and others. All of them appreciated the Union Budget aimed at Atmanirbhar Bharat.” Yadav said that within 48 hours of the lockdown, PM Modi had announced Rs 2.5 lakh crore package for the needy citizens. The Atmanirbhar Bharat dream took shape during the lockdown and the country is now witnessing its benefits. “Associations said that they were fearing that they may face new taxes due to Covid impact, instead the Budget increased assistance. The health budget has almost doubled. We could also develop and start two ‘swadeshi’ vaccines,” Yadav said. The BJP leader said that the government has pursued steps to promote ease of doing business and rationalized corporate laws. “The PM has taken keen interest in doubling farmers’ income and education has been given high priority in the Budget. The scrap policy has also got wide appreciation from the industry,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mp-meets-industry-association-leaders/articleshow/80727445.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: The sweet challenge during the coronavirus pandemic||Uttar Pradesh is the largest producer of sugar and sugarcane in the country. In the crushing season for 2019-20, total sugar produced by 119 sugar mills in UP was 126.37 lakh tons. The total value of the sugarcane price being paid to the farmers is about Rs 36 crore. The sugarcane industry provides direct employment to 75,000 persons and indirect employment to 1.5 lakh persons, in addition to the 10 lakh daily wage labourers who harvest the cane. The industry caters to around 50 lakh cane growers and around 300 lakh dependents of cane growers and labourers. Sugar industry is seasonal in nature. The present crushing season had experienced an unprecedented situation in wake of Covid-19 pandemic. In March 2020, when 119 sugar mills were midway in operations, the pandemic forced the government to implement a complete lockdown. Most of the business and industrial activities came to a complete halt in the country. However, the shutting down of sugar mills in the middle of the season could have had an extremely detrimental effect on the sugar mills and especially on the agrarian economy as a whole. When the pandemic forced the industrial operations to a complete halt, the department, even at this juncture, consciously decided to keep the 119 mills in operation. At this juncture, about 400 lakh tons of sugarcane was standing in the field waiting to be crushed. The delayed harvesting would not only have affected the quality of the sugarcane but would have also impacted the recovery of sugar and would have also led to huge losses to the already distressed sugar industry. It could have, additionally, disturbed the whole cropping pattern leading to a disastrous impact on the production of the next cropping season. This unprecedented situation required some bold and unprecedented decisions, quick thinking, meticulous planning, effective execution, strict enforcement, resource mobilization, inventory management, confidence building in stakeholders, inter-State coordination and, above all, the will of the government committed to the welfare of the farmers to allow the continuance of the operations of the mills, and thereby bestowing confidence on the sugar industry and cane development department of UP. The department at the government and the commissionerate levels immediately assessed the challenges at hand, and rose to the occasion with dedication and meticulous execution of the planning to ensure the continuing operations of the sugar mills, and thereby providing huge relief to lakhs of farmers and sugar millers. It started on March, 18, 2020, when the first instructions by the cane commissioner were issued to sanitize all the offices and alerting the mills to run awareness campaigns for farmers on Covid-19. All field offices were advised to run awareness campaigns using social media platforms and also through the traditional advertising methods such as banners, posters, pamphlets among all the stakeholders. The thumb-scanning machine for biometric attendance in the office was replaced by face recognition technology. All the sugar mills were advised on March 20 to ensure that the social distancing guidelines were being effectively implemented. It was advised to avoid crowding by the employees, farmers, vendors in the mill campuses and also at the cane purchase centres. The farmers were told to wait in their vehicles only until their turn arrives. All the millers were instructed to create adequate hand washing facilities in the cane yards and mill campuses to ensure hygiene. Markings were also made on the ground in the waiting zones. During the lockdown period, it was ensured that there was sufficient availability of labour for cutting the crops and the cane transportation, movement of farmers, factory workers, khandsari units and inter-state movement of trucks carrying consumable items for the use of sugar mills like HDPE bags, sulphur and lime occurred seamlessly. To ensure the same, a nodal officer was also appointed in the cane commissioner office. Coordination with the oil companies was made to ensure the supply of lubricants for the sugar mills. To avoid unnecessary movement during the lockdown, a decision was taken to do away with the requirement of printed cane slips that was normally provided to the farmers. Instead all the mills were advised to message on the registered mobile numbers of the farmers for the purpose of cane weighment. They were also advised that in case of closure of the sugar mills, no worker would be allowed to move out of their place and the mills would make all arrangements for their boarding, lodging and food during the lockdown. Interestingly, the operation of sugar mills, which also had the distillery unit, was necessary because of the surge in demand for sanitizers in the country in wake of the pandemic. The state excise department on March 19 appointed a nodal officer as a single point clearance for ensuring that alcohol was available for all the licensees of sanitizer manufacturing. The state excise department issued the licenses for sanitizer manufacturing to the distilleries in just two days, which was an unprecedented feat. By the end of June, 27 sugar mills, 12 distilleries, 12 other institutions and 39 sanitizer manufacturing companies were producing about six lakh litres of hand sanitizer per day and the total 90 units produced 1,30,95,900 lakh litres of hand sanitizer in UP. During the pandemic, the department also undertook the social initiative of sanitization of villages, towns, public offices and hospitals. Till June 30, a total 3,254 villages, 184 towns and 2,396 institutions had been sanitized by the sugar mills. In addition, the department did not allow the performance of all the routine work such as movement of cane seeds, facilities of agriculture inputs, cane dues payment to farmers, diversion orders of cane in certain mills, to be hampered due to the lockdown. (The writer is additional chief secretary, sugar industry & cane development, UP govt. Views expressed here are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/the-sweet-challenge-during-the-coronavirus-pandemic/articleshow/80728478.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Four abuse, attack 2 dalit men for entering OBC locality||AHMEDABAD: Two dalit men from Vadaj were thrashed by four men for entering an OBC neighbourhood, states FIR filed with Vadaj police. Prakash Makwana, 28, a resident of Vankarvas in Nava Vadaj village, stated in his FIR that he and his friend Karan Parmar were standing outside Karan’s house, which is adjacent to a Bharwad neighbourhood. Four men — Sanjay Bharwad, Akshay Bharwad, Nikhil Bharwad and Snehal Bharwad — approached them and asked them why they were standing near Bharwadvaas. “Before we could say anything, they began telling us to go away and abusing us,” Prakash stated in his FIR. He further stated that the four men began hurling caste-based abuses at them. “They told us to neither come to their vaas (neighbourhood) nor do any business in their area,” Prakash stated in the FIR. He alleged that the four also threatened to kill them. After this, the assailants fled and the victims called the police control roon. A team of Vadaj police reached the spot and filed a complaint for causing hurt, use of abusive words, criminal intimidation and abetment under the IPC, along with the charges under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the four accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-abuse-attack-2-dalit-men-for-entering-obc-locality/articleshow/80727422.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||MVA will be more careful to let events like Elgar: Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi ( MVA) government will be more careful in the future while granting permission to organisations like Elgar Parishad for holding events and won’t allow anybody to tarnish the image of the state, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Saturday. The Rajya Sabha MP was reacting to allegations that former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student Sharjeel Usmani hurt religious sentiments during his speech at the Elgar Parishad in Pune on January 30.  The Pune police have booked him under relevant charges and are investigating the case. “We are in a democracy and we stand for freedom of speech. Hence, the state government allowed the Elgar Parishad event. It seems they have taken undue advantage,” said Raut, who was in the city to attend a party event. “Police will investigate as to what what was the ultimate aim of the organisers of Elgar Parishad and bring it to the notice of the government and also society,” he said. Raut said police will take action against Usmani and bring him to Maharashtra from Uttar Pradesh. The Sena leader, meanwhile, raised questions on state governor B S Koshyari not giving his nod for 12 MLC members whose names have been recommended by the state government. “The list was submitted to the governor long back. If the central government stands by the Constitution, it should recall the governor immediately because he has failed to adhere to the Constitution of India,” said Raut. Raut also raised the issue of farmers’ agitation and said, “However good the farm laws may be, but farmers do not think so. Hence, the government should take a few steps back, let the situation calm down and move fresh proposals. If violence breaks out on the issue, the BJP will be responsible for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-will-be-more-careful-to-let-events-like-elgar-raut/articleshow/80729068.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Schools to reopen with just 50% attendance every day||LUCKNOW: Only 50% students of a school will be allowed to attend classes on a particular day only with the written consent of parents. All will have to wear face cover and schools must avoid functions and celebration of festivals where physical distancing is not possible. Proper sanitisation must be undertaken before and after schools open. These are a few of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday for reopening of junior schools from February 10 and primary schools from March 1. The government has released a weekly class-wise timetable for attendance so that all classes do not attend school every day. Classes 1, 5, and 6 will come on Monday and Thursday; classes 2, 4 and 7 on Tuesday and Friday while classes 3 and 8 will come on Wednesday and Saturday. Depending on the total enrolment, only 50% students will attend classes on a particular day. Schools should discourage awards and incentives for perfect attendance, the directive said. Besides, students willing to study only from home with the consent of parents should be allowed to do so. Follow-up on the progress of learning outcomes of all such students should be planned appropriately by schools. In school, there must be at least 6-foot distance between students. Desks in classrooms must also be placed accordingly. Physical distancing shall also be maintained in staff rooms, office and other areas. If classrooms are not spacious, classes may be held in larger rooms such as library. Schools can run in two shifts in case of high enrolment. For new admissions, only guardians will be consulted. Children need not accompany them. Spitting ban on campus, school transport to be sanitized tooWhile group activities must be avoided, assembly may be conducted outdoors, maintaining distance. Before reopening, schools must collect a self-declaration from students and parents on their health condition and recent travels. Posters should be put up at appropriate places such as classroom, library, washrooms, drinking water areas, parking, entry and exits reminding students about distancing. There will be a total ban on spitting on campus. All schools must ensure thorough cleaning of campus and disinfecting of all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, water tanks, kitchens, washrooms, among others. No student should be involved in the cleanliness drive. Schools have also been asked to ensure water, sanitation and waste management facilities along with compliance of environmental cleaning and decontamination procedures. All schools must ensure proper hand washing facilities and availability of thermometers and disinfectants. The SOP also directs schools to ensure sanitization of school transport. After classes resume, schools must carry out frequent sanitization of commonly touched surfaces like doorknobs etc and all learning material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/days-fixed-for-different-classes-to-ensure-50-turnout-in-schools/articleshow/80728601.cms||Isha Jain
February 7, 2021||Lucknow||UP takes cue from Union Budget, seeks Sainik schools in 18 divisions||LUCKNOW: After the Union budget laid out a plan for opening 100 more Sainik schools in the country, the Uttar Pradesh government sent a proposal to the Centre to set up one Sainik school in each of the 18 divisions in the state. Currently, there are three Sainik schools in Uttar Pradesh. “The government wants to impart quality education and instil a feeling of nationalism in schoolchildren. So, after the Centre announced 100 Sainik schools in the recent budget, Uttar Pradesh has sent a proposal to have one each in its 18 divisions,” said a government spokesperson. Currently, the defence ministry runs 31 Sainik schools across the country. UP has 3 Sainik Schools, 4th coming up in BaghpatIn UP, there are three such schools in Amethi, Jhansi and Mainpuri. One is under construction in Baghpat and a state-run Sainik school is operational in Lucknow. All these schools are affiliated to CBSE Board. “These schools will be beneficial to parents seeking quality education for their children at reasonable fees. With number of these schools set to rise, more and more children will get the opportunity to study in Sainik Schools,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-takes-cue-from-union-budget-seeks-sainik-schools-in-18-divisions/articleshow/80728604.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Act against illegal cutting of trees: Citizens to PCMC||By: Anjali Jhangiani & Piyush Bhusari PUNE: Citizens’ groups have expressed dissatisfaction with the way Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has addressed the issue of the illegal trimming and cutting of trees to increase visibility of advertisement hoardings. They said the problem was acute at Kaspate Chowk traffic signal and Mankar Chowk in Wakad and Shivar Chowk in Pimple Saudagar. “To highlight this issue, we had organized a hunger strike in front of the PCMC gate at the beginning of the year. The municipal commissioner called us inside and assured us that he would hold a meeting with the concerned authorities, volunteer groups and citizens to address the issue and find solutions. But the officials conducted a meeting among themselves on January 25 without inviting volunteers or citizens. Our concerns were not heard,” Tanay Patekar, a volunteer from Angholichigoli, an NGO, said. Residents and volunteers working with other NGOs too were upset over the lack of transparency in the matter. They said they have been raising awareness about illegal defacing, trimming and cutting of trees in front of hoardings for four years. “To the best to our knowledge, 20-30 trees in this area have been illegally trimmed and cut. We have been filing complaints with PCMC for two years — the latest being on January 20 when seven to eight Ashoka trees were cut without permissions, but nothing was done,” Prashant Raul, member of a citizens’ group working to protect the city’s green cover, said. The first formal complaint was lodged in February 2019, and they had been following up with the civic body ever since, but little action was taken, they said. PCMC officials had said they would issue notices to the advertising agencies that owned the hoardings to curb the problem “We have received many complaints about illegal tree trimming and have asked the sky sign and licence department to initiate action. Such advertising firm representatives must be called in and fined,” PCMC garden superintendent P M Gaikwad said. Nilesh Deshmukh, assistant commissioner of PCMC’s sky sign and licence department, said they would hold a meeting with the garden department over this issue. “We are also planning to conduct a survey to identify such illegal tree trimming activities across the civic limits. Action will be initiated soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/act-against-illegal-cutting-of-trees-citizens-to-pcmc/articleshow/80727469.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Five-month-old rid of bronchogenic cyst||Ahmedabad: Rajveer, all of five months old, was brought to the Civil Hospital from Chhota Udepur as he could not breathe. At one point, even his heart skipped a few beats. “His diagnosis revealed that it was a heart defect along with a cyst in the lungs. In medical parlance, it could be termed atrial septal defect with tricuspid regurgitation, pulmonary hypertension and large cyst on bronchus,” said Dr Rakesh Joshi, additional medical superintendent of Civil Hospital and head of paediatric surgery. On January 11, he was operated upon by a team of experts after which a cyst of 6 x 5cm was removed. The child was kept on observation for more than a fortnight. The child is now taking breastfeeding, said doctors, adding that he is also off oxygen. The doctors said that bronchogenic cyst is a rare congenital pulmonary malformation, found in one case in over 68,000 live childbirths. They also added that timely intervention is required. “Often, the condition is confused with cardiac condition or asthma. Sudden severe respiratory distress should be addressed as soon as possible,” said a Civil Hospital official. Officials said that the child’s parents work at a plastic manufacturing unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-month-old-rid-of-bronchogenic-cyst/articleshow/80727474.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Cov break over, schools tying up with hospitals to speed up illness response||Kolkata: Several schools in the city have tied up with hospitals to attend to pupils with Covid symptoms, even as the campuses get set to open up after a nearly year-long pandemic-induced break. The idea is to send pupils for testing immediately, their contacts traced and treatment commenced without delay if it is is suspected they might be infected. In-person classes are set to commence for classes IX to XII from February 12. While the previous practice (for any sort of illness) was to send an indisposed pupil home, schools are now taking the initiative to isolate them if s/he shows signs of the virus. La Martiniere Schools is planning to reactivate its existing tie-up with Belle Vue Clinic next door. Secretary Supriyo Dhar said both the boys’ and girls’ schools had a link-up with the clinic. “Teachers and students are well covered for any health issues. The hospital offers us a credit facility, and I have spoken with the authorities, who have assured us of taking care during exigencies as we begin the process of reopening,” said Dhar. Belle Vue authorities said La Martiniere students and teachers would be attended to immediately. “Even though we have had a tie-up for long, we are readying for emergencies,” said Belle Vue CEO R Tondon. Ram Mohan Mission School is planning a tie-up with ESI Hospital in Joka. Principal Sujoy Biswas said though the number of affected people has diminished over the past few months, the school was planning the tie-up as a precaution. “They will take care of all emergencies and health issues which may arise as we gear up for a smooth transition from online to offline mode. I will request the hospitals to make arrangements for students falling sick during school hours. The same will be applicable for teachers. It is important to keep a collaboration ready because the pandemic is not over. An affected student will be sent for screening and treatment and not merely sent home,” Biswas explained. T H Ireland, principal of St James’ School, said the school was in talks with a nursing home in Minto Park. “We have spoken to the authorities and requested for a tie-up. This collaboration is necessary not only for Covid but also for all other emergencies. Of course, looking at the ongoing pandemic situation, if any student or teacher starts showing symptoms, they could even be given an option to go for an RT-PCR test at the nursing home,” Ireland said. The principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar, Bobby Baxter, said: “We have spoken to an on-call doctor for our schools. Based on his suggestions, we will advise parents and the next step will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-break-over-schools-tying-up-with-hospitals-to-speed-up-illness-response/articleshow/80725004.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Fill Standard X exam forms by March 5||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has fixed March 5 as the deadline for filling Class X board examination forms.  The form-filling exercise, which started from February 5, is being carried out online. The form-filling process for Class XII science students is already under way while the schedule for Class XII general stream is yet to be announced. Sources said that it is likely to begin from February 15. The GSHSEB has started registration of schools and teachers ahead of the crucial examinations. Class X and Class XII board exams will be held from May 10 to May 25 for the academic year 2020-21, the GSHSEB announced on Wednesday. As many as 17.5 lakh students took the board exams last year and this time the board expects the number to go higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fill-std-x-exam-forms-by-mar-5/articleshow/80727470.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Municipal poll reservation process haphazard: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Saturday said that the reservation process undertaken for the coming municipal elections is haphazard and one which only benefits the ruling BJP party. Congress officials said that with no visible criteria being followed during the reservation process, it is likely to seek legal recourse. The party also accused the state election commission of being a mute spectator and said that BJP is slowly destroying the electoral process. “The municipal reservations that have taken place are one-sided and with no criteria,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. “The reservation is haphazard, the way the government wants, almost like pick-and-choose.” The urban development department on Friday issued an order reserving 102 wards for women, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes in 11 councils to which elections are likely to be held March-end. This order comes following the state government’s assurance to the high court of Bombay at Goa in December that the notification for delimitation and reservation of seats will be issued at least three weeks prior to the date of the notification of the schedule for municipal elections. “We thought the criteria would be done nicely for reservation, but now it appears as if the state election commission has become a BJP election commission,” said Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginald Lourenco. “I don’t know what the government wants to do, but they are destroying the electoral process.” Kamat and Lourenco said that Congress is expected to challenge the reservation process. “Many people are challenging all this in the high court. Our party too is challenging it,” Kamat said. Municipal councils of Margao, Mormugao, Mapusa, Curchorem-Cacora, Quepem, Cuncolim, Canacona, Pernem, Bicholim, Sanguem and Valpoi are due for elections. The corporation of the City of Panaji is also heading for polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/municipal-poll-reservation-process-haphazard-cong/articleshow/80728222.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Head count instrument being installed across all 107 ghats in Haridwar for Kumbh to maintain social distancing and increase security||Dehradun: Days after the Uttarakhand government indicated that a cap can be put on the number of pilgrims to be allowed on the key bathing days during the Kumbh, the Mela police has now started its preparation in this regard. To this end, head count instruments are being installed in the CCTVs at 107 ghats. The Kumbh police is also ensuring a communication mechanism in all six Kumbh zones — comprising 24 sectors — to keep a tab on the number of devotees taking dips in the Ganga each day. Sharing the information, Sanjay Gunjyal, inspector general for Kumbh, told TOI, “There are a total of 107 ghats – both government and private. In wake of Covid-19, we have to ensure proper social distancing. For this, we will require an area of 2.9 square metres for one individual.” The 107 ghats stretch across 20-km covering an area of 1.97 lakh square metres. Going by the calculations, the Mela authorities are confident that all the ghats collectively have the capacity to accomodate 1.09 lakh devotees at a time for bathing. “The head count instrument will alert the police staff and authorities if the set limit is exceeded and immediately, we can stop the devotees from entering the ghats. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 scare, the move is an extremely important one,” the senior police official said. He pointed out that besides the head count instruments, the police team was also working on improving the communication system. “We want the message to reach quickly so that timely action can be taken,” added the IG. Recently, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and urban development minister Madan Kaushik had said that the state government is considering a proposal on curtailing the days of Kumbh Mela and also restricting the number of devotees on the key bathing days in the wake of Covid-19. The official notification for the festival is expected after the CM has a discussion with akhada seers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/head-count-instrument-being-installed-across-all-107-ghats-in-haridwar-for-kumbh-to-maintain-social-distancing-and-increase-security/articleshow/80726790.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 7, 2021||Agra||In 23 days, UP court wraps up child sexual assault trial, sentences convict to life term||AGRA: In one of the fastest disposals of a child’s sexual assault case in recent times, a court in Hathras (UP) on Saturday concluded trial in 23 days, sentencing a 36-year-old man who had raped his one-and-a-half-year-old niece and left her seriously injured to life term. On January 2, around 7pm, the accused, Virendra, had told the girl's mother he was taking her out to play. When he did not bring her back for hours, her mother started looking for her. Scouring the village, she found Virendra carrying her daughter home. When he saw her, he hurriedly handed her over and fled. Left behind was the toddler, injured and bleeding. “If left unoperated, the injuries could have had a lifelong effect. She would not be able to control her stool,” her medical report stated. That night, the mother filed a complaint. “Police registered an FIR against Virendra immediately under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC and sections 5 (penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (punishment for the crime) of the Pocso Act,” Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal said. He was arrested the following day from a farm he had been hiding in. By January 14, police wrapped up its investigation — “in 11 days,” SP Jaiswal said — and filed a chargesheet. Two days later, the court framed charges against him. “On Saturday, additional district judge (Pocso) Pratibha Saxena delivered her verdict. The process was completed within 23 days of filing the chargesheet and in 14 working days,” district government counsel Rajpal Singh Diswar said. “Virendra was sentenced to life until his natural death. A fine of Rs 1 lakh was also imposed on him.” He is now in Aligarh jail. In 2019, a Pocso court in Baghpat had sentenced a 25-year-old who had raped a three-year-old to life imprisonment 5 days after charges were framed. The same year, a court in Raebareli had concluded trial in 10 days and sentenced a 30-year-old man to life for raping a six-year-old. The child, meanwhile, was first taken to the Hathras government hospital, from where she was referred to the Aligarh Medical College. Dr Nazia Ishrat, assistant professor of gynaecology at the hospital who examined her, said she was admitted around 1am on January 3.  “She had serious injuries.” She was crying in pain and had to be administered sedatives for the doctors to be able to attend to her. She had to be operated on, Ishrat wrote in the medical report, and was discharged on January 6. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-23-days-up-court-wraps-up-child-sexual-assault-trial-sentences-convict-to-life-term/articleshow/80726784.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 7, 2021||Surat||Garment traders turn to bootlegging in Surat||SURAT: An online garment seller and a store owner of readymade garments were caught selling liquor from their shop in Sarthana area by crime branch sleuths on Friday. To tide over their humongous losses owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown, these traders decided to start bootlegging, police investigation revealed. To run the illegal trade smoothly they were even delivering booze at the doorsteps of regular customers. Police arrested Kalpesh Makwana, 30, and Ghanshyam Shiyal, 27, from Bhagwati Shopping Centre where they stored the contraband on the first-floor shop. Police recovered 63 bottles of Indian-Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 29,880. Police also booked a person named Bapu, who used to supply the liquor to the accused and is yet to be arrested. Since 2018, Makwana had been doing online trade of kurtas and saris under the brand name Niom. He used to sell his products on top shopping websites like Flipkart and Amazon. “His turnover was around Rs 50,000 per month and the business was gradually picking up when the lockdown crashed it all. Sans any alternative, he started selling liquor with his friend,” said the police. Shiyal ran a readymade garments shop in Sarthana and had a turnover of around Rs 60,000 per month. But he had to close it permanently during the lockdown. He then started selling liquor around six months ago from Makwana’s shop where he stored his textile products earlier. Duo used to sell average six bottles daily worth Rs 1,000 each. Finding an easy way of making money they continued with the illicit trade. They received orders over WhatsApp and supplied liquor to only known customers. They did not answer calls from unknown numbers. Regular customers used to inquire about the availability of liquor and placed orders over WhatsApp calls. While Makwana’s father works as a watchman in a building, Shiyal’s father has retired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/garment-traders-turn-to-bootlegging/articleshow/80726798.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Conservation policy out, Adani’s turtle-saving plan takes shape||AHMEDABAD: India has for the first time devised a dedicated action plan for the protection and conservation of marine turtles. The new policy was recently announced by Prakash Javadekar, the Union minister for environment, forest and climate change. The country is a signatory to the Indian Ocean Sea Turtle Agreement (IOSEA) of the Convention on Migratory Species (CMS), a United Nations backed initiative. India follows the conservation and management action plan that is jointly developed by more than two dozen countries which have signed the IOSEA agreement. The latest policy rollout represents India’s step in its conservation push. “The main objective of the policy is to secure the turtle nesting habitats in the country and rope in the local communities for their safeguard,” said K Sivakumar, a scientist with the Wildlife Institute of India that has been involved in preparing the policy framework. “We have identified some nesting sites and have chalked out a management plan for their conservation,” Sivakumar said. Concerns about nest predation, plastic pollution, light pollution, habitat degradation, and bycatch have been addressed in the policy. Bycatch refers to marine creatures that are inadvertently trapped in fishing nets. Turtle tourism and turtle fellowship programmes to create awareness about the species are also part of the policy. India is home to five turtle species: olive ridley turtle, green turtle, hawksbill turtle, loggerhead turtle, and leatherback sea turtle. These marine turtles have nesting sites along the Indian coast. Odisha on the eastern coast has one of the largest mass nesting sites in the world for olive ridley turtles. “The policy also aims to send across the message that marine turtles are not a threat to development activities in the coastal areas,” said Sivakumar. “They can, in fact, help in boost economy of coastal regions.” Ahmedabad-based Adani Group has signed an agreement with France’s Total Group for the development of 5 million metric tonnes per annum LNG capacity at Dhamra port in Odisha. Adani Group is working on its plans to develop the facility as one of the country’s largest ports — a Mundra on the East Indian coast. From a cargo handling capacity of 25 MTPA, it plans to take the overall capacity to 314 MTPA, overtaking even Mundra in the long run. Adani Group’s Odisha site is home to one of the world’s largest nesting populations of olive ridley turtles. Currently, the annual homecoming of the olive ridley turtles at the Gahirmatha sanctuary, about 15km from Dhamra port, is under way. Their numbers have grown from the time the Adanis took over port operations from Tata and L&T in 2014. Adani’s conservation efforts have got a shot in the arm with the announcement of the National Marine Turtle Action Plan. “As I look back, the awareness and coordinated efforts to protect olive ridley turtles appear to be tilting the balance in favour of these wondrous creatures,” said Gautam Adani, the chairman of Adani Group. “The Government of Odisha and the leadership of CM Naveen Patnaik must be complimented. The olive ridley mothers have begun to return to their birthplace in far greater numbers than thought possible after the last big decline almost a decade back.” Odisha has made it mandatory for sea trawlers to use Turtle Excluder Devices that allow the turtles to escape fishing nets. The International Union for Conservation of Nature advised Adani Group to fix similarly intentioned protective devices known as Turtle Deflectors on their dredgers to prevent drag heads from harming any turtles. The group chairman said that today the company rigorously adheres to a 24-hour monitoring cycle by placing observers on dredgers and by altering the dredger and vessel routes to stay clear of turtle nesting grounds. Based on other inputs from IUCN and heeding the guidelines of the Illuminating Engineering Society, an army of lighting consultants from Philips Lighting took on the task of designing a sophisticated illumination system that meets IUCN’s recommendations. Today, all light fixtures at Dhamra port are mounted horizontally to avoid light spillage and to ensure environment-friendly lighting. “Good news is that recent numbers from forest department show that 400,000 turtles have been arriving annually at Gahirmatha,” said Adani. “In March 2018, it jumped to 6,84,000! That is 6,84,000 additional reasons for renewed optimism.” Watch India devises action plan to protect and conserve marine turtles||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/conservation-policy-out-adanis-turtle-saving-plan-takes-shape/articleshow/80727535.cms||Maulik Pathak
February 7, 2021||Delhi||How to deal with old cars? Delhi has started early||NEW DELHI: While it was only in her budget speech on Monday that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed a vehicle scrapping policy for 20-year-old private vehicles and 15-year-old commercial vehicles, Delhi has already had a more stringent scrap policy in place since 2018. “In Delhi, one is not even allowed to drive a petrol vehicle that is more than 15-year-old and diesel vehicles older than 10 years. The new policy wouldn’t apply in the capital as there already exist stringent rules against plying of old vehicles to tackle air pollution,” said an official of Delhi government’s transport department. There are more than three lakh 10-year-old diesel vehicles and over 35 lakh 15-year-old petrol vehicles in the city. The total number of vehicles registered in the city is more than one crore, but the actual on-road vehicles number not more than 75 lakh, according to officials. The transport department had granted a licence as authorised vehicle scrapper to Mahindra MSTC Recycling Pvt in 2018 and other agencies have been granted licences since then. “We have five authorised companies catering to the needs of vehicle owners and the response has been good till now,” the transport official said. “Owners of old vehicles only need to apply online or call the authorised scrapper without having to bother about anything else. The scrapper pays the scrap value, picks up the vehicle from the residence and also gets the vehicle deregistered at the regional transport office.” On October 29, 2018, the Supreme Court had prohibited the plying of 15-year-old petrol and 10-year-old diesel vehicles in the national capital region and directed the transport department to impound such vehicles if found being driven in the city. Attributing such a need to Delhi-NCR’s “very critical” pollution problem, the apex court had also said that a list of offending vehicles should be published on the website of the transport department. Following the court’s directions, a comprehensive list of all 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles was published on the departmental website, and the campaign to impound 15-year-old petrol vehicles also began. Before an old vehicle is picked up for scrapping, all documents are verified and a scrap amount is agreed upon with the vehicle owner. After scrapping, the scrapper issues a certificate of destruction with all details. The vehicle is then deregistered at the RTO. A vehicle owner can retain the registration number of the scrapped vehicle for a new car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-to-deal-with-old-cars-capital-has-started-early/articleshow/80727515.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two Congress councillors change wards, two move to AIMIM||Ahmedabad: Atleast two Congress corporators in Ahmedabad were forced to change their wards while two sitting corporators who were denied tickets filed their nominations as AIMIM candidates. Dinesh Sharma, who was the corporator from Bapunagar, was asked to change his ward and was told to file his nomination as the Chandkheda candidate. Shahnawaz Shaikh, the corporator from Jamalpur, was fielded as the Khadia candidate. Two women corporators who were denied tickets filed their nominations as AIMIM candidates, while one filed her nomination as an independent candidate. The two who joined the AIMIM are Afrin Pathan, the corporator from Gotmipur and Suhana Mansuri from Maktampura. Sarkhej corporator Nafisa Ansari filed her nomination as an independent candidate. Officials said till late on Saturday night, the Congress had not declared its official list and this was done to mitigate protests and rebellion. “Once the last date for nominations had ended over, the party does face any rebellion,” said a senior leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-congress-councillors-change-wards-two-move-to-aimim/articleshow/80727497.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Agra||Agra: UP police rescue 3 tribal women from 3 states being 'auctioned'||AGRA: Police in Agra have busted a human-trafficking syndicate and arrested 11 people, including two women, while they were taking three young tribal women, one each from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, for "auctioning". According to police, the tribal women - around 20 years old - belong to UP’s Sonbhadra, MP’s Singrauli and Jharkhand’s Garhwa districts. They were lured on the promise of a job in an orchestra group. Instead, they were being forcibly married for prostitution after an open bidding of each between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh, police said. The police received a tip-off from a Delhi based NGO Mission Mukti Foundation and nabbed the accused while they were being trafficked. Most of the suspects are from Sonbhadra district and one of them who managed the deal is from Agra. On Saturday, SP (east) K Venkat Ashok told TOI that the work was divided among group members. Once lured with job offers, one such group looked after sourcing the women, while the other managed their transportation. A third group was involved in selling them. Munna Lal from Agra’s Bah area was involved in auctioning these women in western UP districts of Etawah, Firozabad and Agra, the SP said. Ramesh from Sonbhadra was involved in transportation and the two arrested women — Prema Devi and Asha — had lured them. “We are now investigating how many women have been trafficked by them,” the SP said, adding that their target was women from poor families. The rescued women will be returned to their families, the SP further said. Members of the NGO, who had contacted the cops, said the women were completely unaware of the trafficking group’s motive. During the counselling, rescued women told the members that they had come here to join an orchestra, but the accused forced them to marry some unknown men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-tribal-women-from-three-states-auctioned-rescued-by-up-police/articleshow/80726793.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 7, 2021||Goa||We are ready to take hard decisions to win back people’s trust, says Congress||Panaji: Congress went into a huddle on Saturday with Goa desk in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao leading party office bearers into a meeting to discuss the party’s revamp ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The party has decided to reconstitute the entire organisation in Goa from the ground up in a bid to understand the pulse of the people and to also convince people that the party has mended its ways. Aside from launching a digital membership drive on February 12, the party has given each of the five MLAs responsibility over five constituencies where the party needs to re-build its presence. “We have to change the perception,” Rao said. “We must not repeat the mistakes we have done before so that people should actually believe us.” Rao said that to convince voters and win back people’s trust, Congress is ready to take “hard decisions”. He admitted that Goan voters are unhappy with Congress after the party messed up the opportunity to form the government in 2017 despite emerging as the single largest party. “This is an issue we are trying to address,” Rao said. The coordination committee met with Rao in the morning and subsequently met with the district and block presidents. During the meeting, the coordination committee allotted responsibilities to various office bearers and conveyed the party’s intention behind the revamp. The party hopes to complete the membership drive by March 10 and reconstitute the state Congress unit by April 25. State Congress president Girish Chodankar was not present for the meeting since his family member has tested positive for Covid-19. Rao said that Chodankar’s absence should not send a wrong message. “There is no division or divide on the party’s strategy between the coordination committee and the pradesh Congress committee. This is a decision taken after a joint discussion that this is the way forward for us. This is a joint operation,” Rao said, adding that the move to reconstitute the party unit is not to remove Chodankar or bring in a new president. “The intention is to see that we become strong and whatever decision has to be taken, will be taken based on the ground situation, the feedback and based on common consensus. There is no intention to change anybody or make anybody,” Rao added. When asked if the party’s organisational process would affect preparations for the coming municipal elections, Rao said that both the processes would run parallell. “The municipal elections are not based on party symbols. Within the party there will be more than one so this will be left to the local leadership to decide,” he said. Rao said that selection of candidates for the assembly elections and the strategy for the assembly elections will be discussed after the organisational revamp process is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-are-ready-to-take-hard-decisions-to-win-back-peoples-trust-says-congress/articleshow/80728287.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Police changes may precede poll notice||Kolkata: The Bengal government may be moving towards effecting key changes in the higher echelons of both West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police before a notification on state assembly polls that is likely to come in the next few days. Senior state officials said two factors might influence most transfers. One is a “convention” that has seen the Election Commission not giving “active posts during polls” to officials whom it has transferred in the past. The EC has also stipulated no officer should be in the same post for more than three years during polls. The EC, before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had transferred KP commissioner Anuj Sharma (and replaced him with Rajesh Kumar) and Bidhannagar Police commissioner Gyanwant Singh (and replaced him with NR Babu). The Bengal government brought back Sharma to his old post and made Singh the state additional director-general (law and order) after the polls. Soumen Mitra was brought in as the KP top cop (by the EC) before the 2016 state assembly poll as well. Several other key positions may see a change of guard. The most important, during the poll season, would be the additional director-general (law and order)’s chair; most important coordination activities between the state police force and the EC happen through this office. Officials said KP special commissioner Javed Shamim could be one of the possible replacements being considered for incumbent Singh. Kolkata’s three key neighbours — Bidhannagar, Barrackpore and Howrah — too may see changes in their top posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-changes-may-precede-poll-notice/articleshow/80725025.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Nearly 10,000 sign up for research, 60% are women||MUMBAI: Almost 9,700 candidates have registered for Mumbai University’s PhD entrance test (PET), which will be be held after a gap of two years. Nearly 60% of them are women. The exam was last held in 2018-19, when over 6,100 students appeared. While most applications are from science and technology faculty, chemistry is the most sought-after subject, followed by management studies. Educationists said they hope that after a slump in the pandemic year, the numbers may rise in coming years. But with backlog candidates adding to the total, Ph D admissions could get more competitive this year. Last year, around 6,500 had registered for PET. The exam got delayed for almost a year due to the pandemic and is being finally held now. The university, however, allowed fresh candidates to register for the test by giving an extension. Cumulatively, around 14,000 applied, and 9,675 paid up and completed the process. Of 575 applications received from other states, over 100 are from Uttar Pradesh. Science and technology makes up for almost 50% of aspirants, followed by commerce and management. Chemistry has the most aspirants of all subjects, while a Ph D in English is most sought-after in humanities. A former senior university official said that science faculty has more guides, especially in subjects like chemistry. Also, scope in science is much more, where research is purely based on development and experiments, he said. “The scope of subjects in humanities in India is still limited compared to science,” he added. As more students compete this year, admissions could get tougher. Former dean of commerce, Madhu Nair, said work of many existing Ph D students would be delayed due to the pandemic. “As many guides will already have a backlog of existing students, number of free slots for new admissions will be fewer. In such circumstances, if number of aspirants rises, getting a seat after PET will become more competitive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nearly-10000-sign-up-for-research-60-are-women/articleshow/80729116.cms||Yogita Rao
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Positivity rate continues to be down in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital on Saturday recorded 123 fresh Covid-19 cases and four fatalities. The positivity rate in Delhi, meanwhile, slumped to 0.19%. A total of 63,322 tests were conducted the previous day, which included 39,543 RT-PCR tests and 23,779 via rapid antigen testing. As per the bulletin issued by the health department, the infection tally from Covid rose to 6,35,916, while the death toll to 10,877 in the capital. Delhi had recorded 96 Covid cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months. According to the bulletin, the active cases tally also dropped to 1,174 on Saturday, from 1,206 the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-continues-to-be-down-in-delhi/articleshow/80727556.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||No waste plant for industries meets water quality norms, reports DPCC||NEW DELHI: All operational common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) in the capital do not meet the permissible water quality standards, a report prepared by Delhi Pollution Control Committee has revealed. The report, which is based on samples collected in December last year, stated that 13 CETPs in the city do not comply with the requisite standards with respect to biochemical oxygen demand, total dissolved solid, sulphide and chloride. The report was recently submitted to the secretary of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti. DPCC also wrote to “CETPs societies and operators for taking rectification measures to meet the prescribed standards.” According to the report submitted, a copy of which is with TOI, Nangloi CETP — which caters to Nangloi and Udyog Nagar industrial areas — did not meet the prescribed standard for TDS, sulphide and chloride. The effluent outlet at Bawana CETP — which has a maximum capacity of treating toxic effluent of 35 MLD for chloride — was more than the double the prescribed standard. Similarly, effluent outlet at Bawana CETP for sulphide was 6mg/l, against the prescribed standard of 2mg/l. This CETP at Bawana failed to meet the requisite standard for TDS too. An official from the environment department said: “CETPs in Delhi are not complying with the prescribed standard of water quality mainly due to presence of old solid sludge.” Experts claimed the work of CETPs was to treat toxic industrial effluents before it entered Yamuna, but since all CETPs in Delhi have failed to meet the water quality standard, harmful effluents are passing into the river. “The problem of CETPs not complying to standard would be resolved when all industrial units reuse water discharged by them and the units achieve zero liquid discharge. The focus of DPCC should be on achieving zero liquid discharge,” Manoj Mishra, convenor of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, said. “Besides, there are many illegal industries located in non-conforming areas, which are not connected to effluent treatment plants and are discharging toxic waste directly into the river through drains,” Mishra added. Delhi has 13 CETPs for management of industrial effluent generated from 17 approved industrial areas. They have a total treatment capacity of 212.3 million litres per day. A total of 33,690 industrial units are connected to CETPs in 17 approved industrial areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-waste-plant-for-industries-meets-water-quality-norms-reports-dpcc/articleshow/80727555.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 7, 2021||Goa||Kerala native held with ganja at Vagator||Saligao: Anjuna police on Friday arrested Viju A B, 20, a native of Kerala, after he was found in possession of 123g of ganja worth approximately Rs 12,000. Police said that after receiving a tip-off, a raid was conducted between 12.40pm to 3.05pm at four-roads junction, Vagator, during which the accused was found in possession of the narcotic substance suspected to be ganja. Along with the narcotic substance, some cash and a mobile phone were seized by police, and an offence was registered under the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. PSI Amir Taral is investigating the case under the supervision of North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon and Anjuna PI Suraj Gawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kerala-native-held-with-ganja-at-vagator/articleshow/80728264.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Man gets life term for raping minor girl in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Additional sessions judge S R Patil on Saturday sentenced a 55-year-old man to life imprisonment for raping a minor girl student at an educational institution in Kolhapur district in December 2016. The court also ordered the accused, Chandrakant Dattatreya Pendurkar, to pay a fine of Rs 50,000, which will be handed over to the survivor. The court held Pendurkar guilty on the basis of a medical report and 11 witnesses. According to the prosecution, Pendurkar committed the crime twice on the premises of the educational institution by threatening to kill the girl. The incident came to light when the girl got pregnant. She told her family about the incident, following which her mother lodged a police complaint. Pendurkar was arrested immediately after the complaint was filed and booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/80726404.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Cases dip, six Delhi govt hospitals back to being fully non-Covid facilities||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has removed six of its hospitals from among those handling Covid-19 cases in the wake of dwindling new cases. The number of beds reserved for Covid patients in many hospitals too has been significantly decreased, with Lok Nayak Hospital now reserving just 300 beds for Covid patients from the 2,000 beds earlier, while the 1,500-bedded Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital ceased to have even a single Covid bed. “Consequent upon reduction in reporting of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the competent authority has decided to de-escalate the number of dedicated beds reserved for Covid in 11 Delhi government hospitals,” said a government official. Among the 11 designated facilities, six have been turned fully non-Covid, while beds have been reduced in the rest. Lok Nayak Hospital, which was India’s largest Covid care centre when the pandemic was at its peak, is back to normal operations and has re-started OPD services. Suresh Kumar, the hospital’s medical director, said that only 31 of the 300 beds are occupied. “Among the 31 patients, 14 are in the ICU. We have 50 ICU beds with ventilators and 50 ICU beds without ventilators,” disclosed Kumar. The hospital has so far treated 11,000 Covid patients and arguably has recorded the highest number of Covid recoveries in the country. The hospitals declared fully non-Covid are GTB, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Deep Chand Bandhu, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial, Acharya Shree Bhikshu and SRC Hospital. Those where the number of Covid beds has been slashed include Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Burari, Ambedkar Nagar and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. “RGSSH’s 650 Covid beds has been reduced to 500. Currently, only two Covid-19 patients are admitted in the hospital,” said Chhavi Gupta, a hospital official. OPD services for non-Covid patients have also begun in GTB and RGSSH. “The rush in the OPDs isn’t as big as in the pre-Covid days, but day by day more people are coming. Each day, around 600 non-Covid patients are coming to our OPD,” said RSSH’s Gupta. At present, Delhi has 1,174 active Covid cases, of them 471 in home isolation. The positivity rate has slipped to 0.19%, which is all time low even though over 60,000 Covid tests are being conducted every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cases-dip-six-delhi-govt-hospitals-back-to-being-fully-non-covid-facilities/articleshow/80727546.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||‘State government’s apathy grounded Nagpur Flying Club’||Established on March 10, 1947, the Nagpur Flying Club (NFC) has churned out several pilots, some served the Indian Air Force, while the others flew commercial planes in India as well as abroad. Due to government apathy, the British-era club is now lying defunct. The prestigious club, started by the city’s flying enthusiasts, was operating smoothly for over four decades until the government took charge in 1990. Four years down the line, the NFC was shut in 1994, escalating cost of aviation turbo fuel and staff shortage were cited as the reasons. Since 2003, Shriniwas Deshpande, who practices in the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court, is fighting for the club’s revival with the help of the other alumni and that too without charging a penny. The HC had even asked the government to grant Rs1 lakh to Deshpande towards cost of litigation for single-handedly pursuing the case. In a freewheeling interview, Deshpande, himself an alumnus, tells TOI that revival of the NFC will help many aspirants from the region to realize their dreams of flying, either with a private pilot licence (PPL) or a commercial pilot licence (CPL). Excerpts...Q. How did this British era club take-off?A. The NFC was started in 1947 after a person named Eduljee, an elite of the city, who gifted an aircraft to his wife Peroja. He travelled all over northern India without proper navigation facilities. The Eduljees made many memorable trips with this World War-II aircraft. Eduljee, an automobile distributor, had varied interests, right from boxing to mountaineering to flying. He had purchased this German make Luscombe Silvaere-8F aircraft for Rs25,000 in 1945 from the British government which sold many such planes after the end of World War-II. This two-seater plane had a maximum speed of 145 kms and the Eduljees even flew all the way to Shimla. The NFC started out as a limited company and was run privately by a managing committee during the British era. After independence, the government started providing free of cost training to National Cadet Corps (NCC) air wing cadets and reserve category students. The club’s full-fledged operations started around 1960 and even IAF pilots used to undertake training during the emergency period and the Sino-India conflict. Its decline started when the government appointed an advisory committee comprising representatives from the aviation sector, private partners and NFC members. Till its closure, it was one of the cheapest clubs offering CPL and PPL to aspirants in the entire country. Q. How are you associated with the NFC?A. In those days, with the NCC ‘C’ certificate, we used to get free flying lessons at NFC. I was among the privileged lot who got a rare chance to fly the aircraft which was a dream come true. After this, we used to get direct recruitment in the Indian Air Force. In the 1970s, we flew aircraft like the Pushpak which was one of its kind in the Vidarbha region. The NFC’s unfortunate closure due to absolute apathy pained all of us (the alumni). During our time, many, who were chosen to serve the country, reached the air commodore level. Many of us even tried the Suryakiran and other planes. Till date, many NFC veterans are still flying commercial planes and all of them admit that Nagpur is a gold mine for producing pilots. Q. Why did you approach the judiciary?A. For a common man, fighting the system is very difficult. Judiciary is the only hope and therefore, we decided to file a PIL in HC in 2003. When other similar clubs, like the Madhya Pradesh Flying Club and Telangana Flying Academy can function, then why not the NFC? It would have survived if the government had sincere and serious intentions. Initially, our PIL was regarding privatization of the club as everyone is aware of the bureaucracy and red-tapism in any government set up. At that time, the NFC had received many proposals from almost all flying academies of the country, including the MP Flying Club, for a takeover. However, all the plans fizzled out. The late wing commander Shridhar Ghatate, who was on the NFC advisory board along with his wife Sumedha (secretary), fully supported me in my fight. Our efforts briefly bore fruit as the NFC was restarted after a long hiatus of 14 years in 2008. Many students benefited. However, it was once again closed in 2017 due to neglect of the government. Q. The club was restarted in 2008 and ran smoothly for nine years.A. In 2006-07, the then divisional commissioner Anand Limaye had evinced interest in reviving the club. He helped us by arranging a meeting with former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. It was a privilege to meet the dynamic CM, who instantly agreed to restart the club in just 15 minutes. He assured us that funds would be made available as and when required. He kept his promise and released Rs3 crore that helped in restarting NFC. Without Deshmukh and Limaye, the club could never have seen the light of day. A man from Latur instantly realized NFC’s importance while those from Vidarbha never made efforts to revive it despite being at the helm of affairs for five years. Q. Do you see any chances of NFC’s revival in the near future?A. The judiciary is the only hope as the current dispensation is not keen on reviving NFC. Though they recently informed the HC that all the formalities would be completed and operations would resume from May 8, it’s highly unlikely that they would fulfil their promises made in the affidavit. In the past too, they came up with similar assurances, but the outcome was nothing concrete. Ultimately, aspirants from this backward region are the real losers. The club has the capacity to train about 50 students in one batch. In three years, hundreds of aspirants could have got PPL or CPL and become pilots. When NFC was operational, airstrips of Amravati, Chandrapur and Yavatmal were used for training. As a result, youngsters from those cities too got attracted to flying and joined the club. Flying is no more an elitist activity. Nowadays, students from middle class families are taking it up as a career. Hence, the NFC should act as an educational institution with a full-time director, who can directly report to the principal secretary of the general administration department (GAD). Q. What was the reason for its closure in 2017?A. When Capt Shiv Jaiswal was appointed as the chief flying instructor (CFI), the club was running smoothly and he was very popular. Former divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar had made efforts for additional multi-engine aircraft and the flying stimulator from the Aero Club of India. However, Jaiswal received a good offer from a private airlines and left the job. Since then, the government didn’t appoint a CFI which led to NFC’s closure. When the post of the CFI was re-advertised, Jaiswal wanted to come back to his hometown to be with his family and was reappointed by the government’s high power committee (HPC) on September 27, 2018. However, the current administration didn’t give him an appointment letter citing some excuse or the other for over three years. Fed up with their attitude, Jaiswal finally decided to take up another job. He’s now flying the MP CM’s aircraft. It’s a big loss to NFC as he’s currently one of the best CFIs in the industry. I’ve now filed a contempt plea against the government in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-governments-apathy-grounded-ngp-flying-club/articleshow/80727571.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 7, 2021||Goa||Woman’s arrest in drugs raid illegal as it was before sunrise: High court||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has held the arrest of a woman in an alleged drugs case to be “illegal” as she was taken into custody before sunrise during a raid by the anti-narcotics cell last year “Here, the arrest took place by 6.30am, that is before sunrise. Section 46 of the CrPC evidently has not been complied with. That apart, though a woman police constable was summoned, she played no role in the applicant's arrest. It was the PSI, a male police officer, all the way who arrested the applicant,” Justice Dama Sheshadri Naidu stated. An arrest occurs when police take you into custody and is complete the moment you, as the suspect, are no longer free to walk away from the arresting officer, the judge said. The court noted that Section 46 (4) mandates that no woman shall be arrested after sunset and before sunrise, save in exceptional circumstances. “When exceptional circumstances do exist, only a woman police officer shall effect the arrest. To do so, that woman officer must make ‘a written report’ and obtain the prior permission of the first class’ jurisdictional judicial magistrate,” the court held. Counsel K Poulekar representing the woman argued that the police didn’t follow safeguards under the section before they arrested the lady and highlighted that the raiding party according to the FIR and station diary left soon after midnight 12.01am, and the whole raid was completed by 5.45am. The woman had been arrested before sunrise in her house without a policewoman and without the judicial magistrate’s leave, too. “Even if it is disbelieved that the arrest took place at 5.40am as the applicant has contended, the case diary goes to show that the police along with the applicant left the place of search by 6.30am; they showed formal arrest at 7.30a.m,” the court noted. “We will take the time when the police took the applicant into custody as the time of the arrest. Then it was 6.30 am. The formal arrest, as the police contend, may have been at 7.30am. What matters is the deprivation of free movement and detention of a person, not recording that factum. So the terminal point when the arrest was completed could be taken as 6.30am,” the court observed. The time of sunrise on March 13, 2020 was 6.42am. A team of anti-narcotics cell police personnel received information of persons trying to sell contraband and deliver it to a prospective customer between 2.30am and 3am in March last year, and submitted that since the information was sudden and unexpected, they didn’t have the time to comply with the statutory mandate under Section 42 of the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances act. They proceeded to the residence and arrested the man with about 400 tablets, after which a crime was registered. The woman was also present at the time, and was arrested. The man was sent in judicial remand. The police conducted the field test on a few tablets and found them to be ecstasy where 10 gms is commercial quantity and the 400 tablets weighed over 185 gms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/womans-arrest-in-drugs-raid-illegal-as-it-was-before-sunrise-high-court/articleshow/80728273.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Surat||Citizens to be made aware of ‘no flying zone’ near Surat airport||Surat: Following the recovery of a remote-controlled (RC) toy helicopter from the operational area of the Surat international airport, the authorities have started an awareness campaign on the ‘no fly zone’ in and around the airport. The authorities will put up sign-boards and pictorials on the compound wall and along the Surat-Dumas road informing the drone operators to avoid flying near the airport for the overall safety of aircraft and the passengers.The toy helicopter was sighted by a construction labourer on Wednesday morning. The spot was close to the runway and the Air Traffic Control (ATC) was immediately informed about the same.Official sources said there is an urgent need to create awareness about ‘no drone flying zone’ around runway funnel as well as near the airport premises. About five to six party plots are located in the vicinity of the airport where wedding ceremonies are held during the marriage season. Airport Director, Aman Saini said, “Drone operators should avoid flying near airports as it is difficult for manned aircraft to see and avoid a drone while flying. Drone operators are solely responsible for any safety hazard their drone creates in an airport environment.”Saini added, “Drones cannot fly more than 400 feet vertically depending on the size in the areas specified under ‘no flying zone’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/citizens-to-be-made-aware-of-no-flying-zone-near-surat-airport/articleshow/80726828.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Goa Board extends date to pay Class X exam fees||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has now also extended the date for students to pay the enrolment fees for the Class X public exams to February 12. This comes after the date for payment of fees had been similarly extended for the Class XII students. The earlier deadline for payment for Class X students was February 6, without late fees. Students can enrol with late fee upto February 19. The extension in dates comes as the entire public examination schedule for the academic year 2020-21 has been pushed forward due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The fees have to be paid by students online through their schools using the Goa Board web portal. Schools have to also submit the internal assessment marks, sports marks and other such marks of internal evaluation online to the Goa Board. The Goa Board recently confirmed the schedule for the delayed 2021 Class X board exams. The practical exams for students will begin from April 5. The theory examination will start from May 13 and will be held across 29 centres in the state. Together for Class X and XII, 35,000 students are expected to enroll for the public exams. The Class XII exams will be held across 17 centres starting from April 26 and will end on May 7. The exam schedules have been delayed by over a month this year due to the pandemic. The practical exams for students will begin from April 5. The theory examination will start from May 13 and will be held across 29 centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-board-extends-date-to-pay-class-x-exam-fees/articleshow/80728288.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Jabs for frontline workers on full scale; turnout 53%||NEW DELHI: Turnout for Covid vaccination slightly improved on Saturday with 53.1% people turning up to get the shot across 179 vaccination centres in the capital. A total of 9,510 people out of 17,900 turned up to get vaccinated, including many frontline healthcare workers. The overall number of people who have been vaccinated against Covid crossed 1,09,000. The vaccination of frontline healthcare workers started on full-scale from Saturday. Several district magistrates (DMs) came forward to get themselves vaccinated. Naveen Aggarwal (South West), Isha Khosla (North district), Neha Bansal (West district), Chestha Yadav (North West) and Pankaj Kumar (North East) were among the DMs who got the shot to set an example. IAS officer G Sudhakar also took the Covid shot. The move by the bureaucrats is all set to inspire those working under them and others. They did not report any adverse events and have urged frontline and healthcare workers to get inoculated. Several police personnel also came forward for the vaccination. Only nine adverse events were reported on Saturday, three less than the total adverse events reported on Friday. The number of vaccination centres reduced on Saturday by five because of some technical reasons. An official said some of the 184 vaccination centres did not function because of lack of staff and other requirements. A health department official said that the turnout percentage was expected to go up on Saturday because the vaccination of frontline workers was started on a full-scale. “The protest by farmers, which required the deployment of more police personnel on the ground, might also have impacted the turnout,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jabs-for-frontline-workers-on-full-scale-turnout-53/articleshow/80727563.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||‘24 of 742 govt primary schools operating from rented premises’||Panaji: Of the 742 government primary schools in the state, 24 schools do not have their own premises. Many of these 24 government primary schools operate from other premises like rooms provided by the local panchayat or municipality or the church, for which the government pays a nominal rent. But, in some cases, the schools are operating by renting out private spaces. In these cases, the government is shelling out upto Rs 30,000 as monthly rent for the hired space, according data of the directorate of education. The government primary school at Zari-Zuarinagar, for example, is being run from a private building, for which the state is paying Rs 30,500 every month. The government primary school, Mandopa in Navelim, runs in a building hired from the local church costing the government over Rs 20,000 per month. A similar amount of rent is being paid to run the government primary school in Vasantnagar, Harvalem. Work of construction of new buildings for some government primary schools is currently on by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), according to the reply tabled to a question by chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant at the recently concluded assembly session. According to the reply, in addition to the 24 government schools, there are also 92 aided and 30 unaided primary schools in the state too which operate from premises which do not belong to the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/24-of-742-govt-primary-schools-operating-from-rented-premises/articleshow/80728297.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Jaleel, Fauzia nominated as waqf members||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra government, through a notification on Friday evening, has appointed Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel and Rajya Sabha MP Fauzia Khan as members of the Maharashtra State Board of Waqf. “The fight against land sharks usurping waqf properties will get stronger,” Jaleel said. He pledged to raise the concerns the common people and said that waqf properties belong to the poor, widow, needy and destitute members of the community. As per the Act, the board needs to comprise either Muslim members of Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha, legislative assembly or constituency, mutawalli of the waqf, a Muslim member of the bar council, one nominee of the state government of the rank of deputy secretary or above, Islamic scholars and one member of the Shia school of thought. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jaleel-fauzia-nominated-as-waqf-members/articleshow/80726415.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Goa||Rly underpass at Chandor complete||Margao: The South Western Railway (SWR) on Saturday completed the construction work of the railway underpass at Chandor after effecting a 5-hour long rail traffic block along the Margao-Sanvordem section. This is the second underpass constructed by the SWR on the Vasco-Collem stretch of the railway track; the first to be constructed was at Curchorem on Wednesday. Train movement along the Margao-Chandor and Collem-Chandor stretch was suspended from 10am to 3pm on Saturday to enable the Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) to install the precast panels of the underpass. The underpass will be thrown open to the public after construction of the approach roads. Construction of the underpass was a long-pending demand of the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rly-underpass-at-chandor-complete/articleshow/80728317.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Surat||SGCCI clocks Rs 7cr deals during Covid||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has become the first chamber of commerce in the country to successfully provide a business platform to its members through ‘SGCCI Business Connect (SBC)’ to promote internal business dealings.When the trade and industry had come to a standstill due to lockdown, the members of SBC clocked a turnover of Rs 7 crore from the internal business dealings through networking.The SBC initiative was launched in January 2018 to allow the members of SGCCI to do the business among themselves through networking. SBC is a group of elite members consisting of reputed industrialist, consultants, businessmen, professionals, and service providers. President of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “SGCCI was the first to start business networking platform for its own members. We plan to extend the networking across the chambers in the country. SBC provides a platform to interact with not only its direct members but also members from about 100 associations affiliated with it.”SGCCI has 9000 plus direct members and over 1 lakh indirect members in South Gujarat.Navadiya added, “Since its inception in 2018, the SBC members have done business dealings worth Rs 15 crore with Rs 7 crore business done post-Covid.” Nikhil Madrasi, senior SGCCI member said, “Every fortnight, the SBC members meet for the internal business dealings. The members describe their business in 45 seconds and seek support from other members. This is how the entire business networking is initiated.” Ashish Gujarat, vice-president of SGCCI said, “SBC plans to expand to various other chapters for exporters, manufacturers and jewellers in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-clocks-rs-7cr-deals-during-covid/articleshow/80726840.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man wanted in many states for ATM thefts held||NEW DELHI: A Mewat-based criminal wanted in at least ten cases of ATM loot in several states was arrested by Delhi Police’s Special Cell after a brief exchange of fire. The suspect, Shahid, sustained a gunshot injury in his leg when he tried to resist arrest and fired at the cops. Shahid, who was using two aliases of Rafiq and Abdul, was nabbed by a team led by inspector Shiv Kumar from Kalindi Kunj-Sarita Vihar road. The team was trailing Shahid since police of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh had declared a reward of Rs 50,000 and 25,000, respectively, on him. “In view of increase in cases of ATM break-ins in Delhi and taking away cash, a team of Special Cell was tasked to work on gangs behind these crimes. Necessary intelligence was collected and a few members of a gang, including kingpin Shahid, were identified,” a cop said. Inspector Kumar received a tip-off about Shahid coming to Sarita Vihar on a stolen Yamaha bike and laid a trap. The suspect was spotted and flagged down. However, he tried to flee while firing at the cops. The cops shot back and he was overpowered. Shahid was taken to Safdarjung Hospital where he was admitted for treatment. In all, seven rounds were fired, of which the cops fired three. “Shahid has been regularly committing crimes in Delhi-NCR and other states for more than 20 years. He is involved in more than 50 criminal cases, including of murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, robbery/dacoity, trespass, hurt, criminal intimidation, theft, assault on police and arms act, in at least ten states,” another officer said. In Delhi, he was involved in 10 cases and wanted in two cases of ATM loot in which Rs 60 lakh was taken away. “Members of his gang targeted unguarded ATM kiosks,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-wanted-in-many-states-for-atm-thefts-held/articleshow/80727575.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Agra||In response to legal notices to protesters, BKU to invite farmers with pics of kin serving in armed forces and police||Agra: To strengthen the farmers’ protest and pressure the government, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) will call farmers with family members in the armed forces and police. In response to the legal notices being issued to people protesting against the three farm laws, BKU has decided to call farmers with pictures of their kin serving in defence and police forces at the Ghazipur border. A senior BKU leader said, “We will see if the authorities on instructions of the government issue legal notices to the family members of those serving in defence forces and police. A large section of farmers has their children serving in the police and armed forces.” After three hours of Chakka Jam in different parts of the country on Saturday, Rakesh Tikait, who is leading the protest at the Ghazipur border, told a gathering, “Ya toh sarkar sun ley, nahi toh agla andolon yeh bhi hoga ki jis ghar mein log fauj mein, police mein honge, uska parivar yahan rahega aur uski tasveer lekay uska baap yahan baithega (The government should listen to us, otherwise in the next protest event, families of people serving in armed forces and police will come here, their fathers will sit with their pictures).” Tikait said, “The government must hear with open ears. Either they withdraw the three farm laws and frame a law guaranteeing MSP for farmers, otherwise we have several other plans to continue the protest. We will go on a countrywide tour and nonpolitical protests will erupt in all the states.” Senior BKU leader Dharmendra Malik said, “We are inviting people having their family members serving in armed forces and police to come and mark their support for the farmers’ protest at the Ghazipur border. These people will be carrying pictures of their kinsmen serving the nation. Besides expressing solidarity for all the jawans, the move is aimed to make the central and state governments realize that they cannot muzzle the voice of farmers by issuing legal notices to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-response-to-legal-notices-to-protesters-bku-to-invite-farmers-with-pics-of-kin-serving-in-armed-forces-and-police/articleshow/80726832.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt’s road accident scheme has saved over 10,000 lives: Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said more than 10,000 lives have been saved under ‘Farishte Dilli Ke Scheme’, which is designed to help victims of road accidents. “Under the Farishte Dilli Ke Scheme, lives of more than 10,000 people have been saved so far. People are coming out to help others. Saving someone’s life is a great virtue,” Kejriwal tweeted. Health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted a video on the success of the scheme, and asked Delhiites to extend help to victims of road accidents. The government rewards good Samaritans who bring accident victims to hospitals with a reward of Rs 2,000 and a certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govts-road-accident-scheme-has-saved-over-10000-lives-cm/articleshow/80727576.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||KMC to launch birth cert portal next week to counter touts||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation is set to roll out the online application system for obtaining birth certificates from next week. The KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim on Saturday said that the health department was ready to roll out an error-free online application system that will restore both transparency and cut down on the time of obtaining birth certificates from civic offices.According to the new system, an applicant will have to visit the KMC portal and choose a date and time to collect the certificate from a borough office or the headquarters. All supporting documents can be submitted online. Citizens will also have the option to pay the required fees online.The applicant will have to carry the original documents while collecting the certificates.According to Hakim, the new system will help get rid of touts and get their much-needed certificates in time. Sources in the KMC health department conceded that the civic body’s birth certificate wing had suffered a serious setback due to the pandemic when a number of civic staffers were transferred from the wing to tackle pandemic menace. This gave ample opportunity to a section of touts who ‘sold’ birth certificates at a price ranging from Rs 7,000 to Rs 30,000 depending on the urgency of the applicant. “Currently, we are releasing birth certificates, for which documents had been submitted over a month ago,” said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-launch-birth-cert-portal-next-week-to-counter-touts/articleshow/80728348.cms||Saikat Ray
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Rs 200 cr for Netaji monument, district bldgs||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, presenting the state Budget on Friday, proposed to allocate Rs 200 crore — Rs 100 crore each to set up an Azad Hind Monument in New Town, and to set up Jai Hind Bhabans in all districts — to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The CM also proposed to set aside Rs 5 crore for a Netaji State Planning Commission and Rs 10 crore to raise a Netaji battalion in the Kolkata Armed Police. The state has been seeing fights between TMC and BJP over the legacy of the patriot, often leading to direct showdowns between the two sides. On January 23, during an official function at Victoria Memorial in honour of Netaji, where both Banerjee and PM Narendra Modi were present, a section of the crowd chanted “Jai Shri Ram” just as Banerjee was about to speak, prompting her to cut short her speech. Even a section of state BJP leaders later condemned the politicisation of the event. “Netaji was the first to give the idea of a National Planning Commission in India,” Banerjee said during Friday’s Budget speech. “Unfortunately, the present central government abolished the Planning Commission.” In memory of the contribution of Netaji, the state will form the State Planning Commission and name it the ‘Netaji State Planning Commission’. I propose to allocate Rs 5 crore for the next financial year.... No befitting monument has ever been created in our state by any government in honour of the great leader Netaji. I am proposing to construct a Azad Hind Monument in New Town, on behalf of the people of Bengal as our way of showing respect to Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary. I propose to allocate Rs 100 crore for the next financial year.” The Jai Hind Bhabans, she said, would motivate the younger generation to take inspiration from Netaji’s life. “These bhabans will also be used for education, sports, culture and various social services,” she said, adding, “I am proposing to raise a ‘Netaji battalion’, a Kolkata police battalion. I propose to allocate Rs 10 crore for the next financial year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-200-cr-for-netaji-monument-district-bldgs/articleshow/80725050.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Agra||Over 50 farmer leaders detained at home, not allowed to reach district headquarters||Agra: Farmers in Agra region were not able to reach district headquarters and sub-division offices to mark protest against the three farm laws. Over 50 farmer leaders were detained by police at their homes early on Saturday. Officials of district administration also reached homes of some of the farmer leaders to collect memorandum. Heavy police deployment was made on major roads connecting villages and around administrative offices. District president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Rajveer Lawaniya, said, “Policemen had detained us at home early on Saturday. We refused to hand over our memorandum to them. Later, police allowed us to move to the office of superintendent of police (rural). There, we handed over a memorandum addressed to the President of India to the officials of the district administration and police. We will continue our protest till the central government withdraws the three farm laws and guarantees MSP to the farmers.” Farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar said, “Police detained me at home. Later, an additional city magistrate arrived and took the memorandum. Farmers in the Agra district held their protest in a peaceful manner. We have asked the district administration to take back legal notices being issued to farmers for instigating people against the three farm laws and participating in farmers’ protest. In case more notices are issued, we will be bound to take to streets.” Inspector general of police A Satish Ganesh said, “There has not been a single incident of disturbance of law and order in the entire Agra range. Farmer leaders were quite cooperative. They peacefully handed over memorandum highlighting their demands and concerns to the police and administrative officials. Policemen have been directed to be polite and respectful towards farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-50-farmer-leaders-detained-at-home-not-allowed-to-reach-district-headquarters/articleshow/80726844.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 7, 2021||Goa||At Mollem fest, bird watcherschirp about three infra projects||Mollem: In the stillness of the woods of Mollem, a screeching call of a bird halts everybody on their tracks. “Isn’t that the Malabar Parakeet” asks Gauri, a postgraduate zoology student of Goa University. At once, Rohidas Dagale, an avid bird watcher, trains his telescope at the direction of the sound and soon the magnificent Malabar Parakeet comes in its cross hairs. “This bird is endemic to the Western Ghats. It is quite vulnerable to poaching,” explains Dagale to the team of zoology students and other participants of the bird trail, one of the events of the 4th bird festival organised by the state forest department. But even before poachers can train their sight on it, several birds like Malabar Parakeet may slowly become extinct as three proposed linear projects—Railways double-tracking, four-laning of Belagavi-Panaji national highway, and 440KV power transmission lines—may cut across the biodiversity hotspot at Mollem. Endemic species are prone to becoming endangered or extinct due to their restricted habitat and vulnerability to anthropogenic activities. “It is, therefore, important that we safeguard habitats and conserve our endemic birds,” says Dagale. The irony of the situation, however, is not lost on the birders. A research paper, ‘On the inadequacy of environment impact assessments for projects in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park of Goa, India: A peer review’, published in a scientific journal, says that “EIA (environment impact assessment) and other assessment reports have often been found deficient in documenting biodiversity, assessing direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts, and proposing mitigation measures”. The fears are not unfounded as environment minister Nilesh Cabral told the House during the recently-concluded assembly session that “there is no provision to assess the cumulative impact” of the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects cutting across the green heart of Goa, “as they are independent in nature and proposed by different user agencies at different time intervals”. Pointing out that the first ornithological study was conducted in Goa in 1976, the paper reveals that during their 16-day survey that included Mollem, the team recorded a total of 97 bird species. Presently, 286 species have been recorded from the protected areas. Studies have indicated that as birds are proven bio-indicators of environmental quality, they are ecologically vital to present as well as the future generations. Delegates of the state bird festival told TOI unequivocally that the authorities should ensure that the projects do not disturb the habitats of the endemic species. If Sharad Agarwal from Bangalore suggested expansion of green zones, multiple times, in order to compensate for destruction of tree cover, Meghsham Wagulde, a physics teacher from Mumbai’s Vaze College, stressed that Goa has no choice but to choose conservation over development if tourism needs to survive. Experts in wildlife conservation pointed out how bird conservation has umbilical relationship with tribal culture, and how “development” projects pose a threat to this relationship. “Dialects of indigenous people contain several words which suggest that nature conservation is inherent in their culture. Sacred groves have been conserved for generations owing to such tribal practices. A large number of sacred groves are sacrificed in the name of development, and with it the ancient conservation practices,” said a retired wildlife officer, who is now into organising nature trails. Parag Rangnekar, a founder-member of the Goa Bird Conservation Network (GBCN), which conducts bird trails at the festival, acknowledged that the projects have cast a shadow on the bird conservation efforts in the state. “We have made known our fears right from day one that none of the three projects are in the interest of wildlife. Organising bird festivals and all that is fine, but whether it will accrue any benefit to the birds—which should ideally be the objective behind organising the bird festival—we are not sure. The festival may attract birders or may serve in promoting hinterland tourism, and that’s fine, but we definitely don’t know how birds will benefit from it, particularly in view of the three linear projects,” he said. Meanwhile, at the bird trail, Gauri along with other young birders, are listening to Dagale’s lessons on bird conservation with rapt attention. “Many plants,” Dagale tells them, “produce fruits that are eaten by birds, who digest the fruit flesh, but leave the seed’s ability to germinate untouched”. Dagale explains how the extinction of the Dodo prevented the Dodo tree from regenerating and how it was doomed to go the same way. “If a bird or animal is removed from the ecosystem, the dispersal and germination of certain seeds will stop. This connection or invisible linkages needs to be appreciated and understood,” Dagale says, as the prolonged and unmistakable call of the Coppersmith Barbet is heard and Dagale trains his telescope once again to bring the bird into its cross hairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-mollem-fest-bird-watcherschirp-about-three-infra-projects/articleshow/80728349.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 7, 2021||Agra||Woman’s body with face burnt found on Yamuna e-way service lane||Agra: A body of an unidentified woman was found on a service lane of Yamuna Expressway in Agra’s Khandauli area on Saturday morning. The woman, in her early 20s, was found 1.5 km from the first toll of the Agra-Noida expressway. Her face was burnt in order to hide her identity, said police, adding that kerosene was used to burn her. There were injury marks on the head. The deceased was found wearing a saree-blouse, mangalsutra and anklets, police added. Arvind Kumar, Khandauli police station house officer, said a probe is on and information about the woman is being circulated to nearby police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/womans-body-with-face-burnt-found-on-yamuna-e-way-service-lane/articleshow/80726838.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Delhi wheels past chakka jam||NEW DELHI: While the farmers’ unions had announced that they would preclude Delhi from their three-hour chakka jam, or road blockade, programme on Saturday, the city remained on high alert amid heavy security arrangements to prevent any attempt at lawlessness of the sort that marked the January 26 tractor rally. The day passed without incident in the capital. “Traffic wasn’t disrupted and life went on as usual,” said Chinmoy Biswal, the public relations officer. A few preventive detentions were made, including of some people near Shahidi Park in central Delhi, who were preparing to demonstrate in support of the farmers’ call for chakka jam. Around 50,000 security personnel from Delhi Police, reserve police forces and paramilitary forces and barricades and cranes were deployed at sensitive places like Akshardham Mandir, ITO, AIIMS and Mukarba Chowk and at the various border crossing points. The Gurgaon border on the Mahipalpur had heavy barricading, resulting in a traffic jam that had a tailback stretching half a kilometre. Several companies of Indo-Tibetan Border Police, CRPF and Rapid Action Force (RAF) were also stationed for maintaining law and order. Monitoring was especially strict in markets, places of religious and historic significance, such as Red Fort and India Gate, and the roads leading to Parliament. A contingent of more than 70 CRPF personnel was deployed at ITO intersection, where the preventive measures included 5-6 feet high concrete slabs on the roads. There was conspicuous police presence at the entry gates of key Delhi Metro stations such has Rajiv Chowk. Several stations in central Delhi remained closed as a precautionary measure from around 11am, including Mandi House, ITO, Delhi Gate, Vishwavidyalaya, Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath, Central secretariat, Khan Market and Nehru Place, leaving many commuters stranded. Rajendra Pandher, a commuter trying to reach central Delhi complained about the frequency with which metro stations were being closed when such a step should be considered the last resort. Ashok Randhawa of the Sarojini Nagar Market Association disclosed that all the shops in the market remained open during the chakka jam period, but the footfall was low. “The entire market is wearing a desolate look,” he said, pointing to the additional police deployment at the entry points. In the business hub of Connaught Place, Atul Bhargava of the New Delhi Traders’ Association reported no untoward incident, though business was affected by people staying away. “Compared with last Saturday, we recorded very little business today,” Bhargava said on Saturday. “The political issue should now be resolved.” There was a preponderance of heavy barricading on the roads leading to Race Course Road and in the surrounding localities. Additional barricades were spotted near the Prime Minister’s Residence, Chanakya Bhavan, Lodhi Road crossing and Max Mueller Marg. Near the Airports Authority of India near Jorbagh, in readiness to step in if needed were two bulldozers, trucks and some buses. CRPF personnel and police forces armed with tear gas were also deployed at the AIIMS crossing. Extra barricades were also kept in readiness in other parts of the city. However, most parts of the capital had no traffic problems under the hawk-eyed vigilance of the cops. A small demonstration organised at Shahidi Park near ITO by some left-wing organisations was nipped in the bud by Delhi Police whisking away the 50 or so people reported present at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-wheels-past-chakka-jam/articleshow/80727583.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
February 7, 2021||Goa||‘Update investment board on changes in online services’||Panaji: Government departments have been asked to keep the Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB) informed about changes to online services, particularly for companies and entrepreneurs such as licences and clearances so that IPB can keep investors informed. Reforms and any change in the approval process needs to reflect in the online single window system within a period of 30 days, IPB officials said. “In order to provide the latest and most accurate information to users, all state departments shall notify IPB about the addition or elimination of any pre-establishment and pre-operation licenses, permissions, clearances so that IPB may keep the wizard up-to-date. In case of changes the wizard will be updated accordingly within a period of 30 days from the receipt of such a notice by the IPB,” said industries under secretary Amalia Pinto. IPB has also said that investors and the private sector can submit online queries and file grievances through the single window platform which has to be answered by the department concerned within 15 days. “Queries are reviewed by IPB and action is taken within 15 days from the receipt of such a query. Grievances are directly submitted to the departments concerned for further action and resolution,” said Pinto. Additionally, to enhance transparency in online services for investors and entrepreneurs, the government has decided that the number of applications received and processed will be maintained on IPB’s single window website on a weekly basis, the industries department said. The list of government to business services will be integrated with IPB’s online wizard which includes an exhaustive list of pre-establishment and pre-operation clearances required to start commercial activity in the state. Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board (IPFB) is responsible for ensuring that ease of doing business (EODB) reforms are implemented in Goa. The move is aimed at promoting investments in the state and creating a business-friendly ecosystem. “The online single window also has a section for public consultation by which various state departments may publish their draft regulations online to seek public objections and comments. All state departments shall follow their respective regulatory process to facilitate the use of the said system. Only registered users of the single window system shall be able to participate in the feedback gathering exercise,” said Pinto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/update-investment-board-on-changes-in-online-services/articleshow/80728345.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||No mask needed for lone person inside vehicle: NMC||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation issued a new order exempting people from wearing masks if they are alone inside their private vehicles. The new rule will come into force from Saturday. Those travelling in public transport like buses, autorickshaws, will be fined Rs 500 if found not wearing a mask.The civic chief has directed civic cops to stop levying fine if only one person is driving a car without a mask. In case there are more passengers in the vehicle, all must wear a mask and will be fined in case of default. NMC has also relaxed the mask rule for one person at work place.With the intention to curb the spread of coronavirus infection, NMC had started imposing fine on people venturing out without a face mask. Initially, penalty started at Rs 100, which was later revised to Rs 200. From September 2020, the widespread violation of the mask rule forced a hike in penalty to Rs 500.NDS team has so far penalized over 30,000 citizens and recovered Rs 1.36 crore fine from them for not wearing a mask in public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-mask-needed-for-lone-person-inside-vehicle-nmc/articleshow/80726418.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||‘PCMC property tax higher than NMMC, BMC’||NAVI MUMBAI: Members of a Panvel housing society have claimed that the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is charging a property tax of Rs 11.77 per sqft in the node, while claiming that the BMC charges Rs 2.15 per sqft in Dadar and the NMMC charges between Rs 1.08 per sq ft and Rs 3.48 per sq ft in its nodes. Meanwhile, the New Panvel Plot/House Owner’s Welfare Association has opposed the Panvel civic body property tax rates. “Ours is a 12-member CHS with BARC scientists and engineers. The houses were built 33 years ago and the property tax rates of similar buildings under BMC and NMMC have been compared and submitted to PCMC,” said Dr J S Bora, chairman of Anweshak CHS, Sector 2, New Panvel. “The NMMC property tax calculation is based on a built-up area, while the PCMC tax rates are based on carpet area,” said PCMC property tax officer Sunil Mankame.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-panvel-property-tax-higher-than-nmmc-bmc/articleshow/80729138.cms||Umesh K Parida
February 7, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: 2.5 lakh poultry birds may be culled in Navapur, all samples positive||PUNE: The state animal husbandry department on Saturday hinted at staggered culling of around 2.5 lakh poultry birds in 1km radius of the four farms at Navapur in Nandurbar after all the samples of dead birds from there tested positive for the H5N8 strain of avian influenza. A senior animal husbandry department official told TOI, “We are currently calculating the number of poultry farms in the 1km infected zone where the deaths occurred, and the samples tested positive. Preliminary calculations indicate that there are nearly 11-12 ‘layer poultry farms’ in the 1km area, where all the poultry birds would have to be culled. The number of poultry birds likely to be culled in the infected zone would be nearly 2.5 lakh.” Eight samples from nearly 5,000 dead poultry birds from the four “layer poultry units” in Navapur were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal for avian influenza test. All the samples tested positive. Prasanna Pedgaonkar, the general manager at Venkateshwara Hatcheries, said large-scale culling operations and other activities like egg destruction were likely in the infected zone in Navapur, which supplies eggs to cities like Surat and Mumbai. The operations could create a shortage of eggs in these cities in the coming time if the demand remained stable, he said. Maharashtra Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association president Vasanth Kumar C Shetty said, “There has been a 20-25% drop in sale of chicken and eggs across Maharashtra. But people should be informed that consumption of chicken and eggs should not be reduced or stopped. Properly cooked chicken and boiled eggs are safe for human consumption.” Maharashtra’s animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that he would be visiting the affected area in Navapur on Sunday to assess the situation. “The Nandurbar district collector would be declaring the infected zone in Navapur and culling of poultry birds in the zone would begin by Sunday morning.” On if the incidence of avian influenza had been on an increase in Maharashtra, Singh said, “For almost 10 days, there was a lull in bird deaths in the state. Even now, mortalities of crows and other birds are showing a decline. But some hotspots emerge every now and then in the state with sporadic and high number of cases. Navapur is one of them. It is a closely concentrated pocket, housing thousands of ‘poultry layer birds’. If avian influenza is spreading in Navapur, it does not indicate that the number of pockets in Maharashtra under the grip of the disease is also increasing.” Officials stated that an assessment was under way to find out the reasons as to why such organised poultry farms in Navapur could not prevent the spread of avian influenza despite knowing that the disease had been detected in the state. 63 poultry birds culled in DhayariA total of 63 poultry birds were culled on Saturday in Dhayari — a part of which has been identified as an avian influenza-infected zone in the city. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, said, “We have completed 99% of containment and surveillance measures in Dhayari. The protocols are expected to continue for 90 days. Another wild duck sample near a river at Ghotawade Phata in Mulshi has tested positive for avian influenza.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-5l-poultry-birds-may-be-culled-in-navapur-all-samples-positive/articleshow/80727585.cms||Neha Madaan
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Mystery over Rs2lakh aid deposited in Bhandara aggrieved families’ accounts||Nagpur: Some families of the 10 premature babies, who died in the Bhandara hospital tragedy on January 9, are not sure about the source of Rs2lakh which has been credited in their bank accounts early this week.By the evening of the fire incident at the district general hospital, the state government had handed over cheques of Rs5lakh each to the aggrieved families.On January 11, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had approved an ex-gratia of Rs2lakh each to the next of kin of the 10 babies from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. During his visit to Bhandara, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari announced another Rs2lakh to the 10 aggrieved families from his discretionary grant on January 13.Collectively, the families stand to gain Rs9lakh alone from the PM, state government and governor’s fund. On Saturday, TOI spoke to five families who said they have so far received Rs8.25lakh each only. This includes Rs1 lakh cash from Shiv Sena and Rs20,000 from Congress beside the Rs5lakh by the Maharashtra government. However, it is not clear if the Rs2lakh announced by PM or governor are yet to be disbursed.Bhandara district collector Sandeep Kadam didn’t respond to TOI’s queries and calls.A spokesperson from the Governor’s office claimed that a compensation of Rs2lakh has been approved by Koshyari. But the spokesperson couldn’t confirm if it was in addition to the ex-gratia declared by the PM’s fund.“We received an SMS alert that Rs2lakh has been deposited in our bank account on February 2,” said Dharampal Agare of Usarla village. He said some days ago, the kotwal had taken his passbook details.“We know that the prime minister and the governor have announced Rs2lakh each. But, we don’t know if this is all that we are getting or another Rs2lakh would be given,” said farm labourer Jayant Besashankar of Jamb village.Vishal Rahangdale of Tangla village too said that he received a Rs 5lakh cheque, followed by Rs1 lakh cash from Shiv Sena, Rs20,000 from the Congress and 5,000 from an NGO. “Rs2lakh was deposited in my bank account. I’m not sure how come they came to know my bank details. Maybe they referred to our data in the hospital records as my wife is receiving some aid under a different scheme and we had already submitted our details,” he said.Ravanwadi village Sarpanch Jagdish Uikey, speaking on behalf of the Sedam family which lost its daughter, too confirmed that they received only about Rs8.25lakh. But he claimed the Rs2lakh deposited on February 2 were from the PM’s Relief Fund while the governor’s financial assistance is yet to be released.TIMELINEJan 9 | State government officials hand over Rs5lakh cheque each to all the 10 grieving mothers soon after the last rites were performed in their respective villagesJan 11 | PM Narendra Modi approves ex-gratia of Rs2lakh each for all the 10 familiesJan 12 | Shiv Sena office bearers hand over Rs1lakh cash to each of the 10 families while Congress gives Rs20,000Jan 13 | Governor BS Koshyari announces an assistance of Rs2lakh each to all 10 families from his discretionary fundFeb 2 | Families receive Rs2lakh in their bank accounts. But source unknownFeb 6 | Rs2lakh still short in the total payout the families stand to get as compensation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mystery-over-rs2lakh-aid-deposited-in-bhandara-aggrieved-families-accounts/articleshow/80726423.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 7, 2021||Agra||Over 98% Covid patients cured of infection in Agra district||Agra: Out of the 10,503 cases reported in the district, over 98% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra. The number of active Covid cases has been reduced to 34. All active patients are in home isolation. The isolation ward at the SN Medical College had no patient on Saturday. Moreover, only one new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening and one patient was declared cured of the infection. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.09%. So far 10,298 (97.04%) people have been cured of the infection. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing will continue in different parts of the city”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-98-covid-patients-cured-of-infection-in-agra-district/articleshow/80726850.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||TCP notifies 41 proposals for zone change, rejects one||Panaji: The town and country planning (TCP) department on Saturday notified 41 proposals for change of zone of which eight were deferred and one was rejected. TCP said that the proposals will be open for public scrutiny for two months after which the proposals will get provisional approval. Except for one instance where an error in the demarcation of a road was sought to be corrected, in all other cases, the applicants wanted to change the land classification from orchard and cultivable land to settlement zone. “Recommendations of the Town and Country Planning Board for information of the persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the copies of the maps and note containing the proposed changes are available for the purpose of inspection,” said chief town planner (Planning) Rajesh Naik. The TCP Board held its 172nd meeting held on November 20 last year where the 41 proposals were considered. Based on the proposals and the report prepared by Naik, the board gave its recommendations and asked for the proposals to be notified. For 32 proposals, the TCP board has directed the chief town planner to obtain comments from the agriculture department, forest department and water resources department. TCP has also sought objections and suggestions regarding the change of zone proposals within two months. Though the TCP grants in-principle approval, the final decision on the change of zone requests under Section 16-B of the Town & Country Planning Act is subject to the final outcome of the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) being heard by the high court of Bombay at Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-notifies-41-proposals-for-zone-change-rejects-one/articleshow/80728382.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Goa||Frontline workers set to start getting jab from tomorrow||Panaji: The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state will enter its second phase on Monday, when frontline workers begin to get the jab. A total of 15,657 frontline workers, including home guards, municipality workers, those engaged in industrial management, revenue and panchayat institutions have registered to receive the vaccine. The state immunisation officer said that registrations would be open till Sunday. The vaccination drive will target 200 frontline workers — 100 each in North and South Goa — on the first day on Monday. Vaccination of healthcare workers will continue simultaneously until February 12, after which the second doses will be administered to those who received the first dose last month. A total of 19,329 healthcare workers have registered for the vaccine. These include persons both from the private and public sectors, including central government employees. Of these, 7,246 have received the first dose till date. “We plan to complete most healthcare workers by February 12,” said chief medical officer, state family welfare bureau, Dr Vandana Dhume. “We have received two instalments of the Covishield vaccine. We first received 18,000 doses on January 12, and 23,500 on January 20. We will receive the third instalment in the middle of the week,” she added. The vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be followed by those above 50 and people with comorbidities. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that if the population gets the vaccine, a second spike could be prevented. He urged people not to hesitate to take the vaccine, and asked people to clear any doubts they have with doctors available at vaccination sites. “The vaccine does not only benefit the person who is taking it, but also the entire community,” he said. He added that this is the right time to vaccinate healthcare and frontline workers, as the number of cases are showing a downturn in the country, he added. Those who register on the portal and refuse the vaccine now will have to wait and get an opportunity to receive the vaccine only after the fourth phase, Dhume said. “If your names are showing on the portal, please take the vaccine now,” she said. “(After that), they will have to wait. After that, it will be along with the general population. Their names won’t feature soon. It’s free of cost for these categories.” The state has not seen any serious AEFI, she said, adding that she, Dr Borkar and Dr Betodkar have also taken the vaccine. Dr Borkar said the cases have come down after following social distancing, wearing masks and sanitising, but added that these are only temporary solutions, and that the vaccine is the only permanent solution for this pandemic. “The vaccine is recommended by the national expert group on Covid vaccination, and we appeal to everyone to come and get vaccinated, according to their turn for the protection of themselves and their community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/frontline-workers-set-to-start-getting-jab-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80728362.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolhapur||CPR orders probe after man given ‘expired’ medicine||Kolhapur: Authorities at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital in Kolhapur have ordered a probe after it was found that a 75-year-old patient was given an expired medicine on Saturday morning. Akshay Khandare, a resident of Peth Vadgaon town, took his father, Mahadev, to the hospital for treatment of a kidney-related disorder on Friday evening. He had been told by a doctor in his town that his father needed critical care treatment, which is available at the CPR Hospital.“Since he was admitted, he had continuous dysentery and uneasiness. On Saturday morning, I found that one of the medicines (Ciprofloxacin) given to him intravenously had already expired in December 2020. When I asked the staff in the ward, I was not treated properly,” Khandare told TOI. Akshay wrote to the hospital dean S S More about the incident. “The hospital administration should be held responsible if something adverse happens to my father,” said Khandare.Immediately after the matter came to light, top doctors rushed to the hospital on the directions of the dean. The patient has been kept on dialysis and doctors have advised his son to get some more tests done.More said medical superintendent Vijay Barage has been appointed to look into matter. Barage said, “The hospital staff is under strain due to Covid-related duties. The expired medicines are usually discarded on time. We have learnt that the mistake of administering the expired medicine took place during change in the shift of the staff.”He added that they would make further inquiry into the incident and take appropriate steps and action against the staff responsible for the lapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cpr-orders-probe-after-man-given-expired-medicine/articleshow/80726419.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Self-watering tree guard ensures 90% survival rate of saplings||Nagpur: Amid all the hype and hoopla over the thousands of trees that will be axed in Ajni for the inter modal project, here is some cheerful news: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) decision to opt for self-watering tree guards in 2018 has started yielding results. Over 90% of the 447 saplings planted by the civic body’s garden department are now at least 25-30 feet tall. According to data obtained from the garden department, the civic body in association with Rainbow Greeners (the firm that had developed the technique) had planted 126 neem saplings on RPTS road. About 154 ‘bakul’ saplings were planted on the stretch between Deekshabhoomi and RPTS T-point, 62 neem saplings in Uday Nagar and 105 ashoka and bougainvillea saplings. Usually, the survival rate of plantation along the roadside is less than 30%. However, in 2 1/2 years this unique technique has fetched good results. TOI did a spot check on Saturday.Residents from these localities too endorsed the new technique over traditional sapling plantation. Ritesh Mate, a resident of Laxmi Nagar, said all trees on the RPTS and Neeri stretches are growing rapidly despite huge vehicular traffic. Former mayor Sandip Joshi, who had implemented the concept in the NMC, said he planted hundreds of trees in his Laxmi Nagar prabhag even before introducing the self-watering tree guard to the NMC. “They have now grown taller than an electric pole,” he said.The NMC had made a provision of Rs4.94 crore for planting 11,260 saplings across the cement roads in the city. But the project could not start due to various reasons.The survival rate of plantation through self-water tree guard are higher than the traditional technique of planting saplings and then using either iron or wooden tree guards, said an NMC officer. The guards ensure that cattle do eat leaves from the young saplings and also provides them good support.Environmentalist and founder of city NGO Green Vigil, Kaustav Chatterjee, said, “In the hot climate of Nagpur, most of the tree plantation fails due to absence of tree guard as well as routine watering and maintenance of plants. If the said technology comes with a guard and needs less watering, it will be good for survival of the plants in Nagpur climate.”“Location also plays an important role as sooner or later, the growth of the plant will depend on availability of groundwater and soil characteristics. The self-watering capacity can make the plant survive for a certain period only,” he said.Chatterjee, however, had a word of caution. “The technology is suitable for plants with medium height and can’t be implemented for small plants as the stem of the plant need to match the length of the guard. The material used for guard is made up of PVC, which is not an environment-friendly option. The authorities should find an alternative material.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/self-watering-tree-guard-ensures-90-survival-rate-of-saplings/articleshow/80726426.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 7, 2021||Goa||High court imposes fine on WRD engg for dispute with contractor||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has imposed costs of Rs 5,000 on an executive engineer of the water resources department (WRD) after it found that he created “unnecessary hurdles” in settling a dispute with a contractor and was delaying the process of adjudication and arbitration. M/s Dhirubhai D Thumer & Co had approached the court seeking appointment of an arbitrator and pointed out the breaches committed by the government. The contractor was issued a work order to build a multipurpose cyclone shelter at Mandrem which was to begin in August 2018 and was completed in January 2020. But the company stated that their work was adversely affected due to various defaults and failures on the part of the WRD. Subsequently, both the parties gave notice of termination of contract. This led to the dispute. “The correspondence on record indicates that this executive engineer Ravishankar Godi was taking contradictory stances only to delay the process of adjudication and consequent arbitration,” the court observed. The court said that applicant has made every possible attempt to secure adjudication through the adjudicator/Dispute Review Expert (DRE). At every stage, this attempt has been virtually frustrating by the respondents by adopting an unreasonable stance, the court held. “The respondents usually pay the cost through the state exchequer which in turn is recovered from the taxpayers. This emboldens the officers to delay the matters and take up contradictory positions,” the court stated, adding that it is a fit case where the engineer should personally pay costs of Rs 5,000. Counsel representing the petitioner, Clayton Fonseca stated that the costs can be made to the Goa State Legal Services Authority. Fonseca pointed out that this is a case where a huge amount is due to the contractor, while additional government advocate Deep Shirodkar argued that the contractor abandoned the project and therefore is liable to pay a huge amount to the government. “At this stage, it is not for this court to go into the rival contentions. However, if this is the matter then the executive engineer should have acted with a greater sense of responsibility, both in the interest of dispute redressal mechanism provided in the agreement as also in the interest of the government itself,” Justice Mahesh Sonak stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/high-court-imposes-fine-on-wrd-engg-for-dispute-with-contractor/articleshow/80728358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Indian nurses head to Gulf for lucrative Covid vaccination stints||BENGALURU: Some private hospitals in Bengaluru have raised their concern with the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) about nurses quitting abruptly. They are being “lured” with attractive salary packages in Gulf countries for their Covid vaccination drives for 3-6 months, they said. PHANA has told all member hospitals to report such cases. “At a time when the mass vaccination drive is all set to begin in India, we are seeing the new trend of nurses quitting to go to Gulf countries. Some nurses who quit have been trained by the government to work in Covid vaccination session sites,” a PHANA member told STOI. According to one advertisement, nurses are being offered 8,000 Arab Emirates dirhams (around Rs 1.5 lakh) per month. The pay package is 6-7 times the salary in Bengaluru. Covid-recovered, unmarried nurses below 40 years and trained in Covid vaccination sessions are much in demand, sources said. A recent case was at Excel Care hospital near Banashankari, where two nurses quit abruptly, one after the other, in January. Both were male nurses, who had recovered from Covid. “One of them stopped coming to work on January 24. We realised he was hired by a Dubai hospital for a mass vaccination drive and was offered Rs 2 lakh a month. He quit without serving the notice period. He was trained by the Karnataka government for Covid vaccination. We also heard he got the visa within a day,” said Dr Suresh Krishnamurthy, medical director of the hospital. We may face staff shortage in vax drives: DocDteam r Krishnamurthy got a shock two added days later his when another nurse quit. “At a time when the pandemic has gradually declined and vaccination has begun, our country may lose trained nurses who go outside for better salaries. The government should take note of it,” he said. PHANA president Dr HM Prasanna said. “As of now, we’ve heard from two hospitals. We’re yet to get the exact number of nurses who have quit. If a few nurses quit, it won’t be an issue as there is always attrition. But there is a huge demand for nurses abroad for vaccination drives. If many nurses quit, we’ll face a manpower shortage in our own vaccination drives and to tackle the Covid second wave, if it happens,” Dr Prasanna told STOI. The matter will be brought to the government’s notice if there’s an exodus of nurses, he added. While a 20% attrition rate among nurses is seen annually in city hospitals, it could go up, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/indian-nurses-head-to-gulf-for-lucrative-covid-vax-stints/articleshow/80729315.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: MBBS student dies after BBMP truck rams scooter||BENGALURU: A 19-year-old MBBS student died on the spot after a speeding truck hit her scooter from behind on Hennur Main Road near the Lingarajapuram bridge around 11.45am on Saturday. Preliminary investigation indicated Tasdik Bushra, a resident of Lingarajapuram and second-year student of Bangalore Medical College, was trying to avoid a pothole when the accident happened. The accident triggered outrage with residents and motorists slamming civic authorities for failing to repair the broken road. “The girl would not have died had BBMP ensured the road was in a motorable condition and motorists needn’t swerve to the extreme ends to avoid potholes or bad stretches,” a resident said. Driver Palani was held and charged with rash driving and negligence based on a complaint filed by the girl’s father Syed Mushtak Ahmed. Residents claim pothole caused girl’s accidentPolice said: “Ahmed didn’t make any allegation about the pothole. But we found a pothole near the spot and a probe will reveal exact cause of the accident. If it confirms the pothole was the main reason, we’ll book the BBMP officials concerned.” Residents maintained the accident was caused because of the pothole and shoddy road work. A resident said: “The girl died because of the pothole and BBMP officials are responsible. Many people are dying and getting injured due to potholes, which are a fallout of civic negligence. We appeal to BBMP and cops to act immediately.” Palike commissioner Manjunatha Prasad said: “We’ve been informed the accident occurred due to a pothole and officials inspected the spot. Probe will reveal the cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mbbs-student-dies-afterbbmp-truck-rams-scooter/articleshow/80729319.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||3 GoaMiles drivers beaten by ‘taxi mafia’||Calangute: Three GoaMiles taxi drivers were assaulted, allegedly by private taxi owners, at Calangute on Thursday. The assaults took place in three separate incidents on the same night of February 4, when the GoaMiles drivers had gone to pick up passengers. All three victims have suffered injuries. A complaint was filed by Suresh Naik and Mehboob Nadaf, both from Sanguem, and Calangute police registered a case of assault against Yogesh Govekar and six others. However, no arrests were made until late Saturday night. Govekar could not be found at home when police went looking for him. Police have launched a search operation to nab the accused who took the law into their own hands. There have been frequent clashes between private taxi operators and GoaMiles drivers in recent weeks, as private cabbies claim a drastic drop in their business since the pandemic arrived. But Thursday’s incident is the first instance of GoaMiles drivers having been assaulted and left with injuries. Taxi operators have been objecting to GoaMiles drivers picking up passengers from resorts/hotels where they have been operating from. The private cabbies have also demanded that the state government scrap the app-based taxi service, claiming that it is adversely affecting them, but the government has refused to do so. Thursday’s incidents have gone viral on social media. The taxi owners’ association, however, appeared to distance itself from Thursday’s incidents. A senior executive committee member of the North Goa Tourist Taxi Association, who did not want to be named, said these incidents are the work of disgruntled elements and the association has nothing to do with them. GoaMiles, in a statement, said that the three incidents occurred on February 4 between 11pm to 2am. “Yogesh Govekar, accompanied by a group, thrashed a GoaMiles driver making him grievously injured and left him bleeding profusely. He did not just stop here, there were two more assaults on the same day battering drivers and damaging their vehicles,” GoaMiles said. It has said that hockey sticks and cricket bats were used in the assault. GoaMiles said it would write to chief minister Pramod Sawant seeking strict action over the incident. “Govekar has made a video that supports more violence against GoaMiles drivers, showing their fearlessness towards local authorities,” GoaMiles said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-goamiles-drivers-beaten-by-taxi-mafia/articleshow/80728384.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Babush writes to CM, pushes for traditional Carnival route||Panaji: With the possibility of the Carnival parade shifting from the traditional route along the Mandovi riverfront in Panaji to the Miramar-Dona Paula road, Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant to hold the parade on the traditional route or refrain from holding the parade altogether. In the letter, Monserrate stated, “You must be aware of the Carnival parade which is part of the Carnival Festivities that will be held on February 13, at Panaji. The parade traditionally starts near Divja Circle under the old Mandovi Bridge and then takes the route via Dayanand Bandodkar Road and culminates near Kala Academy.” Monserrate said the traditional route for the Carnival parade has been maintained for many years and is the most preferred when it comes to traffic management as it provides easy ingress and outgress for people who come to see the parade without disturbing the city’s traffic pattern. The MLA said that the parade should continue on this route as opposed to any other route which was experimented with in the past as it caused traffic chaos, almost paralysed the city and led to fewer footfalls for the Carnival. “The holding of the parade on the traditional route was very successful under your guidance last year and I hope the same route will be continued. If any other route is considered, then it would appropriate to refrain from holding the parade,” Monserrate stated in the letter. After initially denying permission to hold the annual Carnival parade along its traditional route in the city last year, Panaji police and the traffic cell of gave their approval following a meeting with the North Goa collector, and Corporation of the City of Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/babush-writes-to-cm-pushes-for-traditional-carnival-route/articleshow/80728400.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Surat||Miffed workers vandalize Cong office||Surat: Scores of disgruntled Congress workers owing allegiance to their political leaders on Saturday vandalized party office in Nanpura area while protesting against the selection of candidates of their respective wards for upcoming municipal elections later this month. Congress workers damage the chairs and broke signboards at the party office to protest the party’s decision for fielding the new faces in the upcoming civic election. The agitating workers alleged that those given mandate by the party have not worked for the welfare of the people in their respective municipal wards.On Saturday morning, a group of Congress workers stormed into party office shouting slogans and damaged plastic chairs, tables and the banners. The workers threatened to resign from the party, if the party did not give tickets to the deserving candidates from their wards. Angered with the selection of candidates by the Congress leadership, former city Congress president, Sambhu Prajapati sat on a dharna outside the party office stating that the party had ignored the grassroots workers and given tickets on a platter to the ‘inexperienced’ and ‘undeserving’ people. Talking with TOI, Prajapati said, “The party’s policy and ideology have been put on the backburner in selecting the candidates. The honest, sincere and dedicated party workers have been completely ignored. Here relatives and friends of the senior Congress leaders are getting tickets, while the grassroots workers have been pushed to the walls.”Salim Gadhyali, a senior Congress leader said, “More than 60 Congress candidates were informed about their candidatures over phone late on Friday night. Today is the last day for filing nomination and there is a huge rush at the collector’s office. In most cases, the mandates are issued in the name of some other person, creating confusion among the candidates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/miffed-workers-vandalize-cong-office/articleshow/80726869.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Goa||Four fish processing units told to shut down||Panaji/Colva: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has directed four fish processing units operating at Cuncolim Industrial Estate to stop operation with immediate effect till the board approves the design, methodology and disposal facility of the effluent treatment plant. Sanjeev Joglekar, environmental engineer, GSPCB, said that the board will also verify ground water quality at Cuncolim with assistance of the Central Ground Water Board and the water resources department. Joglekar issued notices to stop work to m/s Indotech Ice and Cold Storage, Quality Foods, M/S Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries and M/S United Marine Products. Joglekar said that units have to submit a detailed methodology, design of the effluent treatment plant (ETP) with water balance chart to board within a period of seven days from the date of receipt of these directions. In the case of United Marine Products, the board has said it has observed that the unit has carried out modification to the effluent treatment system without specific consent from the board and has also installed storage tanks. Similarly, GSPCB has said it will direct the water resources department and the central ground water board to carry out monitoring in the case of Quality Foods to ascertain the pollution at the cost of the unit. The order in case of Indotech Ice and Cold Storage and Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries has observed that the analysis report of the borewell indicates turbidity, dissolved solids, chloride and that the hardness exceeds the permissible limits. The presence of e-coli was also found in the analysed sample. The units have to submit a detailed methodology, design of the effluent treatment plant with water balance chart to board within a period of seven days from the date of receipt of these directions. the board will also verify ground water quality at Cuncolim||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-fish-processing-units-told-to-shut-down/articleshow/80728413.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad startup to equip smart school labs||AHMEDABAD: With the pandemic easing up, and the government geared to set up smart schools in the city, Ahmedabad-based startup, KYS Scientific Private Limited will provide science-maths labs. The homegrown startup, which makes telescopes and other scientific equipment, will supply specialized kits for scientific education to some 40 schools across the city. Their specialization is in the manufacturing of different telescopes and uniquely designed planetariums used in astronomy. Advait Raval, founder, KYS Scientific Pvt Limited, said, “We have bagged the contract through a private firm that will source such kits for schools for the civic body. These kits will be in two parts, one for students of Class 1-8 and another for Class 9-12, which will comprise equipment and toys through which they can learn concepts easily.” KYS Scientific, incubated at CrAdle, the incubator at Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), received grants of varying amounts under different schemes of the state government. Raval founded the startup in 2018 when he manufactured telescopes for learning and for scientific purposes. “I took inspiration from my father who worked in Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and always wanted to pursue something in astronomy and electronics. After being incubated in EDII, we received a grant of Rs 15 lakh for product development and marketing,” said Raval, whose firm clocked a turnover of Rs 40 lakh in 2019-20. The primary aim of KYS is to make the telescope lightweight, which can be moved from one place to another easily. “We make an alt-azimuth mount which offers a high level of precision when aiming and targeting celestial bodies even in reflector telescopes. We use our own technique to manufacture parabolic reflector mirrors of different sizes with highly precise resolution of assured quality,” said the founder. As online education gained traction after Covid outbreak, uptakes for his products increased significantly. “In India, there are few manufacturers of telescopes and therefore, the market and scope on the lines of Make in India are tremendous. Demand for our products grew significantly since the lockdown, as not just students but even individuals and educational institutions have been ordering our kits,” Raval added. The startup has its facility in Ranip area of Ahmedabad and currently operates with a team of 12 persons. “We currently cater to clients in Gujarat, mainly in the cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadsar, and Himmatnagar. Further, we are also in advanced talks with the Science City Centres in Kolkata and in Mumbai, which require our products. People are not currently visiting Science City as they’re closed for public viewing,” said Raval. “However, as they plan to open and resume activities, we will bag a few orders,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-startup-to-equip-smart-school-labs/articleshow/80727590.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Chakka jam at several places in Vid against farm laws||Nagpur: Large number of organizations staged chakka jam (road blockade) agitations across Vidarbha against the three farm laws enacted by the central government. Activists of the three major parties of the state — Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena — by and large kept away from these agitations. Sena activists staged demonstrations against fuel price hike at various places in the region.In Nagpur, activists of Aam Admi Party (AAP) and Kisan Samanvay Samiti staged a chakka jam for about three hours at Indora Square. The AAP activists were led by Vidarbha convener Devendra Wankhade. Kisan Samanvay Samiti is a federation of several organizations that are opposing the farm laws.Activists of Samyukt Kisan Morcha staged demonstrations at Samvidhan Square. Arun Latkar addressed the activists on the dangers posed by the three laws.In Yavatmal district, activists of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Prahar Jan Shakti, Shetkari Sanghatana MIM, Rashtriya Kisan Morcha, Rashtriya Muslim Morcha etc blocked highways at Pandharkawda, Pusad and Mahagaon. Traffic at Shivaji Square in Pusad town was disrupted for three hours.In Wardha district, road blockades were staged in Pavnar, Talegaon and Hinganghat. In Pavnar and Hinganghat a federation of several social organizations blocked the road for half an hour before police detained them. In Talegaon, the agitation was led by former Congress MLA Amar Kale.Chakka jam was done at several places in Chandrapur district. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) led the agitation in Chandrapur city. Members of Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) and CITU, led by KK Singh, prevented transport of coal from Durgapur open cast mine for three hours. In Chandrapur city, Jan Vikas Sena of Pradip ‘Pappu’ Deshmukh burned copies of farm laws. The agitation in Warora was led by the local unit of NCP. The Communist Party of India (CPI), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and NCP activists blocked the road at Bramhapuri.Activists of Shiv Sena led by their mahanagar pramukh (metropolitan chief) Pramod Manmode staged demonstrations against central government for hiking prices of petrol and diesel. The activists loaded motorcycles on bullock carts and pulled the carts to symbolize the pain felt by common people due to fuel price hike. Dushyant Chaturvedi, Nitin Tiwari and other leaders were present.(With inputs from TO Abraham, Mazhar Ali and Balwant Dhage)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chakka-jam-at-several-places-in-vid-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80726429.cms||Ashish Roy
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||FIR likely against doc who got kin, friends vaccinated||Amravati: The health administration is considering filing an FIR against the director of Achalpur Superspeciality Hospital, Dr Aashish Bhansali, who allegedly got 19 members of his family and friends vaccinated for Covid-19.Dr Surendra Dhole, medical superintendent of Achalpur sub-district hospital who is investigating the matter, told TOI that there is a possibility of an FIR against Dr. Bhansali, but only after thorough investigation and approval by higher-ups.“Of the 19 who received the shot free of cost under the garb of health workers between January 23 to 27, eleven are doubtful,” Dr Dhole told TOI.“Prima-facie, this is a clear misdeed on part of the private hospital which found loopholes in the rules and took advantage of them to get non-health workers of the Bhansali family and friends vaccinated,” he said.Achalpur SDO Sandeep Apar said when the matter came to light, instructions for investigation were given to Dr Dhole.“Because of the unfair deed by the private hospital, we have now started asking for Aadhaar and identity cards from private hospitals besides letters certifying the beneficiary as a genuine health worker,” Dr Dhole said, adding that this has unnecessarily increased the troubles for all as the process consumes time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fir-likely-against-doc-who-got-kin-friends-vaccinated/articleshow/80726441.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Kedar, Kadu meet Uttam Galva survivors||Wardha: District guardian minister Sunil Kedar and state labour minister Omprakash alias Bachu Kadu visited injured workers of Uttam Galva Metallics Limited, Bhugaon on Saturday. 38 workers of the company were injured while emptying the furnace in an accident on Wednesday. Of the 38, eight are undergoing treatment at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi, four at Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram and eight at Orange City Hospital, Nagpur. The rest of them have been discharged.Bachu Kadu said the company should form an inquiry committee and take action against the guilty, or the government will form a committee to investigate the matter. If the company is found guilty, government will take stringent action, he said.Kadu found that the company was not following safety norms. “There are violations of safety jackets and other aspects. All the vulnerable units as well as other problematic areas must be found and the company should arrange all necessary safety equipment for workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kedar-kadu-meet-uttam-galva-survivors/articleshow/80726438.cms||Balwant Dhage
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Health dept gives charge of Bhandara district hosp to inexperienced doctor||Nagpur: In a surprising move, the health department has handed over the charge of Bhandara district general hospital civil surgeon’s post to a clinical officer, bypassing seniors and administrative-level officers in the district as well as the revenue division.The state government had suspended civil surgeon (CS) Dr Pramod Khandate among others over their alleged negligence which led to the death of 10 premature babies in the sick newborn care unit (SNCU) on January 9.Orthopaedic specialist Dr Piyush Jakkal has been holding the charge of Bhandara CS after Khandate’s suspension and subsequent transfer to Wardha.Officials said CS-cadre candidates working as superintendents at primary health centres and sub-district hospitals in Bhandara and the five other districts in Nagpur division were better options while handing over the charge of the hospital, which is now going through a crucial phase.Additional CS Dr Sunita Badhe too has been transferred to Sindhudurg as a punishment for the alleged negligence. Dr Badhe’s transfer to Sindhudurg is being seen as a harsh action as compared to others. Acting on the 8-member inquiry panel report, the government had also terminated paediatrician Dr Sushil Ambade and in-charge sisters Smita Ambilduke and Shubhangi Satawane on January 21. They were on contract. Medical officer Dr Archana Meshram and in-charge sister Jyoti Haraskar were suspended.Bhandara IMA president Dr Nitin Turaskar said civil surgeon is a responsible post and must be given to a senior person. “Handling a big hospital like this requires more skills. It is highly specialized job as it requires a lot of multitasking,” he said.Dr Turaskar added that the administrative officer of the hospital has been conspicuous by absence in the entire affair. “The duties of this officer must be defined and displayed so that liability can be fixed,” he said. A senior officer told TOI that Dr Jakkal was chosen as he held the additional charge when the regular civil surgeon was away on official tours or leaves in the last five years. “A senior doctor was asked but he refused to take up the task and hence Dr Jakkal was given the role. He has a fair idea of the post. This is only a stopgap arrangement and he knows the hospital and its issues well,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-dept-gives-charge-of-bhandara-district-hosp-to-inexperienced-doctor/articleshow/80726434.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 7, 2021||Goa||Centre will assist Goa’s fishing, agri to improve economy: Union minister||Panaji: Goa’s economy was earlier dependent on mining and now the Centre will provide all the necessary assistance to fishing and agriculture sectors such that they will improve the state’s economy, Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh said on Saturday. Asked if his statement meant that the state’s economy will move from mining to fisheries and agriculture, including animal husbandry, Singh said, “I have held meeting with the chief minister, the deputy chief minister and fisheries minister and I’ll hold another meeting with other ministers and the officials of the state government, after which I'll be able to give more details.” “We have agreed that we have to make Goa atmanirbhar and we have to see how fishing and agriculture can help to make Goa atmanirbhar,” he said. The Union minister said that he will list out how the Centre and the state government will work together to improve the blue economy and agriculture. Singh also visited Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital at Bambolim to meet Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik to inquire about his health. Last month, Naik met with an accident at Ankola in Karnataka and since then he is undergoing treatment at GMC. The Union Budget has not put any additional tax on the people of the country, the cess on petroleum products also not burden people, the Union minister told reporters. “There is no one paisa additional tax. Cess was levied after reducing the excise on petroleum products and that is the reason there is no additional burden on the public,” he said. The Union Budget aims to make atmanirbhar Bharat and youths, women, farmers, businessmen, defence, infrastructure, etc, have been covered in the Budget, Singh said. He said that the Centre will award national highway projects to the tune of 8,500km by March 2022. The Budget has also allocated Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination, the minister said. On the West Bengal elections, Singh said that BJP will win the assembly elections in West Bengal and unseat the Mamata Banerjee government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-will-assist-goas-fishing-agri-to-improve-economy-union-minister/articleshow/80728458.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Doctors start relay hunger strike in city||Nagpur: Modern medicine doctors attached to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nagpur branch, began their relay hunger strike from 8am on Saturday at the IMA Hall. IMA has started this agitation nationwide. Doctors will continue this strike till February 14.“IMA is against the slated mixopathy in Indian healthcare. IMA respects, welcomes and proposes that all our traditional healthcare systems should strive hard and make themselves more evidence based,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA.Medical Students’ Network (MSN), Junior Doctors’ Network (JDN), IMA Women’s Wing, IMA Hospital Board, in-service Doctors, and resident doctors from medical colleges have also joined this agitation.Doctors alleged that it’s a policy of present government to mix the mutually unrelated systems of medicines. “Integrating independent systems into one is unscientific and we won’t accept it,” said Dr Rajesh Sawarbandhe, honorary secretary of IMA Nagpur.IMA will start awareness movement for people of the country and will approach MPs, MLAs and respective state governments in the next phase. “Internationally, IMA will apprise various associations from different countries about this unscientific notification,” said Dr YS Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-start-relay-hunger-strike-in-city/articleshow/80726444.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Budget cushion to brass, engg, auto parts industries||Ahmedabad/ Rajkot/Vadodara: The recently announced Union Budget has brought much-needed relief to sectors such as engineering, auto components, brass-parts, and petrochemicals. The relief in terms of duty cuts on certain items and components has come when these industries are facing a surge in raw material prices. TOI decrypts for you, whether and how Gujarat’s key manufacturing clusters stand to gain or lose. Brass parts exporters to gain an edge The reduction on basic Customs duty on imports of copper from 5% to 2.5% has given a new lifeline to the manufacturers of brass-parts – who form a huge cluster mainly comprising small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Jamnagar. Brass is an alloy that is a blend of 40% zinc and 60% copper. With duty reduction, copper will come cheaper, thus reducing the cost of production of brass-parts. “Even as the industry crawled back on track post lockdown, the hike in raw material costs hit the manufacturers hard over the past two months. The duty reduction on copper has proven to be a booster dose for the industry, which will help us bring down our production costs. Copper – 90% of which is imported to Jamnagar – will come cheaper by Rs 7 per kg,” said Lakha Keshwala, president, Jamnagar Factory Owner’s Association (JFOA), which represents the brass industry cluster. Accordingly, brass will become cheaper and will cost around Rs 359 per kg. “This will boost our export competitiveness, and also help us fetch higher order volumes, thus augmenting our revenues,” said Jignesh Shah, a brass-parts manufacturer based in Jamnagar. Jamnagar is home to some 7,000 units manufacturing brass-parts with a turnover of Rs 250 crore per month. The cluster produces roughly 6,750 tonnes worth of brass-parts every month. Solar rooftops cost to go up The cost of solar rooftops or ground-mounted solar plants is expected to increase with the recently announced Union Budget proposing to raise the Customs duty on solar inverters to 20% from 5%. The hike in duty is mainly aimed at encouraging the production of the inverters domestically. According to industry players, the inverters account for 8-10% of the component cost of solar rooftops and ground mounted solar power projects. A 15% increase in duty roughly translates into a 1.5% or 2% increase in the cost of these solar power installations. Although there will be some short-term pain due to the duty hike, it is an opportunity for domestic manufacturers and entrepreneurs. “Domestic entrepreneurs must take this challenge. The business prospects are plenty considering India's ambitious target of 450GW of renewables. Further, domestic industries can also tap the export market,” said Jaideep Malaviya, a solar energy expert. Some industry players also believe that the government should have provided incentives or support in terms of electricity duty cut, relief in interest rates or finance cost to promote domestic manufacturing of inverters. Raising duty does help domestic producers, but also raises the cost to end-consumers. Petrochemicals industry to see drop in production costs With a reduction in the import duty on naphtha, which is a key raw material used in the manufacturing of petrochemicals, the cost of raw materials will come down drastically, according to chemical industry players. Bhupendra Patel, chairman – Gujarat region, Chemical Exports Promotion Council (Chemexil), said, “Naphtha is a key raw material used in making petrochemicals. With less local capacity to produce it, its import-dependence is high and thus, a duty cut will certainly cause a reduction in prices of raw materials. This will bring much ease to manufacturers by reducing their cost of production and making them more competitive.” Duty hike to boost local manufacturing of auto components Automobile industry players said the government decision of increasing basic Customs duty to 15% on specified auto parts like ignition wiring sets, safety glass, parts of signaling equipment, among others, will help boost local manufacturing. “The increase in basic Customs duty on select auto components will encourage local manufacturing of these products. This will help boost local manufacturing, capacity-building, and will encourage OEMs to procure locally instead of importing. It will help reduce India’s import dependence as well,” said Piyush Tamboli, chairman – western region, Auto Component Manufacturers’ Association (ACMA). Booster dose for engineering units Reeling from pressure for months due to the sharp rise in raw material prices, the engineering industry in Gujarat has finally heaved a sigh of relief with the Budget reducing Customs duty on steel to 7.5 per cent and exempting scrap from duty till March 31, 2022. Such was the impact of the proposal that Indian companies that supply steel reduced the price on the day of the Budget. The Budget proposal will help engineering units reduce production costs and become competitive in the export market. Rajkot is home to nearly 6,000 engineering units having a yearly turnover of about Rs 10,000 crore. The Rajkot cluster manufactures automotive components, ball and roller bearings, hardware, diesel oil engine, and agriculture equipment. “Engineering units were reeling from pressure after raw material prices went up sharply over the last few months. Steel is one of the key raw materials in engineering firms. Reducing import duty on steel to 7.5 per cent will bring some relief to the firms and help them revive the sector,” said Nilesh Shukla, president of Indian SME Forum (Gujarat chapter).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/budget-cushion-to-brass-engg-auto-parts-industries/articleshow/80727598.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||Chakka jam stalls traffic on key routes in stir heartland||Traffic stalled for three hours along arteries in the heartland of the farmer agitation on Saturday, but farm groups enforcing the chakka jam across Punjab and Haryana ensured there were no palpitations over law and order at any of the protest sites. As slogans against the new farm laws coursed through highways choked with sedentary traffic, four months of agitation in Punjab and Haryana and around two-and-a-half months on the Delhi borders appeared to find direction again after losing its way in the mess of the Republic Day tractor parade. Members of farm outfits squatted on almost every NH passing through Punjab. Only ambulances and school buses got right of way. Sources pegged the number of protest locations in Punjab alone at around 350. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) put up road blockades at 33 places across 14 districts. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar thanked the farmers along with the civil and police administration for ensuring that the protest passed off peacefully. In Rohtak, commuters stranded in the three-hour highway standstill were given sweets, snacks and tea at various protest sites to lessen their torment. In Rajasthan, former deputy CM Sachin Pilot's kisan caravan from Dausa reached Bharatpur in time for a rally on the sidelines of the chakka jam. The Delhi-Jaipur highway was completely blocked from 11am. Farm outfits in Maharashtra brought highway traffic to a halt in parts of Kolhapur, Nashik and Aurangabad. In MP, BKU enforced chakka jam at several places. The state general secretary of BKU was untraceable till late in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chakka-jam-stalls-traffic-on-key-routes-in-stir-heartland/articleshow/80729366.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||NMC adds 80 more buses as ridership rises||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has, in the last two days, increased the number of Aapli Buses by almost 80. Now, the number of these buses plying on 72 different routes has reached 250 and it has also witnessed a steep rise in passengers’ flow. On February 2, 250 buses were used by 64,775 passengers.After almost eight months of Covid-induced lockdown, the NMC resumed city bus operations from October 28. Initially, it started with 50-odd buses and gradually increased the number.A senior official from NMC’s transport department told TOI that the four Aapli Bus operators have a fleet of over 360 buses. But as educational institutions are yet to open fully, NMC has increased the Aapli Bus fleet by 80 from February 1.The highest number of passengers are being witnessed at three different routes, including Sitabuldi-Khaparkheda, Hingna-Sitabuldi and Sitabuldi-Butibori. All these routes witness over 5,000 passengers every day, the official said.These 250 buses cover approximately 51,225.6 km on 72 routes. The total earning from sale of passengers’ ticket was Rs9.49 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-adds-80-more-buses-as-ridership-rises/articleshow/80726453.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Correct farm power bills first, then demand arrears: Activist to discom||Nagpur: Power consumer activist Pratap Hogade has demanded that MSEDCL should first correct the farm power bills before demanding that farmers pay the arrears. He said that during a meeting held in Mantralaya recently, energy minister Nitin Raut assured that all farm power bills would be corrected. However, he expressed scepticism that the minister would fulfil his promise.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has recently launched an amnesty scheme for agricultural consumers in which their interest for a long period would be waived off if they pay the principal amount.Hogade alleged that MSEDCL had started inflating agricultural consumption since 2011-12. “Those having 3 horse power (HP) pumps were billed as per 5 HP pumps. Similarly, the owners of 5 HP pumps were billed for 7.5 HP and so on,” he said.He further charged that since 2012-13 MSEDCL started inflating the bills of metered agricultural consumers. “Instead of taking meter readings and sending bills based on actual consumption, the discom sent average bills in which the consumption was doubled,” he added.According to Hogade, the bills of about 80% farmers in the state are inflated and first need to be corrected.Hogade’s allegations hold water as former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had said that the same thing after taking charge. He had formed a three-member committee which concluded that MSEDCL was inflating farm pump consumption. However, the report was not implemented by the BJP government.Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) in its last tariff order had stated that MSEDCL’s agricultural consumption was far higher than the actual figure.Hogade demanded that in case of unmetered consumers, MSEDCL staffers should check the HP of the pump and correct the bills accordingly. “In case of metered consumers, bills should be issued as per the actual reading. In cases where the meters are faulty and the actual consumption can’t be determined, an average meter reading based on the feeder’s reading should be considered,” he said.The activist pointed out that amnesty schemes for farmers had been launched in the past too. “Only the one launched in 2004 was successful because bills of farmers were not inflated at that time. However, the ones launched in 2014 and 2018 failed because of inflated bills,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/correct-farm-power-bills-first-then-demand-arrears-activist-to-discom/articleshow/80726448.cms||Ashish Roy
February 7, 2021||Rajkot||Eco bricks: A safe way to end non-recyclable plastic||RAJKOT: Forty thousand and counting — this is the haul of eco bricks that is literally paving the way for environ consciousness at the Akwada lake garden in Bhavnagar. And, what is even better is the fact that the process is a citizen initiative. In a clever move by Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), these non-recyclable plastic waste bricks or eco bricks will take hundreds of years to get destroyed, and thus, will prevent pollution in land, water and air. The actual brain behind BMC’s innovation is Dr Tejas Doshi, a family physician by profession and brand ambassador of Bhavnagar in Swachh Bharat mission. For the project, the civic body asked the citizens to fill PET bottles of one litre or more with all types of non-recyclable plastic wastes like wrappers of namkeens and chips, milk bags, gutkha and chocolate among many other such plastics. Paying Rs10 for every three such filled bottles or equivalent to one kilo, BMC also took their novel concept to schools with the help of teachers. Children were lured to fill these PET bottles with plastic bags that come in their homes and earn their own pocket money from utilizing waste. Even rag pickers found it an easy way to earn some extra money. One PET bottle contains around 350 grams of plastic waste. The civic body asked citizens to deposit such eco bricks in the civic centres of all the 13 wards. These bricks will be utilized to make tree guard, walkways, sitting benches, walking tracks, small huts, boundary wall, dustbins among other utility items at the park. Dr Doshi said that the idea of eco bricks was floated on social media and his message on Facebook was shared 6,000 times. “The use of non recyclable plastic is huge in our day to day life and it’s dangerous. I went to BMC officials with the idea to develop Akwada garden using these eco bricks, which are solid and can sustain for more than 300 years. We have collected 40,000 such bottles that means we could use 14 ton plastic in a developing garden,” he said. Akwada lake was developed by Bhavnagar’s popular ruler Krishnakumarsinh on Ghogha road. The BMC developed a lakefront here which was opened for public four months ago. M A Gandhi municipal commissioner of Bhavnagar told TOI: “We are requesting people to contribute in this project for their future generation. If it’s not for the measly Rs 10, it’s a chance for the middle class or upper middle class person to contribute towards saving the environment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eco-bricks-a-safe-way-to-end-non-recyclable-plastic/articleshow/80727623.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Three killed in two mishaps||Jaipur: Three persons were killed in two separate accidents in Jaipur and Hanumangarh districts in the wee hours of Saturday. The first accident took place at Kotputli when a private bus collided with the truck leaving one person dead and 12 others injured. The victim and injured were returning from an industrial area after completing their night shift. The injured were admitted to BDM Hospital in Kotputli. Another accident took place at Hanumangarh at Abohar bypass. Two trucks collided with each other and it took police an hour to recover bodies of two truck drivers from the truck cabins. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-in-two-mishaps/articleshow/80727597.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||No plan to enter Delhi, Singhu stays peaceful||NEW DELHI: Amidst heavy security, the protesting farmers’ chakka jam on Saturday passed off peacefully at the Singhu border, even as hundreds of new tractors reached the site. The Tricolour was prominent at the border on Saturday, being proudly held up alongside the banners of the farmers’ unions and the Sikh standard, the Nishan Sahib. The protesters kept to their word that they had no intention of entering Delhi. “Each and every farmer is involved in this fight against the central government and the support we are seeing from other states will be very significant,” said Jaspal Singh, a farmer from Rajpura who has been at the protest site since November last year. “The Centre will eventually have to accept this and listen to our demands.” In a tent where a television connection is available, farmers sat glued to the screen, watching how the chakka jam was unfolding in different states. “Our job today is to sit here and hope the event is successful. It appears the blockade is faring well,” said Balbir Singh of Sangrur, Punjab. There was plenty of cheer for the agitators at the langars, including the winter specialities of makki ki roti and sarson da saag, and, of course, jalebi, kheer and moong dal halwa. Police deployment at Singhu stretched to Mukarba Chowk, one of the clash sites on Republic Day. While the cops, who were prepared to prevent any movement into Delhi by the farmers stood firmly in riot gear, the protesters focused on the local chakka jam. “We already have a chakka jam here,” pointed out Shamsher Singh of Kurukshetra, Haryana. “We did not want to enter Delhi, but are very happy at the response to our call in other states.” Almost each of the new tractors that arrived on Saturday held aloft the tricolour and sported stickers bearing the words “We Support Farmers”, distributed by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. Volunteer Jagdeep Singh said over 5,000 stickers were being distributed each day. “They have different slogans on them, both in English and Punjabi. Even people only visiting the border have taken the stickers in solidarity with the farmers.” Teja Singh of Punjab’s Sangrur said he had been at the protest site from the start. “We are not being inconvenienced and we will not leave,” he declared. “The government is trying to block our routes and restrict internet access, but it does not bother us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-plan-to-enter-delhi-singhu-stays-peaceful/articleshow/80727615.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Epilepsy is treatable and preventable: Doctors||Nagpur: International epilepsy day is observed every year on the second Monday of February to create public awareness and education about epilepsy. Epilepsy is a common chronic disease of the brain which is treatable and preventable. In India, for every 1,000 population, there will be about 6 people with epilepsy. Every year about 50 people with new-onset epilepsy will be added for every 100,000 population. Epilepsy affects both the sexes. “In about 75% of patients good seizure control can be achieved with the available anti-epilepsy medications. Of the remaining 25% patients, surgery can be a cure in about 50% of patients,” said Dr JMK Murthy, president of Indian academy of neurology (IAN). There are several misconceptions and wrong notions about epilepsy. Among some communities there is a belief that epilepsy is due to possession by evil spirits, sins of past life or sins of elders. Some believe that epilepsy is a contagious disease. IAN has planned a public education and awareness activity on epilepsy to clear the misconceptions, through a virtual meeting in form of panel discussion from 6pm to 8pm on Monday. President Dr Murthy will inaugurate the event while Dr Pravina Shah, former Professor and head, department of neurology, KEM Hospital, Mumbai will be guest of honour. Epilepsy specialist Dr HV Srinivas from Bangalore, Dr B Rajendran from Palakkad, Dr Atul Agrawal from Lucknow, Dr Parampreet Singh from Chandigarh, Dr Gautam Ganguly from Kolkata and Carol D’Souza from Mumbai are panellists. Epilepsy is associated with substantial stigma and discrimination in India and in most resource-poor countries. “In people with epilepsy, stigma is associated with poor quality of life,” said Dr Murthy. Attitudes of the community towards people with epilepsy are often negative. This attitude of society towards patients with epilepsy needs a drastic change. “We need to work together to give a chance of better life for the patients with epilepsy and their family members,” said Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram, president of tropical neurology group of the world federation of neurology. Epilepsy is a much misunderstood disease, even though it is eminently treatable. The myths and stigma have caused rejection of a person with epilepsy in various walks of life, including education, sports, employment and marriage. “International epilepsy day is celebrated all over the world to clear the misunderstandings and dispel the myths related to epilepsy so that a person with epilepsy can be integrated into the society,” said former IAN president Dr H V Srinivas. The society we live in, with its various discriminations has always treated a patient of this disease as a social outcast. As a result there are deep psychological wounds which cause lifelong depression and stress in the patient's life. “The thought of being different from others and not being able to share the same possibilities in life crushes their self confidence,” said neurologist Dr Gautam Ganguly from Kolkata. Though the stigma of epilepsy is universal, there are a lot of special concerns when it affects women. This relates to issues of hormonal changes during the menstrual cycle which can affect “seizures, issues related to marriage, childbearing and nursing the child, issues relating to contraception and effect of drugs on the unborn child,” said secretary of Indian epilepsy association Dr B Rajendran. Incidences of epilepsy keep increasing with advancing age. High blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, stroke and dementia are associated with higher chances of epilepsy, said Dr Atul Agrawal, former head of neurology, KGMC, Lucknow. “Proper counselling of patients with epilepsy and their family members is important,” said Carol D’Souza, a psychologist from Mumbai. In school-going children, proper diagnosis should be done. “What looks like epilepsy may not be epilepsy,” said Dr Parampreet Singh, professor of neurology at PGIMER, Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/epilepsy-is-treatable-and-preventable-doctors/articleshow/80735981.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 7, 2021||Rajkot||Another victim of torture in police lock-up succumbs||Rajkot: Trouble for eight cops accused in the Mundra custodial death in Kutch increased many folds as another theft accused, who was also allegedly tortured in custody last month, succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday. The deceased identified as Harjog Gadhvi was picked up by cops from Pragpar Patiya on the evening of January 12 on suspicion of theft, along with one Arjan Gadhvi (24). They were allegedly tortured in police custody for over a week before Arjan developed complications on January 19. He died before reaching the government hospital in Mundra town.According to Bhuj deputy superintendent of police J N Panchal, Harjog was also admitted to Mundra hospital after Arjan passed away. “However, as Harjog’s condition became critical, he was shifted to Ahmedabad where he died on Saturday,” Panchal told TOI.“Since an offence of murder is already registered against the eight accused cops in the case, a second murder charges will also be added to the offence,” he added.Interestingly, Harjog’s name was never mentioned in the case, till his death on Saturday.Till date, police inspector J A Padhiyar, who was at Mundra police station when Arjan from Samaghogha village had died in police custody, and GRD constable Viral Joshi, have been arrested for their involvement in the custodial death case. Six other constables are still at large and efforts are on to nab them, said Panchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-victim-of-torture-in-police-lock-up-succumbs/articleshow/80727649.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Net suspended on Saturday at border points||NEW DELHI: The home ministry ordered a day-long ban on internet services on Saturday in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders and adjoining locations of National Capital Territory of Delhi from midnight on Friday. This was done in view of the three-hour 'chakka jam' call given by the protesting farmers on Saturday. The order, issued in exercise of powers under Rules 2(2) of Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) rules 2017, with approval of the Union home secretary, said it was being done “in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency”. Internet services have largely remained snapped along Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders in view of the protests, since the farmers' tractor rally in the capital turned violent on January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/net-suspended-on-saturday-at-border-points/articleshow/80727638.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tight security for election of chairpersons in 87 civic bodies||JAIPUR: The state home department has made elaborate security arrangements for the election of Ajmer mayor and chairpersons in 86 other urban local bodies to be held on Sunday. The polling will be from 10 am to 2pm. Three chairpersons have already been elected unopposed. The elections for 90 urban local body polls spread in 20 districts were held on January 28 and result was declared on January 31. The state has deployed heavy police at all 20 districts where the poll for the top post will happen. The main contest is between the ruling Congress and the BJP. Both the parties have claimed to form their boards in 45 plus local bodies with the help of Independents and smaller parties. “We have made three-layered security arrangements—voting area, its outer area and city in our division. The police have instructed to regulate movement of any assembly related to the polls,” said Satya Veer Singh, IG Udaipur Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tight-security-for-election-of-chairpersons-in-87-civic-bodies/articleshow/80727599.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corpn to procure five robotic sewer cleaner devices||Trichy: Robotic sewer cleaning machines which will help eliminate the need for sanitary workers entering the manholes of underground drainage (UGD) chambers will be purchased by the Trichy Corporation at a cost of Rs 2.05 crore. The decision was taken after the corporation studied the working of the robotic UGD manhole cleaning machines in possession with the Kumbakonam municipality and was convinced that the machines equipped with cameras, display screen and robotic arm could clear the blockages occurring in UGD chambers safely with less effort and in a shorter period.The corporation has floated a tender to buy five machines within three months for all the four zones by utilising the 15th central finance commission funds. “The machines are capable of clearing the blockages without letting men enter the manholes within a few minutes. Since we are expanding the UGD project, the investment made will benefit us,” a senior official with the engineering department said. The device uses pressurised air powered by portable petrol or diesel generators to operate metal arms to remove the blockages in the UGD lines. Officials said that they may opt for the same ‘Bandicoot’ models used in Kumbakonam and Coimbatore civic bodies. The device can enter even 45cm wide manholes and clean the blocks up to six metres beneath the ground surface. Officials said that people and commercial establishments fail to use the UGD system properly with frequent line blocks occurring due to dumping of diapers, napkins and vessels. Corporation uses a sewer jetting rod machine to remove the blocks by mobilising skilled labourers who are required to enter the chambers by risking their lives. Though no lives were lost in the past two decades, the lack of machinery was putting the civic body in a fix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-procure-five-robotic-sewer-cleaner-devices/articleshow/80728541.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||US Army unit in Bikaner for joint exercise||Jaisalmer: The US Army contingent participating in the India-US joint training exercise ‘Yudh Abhyas-20’ arrived at Suratgarh in Ganganagar district on Saturday. On arrival, the contingent proceeded to the exercise area at Mahajan Field Firing Range in Bikaner where the joint training will commence from February 8. The Indian Army extended a warm welcome as per military etiquettes to the US contingent, followed by exchange of pleasantries between contingent commanders and soldiers of both armies. Started in 2004, exercise ‘Yudh Abhyas-20’ is the 16th edition in the series of bilateral exercises under this banner. The last edition of the joint exercise was held in Seattle. The exercise will focus on counter-terrorism operations under United Nations mandate. During the exercise, participants will engage in missions ranging from joint planning, operations, joint tactical drills and will provide field commanders and troops an opportunity to interact with each other in matters professional. The exercise will contribute immensely in promoting bilateral army to army relations, enhance interoperability, exchange best practices and experiences between the Indian Army and the US Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/us-army-unit-in-bikaner-for-joint-exercise/articleshow/80727620.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad:: Eatery directed to pay Rs 3 lakh to consumer injured in lift mishap||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed Gunguroo Restaurant and Bar, Nacharam to pay a little over three lakh rupees to a consumer who was grievously injured while in a lift accident as the lift hit the ground floor with force due to damaged wires. Ramu K, the complainant, submitted that he and his colleague went to Gunguroo Restaurant and Bar at 10 pm on May 29, 2015. After completing dinner, he said that they took a lift in the building to come down and due to some issue. the lift hit the ground floor from the second floor with force. causing grievous injuries to the occupants. Ramu submitted that he suffered multiple fractures and had to be treated as an inpatient in two hospitals from May 29, 2015, to June 5 and also had to undergo surgery.. The complaint said that he had registered a case with the police, which is pending, and got issued a legal notice seeking compensation, but received no response. Left with no other option, he filed this complaint. The opposite party, in the written version, denied all the averments of the complaint. They submitted that the complainant is not their customer and claimed that he created a false story and filed the present complaint without any documentary evidence. During the trial, the bench noticed that the panchanama showed the complaint met with the accident in the lift erected at the building where the restaurant is located. The copy of the case diary also disclosed that the SI of Nacharam police station has taken a statement from the lift mechanic, who reported that he received a complaint from that complex that the wire of the lift broke down and attended the service of the said lift. “We have no hesitation to hold that due to the deficiency in service and negligence of not maintaining the lift properly, the complainant’s leg was fractured and resulted in spending over Rs 3 lakh for medical expenses,” said the bench and directed the restaurant to pay Rs 3 lakh at 6% and Rs 5,000 towards costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatery-directed-to-pay-rs-3l-to-consumer-injured-in-lift-mishap/articleshow/80728588.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Streets, landmarks near Rockfort hillock get new signboards||Trichy: Trichy corporation has started putting up new signboards for streets, roads and important landmarks covering 7 square kilometre around Rockfort hillock coming under the area-based development (ABD) zone of Trichy smart cities mission limited. While residents have welcomed the placement of signboards to guide tourists and visitors to prominent places, they felt that the emphasis given for select areas may pave way for redundancy. Official sources said that the civic body has sanctioned a sum of Rs 4.2 crores under smart cities mission to erect 2,593 signboards in the ABD zone encompassing Rockfort, Thillai Nagar, Salai road, Mainguard gate and Karur road. Around 23 retroreflective overhead signboards, both cantilever and butterfly models, mentioning the important roads and tourist destinations like Srirangam temple, Karur highway and Chennai highway was proposed. Around 1,300 flexible reflective median markers are to be established on Puthur road and near district court premises. Four locations near Cauvery bridge and Rockfort hillock will get city guide maps. About 19% of the city’s population and 4% of the city’s area will be covered in the drive earmarked as ABD zone. As part of this, Trichy corporation has provided new reflective signage boards in Andar street and Babu road localities. However, V N Nagar on Karur road near Chathiram bus stand, that already has a signboard, received a new reflective signboard yet again. “There are other localities that lack proper signboards such as Pon Nagar and Woraiyur, focus should be on such areas,” M Sivaraman, a resident of Kulumani road, said. Single arrow signboards at 95 locations and double arrow signboards at 180 locations covering even minor residential streets were planned under the drive. “Residents have to refrain from damaging the signboards by pasting stickers,” an official with Trichy corporation said. With over 30% of the work over, the corporation plans to finish installation by the second week of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/streets-landmarks-near-rockfort-hillock-get-new-signboards/articleshow/80728552.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Crop loan waiver a stunt: TNCC chief||Trichy: Tamil Nadu Congress committee (TNCC) president K S Alagiri has termed the waiver of crop loan by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami as a political stunt and not keeping the farmers in mind. He also slammed the BJP government at the Centre for enacting the three farm laws.Addressing a public meeting titled plough yatra of farmers, organised by TNCC at Musiri here on Saturday, he said M K Stalin had promised to waive crop loan as the first thing to do after coming to power. “After the demand by all opposition parties through protests, Edappadi has announced the waiver. You have not done it for farmers. You are doing it for politics and for preventing the opposition parties from gaining strength.” He added that the people of Tamil Nadu are aware that the welfare of farmers was not the real intention behind it. Congress MP Su Thirunavukkarasar was conspicuous by his absence at the meeting held in his own constituency. Alleging that AIADMK government supported the ‘anti-agrarian’ bills passed by the BJP government, the TNCC president said the TNCC would stand for the cause of change of guard at the Centre and the state. Alagiri recalled the stay order given by SC on Madras HC directing CBI to probe allegations of graft against EPS. “I wonder why CBI failed to try to vacate the stay even after a long time,” he said. AICC general secretary Sanjay Dutt slammed EPS for “announcing the crop loan waiver knowing well that they will be dethroned.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crop-loan-waiver-a-stunt-tncc-chief/articleshow/80728566.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ajmer||Advantage BJP for mayoral polls in Ajmer||AJMER: Elections to the posts of Ajmer mayor and chairpersons of four urban bodies in the district will be held on Sunday. Of the five bodies, BJP got majority in three, including the Ajmer Municipal Corporation. In Ajmer, BJP won 48 seats out of 80, while Congress managed just 18 and others are independent. Braj Lata Hada is the BJP candidate and Draupdi Devi from Congress. BJP is confident to win the vote for the post of mayor here. In Kishangarh Nagar Parishad, Dinesh Singh is the BJP candidate for the post of chairman and Pradeep Agarwal from Congress. BJP is leading with 34 seats while Congress has 17 members and others are independent. Last time too the BJP had the board in Kishngarh. In Nagar Palika of Bijay Nagar, Jyoti Yadav from Congress and Anita from BJP are the candidates. Out of 35 seats, BJP has 19 and Congress 14, while two are independent. Previously, Congress had the board in Bijay Nagar. In the constituency of health minister Raghu Sharma, Congress has majority in Kekeri and Sarwar. In Kekeri, Congress has 21 seats out of 40, while BJP got 17 with two independents. In Sarwar, Congress managed to get 15 seats out of 25, while BJP won just 8 seats. Previously, BJP had the board in both Sarwar and Kekeri. Election office said the voting will be held from 10am to 2pm, followed by counting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/advantage-bjp-for-mayoral-polls-in-ajmer/articleshow/80727605.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Decomposed body of man found in stationary truck||Trichy: The decomposed body of a man was found in a stationary truck near Gandhi market in Trichy on Friday. Acting on the complaint from the VAO of Varaganeri village, R Sundararaj, 52, the Gandhi market police registered a case of suspicious death. Sundaraj and his assistant were on their regular patrol when they saw a group of people around the truck. When they checked, they found the decomposed body in the driver’s cabin. Further investigation revealed that the truck was owned by S Ganapathy, 65. On Friday, Ganapathy had hired a crane service to lift the truck to sell it off when the crane operator Manivel found the body and informed Ganapathy. Since the body was full decomposed, police could not ascertain the identity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/decomposed-body-of-man-found-in-stationary-truck/articleshow/80728568.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Accused in sexual assault case jumps to death in Trichy||TRICHY: A man accused of sexually assaulting a minor girl and marrying her died by suicide after jumping off the terrace of the Jambunathapuram police station in Trichy on Saturday. The accused was identified as M Prasath, 27, of Thadhampatti near Thuraiyur in Trichy district. Prasash climbed the stairs and jumped from the terrace. Police took him to the government hospital in Thuraiyur where he was given first aid after which he was referred to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. However, doctors there declared him brought dead. Police said that Prasath has been absconding since 2018. He was residing in Tirupur with his minor wife aged 17 years and a one-and-a-half-year-old boy born to them. He was brought to the Jambunathapuram police station from Tirupur in connection with his marriage to the girl and for sexually assaulting her. Police said that Prasath had already been convicted in a case of murder and was out from jail after the suspension of the conviction. He was also married earlier, but had separated from his first wife. The Jambunathapuram police registered a case under Section 176 of the CrPC that ensures the magisterial inquiry before the postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/accused-in-sexual-assault-case-jumps-to-death-at-stn/articleshow/80728571.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Cops arrest 8 for beating up dalit labourer blindfolded in Thanjavur||TRICHY: Police have arrested eight men in connection with the incident in which a labourer was tied up and beaten by a group of people two days ago at Ammapettai in Thanjavur. Four of them were booked under sections of the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) amendment Act 2015 and all of them under sections 147, 148, 294(b), 323, 324 and 307 of IPC. Inspector M Subulakshmi of Ammapettai police told TOI that they arrested four of the accused on Friday and the remaining four on Saturday. They included Vicky, Vivek, Parthiban, Lakshmana, Sarath, Ayyappan and Karnan. Meanwhile, A Kathir, founder and executive director of ‘Evidence’, an NGO working for dalits, said the state government should enact a law against gang violence. He said after conducting a spot visit at Ammapettai that the FIR clearly stated that the accused had stripped the victim and humiliated him for his caste. Hence, the accused from the non-dalit community should also be booked under sections 3(1)(r)(s) and 3(1)(d) of SC/ST Act. The team visited eight spots in the village where the victim was taken including the main accused Vicky’s house, a crematorium, brick kiln and banks of a tank where he was assaulted. The team got a statement from the victim at the medical college hospital in Thanjavur where he is being treated. “He said in his statement that Vicky had hired him to work in a sand quarry. He approached Vicky asking to give the Rs 8,000 due to him as wages. The conversation turned into altercation and Vicky and his accomplices beat up the victim,” Kathir told TOI. The victim said he had not stolen any money. However, unable to bear the attack and to escape from them, he had pleaded with them stating that he would return the money they were asking, Kathir added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-arrest-8-for-beating-up-dalit-labourer-blindfolded/articleshow/80728597.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||BSF distributes items of daily need||Jaisalmer: The BSF 46th battalion, under the civic action programme, organised a function to distribute basic items of daily needs at Kishangarh area at the Indo-Pak border. DIG Arun Kumar Singh, regional headquarters BSF Jaisalmer North, commandant Satish Kumar Shastri distributed items like dustbins, 500 water tanks, tables, chairs, sports gear etc to villagers of Kishangarh, Kuriaberi, Godhuwala and nearby villages in the presence of Tanot Sarpanch Keku Devi. Handwash bottles were distributed to villagers and importance of hand washing was told to the villagers. Later, the DIG went to visit the border outposts and took stock of security arrangements and boosted the morale of the jawans. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-distributes-items-of-daily-need/articleshow/80727641.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Trichy||Four arrested for online sale of illegal lottery||Trichy: Four people, who were indulging in the sale of illegal lottery, were arrested by a special police team on Saturday, and cash and mobile phones were seized from them.The team led by sub-inspector of police D Nagaraj arrested B Tamil Mani, 37, of Sirugambur and his aides C Sekar, 65 of Kallur, N Chinnaiyan, 39 of Karuppu kovil street and N Sankar, 34 of Kuravampatti on charges of selling the hand-written numbered lottery in Sirugambur area on the outskirts of Trichy.The team seized Rs 39,800 cash, five mobile phones, a bike and a few stationary items from them. Though all of them were held in separate places, they were all reporting to Tamil Mani who was supervising the others, said Nagaraj. The online lottery racket operates based on the results of the daily draw in Kerala. The winners will be declared in the evening.Nagaraj said the organiser behind the network in the particular area is still evading arrest. The entire operation was controlled by a few influential people from Trichy district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-arrested-for-online-sale-of-illegal-lottery/articleshow/80728584.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS leaders didn't participate in chakka jam||HYDERABAD: Members of various farmers’ welfare associations, political parties, including CPI, CPM and Congress, staged rasta roko on various highways in Telangana as part of the ‘chakka jam’ call given by the agitating farmers at national level demanding repeal of three farm laws brought in by the Narendra Modi government. They demanded that the central government immediately repeal the anti-farmer laws. They also demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao convene a special session of the assembly to pass resolutions that the central farm laws will not be implemented in Telangana. Though ministers and leaders from ruling TRS in Telangana had participated in Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers earlier, they did not participate in chakka jam on Saturday. Several members of farmer associations, CPI, CPM and Congress were taken into police custody and later released. CPI state secretary Chada Venkat Reddy said more and more people have started supporting the cause of agitating farmers in the country and that the Modi government government should concede the demands of peasants before it is too late. Former MP V Hanumanth Rao of Congress said Prime Minister Modi’s adamant attitude was being watched by people in the country. CPM state leader Tammineni Veerabhadram also demanded the BJP government immediately bring down the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG refill for domestic use. “The prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have sky-rocketed throwing the normal monthly budgeting plan of the middle class sections out of gear,” Veerabhadram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chakka-jam-oppn-blocks-highways/articleshow/80727667.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three more arrested over Red Fort violence on Republic Day||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Saturday arrested three more people in connection with the violence at Red Fort that had taken place during the farmer’s tractor rally on Republic Day. The accused have been identified as Harpreet Singh, Harjeet Singh and Dharmender Singh, all residents of west Delhi. Cops used facial recognition system to identify the accused. Their bikes and scooters have been seized, while the videos that the men had shot of the violence has also been recovered. Two special teams of Crime Branch are looking for gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana and actor Deep Sidhu. Sidhana is supposedly hiding amidst the protesters and one of his videos surfaced on Saturday, wherein he was seen at Tikri Border. Meanwhile, Delhi Police rubbished allegations made on social media that helicopters were being used to drop bombs on the farmers. The agitating farmers had claimed that “two improvised bombs” were dropped near the stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-more-arrested-over-red-fort-violence-on-r-day/articleshow/80727666.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||9.2k to contest Punjab civic polls||CHANDIGARH: A total of 9,222 candidates are finally in the fray after the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers, for the February 14 local body elections in Punjab. The elections are scheduled in 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats. Earlier, 15,305 candidates had filed nomination papers for elections. Those who are now in the final contest include 2,037 candidates of Congress, 1,606 of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), 1,569 of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), 1,003 of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and 160 of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). There are two candidates of the Communist Party of India (CPI), two of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), four of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and one of Sarv Sanjhi Party. There are 2,832 candidates who are contesting these elections as independent candidates. Many BJP candidates are also contesting as independents as they have refrained from contesting on the party symbol fearing a backlash during the ongoing farmers’ protest against three contentious farm laws. In all, 901 candidates are in the contest in Mohali district, followed by 769 in Bathinda and 624 in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9222-in-fray-for-feb-14-local-body-polls-in-punjab/articleshow/80727674.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: BJP eyes Congress cadre before civic, Nagarjuna Sagar polls||HYDERABAD: : After luring Telangana TDP leaders into the party, the BJP is now focusing on the rank and file and ground-level leaders of Congress to draft them into party ahead of civic, MLC elections and Nagarjuna Sagar bypolls. Buoyed by its wins in Dubbak and GHMC elections, the BJP is projecting itself as the only alternative to take on the ruling TRS. “In all the districts where graduates constituency MLC elections will take place, we have identified grassroots workers and local Congress leaders who have a good base but do not have an active political forum to fight against the TRS,” a BJP leader said. Party sources said the workers will start joining the BJP only after February 10. “Till then, collection of donations for Ram temple will continue,” a party leader said. The saffron party is eyeing young organisers and leaders in the age group of 20-40 years. “We will give them the assurance that BJP will back them to the hilt, come what may may. Other parties are feeling the tremors at village and mandal level,” a senior BJP leader said. Buoyed by its wins in Dubbak and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, the BJP is projecting itself as the only alternative to take on the ruling TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-eyes-cong-cadre-before-civic-nagarjuna-sagar-polls/articleshow/80727671.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 7, 2021||Pune||Farmers oppose proposed ring road through Mulshi||PUNE: Over 600 farmers from Mulshi tehsil have objected to the proposed ring road that will pass through Maval, Mulshi, Velhe and Bhor tehsils of Pune district. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which will acquire land for the project with the help of respective tehsil officials, has already issued notices to farmers seeking suggestions and objections to the project. The farmers, from villages like Ghothawade, Rihe and Limpolie, submitted a memorandum explaining their objections to the MSRDC and Mulshi sub-divisional offices on Friday. The farmers feel that the project will take away their farmlands, thereby snatching their source of livelihood. “The government will give us a paltry compensation which will not be sufficient to buy new land in Pune district. Ultimately, we will be thrown out of our hometowns, so we are opposing the project,” said farmer Manikrao Shinde. Another farmer said that the government needed to consider their issues before taking or buying land from them. “Unless we receive clarity about the project and our future, we will not hand over the land to the government for the project,” said another farmer Sahebrao Bhegde. The proposed 68.8km western ring road will start from Urse toll plaza in Maval tehsil, passing through adjacent Mulshi and Velhe and connecting National Highway 4 in Bhor tehsil. Sandeep Patil, the MSRDC sub-divisional engineer, who is heading the project, told TOI on Saturday, “As per the plan, we will require close to 1,400 hectares of land for the project, of which, about 814 hectares of land will be from Mulshi tehsil. We have received objections from the farmers. We will study each case in detail and discuss with them at meetings likely to take place in the next few days.” He said their endeavour is to acquire land at the earliest. “We plant to carry out joint measurement of land plots along with revenue officials and farmers next month,” Patil added. He said the land is a mix of hilly and irrigated plots. Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional officer, Maval, said, “There is no decision about compensation for land yet, but it will be calculated on the basis of ready reckoner rates of the tehsil. We are going to hold meetings with farmers to address their concerns.” He said these tehsils are known for hilly terrain and poor road connectivity. “The project will help local farmers in many ways. We are going to explain all these aspects to farmers at meetings,” Shirke added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-600-farmers-oppose-proposed-ring-road-project-passing-through-mulshi/articleshow/80727676.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Doctors fined Rs 20 lakh for botched up eye surgery of rail staff||JAIPUR: The state consumer disputes redressal commission has ordered to pay a compensation of Rs 20 lakh on two ophthalmologists for performing cataract operation prematurely leading to loss of vision of a railway employee. He was forced to take early retirement from service ‘due to the greed of the doctors’. The circuit bench of the commission gave the award on a petition by Bhawar Singh, a resident of Churu. The commission said the two doctors — Dr Ranjit Singh Beniwal and Dr Shrawan Kumar — in connivance operated prematurely for cataract of the railway employee just with an eye on the money of the petitioner. This constitutes unfair trade practice. So, both the doctors had to pay Rs 5 lakh each. Dr Ranjeet Singh Beniwal who performed the operation had to pay an additional Rs 10 lakh for loss of sight on one eye of the petitioner. Petitioner said he went to Railway Hospital Lalgarh, Bikaner for a routine checkup on July 2014 and the doctor there referred him to eye specialist Dr Ranjit Beniwal who was working there on contract. He said he had developed cataract in one eye and needed operation. Dr Beniwal charged Rs 16,000 for the operation promising that his eye sight will be restored. But after operation, his right eye developed white spot and ultimately, he lost vision in that eye. Due to his loss of sight in one eye he had to face demotion from his post and was forced to take early retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-fined-rs-20-lakh-for-botched-up-eye-surgery-of-rail-staff/articleshow/80727651.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Traders want Mandai Metro work scheduled during night||PUNE: Discontent is growing among the shopkeepers in the Mandai area, especially those directly affected by the ongoing Metro work. Claiming their business was badly hit as the work cut off access to the marketplace, owners of stalls selling vegetables, fruit and other items have demanded that Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) schedule work during the night hours. The vendors said fewer people were visiting Mandai because of barricading in the area and closed roads. “We are not against the Metro work or the execution of the project. But we want the approach roads towards Mandai free from barricading during daytime. We have observed that people are unable to reach the marketplace because of the barricades. This has led to a drop in footfalls and has affected our business. All the Metro-related work can be shifted to night hours. Vendors have already suffered losses because of the pandemic,” Somnath Kachi, leader of a local vendors’ association, said. The affected vendors have planned an agitation at the district collector’s office next week to press their demand. An underground Metro station is planned in the Mandai area. MahaMetro has already started preliminary work in this regard. Seventy-odd vendors and residents, to be affected by the work, are to be moved to other locations, though Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is yet to finalize the rehabilitation plan. Kachi urged PMC to prepare a list of vendors eligible for rehabilitation. “The administration should hold a dialogue with the vendors concerned,” Kachi said. MahaMetro, for its part, said it has shared the details of the work with the civic administration and offered all necessary assistance for the rehabilitation of the vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mandai-traders-tell-mahametro-to-shift-work-to-night-hours/articleshow/80727670.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 49 lakh tonnes paddy procured from ryots||HYDERABAD: While farmers continue to be in a dilemma whether Telangana Rashtra Samithi government will procure paddy from them or not, the civil supplies department has procured 48.89 lakh tonnes of paddy from 11 lakh farmers for Vaanakalam season 2020-21. The state government had procured 47.08 lakh tonnes through 3,670 paddy procurement centres during last Vaanakalam season in 2019-20. Civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar said the government has so far deposited Rs 9,086 crore directly into the bank accounts of the farmers towards paddy procurement. Of the 48.89 lakh tonnes of paddy, 29.04 lakh tonnes was coarse variety and 19.85 lakh tonnes of fine variety. The farmers were offered MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/49-lakh-tonnes-paddy-procured-from-ryots/articleshow/80727677.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Using JCBs for road cutting to invite FIR in Nainital||Nainital: The Nainital district administration on Friday banned the use of machines, particularly JCBs, by private telecom operators to dig up roads. The decision was taken at a meeting of the district-level road cutting committee in an effort to prevent damages to underground pipelines and cables. The act will lead to an FIR. The committee has decided to permit only manual road cutting now. “Use of JCB machines for road cutting, both in urban and other populated areas, will be banned. Only manual road cutting will be allowed and if the JCBs are found to be in use or damage is caused to the existing sewage line, water pipes or telecom lines, an FIR will be registered,” read a statement issued by the committee. Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal said, “We had received several complaints of damage to the public utilities during the road cutting process by private telecom operators. Therefore we have now decided to ban JCBs. Further, if any firm is found to be using these heavy machines, an FIR will be registered against them under the Prevention of Defacement of Public Property Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” the DM said. Bansal added that even manual road cutting will be permitted only after due permission from the committee. “There are certain guidelines that need to be followed before road cutting and any firm involved in the process will have to get all the relevant permissions. As far as government work is concerned, machines like JCBs will only be used when absolutely necessary,” he said. Meanwhile, the administration also fined a company for not obtaining the permission of the road cutting committee. The administration directed it to submit a working plan and pay road cutting tax before resuming work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/using-jcbs-for-road-cutting-to-invite-fir-in-nainital/articleshow/80726921.cms||Prashant Jha
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||One crore saplings to be planted on Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s birthday||HYDERABAD: In tune with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s vision for a ‘green Telangana’, Green India Challenge has called for plantation of one crore saplings (‘koti vrukshaarchana’) on the occasion of KCR’s birthday on February 17. The one crore tree plantation programme has been taken by Rajya Sabha MP Joginapally Santosh Kumar. A poster for the event was released by TRS working president KT Rama Rao along with ministers — Mohammed Mahamood Ali and Talasani Srinivas Yadav — and Santosh. The organisers said that one crore sapling plantation programme will begin at 10 am on February 17 and conclude within one hour. KTR urged all the public representatives at all the levels to participate in the event and make it a success. He appreciated Santosh for taking up the initiative. The ministers said the programme should be taken up by all the sarpanches in their respective villages in coordination with forest and panchayat raj departments. Santosh explained the details of the event over telephone to other ministers -- A Indrakaran Reddy and Errabelli Dayakar Rao — requested all the other ministers to make the event successful. The Green India Challenge has also decided to award ‘Vanamali’ to all the people who took part in the plantation. Green India Challenge coordinators — Karunakar Reddy and Raghava — said those who want to participate in the event may send their wish to phone No. 9000365000. After sending a message, they would receive a link to download an app. The participants are advised to upload their selfie after planting three saplings into the app. Within a week. they would receive a message from the CM and award of Vanamali by WhatsApp or email.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-crore-saplings-to-be-planted-on-kcrs-birthday/articleshow/80727684.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Alibaug jail superintendent suspended for allowing Arnab to use cellphone||Pune: The state prisons department on Saturday suspended Ambadas Patil, superintendent of Alibaug district jail, after he was indicted in a departmental inquiry over allowing Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami to use his cellphone on the night of November 5, 2020.“An inquiry conducted by the Arthur Road central jail superintendent had revealed that Patil had unlawfully given his phone to Goswami, when he was lodged in the makeshift quarantine centre at Alibaug civic school, to communicate with an outsider,” additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told TOI.“The inquiry officer had relied on the statement of a jail guard, who had seen Patil hand over his phone to Goswami, allowing him to communicate with an outsider for more than two minutes. Patil’s call detail record and personal details of the caller shows that a call was made from his phone during the time in question,” Ramanand said. As per the procedure, Ramanand said inmates were not entitled to communicate with family members or relatives after the closing hours of the jail. Calls can be made only in exceptional cases, like medical emergencies.“The report, submitted a few days ago, shows there is clear-cut evidence against Patil. After the report was submitted to me, I took the call to suspend him under the Maharashtra Civil Service Rules,” he said.“The inspector general of prisons (Byculla) has been instructed to hand over the charge of Alibaug jail to a competent officer to handle the facility’s daily administrative work,” he added.Despite multiple attempts, Patil could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alibaug-jail-superintendent-suspended-for-allowing-arnab-to-use-cellphone/articleshow/80727681.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccine envy among major harmless side-effects on families of medicos post jab||Eighteen-year-old Nitant Pandya, the youngest in his family and usually the more pampered of them all, suddenly found himself navigating a new normal — of not getting his share — when the gift of life arrived for the rest of his family last month. When the vaccine rollout turned the tide for healthcare workers for whom the past ten months have been gruelling, Nitant was “happy” to see his family immunised. Yet, the newly disenfranchised teenager couldn’t help but feel a tinge of jealousy after everyone in the Pandya household — his grandfather and father (both doctors); his mother (a hospital administrator); and his sister (a medical resident) — received the jab of joy except him. “I’m very bummed out because I know it’s going to take a long, long time before I get my first dose of the vaccine. And although my paranoia that I might infect the elders in my family is gone, I don’t see their life changing much because they can still infect me. And that secretly makes me glad!” admits Nitant as he delights in his unique vantage point that doesn’t allow a big-bang open-sesame for the vaccinated side of his family. “I love how I still hold them back and they can’t do whatever they want!” he laughs. “Yes, that’s true. Given my son’s age, he’s likely to get the vaccine in the very last phase and all our attempts at pulling his leg — that he wouldn’t be able to join us for dinners and outings after the vaccine — have backfired. Because we still have to maintain all the hygiene and social distancing protocol to avoid passing on the infection to him and others while his social life and activities have eased ever since the rest of us got immunised,” laughs Dr Samir Pandya, a gynaecologist from Santacruz. At a time when new words and phrases such as Covidiot, anti-vaxxer, WFH, coronageddon and superspreader have taken over people’s lives and lexicon, there’s another new pandemic term on the horizon — vaccine-envy — a sentiment unlikely to be quelled until people in general start receiving the much sought after immunisation. And when it’s the same family divided by the prick of a needle — with some vaccinated and others not — the dynamics can be an awkward mix of hope, joy and playful jealousy. For Saly Susheel, deputy director of nursing at Hiranandani Hospital, a crucial competition is heating up at home. To produce targeted antibodies not just for her personal immunity boost against the virus but to beat her husband who tossed her an “antibody challenge” after her vaccine jab last week. “My husband had contracted Covid some months ago and thinks he has more antibodies in him than I do despite the vaccine! I’m waiting for my second jab after which I’ll do a serology test for both of us to see who wins,” she sighs. Gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Sudeshna Ray’s turn at the vaccine brought a palpable sense of victory among her family as her husband and children frantically shared pictures of their newly inoculated wife and mother with friends, family and colleagues, relieved that “at least one of us is safe even if Covid brings the world to an end”. And Ray has been enjoying the short bursts of attention. “On the day of my vaccination, my husband fed me a hearty breakfast. My children are hailing me as a hero, my mother’s been showing me off to her family and friends have been keeping a constant check on how I’m feeling. It feels good because healthcare workers don’t get so much attention!” But there’s also a price to pay when those still at risk wrestle with that twinge from contemplating the vaccinated state of their loved one. “Since we’re advised to not drink for a while after the vaccine shot, my husband and brother-in-law have been basking in the guilty pleasure of enjoying something that I can’t,” she rues. A near-war erupted on a live broadcast recently when Dr KK Aggarwal, a Delhi-based doctor faced the wrath of his wife yelling over a phone call when she learnt that her husband had got himself vaccinated without her. While her feeling of abandonment is unlikely to last too long since this doctor’s spouse belongs to the medical fraternity — vaccination for non-medico family members, especially younger ones like Nitant — will arrive at a pace that could stretch well into autumn or even next spring. Ray feels that the vaccination drive “should” have included the immediate family of health workers. “Because then we’d be vaccinated as a unit. As health workers we move between hospital and home which makes our families vulnerable. I could still be a carrier and infect them,” she says. Through the pandemic, pulmonologist Dr TK Jayalaxmi had strict instructions for her 17-year-old son to “not touch anything, discard his jersey and take a shower” after getting home from a game of football. That stopped last month. “He insists on greeting me at the door with a hug because he believes nothing will happen to me,” she says. Given the unknowns around transmission despite the vaccine, Jayalaxmi continues to wear a mask and keeps her distance from older folks but is glad that the vaccine allows her to exhale a collective sigh of relief with colleagues at work. “It’s only in the hospital that some of us can sit together once more and have a cup of tea without worrying.” Nomaan Ingale, a final year medical student on Covid duty at Fortis Hospital wasn’t going to let go of an opportunity to trump his younger sibling after he got the elixir to coronavirus. “I remind him that he’s the odd one out in the family because our parents are doctors who got vaccinated too. And of course, rub in the fact that I can go out for football, movies and to the beach while he still can’t!” To “compensate” for this vaccine inequality at home, their mother, Dr Farah Ingale, director-internal medicine at Fortis Hiranandani Hospital now finds herself organising candle-light dinners and movie nights with popcorn but it’s been a tad harder for infectious disease consultant Dr Kirti Sabnis after she received the jab and her seven-year-old son felt the pain. “He’s gone from angry to jealous to putting me on a guilt trip. He believes I’m a superwoman now who can go anywhere while he can’t go to school,” says Sabnis. Once again, it was the vaccine to her rescue. “I bought him a toy shield and told him, ‘See, I have ‘Covishield and you can have this.’ Now he now wields his shield around the house, fighting his invisible foe — the coronavirus!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccine-envy-among-major-harmless-side-effects-on-families-of-medicos-post-jab/articleshow/80728632.cms||Mohua Das
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid & the city||Ahmedabad: For the kin of the 4,387 persons who died due to Covid-19 in the city, the scar of losing a loved one to the pandemic and staring at empty chairs at the dinner table can never go away. The past year has been a rollercoaster ride for Amdavadis, fighting stigma and the municipal corporation’s frequent policy flip-flops. From the early centralized approach of managing Covid patients and testing to requisitioning hospitals mid-way to the Shrey Hospital fire in early August which killed eight people, there have been major lessons in learned in hospital safety.But as a city pulled itself back together, a new turning point was achieved in 2020, with citizens depending heavily on municipal health infrastructure. On January 27 , the ‘Dhanvantari Rath’, or OPD on wheels of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), crossed the 2 million mark in patients examined for Covid, an exceptional number for a city which barely knew where their nearest AMC-run Urban Health Centre (UHC) or government health facility was in the pre-Covid world.This was in stark contrast to what an IIT-Mumbai study in pre-Covid times had claimed, that Ahmedabad ranked last among the 17 major metro and megacities with just 44 of every 10,000 Amdavadis accessing basic government services. To put this into perspective, the average OPD at a municipal UHC pre-Covid ranged from 30 to 52 patients a day. On May 3, 2020, when the pandemic ripped through Ahmedabad, the average OPD at each urban health centre (UHC) was 635 patients a day, be they for Covid antigen tests or RT-PCR tests, fever medication, to requisition sanitization of homes, or PPE kits to booking a bed at a Covid health facility. “We noticed by mid-May that Covid patients were flooding hospitals. The best strategy was to send doctors to their doorsteps to encourage home quarantine. This way we could save 5,400 beds ,” says a senior AMC health official. But it took a lot of stumbling along the way to streamline the health system. The initial lack of cooperation, stigma and delayed hospitalization of patients were impediments. Co-morbid patients accounted for two-thirds of total deaths. By May 3, 2020, about 17.8 per cent of total deaths occurred on the first day of hospitalization, and 22.1 percent on the second day. Given the increase in the mortality due to comorbidities, critical care centre became of paramount importance.AMC’s tying up with the private hospitals helped turn the tide against the virus. After two waves, the city is finally breathing easy with active cases dropping to fewer than 1,000.The pandemic brought citizens into touch with public health infrastructure. It is time the newly elected body works to cement this fragile bond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-the-city/articleshow/80727685.cms||Paul John
February 7, 2021||Pune||I&B minister promises Pt Bhimsen Joshi tag with concert broadcast on AIR||PUNE: Minister of information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar on Saturday announced that every musical concert broadcast on All India Radio (AIR) would now be known as Bharat Ratna Pt Bhimsen Joshi Sangeet Sammelan to mark the birth centenary of the Kirana gharana doyen. Javadekar was speaking at the inaugural musical programme Abhivadan organized by Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch. The minister said, “We want to make all musical treasures of such artists, which are currently with Doordarshan and AIR, available to all audiences on television and radio.” Addressing the gathering, Nationalist Congress party chief Sharad Pawar said, “Bhimsen Joshi came to Maharashtra from Karnataka. Generally, there are lots of cultural disputes between the Marathi and Kannada people. However, Joshi, through his music, tried to unify both the cultures.” President of the Indian Cultural Relations Council Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and president of the mandal Shrinivas Joshi were present on the occasion. A special monogram designed on Bhimsen Joshi by world renowned calligrapher Achyut Palav was unveiled during the function. Sahasrabuddhe said, “We are launching an International Swarabhaskar Bhimsen Joshi Fellowship of Rs1.5 lakh for foreign students, who want to learn Indian music here. The course will begin in June.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ib-min-promises-pt-bhimsen-joshi-tag-with-concert-broadcast-on-air/articleshow/80727679.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jodhpur||Salman Khan to appear in Jodhpur court via video conference on February 24||JODHPUR: The district and sessions court here on Saturday granted permission to Salman Khan for exemption from personal appearance in the court in pursuance of the order of the high court. His counsel had produced an application in the court for exemption from personal appearance after the high court had allowed him a virtual presence through video conferencing instead of personal presence. “However, since there was no need of the appearance for Khan on Saturday, he did not appear through video conferencing either,” said his counsel Nishant Bora adding that the court has now listed the matter for next hearing on February 24. Khan will have to appear in the court through video conferencing on the next hearing in pursuance of the direction of the high court. It may be noted that the session court had ordered Khan to appear in person in the court on Saturday. But he had challenged this order in the high court seeking exemption from personal appearance citing threat to his safety in view of the pandemic situation and issue of law and order due to gathering of a huge crowd during his appearance in the court. “The high court had granted him permission of appearance through video conferencing in lieu of personal appearance. So in pursuance of this direction, we moved an application in the court today for exemption from appearance and the session judge Devendra Kachhawaha granted us permission,” said Bora. The high court, while providing relief to Khan, had, however, directed him to ensure personal presence during judgment. Khan had been sentenced to five years imprisonment by the trial court in April 2018 convicting him for poaching of two black bucks on October 1-2, 1998 and Khan had challenged this sentence in the district & session court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/salman-to-appear-in-court-via-video-conference-on-feb-24/articleshow/80727662.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Don’t link exam with fee: Telangana State Board||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education on Saturday directed principals of private junior colleges in the state not to link examination fee with tuition fee. The Board secretary urged college authorities to accept examination fee unconditionally and stated that any deviation noticed will be viewed seriously. According to fee payment schedule issued by the Board, intermediate first and second year regular students, failed candidates (general and vocational) and attendance exempted private candidates (without college study for humanities groups) can pay the exam fee till February 11. Students can pay exam fee with a late fee of Rs 100 from February 12 to 22 and with a late fee of Rs 500 from February 23 to March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-link-exam-with-fee-board/articleshow/80728628.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||6 flights from Delhi, Ahmedabad to Jaisalmer each week||JAISALMER: Spicejet on Saturday announced the launch of air services between Jaisalmer, Delhi and Ahmedabad after the pact between tourism businessmen of Jaisalmer and Spicejet was inked with the mediation of district collector Ashish Modi. While Delhi-Jaisalmer flight will start from February 12, Ahmedabad-Jaisalmer services will start a day later from February 13. There will be three flights each a week. To save the tourism industry in Jaisalmer, local businessmen and Spicejet had signed a MoU on Thursday to start air services. The deal was signed by Jaisalmer Vikas Samiti president and district collector Modi and Spicejet’s finance officer. Jaisalmer director of Airports Authority of India BS Meena said the company had issued its schedule for Delhi and Ahmedabad. The flight from Delhi will reach Jaisalmer at 1pm and will depart for Delhi at 1.40pm. On February 13, the flight from Ahmedabad will reach Jaisalmer at 1.30 pm and will return to Ahmedabad at 1.50pm. Traders and the general public have come forward to bear the losses of the airlines and collected Rs 84 lakh to give a bank guarantee to Spicejet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-flights-from-delhi-ahd-to-jaisalmer-each-week/articleshow/80727668.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Two hurt in cylinder gas explosion||A cylinder explosion allegedly due to gas leak injured two people at Puranik Ruma Bali Park, Bhayanderpada on Saturday night. Two individuals, identified as Mahesh and Priti Kadam were injured. While Mahesh suffered 52% burn, Priti got 50% burn injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-hurt-in-cylinder-gas-explosion/articleshow/80729154.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Poll dates soon, says Pinarayi Vijayan at Kerala University ‘campaign’ event||Thiruvananthapuram: The government expects the assembly election date to be announced in a few days, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said, on Saturday, as he asked students of institutions of higher education to put forward suggestions and demands that they think should find place in the LDF election manifesto. He was addressing university/college students at the ‘Nava Keralam Yuva Keralam’ programme organised by Kerala University at the senate hall. “When we started this programme a few days ago, I said the election notification would be out in a few weeks. Now, I say the notification is likely to be issued by the election commission in a few days,” he said. The CM told student participants that the state government has fulfilled 570 of the 600 promises the LDF made in its 2016 assembly election manifesto. “Everybody knows why we could not make good on all the promises. We have had to face several unforeseen crises and emergencies. Now, we know that people expect much more. Another manifesto has to be prepared when facing the election. I’m here, primarily, to hear your opinions and suggestions, which could be included in the next manifesto,” Vijayan said. Officially, the interactive programmes organized by universities with great fanfare are supposed to deliberate on the future of higher education in the state. Vijayan said his government sought to develop the state into a knowledge society by promoting academic excellence and according top priority to research activities in the higher education sector. “Our higher education institutions should strive to become centres of excellence. We must have institutions that are placed among the top 10 higher education institutions in the country. We should have institutions that rank within the 100 best institutions in the world. Money won’t be a hurdle in achieving these ambitious targets. We need faculties of higher standards and our research activities should be fecund enough to enrich society.” The proposed K-FON project, he said, would bridge the digital divide to a great extent by ensuring easy and free internet access to the poor. The CM said students are free to make suggestions and place demands which they deem important to the future of higher education. The organizers of the event said the university has made arrangements for students to place their suggestions in writing to the government. Mediapersons were asked to vacate the senate hall as soon the interaction between the CM and students began. Higher education minister K T Jaleel, state planning board vice chairman V K Ramachandran and university vice chancellor V P Mahadevan Pillai were among those who shared the dais with the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poll-dates-soon-says-vijayan-at-ku-campaign-event/articleshow/80726936.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Cops seize duplicate electric cables worth Rs 43L||Pune: Officials of the Pune city crime branch on Saturday raided a shop at Budhwar Peth and seized duplicate electric cables worth Rs43lakh.Police said that the shopkeeper was selling duplicate and substandard electric cables with the name of a prominent company embossed on them.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “We have seized duplicate electric cables worth Rs43 lakh. Such cables, if installed at home or commercial building, can cause serious accidents.”A team headed by police inspector Ranish Nirmal, assistant inspector Sandeep Jamdade, sub-inspector Jaideep Patil, police constables Sandeep Dhawale and Pravin Bhalchim arrested the shopkeeper, identified as Dineshsingh Roopsingh Rajpurohit (42) of Shukrawar Peth.Police raided the shop after receiving a tip-off. A case was registered at the Faraskhana police station.According to police, the shopkeeper has a wholesale and retail shop at Budhwar Peth. He supplies duplicate cables to 12 other shops in the city. He does not have any legal bills or documents of cable purchase and other details.Nirmal said, “The boxes in which the cables were packed bore the name of a prominent electric cable manufacturer. People trust the brand for its safety features.”The shopkeeper and other 12 shops had sold the duplicate cables to many builders in the city in the last few days, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-seize-duplicate-electric-cables-worth-rs-43l/articleshow/80727686.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Allahabad||New flights, bigger space: Civil enclave set to expand||Prayagraj: New direct flights, bigger waiting lounge, swanky cafeteria, increased number of aero bridges and a lot more. As part of the airport expansion plan, the civil enclave of Prayagraj in Bamrauli will have a complete makeover in the coming years, both in terms of size and the facilities provided to flyers. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has decided to expand the airport twice the area of the present size and a proposal would be submitted to the aviation ministry soon. The civil enclave — which was made operational in 2019 and functions under Indian Air Force (IAF), Bamrauli — provides direct air connectivity to number of cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Raipur, Kolkata, Pune and Gorakhpur. The civil enclave is currently built on an area of 6,500sqm. There are four terminals and two aerobridges. In the initial days, the authority had not expected an increase in footfall. Following the expansion, the waiting lounge would be several times bigger, there would be a cafeteria and the number of aprons (the place where the aircraft stands) will also increase. There is also a possibility of more aero bridges being built at the enclave. Besides, internal and external changes will be seen along with parking area. The airport currently has a capacity of 300 passengers. However, there is a need to expand the airport due to the increase in footfall. The civil enclave presently handles an average of 1,200 passengers per day. Flights for eight cities are available from here, of which seven are operated by Indigo and one by Alliance Airline. Apart from this, flights to Bhubaneswar, Dehradun and Bhopal are also proposed in the coming months. “In view of the increasing number of flyers, the expansion of the airport has become extremely important. Currently, there is a capacity of 300 passengers, but the number is increasing continuously. A proposal for the expansion will be submitted to the competent authority soon,” said regional director of AAI (Prayagraj), Achal Prakash. According to the proposal, the present building of the airport would be expanded on both sides. The terminal will remain the same, but its area will be expanded. Efforts are on to complete the work at a faster pace because flights for other cities are also scheduled to begin soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/new-flights-bigger-space-civil-enclave-set-to-expand/articleshow/80724459.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Centre’s scrapping of MEIS makes grape export from Nashik a sour deal||Nashik: The grape exporters of Nashik have come under stress as they are finding it hard to compete with their counterparts from Peru, Chile and South Africa in selling their produce at competitive rates in European countries. There are over 100 grape exporters in Nashik, which is a major grape-growing hub in the country. The European market is one of the largest importers of grapes from India — a sizeable amount of which goes from Nashik. According to the grape exporters of Nashik, the Union government has withdrawn the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) from January 1 this year. This scheme entitled fresh fruit and vegetable exporters to get assistance of 5-7% on free on board (FOB) value. FOB is the cost and risk involved in delivery of goods from buyer to seller. “This scheme benefitted the grape exporters here as it subsided the import duty of 8% imposed by the European Union on Indian grape exporters. Now that the MEIS has been scrapped, the Indian grape exporters have to bear the import duty,” said Bharati Pawar, BJP MP from Dindori taluka in Nashik district. A majority of the vineyards in Nashik are spread in talukas like Dindori, Niphad, etc that fall under Dindori Lok Sabha constituency. Pawar said that although the goverment has announced a new scheme — Remission of Duties or Taxes on Export Product (RoDTEP) — replacing MEIS, the percentage of assistance that grape exporters will be getting has not been spelled out so far. “There is no import duty by EU on grape export from Peru, Chile and South Africa. We are unable to sell our produce at a competitive price,” said Vilas Shinde, chairman of Sahyadri Farm, one of the top grape exporters of India in Nashik. Grape exporters said the constant rise in fuel prices has increased the transportation cost. Pawar has written to the Union commerce and industry minister, Piyush Goyal, requesting him to look into the issue immediately. “I have requested Goyal to see to it if the ministry can sanction at least 7% assiatnce under RoDTEP for the country’s grape exporters,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/centres-scrapping-of-meis-makes-grape-export-from-nashik-a-sour-deal/articleshow/80726504.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Covid tally reaches 96.4k in U'Khand, death toll at 1,664||Dehradun: With 47 new cases reported on Saturday, the Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand reached 96,478. Apart from the new cases reported, 50 people have recovered in the last 24 hours. With two fatalities, the death toll has now reached 1,664. According to the data provided by the health department, 12 cases each were reported from Dehradun and Haridwar. As many as 11 new cases were reported from Nainital followed by five each in Udham Singh Nagar and Pithoragarh. Champawat and Pauri reported one case each on Saturday. On Saturday, 3,470 healthcare workers were vaccinated in 107 sessions. A total of 73,562 healthcare workers have been inoculated in the state till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-tally-reaches-96-4k-in-ukhand-death-toll-at-1664/articleshow/80726950.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 7, 2021||Pune||Two more contractors on police radar for cheating PCMC||PUNE: Separate cases of cheating and forgery were registered on Friday against two contractors of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation for submitting fake fixed deposit and bank guarantee receipts to the civic body against the tenders they secured in June-July last year. Rameshkumar Joshi (58), an officer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), lodged two separate complaints with the Pimpri police on Friday. Subsequently, the police invoked sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic evidence) of the Indian Penal Code against the two contractors. The police said one of the contractors obtained a project involving Rs17.56 lakh and gave a fake fixed deposit receipt of Rs36,000, which was shown to have been obtained from a cooperative bank in Khed. Similarly, the other contractor bagged work of Rs11.4-crore and submitted fake bank guarantee receipt of Rs2.98crore. The contractor had showed it was obtained from a nationalised bank in Khed. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Pimpri Chinchwad, Manchak Ipper said, “So far, we have registered seven cases of cheating and forgery against separate contractors and infra-developers. The cheating and forgery incidents were verified by the PCMC officials. Then complaints were lodged with the police.” The DCP said, “The contractors submitted fabricated fixed deposit and bank guarantee receipts to the PCMC’s architectural department to secure tenders. We summoned the bank officials and found that the banks had not issued them. It was revealed that the contractors had prepared these documents in their offices and other places. Five persons have been arrested till now in these cases.” He said, “We suspect involvement of many persons/firms in these cases. The PCMC may register more complaints. The civic officials are still verifying the fixed deposit and bank guarantee receipts they have received in the last one-and-a-half years.” According to the police, the PCMC had floated tenders for infrastructure and maintenance projects in June 2020. The cheating cases came to the fore after the PCMC officials undertook an audit of the fixed deposit and bank guarantee receipts. In the latest cases, the two contractors were awarded some infrastructure projects’ contracts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-more-contractors-on-police-radar-for-cheating-pcmc/articleshow/80727716.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF’s Sabarimala bill mere eyewash, says CPM’s Kerala secretary A Vijayaraghavan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Sabarimala ritual protection bill drafted by UDF is an attempt to ‘fool people’, according to CPM. Speaking to reporters in the state capital, the party’s acting state secretary, A Vijayaraghavan, said the move is part of UDF’s continued attempts at fooling voters. “First, UDF will not come to power. Second, a state government cannot draft legislation on a topic which is under the consideration of the Constitution bench of the Supreme Court,” he said. He said LDF will take a decision on the issue by consulting all concerned once SC issues its verdict. Vijayaraghavan recalled the ‘creamy layer’ legislation framed by A K Antony in 1995. “It didn’t stand the scrutiny of law. Governments need to abide by court directives,” he said. After CPM’s state committee meeting on Thursday, Vijayaraghavan had said LDF won’t debate the Sabarimala issue during the election campaign as the matter is sub judice. Addressing reporters in Alappuzha on Saturday, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac also placed the onus on the Supreme Court. “Once the court announces its verdict, we will discuss it with the people. The Congress has picked up the issue as it has nothing else to do or talk about,” Isaac told a news conference. Replying to questions, he said no illegal appointments have been made in the Coir Corporation. Certain employees, who had been working for 10-20 years, were regularized to address the staff crunch and based on human considerations. “UDF also made such appointments during its tenure,” Isaac said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udfs-sabarimala-bill-mere-eyewash/articleshow/80726948.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Let kids from class 6 in school: Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association||HYDERABAD: The members of Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA) on Saturday requested the state to allow schools to conduct physical classes for students of class 6 to class 8. They have submitted representations to the education minister and officials at various levels on the subject and requested them to permit to start physical classes for younger children. “It’s been a week since physical classes for class 9 and class 10 students started. No Covid-19 cases have been reported. At this juncture, we request the state and education minister to allow us to start classes for students of class 6 and above,” said S Madhusudhan Reddy, general secretary, TRSMA. They said that conducting classes only for class 9 and class 10 students is not feasible as they consist of hardly 10% of the total students. “For students of two classes, we will have to call all subject teachers and other support staff, which is not feasible. Even if we keep the financials aside, it is important that we get children back to schools at least for few months so that they can interact with their friends and teachers,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, TRSMA adding that reopening schools for younger kids will also help teachers in getting a steady income. TRSMA members said the education minister and officials assured they would look into the issue and see if it is feasible to start classes for class 6 and above||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/let-kids-from-class-6-in-school-trsma/articleshow/80728635.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Pune||Ward boy faces molestation charge in Maharashtra||PUNE: The Shivajinagar police booked a ward boy of a private hospital on the charge of molesting a woman patient inside the operation theatre. Police said the incident occurred around 10am on Friday. “A 22-year-old woman and her mother-in-law had met with an accident recently. The woman suffered serious injuries on her hand. It was operated upon on Friday. Minutes before the surgery, the ward boy and a nurse had brought the patient to the operation theatre on a stretcher,” inspector Vikram Goud said on Saturday. “The nurse left the woman for a few minutes to tend to some work and before a doctor could reach there, the ward boy (working on contract) took advantage of the situation and molested her and fled. After the patient underwent surgery, she disclosed the incident to her husband and an FIR was registered the same night,” Goud said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ward-boy-faces-molestation-charge/articleshow/80727695.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 7, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Protest intensifies over Ninitha Kanichery’s appointment||KOCHI: The protest by opposition parties against the appointment of CPM leader M B Rajesh’s wife Ninitha Kanichery as assistant professor at Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit (SSUS) intensified with various organizations conducting marches to the varsity. Fuelling protests, a copy of the letter – sent by T Pavithran, Umer Tharamel and K M Bharathan, who were subject experts in the interview panel, to SSUS vice-chancellor alleging irregularity in appointment – became public. In the letter, they said that after completing the interview on Jan 21, the final rank list was made after a discussion with all seven members of the selection committee and they had reached a consensus based on the marks given by the subject experts to the candidates. They later alleged that the appointment to the post of assistant professor (Muslim reservation) was made against their consensus. “We found that a candidate without experience in college/university-level teaching secured the first rank surpassing two or more qualified candidates and the syndicate approved her appointment. She hasn’t published research papers. The appointment goes against university ethics. We don’t understand the need for UGC-mandated subject experts in selection committee if university wants to appoint its favourite candidates,” the letter said. Stating that the appointment tarnished the image of SSUS, they asked the VC to freeze appointment procedures and execute the decision taken by the selection committee. But, SSUS denied the allegation and said that there was no consensus or discussion among selection committee members. “Of the seven members, all except the VC had to give marks to each candidate. Each member had to give mark independently in separate papers in secrecy. The rank list was prepared based on the total marks given by all members and three of the five shortlisted candidates were named. Ninitha secured first rank, making her eligible for appointment. The appointment adhered to UGC norms at every stage and the allegation is baseless,” said a varsity official. Meanwhile, a protest march held by KSU turned violent on Saturday leading to a minor clash with the police. Some protesters jumped the police barricade and tried to enter the main office building. They were later removed from the scene and cases were registered against over 100 KSU workers under various sections of IPC including 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting). Won’t resign, says Ninitha Meanwhile, Ninitha said that she will not resign and claimed that a conspiracy was afoot to disqualify her from the very beginning and after being named in the rank list, there was pressure to reject the appointment. No political influence was used to get the job. If that was the case I would have got a job sooner without waiting for 10 years after passing NET. I attended six-seven interviews in aided colleges but never tried to influence anyone, she said. Rajesh alleged that three persons on the interview board conspired to deny his wife’s selection as they wanted to appoint one of their nominees to the post. For that baseless allegations about PhD, seminar presentation, were made. They also threatened that if she did not withdraw she will be exposed using the media. There is no question of surrendering before such diktat, he claimed, adding that his political opponents were trying to create a controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protest-intensifies-over-ninithas-appointment/articleshow/80726952.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Three MNS men held for robbing tempo driver||NAVI MUMBAI: Three MNS office bearers have been arrested for allegedly posing as cops and robbing a tempo driver of Rs 1,200 at Palm Beach Road in Vashi recently. The accused have been identified as Prashant Shinde, Mithun Rajage and Harichandra Pashte. The accused had stopped the victim, Abdul Choudhary, and told him to pay a fine for overloading his tempo. They first made him shell out Rs 400. In order to instill fear in him, the accused took Choudhary near Koparkhairane traffic chowkie. They forced him to reveal his e-wallet password and transferred Rs 800 into Shinde's e-wallet account. The trio then sped in their car. Vashi senior inspector Ramesh Chavan said, “The accused were traced from the car registration number noted by the victim. Also, the e-wallet details of the accused helped in tracing the trio on the next day. However, the Belapur court has released them on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-mns-men-held-for-robbing-tempo-driver/articleshow/80729158.cms||George Mendonca
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||98% Covid beds in Andhra Pradesh now vacant||VISAKHAPATNAM: AP’s cumulative Covid-19 caseload rose to 8,88,350 on Saturday with the detection of 75 fresh cases. For a fourth day in a row, the state has recorded less than 100 cases. The toll increased to 7,159 as one more patient — in Visakhapatnam district — succumbed to the virus. Altogether 133 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 1,012 active cases with 8,80,179 cumulative recoveries and 7,159 deaths. The declining case numbers have led to denotification of 185 Covid hospitals in the last few months. At the peak of the pandemic, nearly 250 hospitals served Covid-19 patients. Now, even in the 67 designated Covid-19 hospitals, over 98% of beds are lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/98-covid-beds-in-state-now-vacant/articleshow/80726654.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Justice Devanand felicitated by BCAP||VIJAYAWADA: Justice Battu Devanand was felicitated by the Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh (BCAP) on Saturday in a program organised in the AP high court premises. BCAP, as a customary practice, has been felicitating its members who rise to higher levels in their careers. Justice Devanand’s felicitation was postponed due to the pandemic. Speaking on the occasion, Justice Devanand recollected his memories dating back to 30 years. “I have always stood for the cause of justice. Right from my student days, being a member of the bar council and being a government pleader, I have always stood for the cause of justice and never tolerated any kind of injustice being meted out to anyone. I may not be remembered as a great judge in history, but I will try to be remembered as a good judge,” he said. He thanked all members of the bar council for supporting him both professionally and personally. “Having a long association with the bar council for more than 30 years, it is like a family reunion for me,” he said. BCAP chairman Ganta Ramarao, Telangana bar council chairman A Narasimha Reddy, AP advocate general S Sriram and other members were present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/justice-devanand-felicitated-by-bcap/articleshow/80726644.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 7, 2021||Vadodara||Wife, her brother booked for Bharuch man’s suicide||Vadodara: Navapura police on Friday booked a woman from Bharuch along with her brother after her husband named them in his suicide note as the reason for his taking the extreme step. Father of deceased Gopal Rawal (40), Raman Rawal told the police that Gopal’s wife Manisha used to fight with his son and other members of the family frequently over any trivial matter ever since their marriage. She had also gone back to her parents’ home several times and even filed a criminal case against his son. However, Manisha’s brother Girish intervened and the couple reached a settlement and the woman came back to live with her husband at his home near Patthargate. But, during the lockdown, Manisha started accusing Gopal of having an extra-marital affair and again went back to Bharuch after the lockdown ended. She also gave a complaint to the police, following which cops summoned Gopal and other members of the family to Bharuch for questioning. Later Girish called up Gopal and threatened him of ensuring that the entire family ended up in lock-up. After dinner on February 2, Gopal, along with his daughter, went to his bedroom on the second floor of the house and committed suicide. The next morning when the father went to call him, Gopal was found hanging from the ceiling fan. A suicide note was also found from the room in which Gopal had stated that Manisha and her brother Girish are responsible for his death. On Friday, the father approached the police and based on his complaint an offence of abetment of suicide and criminal intimidation was registered. The two accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wife-her-brother-booked-for-bharuch-mans-suicide/articleshow/80727249.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||NMC forgoes tax hikes for next fiscal||Nashik: Severe financial crisis notwithstanding, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is unlikely to propose any hike in the various taxes or impose any new taxes for 2021-22. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav will present the draft budget for the next financial year to the civic body’s standing committee this month for approval.“The civic administration will not have any proposal to increase the existing tax structures in different segments like property, water etc. We will also not have any new tax proposal in the draft budget,” Jadhav told TOI.The outlay for the 2021-22 budget will be similar to the one that the NMC had for the current financial year, said the civic chief.“People are facing financial problems following the Covid pandemic. We do not want to aggravate their financial woes by hiking taxes or imposing new ones. We would concentrate on meeting the revenue collection targets set for 2021-22,” added Jadhav. The civic administration’s decision should be a relief to the citizens. The NMC will also not be able to collect revenue as per its target in the current fiscal. “Our revenue collection for this financial year would be less by over Rs 300 crore compared to the target that was set. It has been impacted due to the pandemic,” he said.The civic authorities are working overtime to realize dues from defaulters of property tax, water tax etc. to garner as much revenue as possible before the end of the current financial year. An amnesty scheme was floated in December 2020 offering waivers to property tax defaulters in penalty, warrants and notice fees.“The main thrust in the ensuing budget would be on health, education and environment sectors. We would be making sizeable allocation in these sectors for the next financial year. There will reduction of projects in some other sectors as such projects can be taken up later,” added the civic chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-forgoes-tax-hikes-for-next-fiscal/articleshow/80726510.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Centre’s scrappage policy will not affect APSRTC operations||VIJAYAWADA: The new scrappage policy introduced by the Centre will have little to no impact on Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) as a result of its robust replacement policy. Presently, only 19 buses out of the total fleet of more than 9,000 buses fall in the category of having run more than 15 years — the cut-off period for any government vehicle to be scrapped according to the policy. There have been fears among employees that many buses operating in rural areas might be stopped once the scrappage policy comes into effect from April 2022. Given the financial situation of state-run transport corporation, they fear that if the buses are scrapped, they may not get replaced immediately resulting in job losses. However APSRTC officials have allayed fears of workers and assured them that there won’t be any impact of the new policy which is going to be implemented from next year. Speaking to TOI, APSRTC engineering wing executive director, Krishna Mohan, said the corporation has its own policy of bus replacement which is more robust and efficient than the Centre’s scrappage policy. Krishna Mohan explained that the APSRTC has been replacing 1000 buses every year with new ones adding that its policy has been in place for a long time. “The criteria that the corporation adopted was to condemn any bus which ran more than 12 lakh kilometres in its life. So irrespective of time period, if any bus plied for more than the threshold limit, it will automatically be condemned. Most of our buses will complete 12 lakh kilometres in about 10 to 12 years and are being replaced every year” he said. There are very few exceptions in case of some rural and city services wherein they are still plying given their fitness condition. After the announcement of the scrappage policy, APSRTC reviewed all its fleet and found only 19 buses with more than 15 years life are still in operation. “Replacing these buses will not be a problem as we always have excess fleet for emergencies,” said Krishna Mohan. The ED said that even in the case of light vehicles, the corporation had enforced a policy two years back to replace all vehicles that have completed 15 years of service. “The vehicles being used by depot managers and other higher officials were replaced with hired cars,” Krishna Mohan said. Even in case of light vehicles, the APSRTC took a policy decision two years ago to replace all vehicles that have completed more than 15 years life. These vehicles being used by depot managers and other higher officials were replaced with hired cars said Krishna Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/centres-scrappage-policy-will-not-affect-apsrtc-ops/articleshow/80726618.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||AU students document experiences of the pandemic||Ahmedabad: On March 19, the state will mark one year of living with the Covid-19 virus. The past one year changed the way people interacted, got educated, earned their living or even battled with anxiety over their or their relatives’ infection. But how will history remember this period? “It was this idea that prompted different disciplines to engage students in chronicling what they saw in their surroundings,” says Prof Pankaj Chandra, vice-chancellor of Ahmedabad University. “While some documented what was going on outside their residences in 24 hours – like the solitary movement of milk van, some talked with small business owners to capture their sentiments.” The project – which recently took the shape of two websites – was broadly divided into three categories: tracking the history of pandemics in Gujarat and India, recording citizens’ personal accounts, and impact of Covid-19 on small businesses. The students also gained insight into how the pandemic was handled and reminiscences of Surat residents who had experienced plague first-hand. “Students searched through digital online archives of newspapers, government reports, testimonies, and even documentaries, in turn, producing remarkable original research. They also conducted detailed present-day oral histories of migrant workers who had been affected in the initial months of the national lockdown during the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Prof Patrick French, dean of School of Arts and Sciences at the university. Some of the accounts captured the initial stigma and shock of the pandemic. While one of the accounts talked about how finding one of the family members had tested positive sent shockwaves across their residential colony, another talked about how the workers from other states feared for safety of their near and dear ones when they were returning home, without knowing how they would be travelling the next few kilometres. The accounts of quarantine also put spotlight on the issue of mental health, perception of the pandemic and the overall handling of the public health system in the state and country at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/au-students-document-experiences-of-the-pandemic/articleshow/80727595.cms||Parth Shastri
February 7, 2021||Amaravati||98% Covid beds in Andhra Pradesh now vacant||VISAKHAPATNAM: AP’s cumulative Covid-19 caseload rose to 8,88,350 on Saturday with the detection of 75 fresh cases. For a fourth day in a row, the state has recorded less than 100 cases. The toll increased to 7,159 as one more patient — in Visakhapatnam district — succumbed to the virus. Altogether 133 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 1,012 active cases with 8,80,179 cumulative recoveries and 7,159 deaths. The declining case numbers have led to denotification of 185 Covid hospitals in the last few months. At the peak of the pandemic, nearly 250 hospitals served Covid-19 patients. Now, even in the 67 designated Covid-19 hospitals, over 98% of beds are lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/98-covid-beds-in-state-now-vacant/articleshow/80731956.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Suggestions flood Shashi Tharoor’s interactive session with youths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state is yet to catch up with the 21st century and only UDF is capable of thinking and acting for a forward-looking Kerala, said MP Shashi Tharoor here on Saturday. He was addressing the participants of an interactive session organized by the UDF to invite suggestions from young minds to form a people’s manifesto for the UDF for the upcoming assembly election. Tharoor, without taking names of the rival fronts, said that while one of them was hanging on to ideologies from 19th century the other was trying to take us back to the 14th century. Only UDF was capable of thinking for a better tomorrow and hence the party has invited suggestions from the young minds. Anjana, a journalism student, raised a concern why the Congress was still banking on the Sabarimala issue and did Tharoor personally believe that whether entry of women into Sabarimala was still a burning issue in the state. Tharoor replied that it was a question of respecting the concern of majority of believers and the Congress wanted to resolve this issue amicably at the earliest and move forward. Acknowledging the suggestion of another participant, Swetha, to incentivise network providers and make internet connectivity available to even in the most rural regions, Tharoor said that there still remained an issue of making internet connectivity affordable for all. Ideas on creating a databank of expatriates who were forced to return after losing job during the pandemic and using their workforce to carry out government projects under contract basis, promoting educational tourism, setting up an exclusive department for capital district development, setting up of societies to procure excess fruit produces locally modelled on MILMA and restoration of streams and river basins to prevent potential floods were all welcomed and duly noted by the MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/suggestions-flood-tharoors-interactive-session-with-youths/articleshow/80726954.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 50% polling stations in sensitive to hypersensitive locations, says Gautam Sawang||VIJAYAWADA: Director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang said the state police has made elaborate arrangements for hassle-free panchayat elections across AP starting February 9. Addressing reporters at the AP police headquarters in Mangalaigiri, Sawang said that there are 30,205 polling stations located across 655 mandals. The state police has sub-categorised these polling stations into four categories – hypersensitive, sensitive, normal and extremist. Sawang explained that accordingly, the security arrangements would be to ensure incident-free polls. Around 20% stations fall under hypersensitive, 28% under sensitive while 3% fall in the extremist category. “Keeping in mind 50% of polling stations are in hypersensitive and sensitive locations, we have intensified surveillance by deploying shadow, special vigilance teams across faction-affected villages to avoid untoward incidents,” the DGP said.  Ahead of polls, cops have been conducting surveillance on electoral offenders and have registered 12,779 cases in which 1.47 lakh people have been bound over.The DGP said compared to previous local body polls, the number of pre-poll offences had reduced by 49%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/50-polling-stations-in-sensitive-to-hypersensitive-locations-sawang/articleshow/80726638.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Third phase of panchayat polls begins, security heightened||VIJAYAWADA: Nomination process for the third phase of panchayat elections commenced on Saturday. Elections for panchayats in 164 mandals across 19 revenue divisions will be held in this phase. The verification process will be completed by February 9 with polling scheduled for February 17. The results would be declared on the same day. Special forces have been deployed in tribal and Maoist-affected areas like Rampachodavaram and Kukunoor which will go to polling in the third phase. The state election commission (SEC) has issued a circular increasing the time for polling which will now start at 6.30 am and end at 3.30 pm. The commission also issued a statement saying officials on poll duty will be provided special protection. “No authority can take action on officials involved in election duties. Staff and higher authorities should not consider the threatening statements of people’s representatives. The commission will protect the staff in all forms,” state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said. Meanwhile, opposition TDP raised objections over display of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on the home screen of AP Fibernet TV and internet connections. Media coordinator Darapaneni Narendra raised a complaint over the issue, urging the election commissioner to take necessary action. “CM YS Jagan’s pic is set default and every consumer who powers on the television is viewing the pic of Jagan. This can impact the voters in rural areas,” TDP said in its complaint. The party, in its complaint, also pointed out that AP Fibernet has around 10 lakh connections in the state with most of them being in rural areas. The party requested the removal of the chief minister’s image as the default picture immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/third-phase-of-panchayat-polls-begins-security-heightened/articleshow/80726627.cms||Venu Lanka
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Chakka jam at many places in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: Chakka jam was held at various places in Yavatmal district on Saturday. The agitators chanted slogans against the Modi government and demanded roll back of the 3 farm laws. In Pandharkawda, the farmers gathered on the national highway and blocked traffic. The police retained the agitators and released them at 3pm. Similar agitations were staged in Pusad, Maregaon, Mahagaon and other parts of the district. The farmers squatted on the state and national highways which brought the traffic movement to a grinding halt at all these places. In Mahagaon, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Prahar Jan Shakti and Shetkari Sanghatana workers participated in the chakka jam while the activists of Shetkari Sanghatana, MIM, Rashtriya Kisan Morcha, Rashtriya Muslim Morcha and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana participated in the agitation at Pusad. The traffic at Shivaji Square in Pusad town was disrupted for three hours. In Maregaon, the activists of Kisan Ekta staged chakka jam in Mardi Chowk while in Pandharkawda, Bhishansingh Shinde, Pradip Belkhede, Kishor Tiwari, Ankit Naitam, Lathuji Junghare, Vishnu Rathod, farm widows Aparna Malikar, Rekha Gurnule, Bharti Pawar and others participated. There was no untoward incident reported from anywhere across the district. The agitation went off peacefully. The agitators have demanded the revocation of the 3 farm bills and warned the government of intensifying the agitation if it continues to neglect the farmers' protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chakka-jam-at-many-places-in-yavatmal/articleshow/80726966.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||National Association for Blind felicitates teachers, students||Nashik: The Maharashtra unit of the National Association for the Blind (NAB) on Saturday felicitated four teachers who have been imparting knowledge to the visually impaired students in the NAB schools and centres across the state. Moreover, 72 visually impaired students were also felicitated Shashikala Vanjari, the vice-chancellor of the SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai, said she was thrilled to learn about the volume of the work done by the NAB for the visually impaired students. Chairman of Sapkal Knowledge Hub Ravindra Sapkal, president of NAB Maharashtra Rameshwar Kalantri, vice-president Suryabhan Salunkhe, general secretary Gopi Mayur, Mukteshwar Munshettiwar, Mangala Kalantri were present on the stage. Deputy director of education Nitin Upasani, Prof. Bhaskar Girdhari, Prof. Ashwin Bhardwaj, Prof. Sindhu Kakade and others were present on the occasion. Sapkal also announced to provide free education to the students in his educational institution and a gift of Rs 51,000 to help NAB in its work. Prof Pradeep Deshpande from Aurangabad, Sangita Poond from Vashi, Saharvi Jadhav from Ratnagiri, Vivek Rohkare and Kailas Nikam from Nagpur and ‘Anam Prem’, an organisation working for the development of visually impaired, were also felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/national-association-for-blind-felicitates-teachers-students/articleshow/80726521.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Haryana resident held for duping people on pretext of providing loans at low interest rates||Dehradun: The cyber crime cell, along with the Special Task Force, on Saturday arrested one member of the gang, which duped people on the pretext of providing them with loans at low interest rates. The accused, identified as Mayank Kapoor, is a resident of Rohtak in Haryana. He was arrested near the Natraj Chowk in Rishikesh by the joint police team. The gang had targetted a Dehradun woman and duped her of Rs 7 lakh. According to her complaint, the caller had identified himself as an employee of a leading private firm and assured a loan of Rs 15 lakh at 3% interest. The gang members provided a fake letter of approval for the loan. The woman was made to deposit Rs 7 lakh in different bank accounts on the pretexts of file charge, insurance charge, and other expenses. “Working on the case, we found that those involved in the crime had links with Haryana. We also came to know that the gang was operating through various bank accounts in Delhi, Haryana, Bihar, and Jammu and Kashmir,” SP STF Ajay Singh told TOI. During the investigation, the cyber crime police cell and the STF received a tip off regarding the visit of one of the gang members in Rishikesh. On the basis of the information provided by the woman complainant, the police team arrested Mayank Kapoor, who resides in Jagdish Colony area of Rohtak. During questioning, Kapoor told the police that the members of the gang gave advertisements in newspapers and also used social media platforms to publicise fake schemes offering loans at low interest rates. On grounds of submitting file charge, registration charge, insurance charge, and other expenses, the gang asked their targets to deposit money in different bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haryana-resident-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-providing-loans-at-low-interest-rates/articleshow/80726964.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Vizag steel plant disinvestment based on Niti Aayog recommendations: Anurag Thakur||HYDERABAD: At a time when protests are spread across Visakhapatnam against the decision of the Centre on disinvesting the Vizag steel plant, the union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur said the decision on disinvesting the steel plant was taken based on the recommendations of Niti Aayog. The union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs added that the disinvestments of public sector undertakings are being taken case by case and not uniform. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday Anurag said there was no loss of jobs to the employees of the steel plant with the privatisation. The minister dismissed all allegations that both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were ignored in the union budget presented by the Centre for 2021-2022. He added that the central government has been releasing funds for Polavaram project in Andhra Pradesh as assured to the government. “In the union budget, about Rs 9,170 crore was allocated to Telangana. About Rs 400 comes from the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. Funds were also given to Telangana for road and infrastructure development,” Anurag said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vsp-disinvestment-based-on-niti-aayog-recommendations/articleshow/80727785.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Interest-free loans given to 25,000 farmers||Dehradun: In an event in Dehradun, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated a state government initiate — Deen Dayal Upadhyay Sahkarita Kisan Kajyan Yojana — under which interest free loans of up to Rs 3 lakh were provided to 25,000 farmers from 95 blocks of the state on Saturday. While the main event was held at Bannu School in the Race Course area of Dehradun, 100 other centres — in different parts of the state — were virtually linked with the programme. Farmers were given cheques of the loan amount at these 101 centres or the money was directly transferred into their accounts. Addressing the event, CM Rawat started off with the topic of farm laws. “Let me be very clear that the three farm laws are in favour of the farmers. Be it in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha or any other platform, no one has been able to highlight a single point that is against the farmers. Now, it has become very clear that 302 Twitter handles being operated from Pakistan have been spreading false news related to the farmers' movement and rally,” he said. The CM added that some people sitting in “foreign nations” are trying to create a divide among the people of the country. He further added, “If the farmers get a better price, the farm law gives them the freedom to sell their produce at any location. How can this be against the farmers? Some people are misleading the farmers for their vested interests. I would like to request the farmers to not be misled by such people and individuals.” CM Rawat said that soon after coming to power, the BJP government started the project to give Rs 1 lakh at 2% interest to the farmers. “I had promised the farmers that if the government got good results, it would increase the loan amount. Last year, over 60% of the loan amount taken by farmers was returned to the banks. This is an encouraging sign and fulfilling our commitment we have decided to give an interest-free loan of up to Rs 3 lakh to farmers for works related to agriculture and allied sectors, and up to Rs 5 lakh to self-help groups,” said CM Rawat. Besides, the government also distributed hardware for computerisation work in 200 multi-purpose agricultural credit cooperative societies of the state. A total amount of Rs 40 crore has to be spent for computerisation of multipurpose agricultural credit cooperatives. Out of this, 25% of the money will be provided by the state government. All the cooperative societies of the state will be computerised by March 2021 and Uttarakhand will be the first state in the country where all multipurpose agricultural credit cooperatives of the state will be computerised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/interest-free-loans-given-to-25000-farmers/articleshow/80726977.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 7, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: At 96.8%, recoveries in Pune civic areas highest in region||PUNE: The Covid-19 recovery rate in the Pune municipal limits increased to 96.8% on Saturday, highest among the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) constituents. It was followed by the 96.2% discharge rate in both the PCMC and rural areas, taking the PMR’s recovery to 96.5%. As per the data released by the district health office, as many as 597 recoveries were recorded in PMR on Saturday as against 418 new cases, taking its discharges and caseload above 3.75 lakh and 3.88 lakh, respectively. Among the total recoveries, PMC has accounted for 1.86 lakh, followed by the PCMC limits (97,044) and the rural areas (91,312). When it comes to infection count, the PMC areas have recorded 1.92 lakh cases, followed by the PCMC areas (1,00,832) and the rural areas (94,903). Two weeks ago, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas were at the top in the region in terms of recovery rate. However, higher discharges catapulted the PMC areas to the top slot in the region since the beginning of February. Besides an improved recovery rate, the PMC areas’ active caseload has also witnessed a continuous dip. On Saturday, the active Covid-19 cases in the PMC limits dipped to reach 1,407 — accounting for a drop of almost 1,200 cases in the last one month. The number of critical patients have also reduced by 50% in the PMC limits in the last one month, data released by the PMC has revealed. On Friday, 110 patients were in critical condition in the PMC limits, while 210 patients were on oxygen support. This was against 230 critical patients and 359 patients on oxygen support reported in the municipal areas on January 6. “We are tracing the contacts of positive patients. Also, the daily testing has been maintained at 3,500 to 4,000. The daily caseload has dropped by 200 to 300 since the last few days. People have been urged to undergo tests in case they develop any symptoms,” PMC assistant health chief Sanjeev Wavre said. The positivity rate in the PMC limits has continued to stay below 10% and has been ranging between 5% and 9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-96-8-recoveries-in-pune-civic-areas-highest-in-region/articleshow/80727817.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 7, 2021||Udaipur||In a first, excise department to e-auction liquor shops in Rajasthan; beer cheaper||JAIPUR: Beer is all set to become cheaper by Rs 30 to Rs 35, hotels and bars will be allowed to operate micro-breweries and liquor shops will be allocated through e-auction instead of lottery, says the new excise policy announced by the state government on Saturday. According to the policy, composite liquor stores (where IMFL and country liquor will be sold) will be allotted to the highest bidder. There will, however, be no change in the number of liquor outlets in the state. An official said, “Currently, there are 7,665 liquor shops in the state including IMFL and country liquor. A person will not be allotted more than five shops in the state and not more than two shops in a district.” To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50, 000 earnest money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price of more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. The application fee will be non-refundable, the department said. From April 1, beer will be cheaper as the department has reduced additional excise duty by 10%. Moreover, the state government has decided not to increase country liquor prices. To reduce the burden on traders, annual license fee has been abolished on IMFL and beer shops in urban areas. Also, advance deposit provision has been reduced from 14.5% to 8%. Excise duty and additional excise duty on IMFL and excise duty on beer have been kept unchanged. Also, for the first time, the state government has allowed setting up of micro-breweries in the state. An official said, “Hotels, malls and other establishment after setting up micro-breweries can offer fresh beer without preservatives like glycerine that are added to extend the shelf life of bottled beer by six months.” Sources said relaxation has also been provided to establish bars. “Now a bar can be opened after obtaining the license of hotel and restaurant from the local body. The mandatory provision of having a commercial plot to open a bar has also been removed. After this move, there will be spurt in bars in the city,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/in-a-1st-excise-dept-to-e-auction-liquor-shops-in-raj-beer-cheaper/articleshow/80730371.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Kalam Study Centres at police station premises in 13 talukas helping rural students||Amravati: APJ Abdul Kalam Study Centres at police station premises in 13 talukas of Amravati rural are now teeming with students who are aspiring to crack MPSC, UPSC, banking and other competitive exams. An initiative of the Amravati rural police and brainchild of SP Dr Hari Balaji N, these study centres are catering not only to the needs of competitive exam aspirants but also of general students. “When we got a new building for our Achalpur police station during the lockdown period, we decided to establish a gym in one of the 45 quarters there. Then the thought of opening a library instead of a gym was propounded. We decided to experiment with it. We got an overwhelming response from students. Buoyed by this response, the idea of starting a study centre for rural youths aspiring to crack competitive exams was mooted and it was upheld and we decided to name it after our ex-president APJ Abdul Kalam who had underlined the importance of learning for students,” said Balaji. Winner of the president’s medal for bravery, Balaji said the response of students in Achalpur made him think of similar initiatives at other taluka police stations too. “Today, we have opened these study centres in 13 taluka police stations of the district,” he said. Daryapur, Anjangaon Surji, Dharni, Chikhaldara, Achalpur, Morshi, Warud, Chandur Railway, Chandur Bazar, Dhamangaon Railway, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Teosa, Daryapur and Paratwada police station premises have these study centres which cater to students 24X7. “Our centres run 24X7 and offer a conducive atmosphere and complete security to the students studying there,” Balaji said. “Good Samaritans from the society have come forward and donated books and other items for these study centres as we do not have special funds right now. However, we are soon going to submit a detailed proposal before the DPDC for funds. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur and state minister Bachhu Kadu have lauded our initiative and promised funds,” Balaji said. Our local PSIs are managing these centres. The study centre at Dharni is the first opened by anybody in that taluka while we had to hold an entrance exam to select students there as 300 turned up for admission against our capacity of 30, Balaji said. APJ Abdul Kalam Study Centres have opened up new avenues for rural students who are determined and study with spirit. They are not only getting all the facilities but also a secure atmosphere to study 24X7 and that too without any charges. “There is no entrance fees. The centres are free for all and open to all kinds of students. The rural youth had to go to cities to study, which was quite expensive.These centres have saved their expenditure,” Balaji said. “We have plans to give them identity cards and already started a suggestion box in which students can drop their requirement for books,” he said. Thanks to this praiseworthy initiative of the SP Balaji, Amravati rural police has become the first and the only police force in the entire state to think of and implement this novel concept for rural students. “We wish to take this concept to smaller police stations too where there may not be students for competitive exams but they will cater to the needs of school students,” Balaji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kalam-study-centres-at-police-station-premises-in-13-talukas-helping-rural-students/articleshow/80726990.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||58,816 healthcare workers vaccinated in Nashik division||Nashik: The Nashik division has so far recorded nearly 54% vaccination among healthcare workers (HCW), said Dr P B Gandal, the deputy director health of the Nashik region, . The division, including Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon, has nearly 1lakh registered beneficiaries for the government vaccination programme under the healthcare workers category. So far, 58,816 registered beneficiaries have been administered the vaccines across the Nashik division, the officer said. The HCWs include doctors, paramedic staff, cleanliness workers, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), the accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and the Anganwadi workers who directly monitor or intervene in case of Covid-19 in their respective areas. With 72.5%, Dhule district had the highest percentage of registered HCWs getting vaccinated — 7,152 of 9,859 registered beneficiaries have been administered vaccine here. In Nandurbar, of 10,438 registered beneficiaries 5,812 have been given the vaccine shots thus taking the percentage to 55.7%. Next in line is Ahmednagar (53.9%), where 32,498 people have been registered and 17,500 have been given the shots. In Nashik district, of the 36,178 registered beneficiaries 18,967 have been given the vaccines taking the percentage here to 52.4 3%. Jalgaon district (46.7%) was at the bottom of the list with 20,059 registered beneficiaries and 9,385 who have got the shots. “The percentage of HCWs getting shots is not bad. We have covered almost 54% of registered beneficiaries and we expect to reach the 75% mark, or even more, by the end of the first phase of vaccines that closes on February 14,” Gandal said. It may be noted that women constitute a very large number of HCWs. It may also be noted that the pregnant women and the lactating mothers have been excluded from the current vaccination programmes. Besides, there are a few others who may not be feeling well at the time of vaccination and who may not be comfortable taking the shots as the exercise is voluntary. “We have asked the vaccination officials to increase the daily targets by multiples of hundred if the infrastructure is available or even carry out vaccination on Tuesdays, which is a rest day as far as the programme is concerned,” said Gandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/58816-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-in-nashik-division/articleshow/80726528.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 7, 2021||Jodhpur||In a first, excise department to e-auction liquor shops in Rajasthan; beer cheaper||JAIPUR: Beer is all set to become cheaper by Rs 30 to Rs 35, hotels and bars will be allowed to operate micro-breweries and liquor shops will be allocated through e-auction instead of lottery, says the new excise policy announced by the state government on Saturday. According to the policy, composite liquor stores (where IMFL and country liquor will be sold) will be allotted to the highest bidder. There will, however, be no change in the number of liquor outlets in the state. An official said, “Currently, there are 7,665 liquor shops in the state including IMFL and country liquor. A person will not be allotted more than five shops in the state and not more than two shops in a district.” To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50, 000 earnest money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price of more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. The application fee will be non-refundable, the department said. From April 1, beer will be cheaper as the department has reduced additional excise duty by 10%. Moreover, the state government has decided not to increase country liquor prices. To reduce the burden on traders, annual license fee has been abolished on IMFL and beer shops in urban areas. Also, advance deposit provision has been reduced from 14.5% to 8%. Excise duty and additional excise duty on IMFL and excise duty on beer have been kept unchanged. Also, for the first time, the state government has allowed setting up of micro-breweries in the state. An official said, “Hotels, malls and other establishment after setting up micro-breweries can offer fresh beer without preservatives like glycerine that are added to extend the shelf life of bottled beer by six months.” Sources said relaxation has also been provided to establish bars. “Now a bar can be opened after obtaining the license of hotel and restaurant from the local body. The mandatory provision of having a commercial plot to open a bar has also been removed. After this move, there will be spurt in bars in the city,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/in-a-1st-excise-dept-to-e-auction-liquor-shops-in-raj-beer-cheaper/articleshow/80730372.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ajmer||In a first, excise department to e-auction liquor shops in Rajasthan; beer cheaper||JAIPUR: Beer is all set to become cheaper by Rs 30 to Rs 35, hotels and bars will be allowed to operate micro-breweries and liquor shops will be allocated through e-auction instead of lottery, says the new excise policy announced by the state government on Saturday. According to the policy, composite liquor stores (where IMFL and country liquor will be sold) will be allotted to the highest bidder. There will, however, be no change in the number of liquor outlets in the state. An official said, “Currently, there are 7,665 liquor shops in the state including IMFL and country liquor. A person will not be allotted more than five shops in the state and not more than two shops in a district.” To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50, 000 earnest money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price of more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. The application fee will be non-refundable, the department said. From April 1, beer will be cheaper as the department has reduced additional excise duty by 10%. Moreover, the state government has decided not to increase country liquor prices. To reduce the burden on traders, annual license fee has been abolished on IMFL and beer shops in urban areas. Also, advance deposit provision has been reduced from 14.5% to 8%. Excise duty and additional excise duty on IMFL and excise duty on beer have been kept unchanged. Also, for the first time, the state government has allowed setting up of micro-breweries in the state. An official said, “Hotels, malls and other establishment after setting up micro-breweries can offer fresh beer without preservatives like glycerine that are added to extend the shelf life of bottled beer by six months.” Sources said relaxation has also been provided to establish bars. “Now a bar can be opened after obtaining the license of hotel and restaurant from the local body. The mandatory provision of having a commercial plot to open a bar has also been removed. After this move, there will be spurt in bars in the city,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-a-1st-excise-dept-to-e-auction-liquor-shops-in-raj-beer-cheaper/articleshow/80730373.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Jaipur||In a first, excise department to e-auction liquor shops in Rajasthan; beer cheaper||JAIPUR: Beer is all set to become cheaper by Rs 30 to Rs 35, hotels and bars will be allowed to operate micro-breweries and liquor shops will be allocated through e-auction instead of lottery, says the new excise policy announced by the state government on Saturday. According to the policy, composite liquor stores (where IMFL and country liquor will be sold) will be allotted to the highest bidder. There will, however, be no change in the number of liquor outlets in the state. An official said, “Currently, there are 7,665 liquor shops in the state including IMFL and country liquor. A person will not be allotted more than five shops in the state and not more than two shops in a district.” To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50, 000 earnest money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price of more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. The application fee will be non-refundable, the department said. From April 1, beer will be cheaper as the department has reduced additional excise duty by 10%. Moreover, the state government has decided not to increase country liquor prices. To reduce the burden on traders, annual license fee has been abolished on IMFL and beer shops in urban areas. Also, advance deposit provision has been reduced from 14.5% to 8%. Excise duty and additional excise duty on IMFL and excise duty on beer have been kept unchanged. Also, for the first time, the state government has allowed setting up of micro-breweries in the state. An official said, “Hotels, malls and other establishment after setting up micro-breweries can offer fresh beer without preservatives like glycerine that are added to extend the shelf life of bottled beer by six months.” Sources said relaxation has also been provided to establish bars. “Now a bar can be opened after obtaining the license of hotel and restaurant from the local body. The mandatory provision of having a commercial plot to open a bar has also been removed. After this move, there will be spurt in bars in the city,” added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-1st-excise-dept-to-e-auction-liquor-shops-in-raj-beer-cheaper/articleshow/80728647.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman plaint at RGIA, says administrator sought sexual favours||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old woman lodged a complaint in RGI Airport (RGIA) claiming that an administrator at a private company allegedly sought sexual favours to give her a job. Police said that the complainant is presently associated with a baggage handling company associated with an airline. In search of a better job, she approached a woman who assured to help her. The victim said that she even paid Rs 30,000 hoping for a better opportunity. Based on the other woman’s instructions, the victim went to give an interview, where the company’s administrator made the demands. “The complainant claimed that the administrator asked her to come alone to his room, apart from speaking objectionably. She also said that the same administrator had behaved similarly with his colleagues and threatened to sack them if they did not satisfy his demands,” RGIA police said. When police contacted the administrator and his company, they alleged that the complainant is making false accusations since she was not selected for the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-plaint-at-rgia-says-admin-sought-sexual-favours/articleshow/80727819.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Kumaon to get its first electric crematorium||Nainital: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday laid its foundation stone at Chitrashila Ghat in the Ranibagh area of Nainital district. This would be the first electric crematorium of the Kumaon region. At present, Uttarakhand has just one electric crematorium in Haridwar. Chitrashila Ghat is located on the banks of Gaula river and in the absence of an electric crematorium, bodies are cremated along the river. Locals have been complaining for years that this has led to the contamination of the river water, which is a source of drinking water for many. According to the government, the project will cost around Rs 2.9 crore and prove helpful for the people of the entire Kumaon region. “The electric crematorium will not only reduce pollution in the river but also end the challenges in cremation during monsoon,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaon-to-get-its-first-electric-crematorium/articleshow/80726992.cms||Prashant Jha
February 7, 2021||Pune||Hadapsar police submit interim report on SII fire||PUNE: The Hadapsar police have submitted an interim report to the Pune police commissioner, Amitabh Gupta, on the fire incident at Serum Institute of India in Manjari last month. Confirming that he received the report on February 3, Gupta told TOI on Saturday, “We won’t be able to comment much on this unless we get reports from all the experts (fire brigades of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation [MIDC], Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority [PMRDA] and Pune Municipal Corporation [PWD], public works department [PWD] and forensic science laboratory [FSL]).” The interim report was submitted against the backdrop of the ministry of home affairs seeking a report on the fire incident in which five people were killed on January 22. Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from the Hadapsar police said, “We recorded statements of around 50 workers, but no one made conclusive statement on what exactly caused the fire.” The MIDC’s chief fire officer, Santosh Warik, told TOI, “I have received the preliminary inquiry report from the electric inspector of the PWD’s industries energy and labour department. I am awaiting reports from the forensic science laboratory and other agencies. After studying findings of all the reports, we shall be in a position to establish the source of fire at the Serum Institute of India (SII).” Warik refused to divulge details of the PWD’s preliminary inquiry report citing that he was studying its content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hadapsar-police-submit-interim-report-on-sii-fire/articleshow/80727838.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 7, 2021||Pune||Many former hotspots showing substantial decrease in fatalities||PUNE: The city recorded a 20% slide in Covid fatalities in January compared to December, ward-wise data from the Pune Municipal Corporation has revealed. As many as 13 sub-wards had just a single Covid death each through all of January. In December, there were 11 such areas. A PMC official said, “Some of these sub-wards that had single-digit fatalities were earlier Covid hotspots — such as Ramtekdi-Sayyadnagar, Meethanagar, Market Yard, Dhayari, etc.” Data also showed there were 133 deaths within PMC limits in January, compared to the 167 in December. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC, said the number of patients coming in with severe Covid-19 has reduced. “There has also been a dip in cases likely to experience problems such as oxygen saturation. Citizens are now more aware and have started to seek medical attention at the first sign of symptoms,” she said. Agarwal added that in the last one month, she has not heard of instances in which patients ended up in hospitals with hypoxia. “Wards that were hotspots are seeing a significant reduction in cases because of increased surveillance and testing,” she said. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said, “Overall, transmission has definitely been on the decline.” He added that the number of “complicated cases”, which can lead to fatalities, has also reduced. “Clinical management has stabilised because we now have better treatment protocols at our disposal. So uncomplicated Covid-19 cases are now less likely to turn severe as they are being managed well in time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-former-hotspots-showing-substantial-decrease-in-fatalities/articleshow/80727822.cms||Neha Madaan
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Smell the coffee: Schools find ways to keep students safe||Kolkata: A city school will ask its students to ‘smell the coffee’ when they return to campus on February 12 for physical classes. To make sure that its pupils have not lost their sense of smell — a symptom of Covid — coffee beans will be placed in a container at the entrance and each student must smell them before being allowed inside. Those failing the test would be sent for a Covid test. This is among the various measures that are being adopted by city schools to make sure they don’t help spread the virus when classes resume for students of classes IX to XII. St Augustine’s Day School principal Richard Gasper said that apart from the traditional measures like temperature checks, use of sanitizers and maintaining social distance, the school will ask students to smell coffee as they enter the campus. “We are trying to make the campus secured as we do not want to take any risk with children’s safety,” said principal Gasper. Some schools are planning to allow students extra breaks to wash their hands. “Many children may not remember to sanitize their hands. So, we will give breaks to ensure they wash their hands every 40 minutes. Teachers will also stay alert so that there is no huddling,” said a school principal. Many schools will keep their canteens closed when classes resume. “We had initially planned to put partitions — on the desks and even on long benches in the canteen — to prevent students from huddling together. But the plan is yet to get a nod,” said a school head. He said that students of classes X and XII will attend on-campus classes on alternate days. Several schools have planned to allow class XII students to begin with. “The Board candidates will be given attention and we don’t want to take chances before the exams. Thus, we have planned to bring only the science stream students for practical classes in batches of 15,” said John Bagul, the principal of South City International School. Some principals pointed out that since the syllabus has already been completed, only the Board candidates will attend doubt-clearing sessions and practical classes. “We have conducted the pre-Board exams online. Now, we plan to allow the students to attend classes in-person and discuss the errors they have made in the exams,” said a CISCE-affiliated school principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/smell-the-coffee-schools-find-ways-to-keep-students-safe/articleshow/80727000.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Dhyani breaks national record||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s Ankita Dhyani on Saturday broke the national record in the Under-20 girl’s 5,000 metres race at the ongoing 36th National Junior Athletics Championship, being held in Guwahati. The 18-year-old athlete secured first place, clocking 16:21.19 to win the race. The Pauri girl broke the two-decade-old record held by Punjab’s Asian Games gold medallist Sunita Rani since 1997. Last month, Dhyani won the 1,500-metre and 5,000-metre Under-20 girl’s race event at the 18th National Federation Cup Junior (U-20) Athletics Championship held in Bhopal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dhyani-breaks-national-record/articleshow/80727002.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Actress-model held for role in Madh porn video racket||Mumbai: Actress and model Gehana Vasisth was arrested for her role in shooting and uploading porn videos on her website. Police also stumbled upon the involvement of more models, side actresses and some production houses which edited and uploaded the films shot by the gang on mobile apps and websites. Gehana, who had won the Miss Asia Bikini crown, has featured in advertisements, Hindi and Telugu cinema, was questioned on Saturday afternoon. “She has shot 87 obscene/porn videos and uploaded them on her websites, which require a subscription to watch. Those who have subscribed to the channel have to pay Rs2,000,’’ said a senior police official. She will be produced in court on Sunday. Police said at least three more victims have complained to the property cell that they were forced into doing roles in porn films. The cell had on Thursday raided Green Park bungalow at Madh Island in Malad and arrested Yasmin Beg Khan alias Rowa, Pratibha Nalawade, Monu Gopaldas Joshi, Bhanusuryam Thakur and Mohammed Asif alias Saify. A victim who was rescued was sent for rehabilitation. Police seized three bank accounts in which there was a balance of Rs 36 lakh, generated through subscriptions of their apps. Police said that Yasmin was the producer and director, Saify the cameraman, Pratiba graphic designer, Joshi acted and Thakur an assistant. Police have seized a high definition video camera, six mobile phones, a laptop, spotlight, camera stand, memory card containing video clips and dialogue/script, said Prakash Jadhav, deputy commissioner of police. “We got information that a gang was issuing advertisements for fresh faces and under the pretext of giving them roles in movies they used to take them to these bungalows, make them do odd scenes, lure them with bigger amounts and make them sign agreements and force them to act in porn movies,’’ said senior inspector (property cell) Kedari Pawar. Investigating officer Laxmikant Salunke said the accused would pay Rs5,000-15,000 and then upload the clips on apps and social media, which would generate revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actress-model-held-for-role-in-madh-porn-video-racket/articleshow/80727852.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two auto passengers die in road mishap||HYDERABAD: Two persons travelling in an autorickshaw died when an auto trolley coming in the opposite direction hit their auto at Bahadurpura on Saturday. Auto driver Mohammed Shareef hit a road divider at high speeed and under its impact, the vehicle fell on the other side of the road. The auto trolley coming in the opposite direction rammed the passenger auto. Mohammed Arif Hussain (29) and Sadik Momeen (40) died on the spot. Police said Shareef was driving the auto at a high speed at the time of the mishap. A case was registered under IPC section of negligence causing death. In another accident at Mailardevpally, a cook died after his bike was hit by a lorry. Mohammed Farooq (25) died on the spot. A native of Uttar Pradesh, Farooq was working in a local eatery in Mailardevpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-auto-passengers-die-in-road-mishap/articleshow/80727835.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||133 patients recover in Nashik||Nashik: Nashik district reported 111 new Covid cases while 133 patients were discharged after recovering on Saturday. The active cases stand at 1,163. Nashik city recorded one death . As many as 5,362 registered beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday across Nashik division, said PB Gandal, the deputy director of health, Nashik. The Nashik division witnessed 57% turnout as against 9,330 beneficiaries.  Dhule district witnessed 98.2 % turn out as 491 were vaccinated of the 500. Nashik district witnessed a turn out of 1,791 (80%), followed by Nandurbar, which saw 569 (71%) beneficiaries. As many as 865 (51%) beneficiaries turned up in Jalgaon and Ahmednagar witnessed 1,646 (40 %) beneficiaries. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/133-patients-recover-in-nashik/articleshow/80726535.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand STF arrests mastermind of cyber crime gang from West Bengal||Dehradun: After following a case of cyber crime in which Rs 30 lakh were fraudulently withdrawn from the account of a Champawat resident in a period of a few months, the Special Task Force (STF) of Uttarakhand police was successful in arresting the mastermind from the North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal. After the arrest on Friday, the accused identified as Aniket Chakraborty is being brought to Uttarakhand for interrogation in the matter. A resident of Champawat district of Uttarakhand had approached the STF team with his complaint about the fraud. According to the complaint, the accused had received a call and an SMS from an unidentified number. The caller gained access to the complainant’s internet banking through the information provided by him. After gaining access to internet banking, the gang withdrew Rs 30 lakh from the bank account of the accused. SP STF Ajay Singh told TOI, “In the initial probe, it came to the fore that the telephone numbers being used for the fraud belonged to West Bengal. When we scanned the bank details, we found that two bank accounts, from West Bengal, were used to withdraw the amount of Rs 30 lakh. It was also found that the amount had been further transferred to different accounts from these two bank accounts. In a period of a few months, transactions worth over Rs 1 crore were carried out from the two bank accounts.” The STF team traced the location of the accused to North 24 Parganas district. “A four member police team headed by inspector Vikas Bharadwaj was rushed to West Bengal to arrest all those involved in the racket. We were successful in nabbing Chakraborty, who is the mastermind of the gang.” Singh did not fail to mention that the STF team is also searching for others involved in the racket. “The accused told us that they had cheated people in other states as well. We are also collecting more information about other cases of cyber crime committed by this gang,” said the senior police officer. Sharing further information, Singh said that Chakraborty is a resident of Pratapaditya Road, Barasat-1, Noapara Barasat in North 24 Parganas district. “Our team travelled a distance of over 1,700-km to arrest the accused. The modus operandi of the gang was to interact with their target and secure the information about their bank details and internet banking. Such cases are on the rise and Uttarakhand STF requests people to avoid sharing any bank, debit, credit cards details with any person,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-stf-arrests-mastermind-of-cyber-crime-gang-from-west-bengal/articleshow/80726998.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 7, 2021||Ludhiana||Samrala chowk to be made model one in 2 phases||Ludhiana: Ludhiana traffic police is working to make Samrala chowk, one of the main junctions of the city that also remains congested and chaotic, a model one. Major roads like Ludhiana-Delhi highway, Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway, Ludhiana-Amritsar highway, besides two roads leading to Cheema chowk and the old city are also connected to Samrala chowk. For the past some time major traffic jams are being witnessed at the chowk. However, now the city police are on the job to decongest it. To transform the chaotic Samrala chowk into a congestion-free model chowk, the traffic cops have already started making their presence felt at the chowk. In the first phase, they are issuing challans to those commuting on the wrong side or parking their vehicles on the road. Assistant commissioner of police, (traffic) Gurdev Singh said, “The Samrala chowk will be made a model one in two phases. In the first phase, we are getting the encroachments removed. With the help of municipal corporation, the traffic police have got the encroachment on the road sides removed. Further, we have also started issuing challans to those driving on the wrong side and those parking vehicles on the road.” “Besides, the stoppage of buses and autos at the main chowk was one of the main reasons for traffic chaos. We have fixed their stops, which are a few meters ahead of the main chowk. Moreover, the traffic cops are present at the chowk to ensure that no auto or bus is stopped in the middle of the road, causing traffic chaos,” the ACP added. He further said, “To make it a model chowk, there is a need to make some major infrastructure changes. There is no traffic signal at the chowk despite the fact that it connects different highways and roads leading to the main city. Our plan is to increase the entry and exit points at this chowk, especially for heavy vehicles, so that these cross from the flyover only. In this way the other traffic will not be affected.” The official shared that a meeting with the three different project officers of the National Highway Authority of India had alreadsy been conducted, who have completed the survey of the chowk. We are now waiting for the response of the NHAI. On Saturday also, the traffic cops were present at Samrala chowk and were nabbing the violators riding on the wrong side or parking vehicles on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/samrala-chowk-to-be-made-model-one-in-2-phases/articleshow/80727001.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Depositors seek probe into Rs 300-crore Mahesh bank ‘fraud’||HYDERABAD: Nearly 2,000 small depositors of AP Mahesh Cooperative Bank have approached Telangana high court seeking a thorough probe into the alleged misappropriation of Rs 300 crore bank funds by the management. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili, who heard the matter, issued notices to the bank management, state and central governments, cooperative registrars of the state and the Centre and the RBI, asking them to explain their stand on the ongoing tussle in the bank within three weeks. The depositors, who formed into a welfare association, alleged that the bank was being run whimsically by its board of directors. The judge, however, said that he will not grant any interim relief to the petitioner association because a single judge of the court had earlier passed an order that restrained the current management of the bank from taking any major policy decisions. “They can take decisions only to the extent needed for running the bank’s day-to-day affairs,” he said. Supreme Court advocate Dil Jit Singh Ahluwalia, who argued the case on behalf of the association in the high court, said that there is a need to appoint an administrator to run the bank till the tussle is resolved. “The administrator could be a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court or a retired MD of a public sector undertaking,” he argued. Ahluwalia further said the current management had been stalling all efforts to bring transparency into the functioning of the bank. The association also alleged that the directors have been manipulating the elections and getting re-elected to the board through fraudulent means. “Our representations to ensure a fair poll and to order a forensic audit have been ignored by Hyderabad police and the RBI,” it said. The petitioner’s counsel said Telangana government also felt that the election to the bank was not held properly and had directed Hyderabad police to register FIRs against the directors. “However, this was not done so far,” he lamented. There were also allegations of bogus members added to the board at the last minute. The judge heard this and posted the case to three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/depositors-seek-probe-into-rs-300-cr-mahesh-bank-fraud/articleshow/80727823.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||Nashik cops to crack whip on wrong-side driving||NASHIK: The resumption of routine activities has brought back the problem of wrong-side driving on the city roads. The city traffic branch has decided to take up a special drive against such erring motorists. Police officers said wrong-side driving is one of the main reasons for road accidents. Many motorists indulge in wrong-side driving as a quicker route to reach their destinations. Their movement, however, is not always visible to the motorists on that road. “This leads to accidents, which, at times, prove fatal,” said ACP Sitaram Gaikwad of the city traffic branch. In 2019, the traffic police had booked 4,062 motorists for wrong-side driving. Last year, the police booked 599 motorists. Fewer motorists were booked last year as there were restrictions on the movement of vehicles for two months. Also, there was reduced vehicular movement as schools, colleges and offices were closed. The ramps of the Nashik Road flyover, the Mumbai Agra highway passing through the city, the Trimbak Road and various other busy roads often witness wrong-side driving. ACP Gaikwad said they would be taking up a special drive soon against motorists found indulging in wrong-side driving. “It would be a drive to discipline motorists found driving on the wrong side of the road,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-to-crack-whip-on-wrong-side-driving/articleshow/80726540.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Lawyers plead for physical hearing at Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court advocates’ association has decided to urge the high court administration to commence physical hearings as soon as possible. Citing the results of an online poll it conducted among its members, the association said that 66% of the members were in favour of physical functioning and 34% voted for continuing the current virtual mode of hearing for some more time. As many as 1144 member advocates participated in the online polling. Of them, 759 voted for physical mode and 385 voted for virtual mode. Association president T Suryakaran Reddy said that they would represent to the HC authorities on Monday to request them to take steps to reopen the court premises. The association leaders said employees of the high court have been working at the court for the last several months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawyers-pleadfor-physical-hearing-at-hc/articleshow/80727839.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Central doctor team visits Thane hospital||THANE: A two-doctor Central team visited the state-run Thane Civil Hospital on Saturday to check Covid-19 mortality and treatment protocols. Other Central teams visited BMC-run teaching hospitals. The Thane Civil Hospital has so far admitted 3,827 patients and recorded 546 deaths. “The team suggested ways to lower the death rate further by training doctors further,” said civil surgeon Dr Kailash Pawar. The team, which must check why Maharashtra continues to have a high daily caseload, will visit various hospitals over the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/central-doc-team-visits-thane-hosp/articleshow/80729170.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 7, 2021||Nashik||Traffic diverted due to smart city works||Nashik: The Nashik city police have diverted traffic from Friday on two roads in the old city area as works related to Nashik Municipal Smart City development will be undertaken. As per a release from the police, the Panchavati Road from Muthegalli to Paharvat Lane (Shabri Gumfa) will be closed for vehicular movement for 50 days, while the road from Shani Chowk to Bansidhar Towers (Sukenkar Lane to Hanuman Chowk) will be closed for 100 days. Works like underground sewage lines, stormwater lines and underground electricity lines will be carried out on these roads. Hence, to avoid traffic congestion and causing inconvenience to motorists, the police had made traffic diversion. Vehicular traffic on the road between Panchavati road and Patharvat lane will be diverted via Kalaram temple North gate, Malviya Chowk side, Kartik Swami temple and Hanuman chowk. Further, the traffic between Shani Chowk to Bansidhar Towers will be diverted through Kalaram temple (North gate), Shani Chowk, Kartik Swami temple, Hanuman chowk and then towards Katya Maruti chowk from Malviya chowk. Five wardens will be deployed at Muthe Galli Corner, Patharvat Lane, Shani Chowk, Bansidhar Towers and Hanuman Chowk from 8 am to 7 pmThe police will put up barricades at Muthe Galli Road and Patharvat Lane corner. Signboards will be put at Kalaram temple, Malviya Chowk, Shani Chowk and Hanuman Chowk. The traffic restrictions will not apply to police vehicles, ambulances and fire brigade vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-diverted-due-to-smart-city-works/articleshow/80726546.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 7, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Farmers’ stir to be main poll issue in civic body polls’||A vocal local leader from Khanna who has been actively raising civic issues there, Yadwinder Singh Yadu (44), is a farmer by vocation. A core committee member of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Yadu has also been voicing anger against the three farming laws passed by the Union government. He talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeeed on civic elections and farmers’ agitation. Q: How do you see things turning up in the coming civic body elections? On seats which have rural areas close by, farmers’ agitation will have 100% impact. In cities, arhtiyas, cloth traders, factory workers are upset with the current scenario, which can be seen from the empty markets in cities, and this will also impact the poll scenario. When farmers get money, they don’t keep it and spend the same or repay the loans, etc. His whole money goes in market, so they will decide the outcome of these elections. Q: What are the main issues in Khanna? There are lot of civic issues in Khanna. The ruling Congress passed one year doing nothing due to Covid and now they did nothing during the ongoing farmers’ agitation and are sitting silently. In Khanna, under the Centre’s Amrut Scheme, sewerage was to be laid in the town, but the project was delayed first and now for nine months work is going on. In some areas it has been started, while in other areas it has been stopped. They have dug up roads in areas where sewerage was to be laid and now there are potholes in those areas. My wife was a councillor from ward number 13, and they didn’t start work in 13 and 14 as they didn’t want our growth on the political spectrum in the area and deliberately started it around MC elections. I talked to the SDM, but work was not done and then I had to knock the door of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The next date of hearing of case is February 9. They will have to start work as they have got orders from the court for getting the work photographed. The other issues are corruption, where bribe is allegedly being taken from vendors; pollution in Khanna, which has been the most important issue; bad condition of all link roads and water-logging in many areas. Q: What is the response to farmers’ agitation in Khanna area? From day one, we have been associated with the farmers’ agitation and I am also a farmer. The response in our area is very good as it’s the foremost thing in the mind of everyone with people connected to each other and involved in farming. About 80% of the people in Punjab are directly or indirectly linked to farming, so they do share the concerns of farmers, which is why they support the agitation staunchly. Q: How do you see government’s response? The government response to the farmers’ agitation can be termed as stubborn and it should accept their demands. Laws are for the welfare of the people and if they are not happy with such laws, they should repeal those. Why the government is being so arrogant? They are not saying how good it is for farmers. Earlier, companies would buy but then mandi board’s grip was there, so they were answerable to the board. But if the board is taken out of the system, they will do whatever they want to. Even contract farming aspect in the laws is not good. If we study the laws between the lines, it is dangerous. Q: Agriculture minister Narinder Singh Tomar has said that what’s black in these laws as these are being termed by some as “black laws. What do you have to say on this? There is a fine for hoarding, but there is no check if big companies set up plants for storage, etc. and sell the same to people on higher rates. Today, what the government buys at Rs 1,885, it will be come to people at Rs 5,000 as these will be sold in big stores of their own (companies) and not in small shops. So, common man will be more affected than farmers. Q: The government has been maintaining that they will not take the laws back. What is your take on this? In 1906, there was agitation “Pagri Sambhal Jatta” and Britishers had to bow down before the farmers and after that as well many big agitations had taken place, wherein people forced the government to give in. They should not adopt such attitude because the governments would fall if the people were not with them. Q: Your rival parties have been saying that SAD changed stance after taking different one initially? Initially, what was told was different and it was claimed that it was good, but then when one goes through the points, one comes to know more about it. If farmers didn’t like it, we will stand by them and not the government. When farmers, their leaders and intellectuals said that the laws were not good, so we stood with what they were saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-stir-to-be-main-poll-issue-in-civic-body-polls/articleshow/80727009.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Shop owner booked for ‘issuing’ ration worth Rs 28L to the dead||Roorkee: The owner of a ration shop in Roorkee has been booked for “issuing” ration to more than 100 beneficiaries over six years who were later found to have been dead. The embezzlement was discovered by 33-year-old Israr, a resident of Nagla Imarti village, Roorkee, through RTI queries. Israr believes the amount siphoned off adds to up to nearly Rs 28 lakh. Apart from ration dealer Ashfaq, 45, an FIR has been registered for fraud against village head Muskan Devi and a government official of the rank of village secretary. Israr said he filed RTI queries with the block development office between 2013 and 2018 to find 111 villagers had died during the period. “I cross-checked this with the records Ashfaq maintained and found they were shown alive and receiving ration like wheat, rice, pulses, sugar and kerosene oil regularly from his shop. Ration worth Rs 135 is given against a ration card every month. The market value of these items is more than Rs 485. This means in a period of 72 months, the accused managed to pocket Rs 27,97,200 by selling ration items in the open market,” Israr explained. “Israr approached a local court to get his complaint registered. On the order the additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) court, we have registered an FIR against three persons under sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 120-B (a party to criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act,” said in-charge of Civil Lines police station inspector Rajesh Sah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shop-owner-booked-for-issuing-ration-worth-rs-28l-to-the-dead/articleshow/80727019.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||No takers for postponing practicals to next semester||Kolkata: Several professors, principals and students feel shifting practical examinations to subsequent semesters will increase the burden, create a disconnect between theory and practical lessons and make it difficult to clear the backlog, given how ill-equipped laboratory infrastructure in most colleges are. The government on Wednesday decided not to reopen colleges and universities. Almost all stakeholders termed the decision not to reopen campuses immediately as “wise” but have added that government should have allowed colleges and universities to reopen labs for senior students. Practical carries a weightage of anything between 25% to 35% in various science subjects in each semester. “It is wise not to take any risk by reopening the campuses. Since classes are happening online, examinations should be online, too. But students who are pursuing science subjects are suffering because they cannot access the labs for practical lessons. Shifting practicals to subsequent semesters will increase the load on us,” said Poulomi Ghosh, a chemistry student in Basanti Devi College. A section of professors and principals were in favour of allowing UG and PG students to access the laboratories for practical classes. Calcutta University and some of its affiliated colleges had even allowed students to attend practical classes from February 1. Several professors and students said shifting practicals will only mean more burden on students who will enter the next semester with a huge backlog. “Since theory and practical classes are inter-connected, it is not possible to teach theory in one semester and take practical classes and examinations in a subsequent semester. This will only create a disconnect in the lessons and pile up work for students,” said Parthiba Basu, professor of zoology in Calcutta University. Also, most colleges have ill-equipped laboratory infrastructure that won’t be able to handle the rush once educational institutes reopen and teachers and students try to clear the backlog. Partha Pratim Ray, professor of physics in Jadavpur University, said the government should have allowed autonomous university like JU to exercise freedom in reopening labs and hostels for senior students and research scholars. “This would have benefited the students immensely. They could have completed their practical in the same semester,” said Ray. CU had opened its labs for PG students but none of its affiliating colleges has done so. “We have been taking practical classes. There has been no notice to shut down yet,” said Sujoy Ghosh, professor of zoology, Ballygunge Science College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-takers-for-postponing-practicals-to-next-semester/articleshow/80727010.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 7, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region vaccination at 69%; 1st dose completion by February 20||PUNE: The sites in the Pune municipal limits recorded highest 94% vaccinations on Saturday. The turnout in the PCMC and rural areas, however, kept the day’s immunisation in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) stayed at 69%. The rural areas registered 59% inoculation on Saturday, followed by the PCMC areas (48%). With the vaccination process to pick up pace from next week, the Centre has directed the state to complete the first dose of all the 8 lakh registered health workers in the state by February 20 and the second dose by March-end. The frontline workers’ first dose has to be completed by March 15. State National Health Mission chief N Ramaswami told TOI that that state had completed about 44% vaccination. “We are increasing the vaccination sites in the coming week,” he said. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said the earlier deadline to complete the first dose was February 15. “We are already increasing sites in the coming week. On Saturday, we had 638 frontline workers taking the shot, of whom 478 were from the Pune rural areas and 160 from the PCMC areas. PMC is yet to start with vaccination of frontline workers,” he said. For vaccine hesitancy, special workshops are scheduled in the coming week, he added. PMC health chief Ashish Bharati said they received a good response from private hospitals like Deenanath Mangeshkar and Ruby Hall, which vaccinated more than 100 beneficiaries on Saturday. Some missing names or incomplete names in the CoWIN app will be updated, he said. In the Pimpri Chinchwad areas, Thergaon hospital recorded more than 100% vaccinations. More than 56.36 lakh workers have been vaccinated in the country so far, including over 4.72 lakh in Maharashtra alone, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-vaccination-at-69-1st-dose-completion-by-feb-20/articleshow/80727842.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 7, 2021||Thane||Central doctor team visits Thane hospital||THANE: A two-doctor Central team visited the state-run Thane Civil Hospital on Saturday to check Covid-19 mortality and treatment protocols. Other Central teams visited BMC-run teaching hospitals. The Thane Civil Hospital has so far admitted 3,827 patients and recorded 546 deaths. “The team suggested ways to lower the death rate further by training doctors further,” said civil surgeon Dr Kailash Pawar. The team, which must check why Maharashtra continues to have a high daily caseload, will visit various hospitals over the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/central-doc-team-visits-thane-hosp/articleshow/80729170.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Former BJP MLA joins Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: Former BJP MLA Hemendra Mehta joined Shiv Sena on Saturday in the presence of chief minister Udhav Thackeray. Mehta has represented the Borivali assembly constituency for three consecutive terms from 1990 to 1999. In a bid to woo the gujarati votes ahead of the BMC elections early next year, the Shiv Sena has started reaching out to the community through a number of initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-bjp-mla-joins-shiv-sena/articleshow/80728760.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Two booked for locking MSEDCL staff||NASHIK: Two corporators of Cantonment Board, Deolali (CBD), were booked by the Deolali Camp police for allegedly locking the MSEDCL staff inside the office of the state power utility while agitating against the inflated electricity bills. Vice president of CBD Sachin Thakre and corporator Bhagwan Kataria, along with other activists of the BJP and RPI, not just locked the staff in the MSEDCL office near Deolali Camp bus stand but also barred consumers from going inside the office for lodging their complaints. The agitation lasted for an hour from 11am on Friday. The Deolali Camp police booked the two corporators under Section 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and other sections of the IPC for violating the conditions of the permission granted to them for organizing the agitation. Kataria said they had taken the necessary permission for the agitation. “We had asked the official there to remain present at the office so that a memorandum about the inflated power bills could be given to him. However, since the officer did not turn up, we locked one door of the office. A copy of the memorandum was pasted on the door and we left within an hour,” said Kataria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-booked-for-locking-msedcl-staff/articleshow/80726543.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Osmania University issues notice to reopen hostels from February 16||HYDERABAD: Osmania University on Saturday issued a notice to reopen the hostels and mess in the campus and constituent colleges from February 16 onwards. The notice said that sanitization and thermal screening must be carried out as per the guidelines issued by the government on Covid-19 pandemic. The notice also instructed authorities to collect Rs 5,000 in advance towards mess fee from boarders before February 12. “All the students have to register for academic renewal on payment of Rs 240 and follow Covid-19 safety protocol,” the letter from the registrar read. Directions have also been issued to take steps to vacate non-boarders residing in the hostels with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-issues-notice-to-reopen-hostels-from-february-16/articleshow/80728707.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Fresh cases spike in south TN, dip in central region||Madurai/Trichy: After recording 44 fresh cases on Friday, a total of 62 cases were reported in the 10 southern districts on Saturday. Of the three Covid-19 deaths recorded in the state on Saturday, one was a 51-year-old man from Madurai. The central region saw coronavirus cases dip by 21 to 40 on Saturday, a day after recording a spike in fresh cases. The man from Madurai who died had comorbid conditions and tested positive on January 21. He was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever for eight days, cough for five days and difficulty in breathing for a day before passing away on Friday. Madurai with 18 fresh cases recorded the highest in the day. It was twice the number of fresh cases recorded on Friday. It was followed by Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari with 12 cases each. The seven other districts in the region recorded five or lesser cases. With one case each, Tuticorin and Tenkasi recorded the lowest, followed by three each in Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar (4) and Theni (5). After recording a day-to-day drop in active cases over the last seven days, the region saw an increase by 21 to reach 451 on Saturday due to the increase in the number of fresh cases. Madurai once again recorded 100 active cases after a gap of five days. It was followed by Kanyakumari (93), Dindigul (62) and Tirunelveli (62). In the central region, Perambalur registered no case while Nagappattinam had nine and Karur five. Tiruvarur witnessed only three cases, Pudukottai two and Ariyalur one. Perambalur district’s overall tally stood at 2,269, the lowest among the districts in the region led by Thanjavur (17,776). The number of active cases in the region stood at 409 with Thanjavur having 122 and Trichy 93. The lowest of five active cases was reported by Perambalur. The region’s death toll remained at 946 there being no death on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-cases-spike-in-south-tn-dip-in-central-region/articleshow/80728744.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Nashik||RTO conducts surprise check of pvt buses||Nashik: Senior officials and inspectors of the Regional Transport Office (RTO), Nashik, conducted a surprise checking of the private transport buses across the district to ensure they are not violating permit conditions. A team of nearly 20 officials and inspectors, including regional transport officer Bharat Kalaskar and deputy RTO Vinay Ahire, inspected the private buses on Mumbai- Agra highway at Dwarka, Ghoti toll plaza, Pune highway at Sinnar, Yeola, Borgaon check-post among other locations. Drivers and owners of 54 buses were booked during the surprise drive. Ahire said last year, the revenue collectionf of the RTO had been affected due to the restrictions effected on the movement of vehicles on account of the Covid-19 outbreak. “Now that things are improving and even the movement of vehicles is like during pre-Covid times, the Nashik RTO has decided to focus on increasing its revenue by slapping a fine on private bus operators if they are found operating without the necessary permission or violating traffic rules,” said Ahire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rto-conducts-surprise-check-of-pvt-buses/articleshow/80726553.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 7, 2021||Pune||Those above 50 will soon be able to self-register on CoWIN for jabs||PUNE: The central health ministry will soon open up the CoWIN app for people aged 50 and above who wish to self-register for Covid vaccination. On Friday, the ministry had said vaccinations for this category will start in March. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told TOI on Saturday the government will make the app public within a month. “Currently, CoWIN access is restricted and is not available to the public. But we have one month to work on it and release it for citizens,” he said. Bhushan said work is on to make the app more citizen-friendly. “We will be slowly revealing new features that will make it easy for those above 50 to register.” Ram Sewak Sharma, chairman of the Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19, had earlier told TOI that the citizen version of the app would incorporate the suggestions that were made for better, more user-friendly performance. He said the app will include an “appointment” feature once it’s made public. Suggestions have come in from states on how to improve the app’s user interface. “Technology will not be an issue. The best citizen-centric interface will be made available in the coming days whenever it goes public,” he said. CoWIN — an extension of India’s existing vaccine intelligence system, eVIN (electronic vaccine intelligence network) — is an IT solution that helps plan, implement and monitor the ongoing Covid inoculation drive. Currently, access is limited to administrators and vaccinators at sites where jabs are being administered for those who are part of the first two priority groups — healthcare and frontline workers. In its present form, the app packs certain key modules for administrators, beneficiary registration and status updation. Frontline and healthcare workers need to be registered on CoWIN before they can receive their vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/those-above-50-will-soon-be-able-to-self-register-on-cowin-for-jabs/articleshow/80727845.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Jallikattu protest cases: Not many from Madurai may get CM’s relief||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s announcement under Rule 110 in the floor of the assembly on Friday to withdraw cases against pro-jallikattu protesters would not provide respite to a majority of people from Madurai who participated in the pro-jallikattu protests in 2017, as almost all of them have been booked for damaging public property. Yet, it is a small victory for them, say the protesters. Activist R S Mugilan, who has been booked for the protests, said this was more of an eyewash by the government at the last moment to garner votes, as the withdrawal of cases was not something ensured by a government order, but under the TNLA 110 rule. There are cases against 179 people in four police stations in Madurai district, including Alanganallur, Sellur, Perungudi and Thilagar Thiddal, under various sections. Activists who have been booked included Madavan, Mugilan, Geetha, Regan, Rengarajan, Mariraj and Selvaraj among others. They said that though they had been severely manhandled by the police and were even injured and treated in hospital, cases were filed against them on many charges including Sec 307 of IPC which was attempt to murder. Almost all the protesters from Madurai, Coimbatore, Palani, Sivaganga and Chennai had cases filed against them for damaging public property. Hence, ``we have come to know from our advocates that the relief is not for us, but as we were the people who organised protests in a large way to get the government to withdraw the cases against the protesters, the chief minister’s announcement is a small relief,’’ said K Selvaraj from Kambur. They however say that they would continue to seek the withdrawal of the cases against all those who protested for the cause. These people who have been booked for protesting and demanding that jallikattu be conducted say they do not even know as to how many people have cases pending for the same reason. "This is more of a poll gimmick by the ruling party, and we see no need for celebration till all the cases are withdrawn unconditionally,’’ they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jallikattu-protest-cases-not-many-from-madurai-may-get-cms-relief/articleshow/80728732.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Sloth bear found dead in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A sloth bear was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the Bichua beat of Ransali forest range in Sitarganj town of Udham Singh Nagar district. The bear carcass was at least a week old, said the forest officials. While the villagers said that the beer had died of gunshot, the forest officials said that the exact cause of the animal’s death will be ascertained only after the autopsy. The incident came to light on Friday evening when a few villagers, while coming back from the woods, noticed a bear carcass lying in the fields. Subsequently, the forest department officials were informed by the locals. The villagers said that the bear had a gunshot in its belly. However, the forest ranger, Pradeep Kumar Dhaulakhandi, dismissed any such claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sloth-bear-found-dead-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80727031.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Scramble to clear dues ahead of school reopening||Kolkata: Many parents have started clearing their dues, much to the relief of the principals who were struggling to meet the essential expenses in schools due to non-payment by a big section. According to sources, this has started after the government decided to reopen schools for classes IX to XII from February 12. Parents also want to clear the dues before the annual examinations. Students may be barred from taking tests if their fees are not paid. After the schools were shut in March last year owing to the pandemic, payment of school fees had become a contentious issue. Some parents wrote to schools that their businesses had been closed or offices were not paying their dues, owing to which they were unable to pay the fees. Another section of parents argued online classes were not equivalent to on-campus classes and they won’t pay the fees. In October, Calcutta High Court ordered private schools to offer a minimum of 20% reduction in fees across the board while directing that non-essential charges for use of facilities not availed of will not be permissible. Even after the high court’s order, several parents did not pay the fees. “We have noticed several parents who were reluctant to clear their dues earlier have started paying up after the government allowed opening of schools for the senior sections. Many of them feel that the government might soon allow reopening of schools for junior and middle section too and no-payment of dues might lead to de-rostering of their children,’ said the principal of a central Kolkata school. According to sources, many schools slashed the salaries of teachers by 25% to 35%. Many could not pay the teachers on time. Though the situation started improving since November, a section of parents was still not clearing the dues. Some principals said many parents were clearing their dues keeping the annual examinations in mind. “Parents, too, went through a very tough period during the lockdown. Their businesses and jobs suffered, and we empathise with them. Schools in Kolkata continued providing quality online education without de-rostering any child,” said Sujay Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission School and secretary of the West Bengal chapter of the Association of Heads of ICSE Schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/scramble-to-clear-dues-ahead-of-school-reopening/articleshow/80727027.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Talk on ‘Fuels & Future Conflicts’ held at IMA||Dehradun: As part of the Leadership Development Series endeavours, a talk by the director of Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, was held at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday. The topic of the talk was ‘Fuels and Future conflicts’ in which important aspects of non-conventional energy resources and technologies — that can become force multiplier for military applications — were discussed. A communique from IMA said that the academy is looking at forging partnerships with key technology innovators towards establishing futuristic innovation labs and incubating ideas of innovation in the young military leaders and such talks will go a long way as part of their all- round development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/talk-on-fuels-future-conflicts-held-at-ima/articleshow/80727033.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Pune||For first time in 10 months, no Covid-19 death in PMC areas||PUNE: Not a single casualty due to Covid-19 was registered in the Pune municipal limits on Saturday, a first since April 15 last year. Overall, two persons succumbed to the infection in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) in the past 24 hours, which was again the least number of mortality since April last year. Besides the PMC limits, the rural areas also did not report any death on Saturday. Two patients succumbed to the infection in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, a report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. With Saturday’s casualties, the toll in PMR reached 9,094. Among these, 4,945 deaths were from the PMC areas, followed by the rural areas (2,328) and the PCMC limits (1,821). Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol took to Twitter to praise the efforts of medical teams in fighting the pandemic. The city has not reported a single death on a day after April 15, 2020, Mohol tweeted. A report by DHO stated that 597 patients were discharged in PMR on Saturday as against 418 new cases. The municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, as well as the rural areas, reported more recoveries than new cases. The region’s total recoveries have now reached 3.75 lakh, while its tally of positive cases stands at 3.88 lakh. Altogether 6,631 tests were conducted in the region on Saturday, including 3,239 from the PMC limits. PCMC health officials tested 1,880 samples, while 1,512 samples were tested in the rural areas in the past 24 hours. With this, the tally of sample testing has reached above 21.43 lakh. The number of active patients in the region dropped to 4,637 on Saturday evening. As many as 2,921 patients were in home isolation, while 1,716 patients were admitted in various hospitals for further treatment, the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-death-due-to-covid-19-in-pmc-limits-after-10-months/articleshow/80727849.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 7, 2021||Pune||Centre should confirm if 50-plus are getting shots for free: Maharashtra health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday the Centre had still not confirmed if it would be paying for Covid vaccines for those aged 50 and above. Currently, inoculation is free for healthcare and frontline workers because the Centre incurs the cost of the shots. “I have repeatedly reached out to them (Centre) to seek more clarity. But we are yet to get a reply,” Tope said. He added the state is ready to pay for beneficiaries who’re from the economically weaker sections — if the Centre does not. “The Union government announced funding for healthcare and frontline workers. But there is no clarity on funding for the third category. If they do not pay, the state will have to consider doing it for the economically weaker sections. Ideally, the Centre should have been clearer when it announced such a huge vaccination programme,” the health minister said. Tope maintained vaccination is the responsibility of the Centre and it should bear the cost of vaccinating the poor. “We have demanded it. But if the Centre does not agree, the state government will bear the cost of inoculating those below the poverty line.” He said this section simply cannot afford a shot, even if it’s priced low. “If they are left to bear the cost, they’ll just avoid the jab and end up becoming sources of infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centre-should-confirm-if-50-plus-are-getting-shots-for-free-tope/articleshow/80727848.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 7, 2021||Nashik||Farmer groups show support to stir, Shetti threatens to close I-T offices||KOLHAPUR/NASHIK/AURANGABAD: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana president Raju Shetti on Saturday threatened to ‘gherao’ and shut the goods and services tax and income-tax offices if the Union government continued its apathy towards the farmers’ demands for the repeal of the three farm laws. Shetti’s farmer outfit and several other organisations across the state held protests to voice their support for the farmers agitating along Delhi’s borders over the past two-and-a-half months. The protesters staged dharnas on the main roads, causing some traffic disruption, before they were taken into police custody. Speaking at Dabholkar Corner in Kolhapur city, where the agitation lasted for a few minutes, Shetti said, “We are aware that the government is trying to bring a bad name to the agitating farmers. People in the government should know that 80% of soldiers are sons of farmers and, therefore, they should think before calling us anti-nationals. We are going to stop the finances of the government by shutting down GST and I-T bhavans.” Shetti was detained for some time. The workers of Shetti’s outfit obstructed traffic at Kurundwad for an hour and the police had to resort to mild coercion to evict them. At Velapur, along Pune-Pandharpur highway, the traffic was obstructed for some time. At most places in the region, the protests were led by Shetti’s outfit. The workers of the Left parties were also seen out on the streets. In Nashik, members of the Kisan Sabha, along with the Chhava Krantiveer Sena, blocked the road at Chandori village on the Nashik-Aurangabad road. The Kisan Sabha functionaries blocked the Nandgaon-Manmad road in Nandgaon taluka. The agitation was led by Kisan Sabha’s Raju Desle, along with Karan Gaikar of Chhava Krantiveer Sena. “We extend support to the farmers and demand that the government immediately withdraw the laws and restore normalcy,” they said in a memorandum given to the police. In Malegaon, the Rashtriya Muslim Morcha staged an agitation and presented memorandum to the local police officials. The agitation was peaceful in the eight districts of Marathwada region. Amongst all the agitations, the ones held on the highways passing through Aurangabad, Beed, Nanded, Parbhani received witnessed large gatherings. The farmers were seen holding placards expressing displeasure over the agitating farmers in Delhi being referred to as terrorists and Khalistanis. One of the participants, Tukaram Patil, said, “The PM should show so much of aggression against Chinese incursion instead of the farmers, who are the annadaata.” At some places, including Aurangabad city, the protesting farmers were taken into preventive detention. Kranti Chowk police said that the farmers were taken into preventive detention after they resorted to blocking of a road in the busy Paithan Gate area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmer-groups-show-support-to-stir-shetti-threatens-to-close-i-t-offices/articleshow/80726558.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Cov effect: Hybrid convocation at Xavier’s university||Kolkata: St Xavier’s University on Saturday earned praise from Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar during the second convocation as he congratulated the authorities for maintaining the academic calendar even during the pandemic. “It is education alone that can contribute to the growth. It is difficult to protect human rights, if we do not have education,” he said. University VC Fr Felix Raj confirmed that 451 students graduated and received their degrees in the convocation. However, considering the risk of having a huge footfall on the campus, the university had decided to conduct the convocation in blended mode, where the event was live-streamed. Only 79 award winners were allowed to be present in-person. The first 10 rank-holders from each subject were invited to attend the event. ISI director Sanghamitra Bandopadhyay, while delivering her speech, stressed on imparting quality education during the pandemic which is the ultimate requirement for the overall development of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-effect-hybrid-convocation-at-xaviers-university/articleshow/80727032.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Stalin spreading misinformation on farm loan waiver: Sellur Raju||Madurai: Charging DMK president M K Stalin with spreading false information on farm loan waiver, state minister of for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju on Saturday said that the DMK had waived off only Rs 3,715 crore of crop loans and not Rs 7,000 crore as claimed.The minister participated in the Bhoomi puja to lay roads in ward 76 in zone four of the Madurai Corporation on Saturday at a cost of Rs 60 lakh. He said that he had already stated this in the assembly many times when late chief minister Jayalalithaa was alive. The DMK leader had become frustrated because the chief minister was giving a fitting reply to all his false claims. “The chief minister is hitting sixers from all the balls bowled to him by the opposition leader and out of frustration, he is saying that the chief minister was doing things that he (Stalin) had promised,” Raju said.The minister added that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami came forward to waive off the loans to the tune of Rs 12,000 crore, as a true farmer. This government had always done the best for the farmers whenever the need arose. It was in Tamil Nadu that the highest compensation for crop damage had been given till date when the crops were affected by natural calamities, he said.“Unlike the DMK that makes its promises only in the election manifestos, this government was promising the same and also implementing it and the GO of the farm loan waivers would come in a week,” he said. The minister said that farmers who had obtained crop loans by pledging their jewellery would also benefit from this loan waiver.The AIADMK government has given interest free loans to 1.6 crore farmers in the last 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-spreading-misinformation-on-farm-loan-waiver-sellur-raju/articleshow/80728765.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Bareilly||After Moradabad, woman declared ‘dead’ in Rampur says she’s alive, wants old-age pension back||BAREILLY: An old woman in her seventies has been running from pillar to post telling the authorities that she is alive and wants her old-age pension back. The woman reached out to Rampur’s district magistrate on Thursday and complained that she had not received old-age pension since March 2019. DM Aunjaneya Kumar Singh has ordered a probe into the matter and has asked officials to present a report within three days. The woman, identified as Chandravati, a resident of Janunagar village in Milak tehsil of Rampur district, claimed she had been running from one place to another, but to no avail. “I have not received my old-age pension since March 2019. I contacted officials at the bank, but I was informed that my pension has been stopped as I have been declared ‘dead’ in the official records. I made several efforts so that my pension could be restored, but I am still struggling,” said Chandravati. “I have been assured that necessary action will be taken to resolve the issue. I have been facing financial issues as I have now become dependent on my family members, and they have their own families to look after,” she added. “After the matter was reported on Thursday, a probe was ordered and ADM Manoj Kumar is investigating the matter. The investigation revealed that the woman was declared ‘dead’ in official records. A detailed probe has been initiated and the BDO concerned has been summoned to submit a report within three days. It is a matter of negligence and legal action will be taken up against the one found guilty,” DM Singh told TOI. In a similar incident reported last month, Sharifan (80), a resident of UP’s Moradabad had also reached out to the district administration officials on Sampoorna Samadhan Diwas, complaining that her widow’s pension was abruptly stopped around two years ago as she was declared “dead” in government records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-moradabad-woman-declared-dead-in-rampur-says-shes-alive-wants-old-age-pension-back/articleshow/80726567.cms||Maria Khan
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||UBSE announces exam dates for board examination||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) has announced the date sheet for state board examination on Saturday. The board exams will be held from May 4, 2021, to May 22, 2021. The practical and internal assessment exams, for both the classes, will be held from April 3-to-25. Students of Class X will write their papers in the morning shift (8 am-11 am). Similarly, the exams for Class XII students will be held from 2 pm-5 pm. The answer copies will be checked between June 1 and June 15, 2021. The results of the board exams will be declared before July 15. Hindi will be the first exam for both the high school and the intermediate students. It will be held on May 4, 2021. Meanwhile, the papers of Science, Maths, and English for high school students will be held on May 7, 11, and 18, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-announces-exam-dates-for-board-examination/articleshow/80727036.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Operation to capture rogue tusker begins||Udhagamandalam: The forest department on Saturday launched an operation to capture rogue tusker Shanker, which had killed three people in the Gudalur division of forests in the Nilgiris last December. They couldn’t, however, make any headway on the first day. The task force spotted the tusker at Kunjangulli in the Cherambadi range of forests in Gudalur division around 12 noon. Five kumkis, four from the Theppakadu elephant camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and one from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve, have been stationed in Cherambadi area for the operation. The task force comprises Dr N S Manoharan, retired joint director, veterinary services, who is currently consultant to the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy; Dr Sugumaran, forest veterinary officer; Dr Rajesh, veterinarian attached to the MTR; and experts and trackers with the Gudalur and Coimbatore forest divisions. Dr Manoharan said, “While the teams are ready for the operation, the current location of the tusker isn’t suitable for tranquilizing the animal by darting it with sedatives.” He said the elephant was located on a sloppy and swampy hillock, with thick vegetation. “Also, the tusker was escorted by a herd of five elephants, including a big tusker and a calf.” The tusker was named Shanker in the recent elephant profiling exercise in the Gudalur forest division. Aged around 40 years, the tusker had moved to Kerala forest after it killed three people, including a father-son duo, at Cherambadi in the second week of December 2020. While there was an attempt to capture Shanker back then and darted it with sedatives, the tusker managed to disappear in the forest in the company of an elephant herd. A few days ago, Shankar was located again in the Cherambadi range of forests. “Darting a shot is not a problem. What awaits after that is a herculean job, given the difficult terrain where the animal is located now. Hence, we are waiting for the right situation to capture the elephant. The operation will continue on Sunday,” Dr Manoharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/operation-to-capture-rogue-tusker-begins/articleshow/80727035.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||3-day Ganga Kayak fest to kick off from Feb 17||Dehradun: Rishikesh will be hosting the ninth edition of the three-day Ganga Kayak Festival at Rapid Golf Course, Phulchatti, from February 17 to 19. The event will be jointly organized by Adventure Sports Society and Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB). Secretary (tourism), Dilip Javalkar, said the Ganga Kayak Festival used to happen at international level earlier. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the competition is being organized at the national level this year. “We at UTDB constantly try to promote adventure tourism in the state. The tourism department will hold similar fests in the coming days in strict compliance withCovid-19 guidelines,” Javalkar said. Dinesh Bhatt, president of Rafting Association in Rishikesh, said the event is witnessing an increase in the number of participants every year. “Competitions such as sprint, boat cross, giant slalom, mass boat cross will be organized in the three-day festival which will be open for both men and women participants. Contestants can register on gangakayakfestival-org-in from February 10 onwards. The online registration process will remain available till February 14,” Bhatt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-day-ganga-kayak-fest-to-kick-off-from-feb-17/articleshow/80727043.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 7, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara district adds 64 cases, 3 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district has reported 64 fresh Covid cases and three deaths due to the infection since Friday late night, taking the total number of cases to 56,796. The death toll has now risen to 1,827. Satara tehsil added 17 new cases, 18 people tested positive in Khatav tehsil, Koregaon tehsil registered 13 cases, Maan tehsil added six cases while Jawli and Wai tehsil traced three patients each among others. As many as 54,165 patients have recovered while 804 patients are undergoing treatment. In Solapur city, 22 people tested positive for Covid while a 75-year-old man from Bhavani Peth succumbed to Covid on Saturday. The city has reported 11,849 cases, including 639 deaths, 269 active cases and 10,491 patients recoveries. Solapur rural registered 32 new cases while 34 patients were discharged after recovering. Solapur rural has reported 39,768 patients, of them, 1164 have died, 323 are being treated while 38,281 have recovered. Kolhapur district reported six Covid cases while six patients recovered on Saturday. The total number of cases rose to 49,995, including 1,727 deaths, 48,164 recoveries and 104 active cases. Sangli district reported 16 fresh cases of Covid. The district has 48,178 Covid cases, which includes, 125 active cases, 1,752 deaths and 46,301 recoveries. Vaccination in Kolhapur  On Saturday, 1,280 beneficiaries turned up to take thevaccine as against 2,200 beneficiaries in Kolhapur district. No beneficiary showed any adverse effect after taking the jab. As many as 15,079 beneficiaries have taken the jab as against 23,400 registered beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-adds-64-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/80726562.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thane||Gym trainer, brother held for bike theft in Dombivli||KALYAN: The Manpada police in Dombivli arrested a gymnasium trainer and his brother for stealing 11 motorcycles collectively worth Rs 5 lakh. The accused, Yogesh Bhanushali and his brother Mukesh wanted easy money and thus decided to steal bikes. They also roped in their friend Samir Sayyed and together stole 11 bikes. Cops have arrested the two brothers, but Sayyed is still on the run. The accused stole bikes from places like Kalyan, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Nashik. Following one of the thefts, the local Manpada police registered an FIR and started investigating the case. CCTV footage showed Yogesh and Mukesh stealing bikes after which they were traced and arrested. Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3 said, “We have arrested the brothers and have recovered the stolen bikes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/two-brothers-including-gymnasium-trainer-arrested-in-bike-theft-case/articleshow/80728816.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Uniform trouble in shift from virtual to on-campus classes||Kolkata: Leather naughty boy or ballerina shoes have become history for nearly a year now since all students wore house sandals in virtual classes. But now that schools are resuming on-campus classes, a neat uniform is the first thing that is needed for students. Parents are scurrying for uniforms to outlets that stock school dresses only to find that the tailors are yet to re-start their set-ups. Some have already run out of stock. The outlets said they were not prepared for this sudden re-opening and had not stocked up for the surge in demand for a certain category of sizes. Smaller sizes are still available because those classes are not reopening yet. Orders are being taken but most outlets say that since there was a complete lull in the business for 11 months, many tailors have gone back to their villages in search of alternative employment and are now being brought back. Some schools, like DPS Ruby Park, have already got in touch with their vendors and instructed them to stock up so that parents don’t face a problem. Some others, like Rammohun Mission, are taking a lenient view and will give additional 15 days for parents to acquire the right size. Ritesh Sarkar, whose son is in Class IX at La Martiniere for Boys, suddenly realised that his son’s collar buttons were not fastening and the shirt was not tucking into the trousers that had climbed inches up the ankle. “I called the school tailor and finding him closed, I reached out to another popular uniform store. I just cannot send him in the old uniform,” he said. Sonalika Dwivedi, whose daughter is in Class XI at Heritage School, is trying to find out from the mothers’ group which store to go to for at least two new sets. Md Salauddin, the tailor at La Martiniere for Boys, said that no one came to collect the uniforms that were ordered in March last year. There are over a thousand such uniforms. Those kids have outgrown them and parents are refusing to take them. “I have incurred a huge loss,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uniform-trouble-in-shift-from-virtual-to-on-campus-classes/articleshow/80727038.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||HC administration releases schedule for physical hearing of cases||Chandigarh: In continuation of its decision to resume physical hearing of cases in the Punjab and Haryana high court, the HC administration has released the name of benches that would begin physical hearing from Monday. According to the schedule released by the HC administration, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill, Justice Suvir Sehgal and Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri would conduct the physical hearing of cases from Monday. Similarly, Justice Manoj Bajaj, Justice Lalit Batra and Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi would conduct physical hearing of case on Tuesday, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, Justice Avneesh Jhingan and Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul on Wednesday, Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal, Justice Harminder Singh Madaan, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill on Thursday and Justice Jaishree Thakur, Justice Deepak Sibal and Justice Hari Pal Verma would hold the physical courts on Friday. These single benches would hold the courts in court room numbers 49, 68 and 69 separately on their designated days. Entry for attending the physical mode of hearing of cases would be permitted only from gate number five of the HC building. However, for those attending the physical hearing of cases will have to generate e-pass for entry. An order in this regard has been issued by Sanjiv Berry, registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court. It would be for the first time that the HC would resume physical hearing of cases in the past around one year. The physical hearing of the cases in the Punjab and Haryana high court was suspended since March 21 on account of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-administration-releases-schedule-for-physical-hearing-of-cases/articleshow/80727856.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: DGP wants all 60,000 to take vaccine||HYDERABAD: The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination began for frontline workers on Saturday with top officials getting the jab. Director general of police M Mahendar Reddy took the vaccine at Tilaknagar urban health centre in the city. He said no one should have any doubts about the efficacy of the vaccine. “Everyone should come forward to get vaccinated,” he said. Mahendar Reddy said there are 60,000 policemen in the state and urged everyone to get themselves vaccinated in the next four days, which have been allocated for police personnel. “If necessary, we will ask for extension of time so that all policemen will get vaccinated,” he said. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh M Bhagwat, who was the first to take the shot at the PHC at Malkajgiri, said there are 48 vaccination centres in Rachankonda police limits in Medchal Malkajgiri, Rangareddy and Yadadri Bhuvanagiri districts. For each centre, a liaison officer had been appointed and a WhatsApp group has also been created, Bhagwat said. DMHO of Medchal Makajgiri said 1,500 frontline officers are being vaccinated in the district. To instil confidence among the workforce, senior officials were the first ones to take the vaccine in the districts too. Bhadradri Kothagudem district collector MV Reddy and additional collectors — Venkateshwarlu and Anudeep Durushetty — took the shot at a PHC in Kothagudem. During the second phase of the vaccination, police and revenue officials, municipal workers and panchayat raj staff can take the vaccine. In Nalgonda, SP AV Ranganath took the vaccination and asked the cops of all ranks to get themselves vaccinated without any fear. Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis and 485 policemen took the vaccine in the district. Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district collector Anita Ramachandran was personally present at the vaccination drive at the Government Area Hospital in Bhuvanagiri. Sangeetha Satyanarayana, who was recently posted as collector of Peddapalli district, visited the government hospital in Peddpalli and inspected the Covid-19 vaccination centre. She asked officials to increase the vaccination coverage. On the first day of the second phase of vaccination, out of 910 policemen in Medak district, 171 took the vaccination. Medak SP Chandana Deepti said there are eight vaccination centres in the district for the cops to take the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-wants-all-60k-to-take-vaccine/articleshow/80728806.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Madurai||TNPSC busy giving jobs to people from other states: Stalin||Madurai: Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) has become a commission providing jobs in Tamil Nadu to people from other states, and its honour has been destroyed by corruption, alleged DMK president M K Stalin.Speaking at Nagercoil as part of DMK’s Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin campaign on Saturday, he said it would be thoroughly investigated as to why the youth of Tamil Nadu who have passed TNPSC exam and attended interviews are still without jobs. “The government has not responded to a protest by DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin to bring attention to the issue,” he said.“DMK will come to power after the election and once I assume charge in the assembly, steps would be taken to redress all grievances brought to our attention by the public. If this is not done, you can come directly to the chief minister’s room and question me,” he said. Stalin said it was sad that youth in Kanyakumari has the highest literacy rate but are unable to get jobs. “Educated youth are affected. All these problems would be solved when the DMK comes to power.” He said that he had made an announcement on January 13 in Ponneri that all farm loans in co-operative banks would be waived when the DMK comes to power. “This is not a new promise, it is something that we made during the Lok Sabha polls and the DMK did waiver of loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore in 2006. Now, the chief minister has copied this promise and waived farm loans. They will now announce in the next two days that all jewel loans up to five sovereigns would be waived,” he added. People or farmers will not be fooled. They will give the AIADMK government a fitting reply in the elections. GST was something that the DMK was continuously opposing, but for that a change of government should come at the Centre, but before that we need to change the government in the state, he said.“I did not enter the Assembly as soon as I entered politics, it took me 25 years and I refused to accept ministerial post as there were more qualified people in the party then,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnpsc-busy-giving-jobs-to-people-from-other-states-stalin/articleshow/80728808.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Meerut||Day after Rakesh Tikait called off Chakka Jam, uneasy calm prevails in west UP, farmers present memorandum at district HQs||MEERUT: As police remained on high alert on Saturday in the wake of the Chakka jam call by Bharatiya Kisan Union, western Uttar Pradesh remained calm except for submission of memorandums against the controversial farm laws by farm leaders at district headquarters. This comes a day after farm leader Rakesh Tikait called off the chakka jam in Delhi, UP and Uttarakhand. “We were fully prepared but after Rakeshji called off the chakka jam, we are only presenting memorandums to the government to take back farm laws,” said Dharmender Malik, media coordinator, BKU, Bijnor. Saharanpur, on the other hand, witnessed at least 10 kisan panchayats in different regions of the district, including Sarsawa, Manoharpur, Ambheta Chand, etc. Ashok Chaudhary, divisional president, BKU, said, “When the chakka jam was called off, we decided to hold small panchayats in different areas of the district to show our solidarity to the cause. This protest will go on until the three draconian farm laws are taken back. Humaari ghar wapsi tabhi hogi (We will go back from the protest sites in Delhi only then).” In Uttarakhand, the farmers of the Terai region – also known as the hill state’s food bowl – gheraoed the collectorate premises at Udham Singh Nagar district headquarters, Rudrapur, on Saturday. Farmers shouted slogans against the central government and demanded immediate repeal of the farm laws. In Agra region, farmers were not able to reach the district headquarters and sub-division offices to mark their protest. Over 50 farmer leaders were detained by police at their homes early on Saturday. Officials of district administration also reached homes of some of the farmer leaders to collect memorandum. Heavy police deployment was made on major roads connecting villages and around administrative offices. (With inputs from Aakash Ahuja in Uttarakhand and Deepak Lavania in Agra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-rakesh-tikait-called-off-chakka-jam-uneasy-calm-prevails-in-west-up-farmers-present-memorandum-at-district-hqs/articleshow/80726582.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Centre writes to Uttarakhand government for 2nd time, says it’s not convinced by explanation given for using forest land for Dehradun airport expansion||Dehradun: The ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has written to the Uttarakhand government — the 2nd time in the past few months — regarding acquiring of forest land for expansion of Jolly Grant airport — saying it is not convinced by the explanation given by the state regarding the need to use forest land, including area of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, for expanding Dehradun airport. The ministry’s letter, a copy of which is with TOI, comes soon after the Uttarakhand government had replied to an earlier letter sent by MoEF in October last year in which the ministry had raised several queries regarding the project and also suggested that since the area proposed for diversion for the airport expansion falls under high conservation value area, the state government should explore alternative land options. The state government had in response to the MoEF letter said that there is no viable alternative to the forest land and justified the need for airport expansion saying that the project is of strategic significance since Uttarakhand shares borders with Nepal and China. Apparently not satisfied by the state government’s response, the ministry has on January 30, sent the fresh letter seeking response from the state government on six different points. The letter, addressed to additional secretary (forests) of the state government, has been written by Charan Jeet Singh, scientist ‘D’ of the forest conservation division of MoEF and starts by mentioning that “the issues raised by the central government in its letter of October 9, 2020 have not been addressed completely by the state.” “Reply of the state government is silent on fragmentation of the riverside forests. Comments provided by the state government on 47 hectare of Medium Dense Forest (MDF) land involved in the project does not seem convincing for want of details of alternative sites studied/discarded,” says the letter. The ministry’s letter further points out that the certificate issued by the chief secretary regarding non-availability of non-forest land for airport expansion is “in contravention to the provisions...as the certificate is issued in respect of Dehradun district only while as per guidelines, the chief secretary is supposed to issue such certificate only after getting the revenue records assessed for the entire state for the non-availability of non-forest land.” The letter concludes by saying that the Uttarakhand high court has made “crucial observations in respect of wildlife values of the area.” “The state government may therefore re-visit the proposal in light of observations contained in the HC order dated January 11 specially with reference to issues pertaining to the conservation and protection of wildlife and fragmentation of the forest area serving as connecting link for intermittent or stray movement for charismatic wildlife species of the state.” When contacted, Uttarakhand government’s principal secretary of forests, Anand Bardhan, said, “The concerned agency would reply to the queries raised by the ministry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-writes-to-uttarakhand-government-for-2nd-time-says-its-not-convinced-by-explanation-given-for-using-forest-land-for-dehradun-airport-expansion/articleshow/80727052.cms||Shivani Azad
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||3L school students to get tablet computers||Tirupur: Tablet computers will be provided to three lakh government school students in Class VI to VIII before the end of March, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said here on Saturday. Smart boards will be installed in all government schools by March, he told reporters. The minister was in Tirupur to inaugurated three government schools that were upgraded recently. While the panchayat union elementary school in Mudalipalayam village was upgraded to middle school, the government middle school in Managalam was upgraded to high school and the government girls’ high school in Perumanallur was upgraded to higher secondary school. “Generally, new announcements are made just ahead of the election, in election manifestos. For the first time, the chief minister made an announcement – waiver of Rs 12,110 crore farm loans – in the assembly when we are still ruling party, and created history,” Sengottaiyan said. “By announcing several schemes for school students, the state government has set a benchmark for other states. It has been taking several steps to raise the standard of government schools on par with private schools. We upgraded a school in Mangalam, a Muslim dominant area in the district, for the welfare of the children from Muslim community,” the minister said. When asked about the private schools that are demanding fees ahead of starting offline classes, the minister said action will be taken if written complaint is submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3l-school-students-to-get-tablet-computers/articleshow/80727050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Salem||Thoppur ghat road to be equipped with 100 solar lights to reduce accident rate||Dharmapuri: District transport department officials are on a mission to install 100 solar lamps on the accident-prone 4km stretch of Thoppur ghat road to reduce the number of road mishaps.D Damodharan, regional transport officer, Dharmapuri district, said they had already set up 70 solar lamps on the stretch and the remaining 30 would be installed at the earliest. “Once that is done, travelling through the stretch, which will be amply illuminated, at night wouldn’t be any difficult. We hope the initiative would help curb the accident rate on the stretch.”Thoppur ghat road on the Salem-Bengaluru National Highway in Dharmapuri district is 8km long, of which 4km stretch dotted with crucial bends and inclines has been identified as accident-prone.On December 12, a speeding cement-laden container truck had crashed into 14 vehicles on the stretch, claiming four lives. Three days prior to the incident (on December 9), the stretch had witnessed a multiple collision involving four trucks and nine cars. At least 10 people were injured in that incident. Following these incidents, district collector S P Karthika, superintendent of police Pravesh Kumar and the regional transport officer had held a meeting with the project officer of the National Highways Authority of India, Varadharajan, on December 14 to discuss ways to reduce accidents on the ghat road.“At the meeting, we decided to install solar lights and blinkers, and sign boards to warn motorist of sharp curves on the ghat road. CCTV cameras too will be installed at a cost of Rs40 lakh to monitor speeding vehicles on the stretch,” the regional transport officer said. Transport department officials are also drawing zebra crossings and putting up speed breakers on the accident-prone spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/thoppur-ghat-road-to-be-equipped-with-100-solar-lights-to-reduce-accident-rate/articleshow/80727046.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Norway envoy praises India||Consul General of Norway in Mumbai Arne Jan Flolo on Friday praised India for managing the pandemic “efficiently” and for producing crores of vaccines for the world, a Raj Bhavan statement said. According to the release, PTI said, the Consul General called on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan. “The Consul General spoke of strengthening relations with India in areas of business, clean energy, maritime studies and tourism,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/norway-envoy-praises-india/articleshow/80729173.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Shimla||Chill saves Rs 4k-crore apple economy in HP||SHIMLA: Fresh snowfall and rain in Himachal’s bring respite from a dry spell that was threatening the state’s Rs-4,000-crore apple economy. After heavy snowfall in the higher and moderate reaches, the farmers expect a bumper crop of apple because of completing its chilling hours. In the lower hills, rain has relieved them from drought-like conditions. The new weather is a lifesaver for agriculture and horticulture. Experts say that a good harvest of apple needs 1,400 hours of chilling from December to February. When the flowering starts, the apple tree needs an average temperature of 18 to 24 degrees Celsius for crop setting. Moisture has returned to the gardens of Himachal Pradesh. In the fruit orchards, where new trees had started drying up, the growers are now at ease. The scattered snowfall will keep the apple orchards and other fruit-growing areas moist for long. The state’s agro-climatic diversity favours the cultivation of temperate and sub-tropical fruits and ancillary horticultural produce such as flowers, mushroom, honey, and hops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/chill-saves-rs-4k-crore-apple-economy-in-hp/articleshow/80727863.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Safdarjung to resume kidney transplants from Monday||NEW DELHI: Safdarjung Hospital plans to resume kidney transplants from Monday, nearly a year after the critical service had to be shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Before the Covid outbreak, the central government-run hospital was conducting seven to eight transplants in a month. Dr Anup Kumar, professor and head, department of urology and renal transplant, said, due to the shutdown, waiting time for transplants had gone up to two years. “Now that the Covid cases have declined significantly, we hope to speed up elective surgeries,” he added. AIIMS, which is visited by thousands of patients daily, has also resumed OPD services for non-emergency surgeries recently. Dr Sanjay Agarwal, professor and head, nephrology department at the hospital, said they had been conducting transplants since January. “We are holding two transplants every week now,” he said. AIIMS had also stopped kidney transplant services since March, as some of the beds and manpower from the nephrology department had been diverted to Covid care. Last year, a group of doctors from 19 major hospitals — eight public and 11 private — across the country participated in a questionnaire-based survey, which sought to determine the effect of lockdown on the care of patients with kidney disease, including those on dialysis after the first three weeks of the lockdown. According to the survey published in Kidney International Reports, an official journal of the International Society of Nephrology, the total dialysis patients in these centers came down from 2,517 to 2,404 during the lockdown. Approximately 710 (28%) patients missed one or more dialysis sessions, 69 (3%) required emergency dialysis sessions, 104 (4%) stopped reporting for dialysis, and 9 (0.36%) were confirmed to have died, said the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safdarjung-to-resume-kidney-transplants-from-monday/articleshow/80727867.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Amritsar||Republic Day events: SKM suspends 2 leaders||BATHINDA: Fissures have emerged among constituents of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) over the happenings of Republic Day ‘Tractor Parade’, leading to suspension of two leaders — Azad Kisan Committee Doaba president Harpal Singh Sangha and Bhartiya Kisan Union Krantikari president Surjit Singh Phool. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leadership said the two had violated the conditions agreed upon with Delhi Police for the tractor rally, by going to the Outer Ring Road. On the other hand, Major Singh Punnawal of Punjab Kisan Sabha associated with CPI(M) and Baldev Singh Nihalgarh of Kul Hind Kisan Sabha associated with CPI too had gone on Outer Ring Road but no action was taken against them by SKM as “they had no intention to go there but there was lot of confusion about route”. They took the rally to the Outer Ring Road unintentionally and returned soon. In case of Sangha and Phool, though they were suspended on January 28, the information emerged only on Saturday, when the former posted about it on social media. SKM sources said these leaders were in talks with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) which has been taking its own line, different from morcha. KMSC, on January 25, had announced not to stick to the route to be takken by SKM. The morcha had accused KMSC of having connived with Delhi Police “to defame the farmer protest”. With these two leaders having been suspended, along with their farm organisations, the strength of farm organisations from Punjab in Sanyukta Kisan Morcha has come down to 29. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee was already suspended. Sangha told TOI: “I, along with Surjit Phool, were suspended from morcha. I have high regards for morcha leadership and have clarified my position. If the leadership is satisfied by my clarification, our suspension may be revoked.” When contacted, Phool said: “Many others too had gone on Outer Ring Road during the rally, but it is our internal matter. We do not want to comment on it in the public.” He, however, did not share the names of others who had flouted SKM’s collective decision. Punawal told The Times of India: “When I realised that I have come on wrong route I alighted from the vehicle and after a distance I met Baldev Singh Nihalgarh, who like me, had taken the wrong road. We took an autorickshaw to return on designated route.” Sanyukt Kisan Morcha senior member Darshan Pal said a committee had been formed to conduct a debate on the issue. “The committee will take decision about continuation of these two leaders and their outfits in the morcha in a day or so. These leaders and members of their organisations should not have violated the discipline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/r-day-events-skm-suspends-2-leaders/articleshow/80727862.cms||Neel Kamal
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Electrification of 17 routes in SR to be completed by Sept 2022: RTI||Madurai: The ongoing electrification of 17 routes in Southern Railway covering 1,035km that is being carried out by the Central Organization Railway Electrification (CORE) has been targeted for completion in a phased manner from this month to September 2022. It includes completion of the electrification on 13 routes covering 607km this year and the four other routes covering 428km by 2022.CORE has given this response to RTI queries filed by activist R Pandiaraja. Electrification works targeted for completion this year includes the 13km Nidamangalam - Mannargadu section, 46km Madurai - Manamadurai Junction section and the 57km Cuddalore Port - Vriddhachalam section by February, the 71km Talaivasal - Salem section, 38km Pollachi - Podanur section and 53km Tiruchirappalli Junction - Pudukottai section by April.The 10km Nagapattinam - Velankanni section has been targeted by May, 59km Manamadurai - Ramanathapuram section and the 62km Vriddhachalam - Talaivasal section by June, 37km Ramanathapuram - Mandapam section and 37km Pudukottai - Karaikudi Junction section by August, 63km Karaikudi Junction - Manamadurai section by October and the 61km Manamadurai - Virudhunagar Junction section by December.The four electrification works targeted for completion by 2022 include the 179km Dindigul - Palakkad section and the 61km Tirunelveli - Tiruchendur section by March, the 66km Shoranur - Nilambur section by June and the 122km Virudhunagar – Tenkasi section by September.The activist said that completion of some of the electrification works got delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown last year. “Speedy completion of these works will not only reduce pollution but also reduce the time taken for long distance trains such as Pothigai, Silambu, Kollam and Chenthur that are connecting the southern districts by 30 to 60 minutes,” he said.Electrification would also facilitate running of mainline electric multiple unit (MEMU) trains from Tirunelveli to Tenkasi, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/electrification-of-17-routes-in-sr-to-be-completed-by-sept-2022-rti/articleshow/80728830.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Man shoots 2 kids, self; wife critical||Bathinda: A businessman allegedly shot at his wife, two kids and then himself at the family’s home in Narain Nagar area of Faridkot on Saturday morning. Karan Kataria, his six year-old son and three-year-old daughter died. His wife, Sheenam, was stated to be critical when this report was filed. Karan was working as an electricity and street light fixing contractor. Kataria was stated to have been under depression after suffering losses in business, said police. Neighbours heard gunshots in the wee hours of Saturday from Karan’s home and reported the matter to police. Police found all four members of the family with gunshots and took them to hospital. Police is investigating the suicide note left behind by Karan to understand the reason behind him taking the extreme step, said a senior police official. Sources said Karan had been troubled by a Congress leader, but no official confirmed it. Faridkot senior superintendent of police Swarandeep Singh said they had registered case under charges of murder and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-shoots-2-kids-self-wife-critical/articleshow/80727864.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man snatches woman’s gold chain||HYDERABAD: An unidentified man, on the pretext of seeking a house on rent, snatched the chain of the house owner—a woman—and fled, in Vanasthalipuram. The woman later called the police, who are are verifying the CCTV footage. The victim lost a two and half tola gold chain and a mobile phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-snatches-womans-gold-chain/articleshow/80727865.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Dehradun||Woman with two daughters reunited with family after 6 years||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) on Saturday helped a woman and her two daughters to reunite with her husband from Bihar. The woman was "missing" for six years. She was forced to beg in different states after being lost. “It has been almost six years since I met my husband. In all those years, I had lived in Kolkata, Joshimath and other parts of the country to earn my livelihood for my daughter's survival,” the woman said. Chairperson of commission Usha Negi said that it was important to reunite the three to their family because, “the woman is not alone, but with two minor daughters". "It is imperative for us to ensure that both the children get proper educational, societal and mental security by uniting with family,” Negi added. The woman was found begging in Joshimath area by officials of the state government who then brought the matter to the notice of child rights body members who responded swiftly. The woman profusely thanked the SCPCR and state '181' women helpline service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-with-two-daughters-reunited-with-family-after-6-years/articleshow/80727055.cms||Shivani Azad
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Velumani inaugurates road work at Kumudam Nagar||Coimbatore: Kumudam Nagar residents heaved a sigh of relief after municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated road laying work in the locality on Saturday. The minister kicked off construction of Kumudam Nagar Main Road, Vilankurichi Main Road and Codissia Road among others in the east zone of the corporation limit at a cost of Rs 12.93 crore. President of the Consumer Awareness and Protection Association N R Ravisankar said the civic body decided to relay roads in Kumudam Nagar after a gap of two years. “The roads were rendered unusable after the corporation dug them up to lay drinking water pipelines. Several motorists had met with accidents,” he told TOI. Referring to a high court judgement, Ravisankar said the corporation should instruct the contractors to remove the old coat of asphalt before launching the work. “Officials should ensure that new roads are not laid over the damaged roads after potholes are filled, which causes road height to increase. If that happens, rainwater will enter houses.” It is high time that the civic body start repairing all roads in the city, said R Venkatesh, a commuter. “Bad roads are causing huge inconvenience to the public. The corporation should instruct contractors to restore roads immediately after works for underground drainage project and drinking water pipeline are completed,” he added. Velumani also inaugurated an urban primary health centre that was constructed at a cost of Rs 1.31 crore at Vilankurichi and a community hall built at a cost of Rs 78.30 lakh at Saravanampatti. He was accompanied by corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian and deputy commissioner S Madhurananthagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/velumani-inaugurates-road-work-at-kumudam-nagar/articleshow/80727054.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: HMWS&B survey to weed out illegal water connections||HYDERABAD: With the 20,000 litre free water scheme rolled out officially, HMWS&SB will soon carry out a door-to-door survey to crack down on illegal water connections in the city. Criminal cases will be booked against households having illegal water connections. Either they could regularise them or face criminal action, warned HMWS&SB’s vigilance wing. Water board officials were yet to ascertain the number of illegal water connections in the city and GHMC periphery. However, based on feedback from ground-level staff, officials estimate there could be two to three lakh illegal connections apart from 10.80 lakh official connections. Official records reveal there were 10.80 lakh consumers and they have consumer account numbers (CANs). Accordingly, the water board had been issuing monthly water bills till the new scheme came into force. “A door-to-door survey is the only solution to identify illegal water connections. In case, the consumers come forward to regularise the illegal water connections, we have no objection,” HMWS&SB chief general manager-revenue (in-charge) TV Sridhar told STOI. Once these illegal water connections get regularised, then they would be allotted CANs too as it is mandatory that consumers have to fix water meters to avail the free water scheme, the official clarified. When TOI contacted HMWS&SB chief vigilance officer, M Ravi Chandan Reddy, he said, “Till now, our vigilance wing had booked 273 FIRs against water thieves for having illegal water connections and seized 700 electric motors for drawing water illegally. In fact, hundreds of consumers had utilised the voluntary disclosure scheme (VDS) to regularise illegal water connections too. Of 11,000 applications received from 21 operation and maintenance (O&M) divisions for regularising illegal water connections under VDS, 5,000 water connections have been regularised and remaining were under consideration, the vigilance official said. Replying to a query about the free water scheme applicable to illegal water connections holders, the official said, “We will intensify raids on the property owners and punish them according to IPC sections.” HMWS&SB is currently supplying 580 million gallons of water per day to its consumers on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmwsb-survey-to-weed-out-illegal-water-connections/articleshow/80727861.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 7, 2021||Business||Huge no. of Maharashtra, Gujarat trawlers docked as China fish exports hit||MUMBAI: On most early mornings, Bhaucha Dhakka, or New Ferry Wharf, is usually packed as trawlers unload tons of mackerel, shrimp, and ribbon fish for export. But this week, the fishing dock was not that busy - less than half the usual number of boats had arrived. The pandemic has hit Maharashtra's trawl boats in an unexpected way. New Covid-19 safety rules in China, India's largest seafood destination, have delayed shipments and depressed fish prices. With payments stuck and rising diesel prices, multi-day trips have become unviable for many. More than half of the state's 4,290-strong trawl fleet has been grounded since January, according to Ramdas Sandhe, chairman of the Maharashtra Rajya Macchimar Sahakari Sangh Limited. This has been the second bad year in a row for fishermen after the cyclone-hit 2019, he said. The state is not alone: most trawl boats in neighbouring Gujarat have been docked for the past few months for similar reasons. China accounts for 25% in volume of India's overall seafood exports but 50% of volume for west coast states, including Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Karnataka, according to Jagdish Fofandi, the national president of the Seafood Exporters Association of India. "The whole issue has boiled up because of Covid-19," he said. Global lockdowns last year resulted in lower export prices at the beginning of the fishing season in August, he said. Then came China's new rules for testing seafood imports for Covid. The protocol delayed clearance at Chinese ports and other transit points, in turn delaying payments to Indian exporters. Normally, it takes 25 days from shipment to payment but the current turnaround is closer to 50 days, said Fofandi. Some are still waiting for dues from October," Jagdish Fofandi said. Exporters are now sitting on Rs 2,000 crore of stock in cold storage facilities on the west coast, he says, as they wait for pending dues. In turn, their payments to fishing boat owners have been delayed. "Fishermen have taken the brunt of this crisis," he said. The ripple-down effect is evident at Mumbai's New Ferry Wharf. Less than a quarter of the 1,000-odd registered boats have gone to sea - an exceptionally low number even in this traditional lean season, said a local observer of the government export authority. Fish prices have plummeted. Export rates for mackerel or bangda had fallen from Rs 400 a kilo last month to less than Rs 200. The price of ribbon fish, which has little domestic demand, has almost halved to Rs 35 a kilo. Boat owner Piyush Solanki said he was unlikely to make any money after covering the cost of food and salary for ten people, thousands of litres of fuel, and several tons of ice. With diesel prices now over Rs 80 a litre, he added, "There is no point in sending the boats out." Trawl boats are not the only ones affected by the export issue. Dolnet boats that catch pomfret, a high-value fish, saw a 35% drop in prices. The lag in payments from exporters hurt some fishermen in Vasai, said Anand Mastan, a boat owner. Usually, payments from the August-December season are cleared by early January. But this year, "the accounts are not yet settled," he said, adding, "That has never happened before." Some fishermen have gone to moneylenders to cover the cost of weddings this season," he said. Experts say the crisis highlights the importance of diversifying the export market and cultivating domestic ones. With so much stock to clear, exporters are looking to other markets, including in Africa, said Fofandi. The domestic market helped blunt the damage to Vasai's dolnetters. The decline in pomfret prices was partly offset by the high volume and quality of the August-December catch, said Mastan, which he attributes to last year's lockdown allowing fish to breed longer. But dolnet boats also catch a lot of small low-value fish for local consumption. "The local market has been good," said Mastan, "So we were saved." (This report has been supported by the Earth Journalism Network.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/huge-no-of-maharashtra-gujarat-trawlers-docked-as-china-fish-exports-hit/articleshow/80729407.cms||Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||291 Punjab villages to get clean water||CHANDIGARH: Nearly 291 villages in Amritsar, Patiala, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Ludhiana and SBS Nagar districts will get potable piped water supply by March-end. Punjab water supply and sanitation department is setting up arsenic and iron removal plants as well as individual household units or RO plants in those villages where groundwater quality is affected with arsenic, fluoride and other heavy metals. Till date, arsenic and iron removal plants have been set up in 102 villages of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur. More arsenic and iron removal plants are being set up in 131 villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pbs-291-villages-affected-with-arsenic-heavy-metals-to-get-potable-water-by-march-end/articleshow/80727870.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||PFJ denies coordinating celeb tweets||Jalandhar: Under probe by Delhi Police for being part of conspiracy to create disharmony and for creating the toolkit, which was shared by Greta Thunberg, Canada-based Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) has issued statement claiming that it neither coordinated any protest activities within India nor coordinated with Rihanna, Greta or any other celebrity to tweet. The statement jointly issued by Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal, co-founders of PJF, held that information being spread about their organisation “is in many cases incorrect and, too often, entirely invented”. They said that it was a “concerted effort and a purposeful distraction” from the story about over 200 lives lost in the farmers protest. “The complex and absurd conspiracies being constructed to link Poetic Justice Foundation to any number of actors worldwide are entirely fiction. Poetic Justice Foundation did not coordinate any protest activities occurring within India. Up to India’s Republic Day and beyond — whether at Red Fort in Delhi or elsewhere in the country — we were not involved in directing or fomenting any protest activity of any sort within India,” they said. “Poetic Justice Foundation did not coordinate Rihanna, Greta Thunberg or any number of specific celebrities to tweet about the #FarmersProtest. We didn’t pay anyone to tweet — and certainly didn’t pay anyone $2.5m to do so.” The statement added: “However, we did generally encourage the entire world to share this issue. Through the international collective of organizers we encouraged the world to pay attention and amplify this message.” “We were drawn to the farmers protest due to our connection and love for our people... After watching that how protesters and journalists were being treated, we decided to do what is quite normal in a functioning democracy and connected with like-minded people,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pfj-denies-coordinating-celeb-tweets/articleshow/80727866.cms||IP Singh
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Retired TNSTC staff protest delay in disbursal of benefits||Coimbatore: Retired employees of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) staged a protest in front of the TNSTC office on Mettupalayam Road on Saturday, demanding immediate disbursal of retirement benefits.G Palanisamy, president, TNSTC Retired Employees’ Welfare Association, said, “It is only after a long struggle that the state government has sanctioned Rs 172 crore as retirement benefits for the employees who had retired during April-December 2019. But the employees who had retired after that until April 2020, when the government increased the retirement age to 59 years, and other employees who had taken voluntary retirement till date have not received any of the benefits.”Pointing out that the benefits are often delayed and received only after holding multiple talks with the government, he says lack of sufficient fund is often cited as a reason for the delay.There are more than 86,000 retired TNSTC employees, 8,700 of them from Coimbatore, in the state. While most of them receive pension amount on time, Palanisamy said they had not received dearness allowance for the past 63 months since November 2015. “Many of them have also not received arrears of family pension amount.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/retired-tnstc-staff-protest-delay-in-disbursal-of-benefits/articleshow/80727058.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Madurai Aavin to set up zero liquid discharge system||Madurai: Aavin, Madurai is in the process of establishing a zero liquid discharge system to recycle five lakh litres of water used on its campus daily. The facility is coming up at a cost of Rs 11 crore on the 34.5 acres in the city, and is expected to be commissioned in April.An official from the engineering department said the used water will undergo biological treatment. “Gases obtained during the process will be used to run generators to produce electricity. We are planning to generate 600 units of electricity, which can be used for heating the milk for pasteurization,” he said. The recycled water will be made to undergo reverse osmosis (RO) filtration and used for bathrooms, floor cleaning and cooling purposes. An estimated two lakh litres of reused water will be used, while another two lakh litres will be used for gardening. The remaining one lakh litre will have high total dissolved salts (TDS). It will be put into a separate plant, where it would be evaporated and let into the atmosphere, an official said.The zero liquid discharge system is being implemented in order to comply with the pollution control board norms and to set a benchmark for other government agencies. The step is not only make the unit environment-friendly but also bring down water requirement to run the unit.Madurai Aavin is receiving around 2.05 lakh litres of milk from Madurai district alone. Milk from other southern districts is also sent to Madurai. Of this, 1.75 lakh litres of milk is processed, packed and sent for sales, while around 50,000 lakh litres of condensed milk is being sent to Chennai daily. Apart from milk production, other allied activities like manufacturing of milk powder, ghee, milk peda and sweet are taking place.“Products made in Aavin are the best one can get in the market as there is no chance of adulteration. Various best in industry features are being added in Madurai Aavin in the last four years to improve efficiency and to bring down the running cost with help from various government funding agencies including Nabard,” another official from Aavin said.There was a time when Aavin products such as milk powder and ghee were stored in private storage facilities by spending a huge amount towards rent, but now, with the best in the industry storage facility having been created in Aavin, other cooperative societies are availing them. Rent is being collected for the facility utilization, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-aavin-to-set-up-zero-liquid-discharge-system/articleshow/80728851.cms||V Devanathan
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Reinbazar police invoke PD Act||HYDERABAD: Reinbazar police invoked PD Act against a person involved in outraging the modesty of a woman. The accused was arrested on January 27 and he continues to be in prison. In the past, he was accused of trespass and intimidation. A history sheet is already pending against him in Balapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reinbazar-police-invoke-pd-act/articleshow/80727877.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 22-year-old killed in road accident||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old man died in a road accident in Damaiguda on Saturday. Police said that the victim — Abhinav — died after he was hit by a tipper lorry. Jawahar Nagar police said that a case was registered under section 304 a (negligence causing death) of IPC against the lorry driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22-year-old-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80727872.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Travellers look at familiar getaways: Survey||HYDERABAD: As Covid-19 continues to be a part of our lives, travellers are said to be looking at familiar destinations, particularly where they have already been before. According to a survey conducted by Booking.com, 57% Indian travellers intend to travel to a place where they have already been. Also, 49% travellers are said to be planning to explore a new destination within the country. The survey also revealed that 52% Indian travellers still plan to travel within their own country in the medium term (7-12 months), with 41% planning to do so in the longer term (in over a year). Srinagar, Digha, Manali, Goa, and Alibaug are some of the top trending destinations for Indians planning to travel in February, as compared to the same time last year. “While it will be some time before travel returns to pre-pandemic levels, all signs point to the fundamental and enduring role that travel plays in all our lives. Looking ahead, staying closer to home and becoming familiarists rather than tourists will continue to be at the forefront of travel agendas,” said Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia, Booking.com. She said rediscovering India and “travelling like a local is what 2021 is going to be about”. “Travelling with furry companions has been top of traveller’s minds, with the use of Booking.com’s ‘pet-friendly’ filter more than doubling since travel restrictions began, Mehrotra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/travellers-look-at-familiar-getaways-survey/articleshow/80727876.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Kushaiguda police nab fraudster||HYDERABAD: A person who tried to extort Rs 5 lakhs claiming to be member of CPI (Maoist), was nabbed by Kushaiguda police on Saturday. B Narasimhulu was arrested based on a victim’s complaint, who received telephone calls threatening to eliminate him and his family, if they failed to pay the demanded money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kushaiguda-police-nab-fraudster/articleshow/80727868.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Meerut||Canine that helped UP cops crack 49 cases gets a statue||MUZAFFARNAGAR: When ASP Tinki of the dog squad died in November last year, the Muzaffarnagar police department lost one of its brilliant officers. She had a nose for detecting crime and helped police crack 49 cases. As a tribute to this super cop dog, the local police unveiled a statue of Tinki at the Police Line here on Saturday. Senior police officers, including SP (city) Arpit Vijayvargiya, SP (rural) Atul Kumar, circle officer (city) Kuldeep Singh, attended the unveiling ceremony. The only person who was conspicuous by his absence was Tinki’s handler, constable Mahesh Kumar, as he has been transferred to Bijnor. In his place, senior dog handler Sunil Kumar unveiled the statue. Speaking with TOI from Bijnor, Mahesh Kumar said, “What could have been a better tribute for an exceptional performer of the police force! The installation of the statue has immortalized the best companion I ever had. I will go and pay my respects to the Additional SP soon.” Tinki, a German Shepherd, was eight years old when she passed away after a brief illness. She was a recruit from the National Dog Training Centre at the BSF Academy in Gwalior. Muzaffarnagar was her first posting as a sniffer dog. She joined the Muzaffarnagar dog squad as constable. Her spectacular ability to sniff out crime got her six promotions in six years, a record for a dog. During her tenure, Tinki helped police solve many blind cases. Explaining, assistant handler, constable Dharam Singh, said, “Technically speaking, it is generally not possible for a dog to be able to sniff and determine a smell beyond 24 hours of the crime but Tinki’s ability to smell out clues was unique.” He recalled how Tinki unearthed the decapitated body of a man missing for 10 days. A year earlier, Tinki walked 10 km, sniffing out the trail of a gang of thieves in the Mansoorpur area. They had stolen railway property. Another time in 2018, she detected a body hidden on the village pond bed nine days after the murder that took place a kilometre away at Parsoli village in Bhopa region of Muzaffarnagar, said Dharam Singh. As word of her abilities spread, her service was in demand in neighbouring districts too. In Shamli, she helped solve two cases, he added. Abhishek Yadav, senior superintendent of police, Muzaffarnagar, said, “Tinki was brave, clever and brilliant. The department was able to solve 49 criminal cases of loot and murder because of her.” Describing her demise as an irreparable loss, Mahesh Kumar, who knew Tinki as none other, said, “Her ability to discern intention was her greatest asset. She could play freely with children but also sniff out evil intentions as if she had a divine sense.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-police-unveils-statue-of-asp-tinki-super-cop-dog-who-helped-police-crack-49-cases/articleshow/80726598.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||53.5% receive first dose of Covid vaccine in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh recorded 53.5% coverage of Covid vaccination as against the target of 5,647 persons on Saturday. A total of 3,018 persons were vaccinated in the state. The vaccination drive was conducted in government health facilities of 11 districts, except Lahaul-Spiti. So far, 54,591 persons have been vaccinated in the state. The vaccination drive was not carried on January 24, 25 and 26. Adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported in three persons, including one each in Kangra, Mandi and Solan districts. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. In Bilaspur district, 118 persons were vaccinated against the target of 236 persons; in Chamba district, 223 were vaccinated against the target of 349; in Hamirpur district, 199 were vaccinated against the target of 771; in Kangra district 847 were vaccinated against the target of 1,252; in Kinnaur district, 38 were vaccinated against the target of 124 and in Kullu district 174 were vaccinated against the target of 363 persons. In Mandi district 537 were vaccinated against the target of 464; in Shimla district, 284 were vaccinated against the target of 721; in Sirmaur district, 100 were vaccinated against the target of 314; in Solan, 399 were vaccinated against the target of 824 and in Una district, 99 were vaccinated against the target of 229. A total of 77,000 health workers will be vaccinated and each beneficiary will be administered two doses of the vaccine. The second dose will be administered after 28 days. Date | Target | Achievement | January 16 | 2,499 | 1,536 January 18 | 5,061 | 3,299 January 19 | 383 | 232 January 20 | 48 | 45 January 21 | 1,129 | 696 January 22 | 5,940 | 3,819 January 23 | 5,720 | 3,935 January 27 | 649 | 510 January 28 | 6,420 | 4,794 January 29 | 5,091 | 4,070 January 30 | 5,974 | 4,816 February 1 | 7,614 | 5,700 February 2 | 7,921 | 6,136 February 3 | 5,836 | 4,356 February 4 | 6,809 | 4,434 February 5 | 4,776 | 3,195 February 6 | 5,647 | 3,018||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/53-5-receive-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-himachal/articleshow/80727881.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Eid ul-Fitr: MP seeks change in exam dates||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has urged Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ to change the dates of the CBSE exams scheduled for May 13 and 15 -- before and after Eid ul-Fitr holiday -- so that Muslim students will not be affected. Eid ul-Fitr falls on May 14, according to the holidays declared by the Tamil Nadu government and the Centre. “But the date of Ramzan may change depending on the sighting of the crescent. So there is a possibility of change of date by a day earlier or later than the date that has been fixed,” the MP stated in a representation to the minister. This had happened several times in the past, he added. Venkatesan said without taking this into consideration, the CBSE had scheduled board classes X and XII examinations on May 13 and 15. Stating that scores of Muslim students would be put to a difficult situation due to this arrangement as it is an important festival for them, Venkatesan said that it would not be appropriate on the part of the CBSE to force students from that community to appear for examinations on that day. He urged the minister to change the dates of exams falling on those two dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eid-ul-fitr-mp-seeks-change-in-exam-dates/articleshow/80728863.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Madurai||RDO probe confirms impersonation||Madurai: An inquiry by the revenue divisional officer (RDO) has confirmed that the person who was declared winner and staked claim to the first prize at the Alanganallur jallikattu this year, had indulged in impersonation. A representation was made to the Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan, a day after the event, stating that the man who had claimed the first prize wasn’t in the arena for the entire game and did not catch the record number of 12 bulls as recorded. Revenue officials who had viewed the videos of the game after the allegation was made, confirmed that the person who first wore t-shirt number 33 at the beginning of the game, Harikrishnan was different from the person who wore the same shirt and was declared the winner. The collector then ordered the RDO to conduct an inquiry into the issue. RDO V Muruganatham who conducted the inquiry submitted his report to the district collector confirming the impersonation. He said that Kannan from Atchampathu who was declared the winner had gained entry into the arena through the vaadivasal, and had worn the shirt number 33. Kannan had not registered his name as per the rules nor taken the Covid tests as specified for participants. The inquiry also revealed that Harikrishnan had not caught any bull as claimed, but had given the t-shirt to Kannan, who evaded the eligibility test screening and Covid test. The RDO has also stated that awarding of the car to Kannan should be reconsidered and that Kannan and Harikrishnan should abide by the decision taken by the organisers of the Alanganallur game this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rdo-probe-confirms-impersonation/articleshow/80728871.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Aarey police get lucky, nab two wanted criminals||MUMBAI: Not even God can catch me, forget about police, was a challenge a 26-year-old history-sheeter had thrown to Mumbai Police. Pappu Varte alias Khopdi was wanted since 2013 and his challenge had been conveyed to police by an informer. Within days, Aarey police nabbed him with weapons, foiling a robbery. Varte has been involved in five cases, mainly thefts. Acting on a tip-off that he was to arrive at Royal Palms at Aarey Colony, sub-inspector Ulhas Kolam and his team laid a trap and picked up Varte on February 2. He was carrying a countrymade revolver and two cartridges, and was booked under Arms Act. In another case, Aarey police arrested another history-sheeter who has been wanted for six months in an attempted murder case. Kanna Selvam, the accused, had released a video on Facebook during lockdown proclaiming himself as the King of Aarey. Police said he harboured dreams of becoming a don. The attempted murder followed a dispute. While Selvam’s aides were held, he slipped out of town. Police picked him up earlier this week on learning that he was back at Aarey. Selvam has 20 criminal offences registered against him and had been externed out of city limits by Sahar, MIDC and Sakinaka police earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aarey-police-get-lucky-nab-two-wanted-criminals/articleshow/80727901.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Man detained under Goondas Act in Tirupur||Coimbatore: Tirupur city police commissioner G Karthikeyan has detained a habitual offender, who has nine cases pending against him, under the Goondas Act. A police source said the Tirupur North police had arrested M Dineshkumar alias Dinesh, 26, an autorickshaw driver from Madurai district, on December 21 in connection with a robbery case. He was staying in a rental house at Golden Nagar in Tirupur city. Dinesh was subsequently remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. The source said the Tirupur North police had booked Dinesh on two occasions in 2016 for his involvement in assault and criminal intimidation cases. “In 2018, he was held in an attempt to murder case and in 2020 he was booked for an assault and criminal intimidation case. There are also theft, robbery and accident cases pending against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-detained-under-goondas-act-in-tirupur/articleshow/80727061.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Priest, 75, stabbed to death on temple premises, police deploy three teams to arrest accused||BAREILLY: A 75-year-old priest, Jai Singh Yadav, popularly known as ‘Sakhi Baba’, was found murdered on the premises of a temple in Dhaknagla village under the jurisdiction of Islamnagar police station in UP’s Budaun district on Saturday morning. Baba was serving the temple as a priest for the past 45 years and used to live in the guise of ‘Goddess Kali’ wearing sari and bangles. Police said the accused, Ramveer Yadav, a local, was absconding and three police teams were deployed to nab him. “The motive is still unclear,” said police. Police said Baba used to live alone in a thatched house on the temple premises. Baba performed daily prayers and took out a religious procession early in the morning, and then he went to his hut to take rest when Ramveer stabbed him to death, said police. Police said a few people saw the accused fleeing the spot, and then they found Baba lying dead inside his hut. “Sakhi Baba was stabbed to death by a local, Ramveer Yadav, over some personal enmity. We have booked him under section 302 (murder)of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and he will be arrested soon. The exact reason behind the murder is still unclear. We have sent the body for autopsy and informed his relatives,” said SSP Sankalp Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/priest-75-stabbed-to-death-on-temple-premises-police-deploy-three-teams-to-arrest-accused/articleshow/80726610.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 7, 2021||Meerut||Alleging assault, woman ‘strips herself’ partially naked at police outpost in Meerut||MEERUT: In a high voltage drama, a woman allegedly assaulted by another woman “stripped” herself partially naked in full public view and in front of policemen at L-Block police outpost in Nauchandi area of Meerut district on Friday night. A video of the incident later surfaced on social media. An FIR based on the complaint of the aggrieved woman was registered, said police. Superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, “Alleging assault by another woman, the woman arrived at the police outpost. Soon, the rival side also landed there. The woman undressed partially, alleging assault by the rival side. A case was registered based on the complainant's statement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/alleging-assault-woman-strips-herself-partially-naked-at-police-outpost-in-meerut/articleshow/80726605.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi looks at ‘better’ model to catch rain||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) wants to radically change the rainwater harvesting models being used in the capital. Senior DJB officials say that cost-effective Dungarpur rainwater harvesting model will now be popularised to improve the compliance rates and a report in this regard has already been submitted to the chief minister. Under this model, filtered rainwater is directly fed to borewell points instead of a recharge pit to increase groundwater recharge. “High input cost and high annual maintenance cost for harvesting pits are among the key reasons behind low RWH adoption in the city,” said an official. The pipes in this model are fitted with a filter and there are no chances of contamination, the official added. The biggest advantage of this unit is cost effectiveness. “While a normal housing society pit set-up requires Rs 70,000 to Rs 1 lakh, the Dungarpur model can be installed for as little as Rs 16,000-Rs 20,000,” the official said. Also, as per the Delhi water and sewer (tariff and metering) regulations, plots installing a functional RWH system are provided a rebate of 10% in the total bill. However, those who fail to install the system have to pay 1.5 times the bill amount. In August last year, DJB had made it mandatory for all the properties with an area of 100sq metres and above to have functional rainwater harvesting systems. Delhi receives an annual average of 617 mm of rainfall and this precious resource can be used to recharge the depleting water levels as highlighted by a recent report submitted by Central Ground Water Board in the apex court. Some other reports estimate that 917 million cubic metres of rainwater can be used to recharge the depleting groundwater levels of the water-stressed city. Data from DJB shows that in case of private buildings, RWH system has been implemented in just 1,869 buildings till this monsoon season. Satyendar Jain, the water minister, had visited Dungarpur in Rajasthan to study the model on November 9 and the findings were later shared in a review meeting. The Dungarpur model uses a closed-loop system in which the rainwater collected on the roof is channelised to the casing of already existing borewells in households. The loop has sand filters in the pipe itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-looks-at-better-model-to-catch-rain/articleshow/80727894.cms||Paras Singh
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Four held for running fake call centre||NEW DELHI: Four people involved in phishing and running a fake call centre at Badli Extension in northwest Delhi have been arrested. Police have recovered 14 mobile phones with SIM cards, three ATM cards, two laptops, seven other SIM cards and calling data from them. The accused used to post their advertisement on Shine.com and Facebook for job openings at two reputed private companies at different locations across the country. They asked the candidates to deposit Rs 275 as registration fee for interview. Following this, the candidates were asked to deposit Rs 2,250 as dress material charges and Rs 5,500 as security deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-held-for-running-fake-call-centre/articleshow/80727880.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police caution against Covid vaccine frauds||Chandigarh: In view of the ongoing mass inoculation drive for Covid-19, Haryana Police have cautioned citizens against fraudsters who could dupe them on the pretext of registering for the vaccine. Issuing an advisory on Saturday, Navdeep Singh Virk, additional director general of police (law and order), Haryana, said cyber criminals never run out of new ideas to cash in on the situation. Such scammers may defraud citizens through phone calls, emails or even by WhatsApp and other social media applications asking them their details for getting themselves registered for the vaccine. Referring to the modus operandi of fraudsters, he said they are making phone calls to people offering to register their names for the vaccine. With this, they are collecting sensitive personal information such as Aadhaar number and email. With these details, they also ask to authenticate Aadhaar by sharing an OTP. The moment OTP is given, money is siphoned off from the Aadhaar-linked bank account. Virk advised people to exercise caution and not to entertain any phone calls regarding the vaccine registration. “Don’t share your personal data with anyone and use only the government health department approved/issued mobile application for vaccination registration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-police-caution-against-covid-vaccine-frauds/articleshow/80727887.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab ex-minister Satwant Kaur dies of Covid-19||PATIALA: Senior Akali leader, five-time legislator of Chamkaur Sahib, and twice Punjab cabinet minister, Satwant Kaur Sandhu, died at a private hospital in Mohali on Friday night after a fortnight of fighting Covid-19. She was 80. She had first served as a minister for social welfare and public health, while from 2000 to 2002, held the charge of grievances and pensions, youth services, and printing and stationery. She would have turned 81 on February 22. Her son, Harmohan Singh Sandhu, who quit as AIG to join the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2019, said: “My mother was in public life since 1975. She was now chairperson of the party’s women’s and Scheduled Caste wings. In 1987, she was chairperson of Punjab Leather Corporation.” She joined politics after losing her husband in 1974. Twice elected as MLA in 1962 and 1972, he had also remained Punjab’s deputy leader of the opposition. Satwant Kaur was cremated on Saturday. In Chandigarh, former chief minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, besides party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, expressed grief at her death. Parkash Singh Badal remembered her as “a committed social activist of Chamkaur Sahib, who worked for the downtrodden”. The SAD president, in his condolence message, recalled her as a loyal party worker who upheld Panthic principles in public life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-ex-minister-satwant-kaur-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/80727884.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana testing 2.16 lakh per million population||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 161 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. With this, the total count of cases in the state has touched 2,95,431 and death toll so far is 1,608. The number of active cases in the state meanwhile stood at 1,977 on Saturday, and with 147 more patients being declared as recovered, the state has a total of 2,91,846 people who have so far recovered from the infection. The state’s recovery rate has improved to 98.78%, as against 96% a month ago. This is better than the national average of 97.2%. The case fatality rate (CFR) is currently 0.54%, better than the country average of 1.4%. On Saturday, 35,421 samples were tested. With this, Telangana has now completed 80.7 lakh tests and has reached the figure of 2.16 lakh sample testing per million population. Of the 35,421 tests done on Saturday, 66% were of contacts of patients who had already tested positive. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 28 new cases on Saturday. This was followed by 10 cases each in Medchal Malkajgiri, Warangal Urban and Ranga Reddy districts. Meanwhile most other districts recorded up to 10 new cases, expect Jogulamba Gadwal, Kamareddy, Medak, Suryapet, Nagarkurnool and Narayanpet which have not recorded any new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-testing-2-16l-per-million-population/articleshow/80728878.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Vaccination picks pace in southern districts||Madurai: With additional session sites and awareness spread at the grassroots level, more healthcare and frontline workers are taking the Covid-19 vaccine in the southern districts. In Madurai, so far, 7,290 people have been vaccinated, of which more than 3,000 were vaccinated in the last 10 days. In neighbouring district of Virudhunagar as well, more than 4,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated, of which 2,549 were vaccinated in Sivakasi health unit district. “We are holding periodical review meetings to check if there are any issues faced during vaccination. The response has improved now but the number of beneficiaries getting the vaccine in a day is fluctuating,” said a health official from Sivakasi. In districts like Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram, the number of beneficiaries getting the vaccine was among the lowest in the state in January. However, now vaccination is gaining pace with more sites being added. In Ramanathapuram, more than 3,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 so far. “While initially there was fear of side effects, now seeing that there is hardly any discomfort faced by most, more beneficiaries are showing positive response,” said a health official from Ramanathapuram. In Ramanathapuram health unit district alone, 1,322 beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 so far, which accounts of more than 30% of those registered. Tenkasi had reported less than 500 beneficiaries being vaccinated for Covid-19 on January 28. However, now around 1,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far. Starting next week, all districts will start providing the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine and also start vaccination for police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vaccination-picks-pace-in-southern-districts/articleshow/80728900.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-minister Satwant Kaur dies of Covid-19||PATIALA: Senior Akali leader, five-time legislator of Chamkaur Sahib, and twice Punjab cabinet minister, Satwant Kaur Sandhu, died at a private hospital in Mohali on Friday night after a fortnight of fighting Covid-19. She was 80. She had first served as a minister for social welfare and public health, while from 2000 to 2002, held the charge of grievances and pensions, youth services, and printing and stationery. She would have turned 81 on February 22. Her son, Harmohan Singh Sandhu, who quit as AIG to join the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2019, said: “My mother was in public life since 1975. She was now chairperson of the party’s women’s and Scheduled Caste wings. In 1987, she was chairperson of Punjab Leather Corporation.” She joined politics after losing her husband in 1974. Twice elected as MLA in 1962 and 1972, he had also remained Punjab’s deputy leader of the opposition. Satwant Kaur was cremated on Saturday. In Chandigarh, former chief minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, besides party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, expressed grief at her death. Parkash Singh Badal remembered her as “a committed social activist of Chamkaur Sahib, who worked for the downtrodden”. The SAD president, in his condolence message, recalled her as a loyal party worker who upheld Panthic principles in public life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-ex-minister-satwant-kaur-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/80727884.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||US Army contingent arrives for joint exercise||Chandigarh: The US Army contingent participating in the Indo-US training exercise ‘Yudh Abhyas 20’ arrived at Suratgarh, Rajasthan, on Saturday. On arrival, the contingent proceeded to the exercise area at Mahajan field firing ranges, where the training would commence from February 8. The Indian Army extended a warm welcome as per military etiquettes to the US Army contingent, followed by exchange of pleasantries between contingent commanders and soldiers of both armies. Started in 2004, Yudh Abhyas 20 is the sixteenth edition in the series of bilateral exercises under this banner. The last edition of the joint exercise was held at Seattle, USA. The joint exercise would focus on counter-terrorism operations under United Nations mandate. The defence spokesperson looking after Rajasthan area stated that during the exercise, participants will engage in joint planning, operations, joint tactical drills and will provide field commanders and troops an opportunity to interact with each other professionally. “The exercise would contribute immensely in promoting bilateral army to army relations, enhance interoperability, exchange best practices and experiences between the Indian Army and the US Army. Yudh Abhyas is one of the largest running military training and defence cooperation endeavours between India and US,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/us-army-contingent-arrives-for-joint-exercise/articleshow/80727895.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Madurai colleges hesitant to reopen for all students||Madurai: Colleges in Madurai are unlikely to reopen in a full-fledged manner even though the state government has permitted them to reopen for all students with SOPs in place. Managements cited difficulty in maintaining social distancing as one of the reasons.Vice-chancellor of the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), M Krishnan said that circulars have been issued emphasizing the SOPs to be followed for reopening. “With social distancing being an issue in classrooms, departments have been asked to divide students into batches in such a manner that one set of students will be attending offline classes while others will be having online sessions, which they can attend from anywhere in the campus. Students will not be allowed to crowd at any of the common areas like canteen,” he said. The VC further said that parents have to give their consent to send the students for offline classes and hostels will not be functioning as they cannot accommodate a group of students in one room.However, many of the affiliated colleges of MKU are not likely to reopen at once. The American College has decided to continue only with online classes for all students. “Two of our staff and four final year students recently tested Covid-19 positive and hence we have to conduct only online classes for all students. Hostels are also shut. We are intimating the state authorities,” principal of the college, Davamani M Christober said.Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science is still yet to take a call on reopening from February 8. “We are keen on reopening as there have been no Covid-19 cases in the college so far. However, we have to be cautious of crowding and it is not practical to hold both online and offline classes since the staff will be overburdened,” said D Pandiaraja, principal.The Lady Doak College is set to continue with only final year students coming to the campus and having offline classes. “It is practically impossible to maintain social distancing if all students are allowed to come to the campus. Hence, we will continue with online classes for first and second year students as before,” said Dr Christianna Singh, principal. Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women is reopening for all students but in a blended manner. “Students of each year have been given a schedule and they will be alternating between online and offline classes to avoid crowding on campus,” said Dr S Vanathi, principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-colleges-hesitant-to-reopen-for-all-students/articleshow/80728907.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh SEC directs DGP to confine minister to his house till end of polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh state election commission on Saturday directed DGP Gautam Sawang to restrict panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy to his house till the completion of local body elections on February 21. The directive comes after Ramachandra Reddy allegedly asked poll officials not to follow the directions of the state election commission. He also allegedly warned that poll officials who follow the directions of the SEC will face a tough time after the elections are over. “The utterances of the minister for panchayat raj threatening the collectors, who are also the district election authorities, and returning officers with dire consequences if they follow the election commissioner’s instructions which emanate from Article 243K and mandates to hold free and fair elections, is a serious breach of rule of law and tenets of the Constitution of India,” the SEC said in its order. “Having carefully looked at various alternatives and avenues of remedial action, the commission by invoking its plenary powers under Article 243K of the Constitution, directs the DGP to confine the minister for panchayat raj and rural development to his residential premises,” the SEC order read. It also directed the police to ensure that the minister did not get access to address the media during this period. Ramachandra Reddy condemned the SEC’s action against him. “State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar is an official and he should work in his limits. I am a minister and it is not necessary for me to obey the orders passed by him,” he said. ‘SEC does not have courtesy to call for meet’He called Ramesh Kumar “a mad man” who is hell bent upon favouring the TDP in the panchayat polls. “His irrational moves have created confusion and fear among poll officials. I am the panchayat raj minister who has to facilitate conduct of free and fair elections by coordinating with poll officials. But the SEC doesn’t have the basic courtesy to call for a meeting and take the poll process forward in an organised way. Instead, he wants the panchayat raj minister to be placed under house arrest till the elections are over in the state,” he added. For the past year, AP state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar and the state government have been at loggerheads over the conduct of polls to local and municipal bodies. In March last year the state government had proposed to hold polls to local and civic bodies but Ramesh Kumar had postponed them citing Covid-19 as the reason. This led to a long drawn legal battle. The state government reduced the term of the SEC to three years resulting in the cessation of Ramesh Kumar as the SEC, but the Supreme Court reinstated Ramesh. After his reinstatement SEC had proposed to resume poll process but this time the state government said elections would increase the Covid-19 incidence. State government challenged SEC decision on polls in AP HC which gave verdict in favour of the SEC. Later, the SC upheld the high court's order leading to the conduct of local body polls in February||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-sec-directs-dgp-to-confine-min-to-his-house-till-end-of-polls/articleshow/80728909.cms||Venu Lanka
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||EPS is ‘living Kamaraj’, says minister||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Saturday described chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the ‘living Kamaraj’ (former chief minister of the state) and said the CM would fulfil the vision of the late farmers’ leader C Narayanasamy Naidu, whose birth anniversary was commemorated on the day. The minister also paid floral tribute to Naidu, former president of the All India Farmers' Association & Tamil Nadu Agriculturists' Association, at his memorial at Vaiyampalayam to mark the occasion. Addressing the media, Velumani said it was the AIADMK government that constructed the memorial for Narayanasamy Naidu and declared his birthday as a government function. “To help the farmers, the chief minister has waived agriculture loans to the tune of Rs 12,500 crore. He is a leader accepted by all sections of people in the state.” Pointing out that Athikadavu-Avinashi groundwater recharge and drinking water supply scheme had been pending for the past 70 years, the minister lauded the dispensation under EPS for commissioning the project. “The villages, which were not added in the first phase, will be included in the second phase of the project and a government order in this regard will be issued soon. The chief minister has been fulfilling the vision of Narayanasamy Naidu. He is the living Kamaraj,” Velumani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-is-living-kamaraj-says-minister/articleshow/80727088.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||1 killed in accident, car rams into onlookers, killing 2 more||Karnal: Three persons were killed and four others sustained injuries in two road accidents near Gogripur flyover on Karnal-Moonak road in Karnal late on Friday night. The deceased have been identified as Ankesh of Ashoka colony in Karnal city, Jasveer of Kutel village and Jagbir of Gagsina village in Karnal. Police said that the first accident took place around 9pm, when a truck hit the tractor-trailer in which Ankesh and his friend were traveling in on Karnal-Moonak road. They said the tractor-trailer overturned on impact, killing Ankesh on the spot and leaving his friend injured. As passersby gathered, a speeding car rammed into the crowd, injuring five persons, including two men on a bike. They were rushed to the hospital where doctors declared Jasveer and Jagbir, the motorcyclists, brought dead. The other persons who were injured were stated to be out of danger. Inspector Baljeet, SHO, Sadar police station, Karnal said a case has been registered against the truck and car driver under relevant sections. The bodies have been handed over to family members and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-killed-in-accident-car-rams-into-onlookers-killing-2-more/articleshow/80727891.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Dalit girl, 13, gang-raped at gunpoint||BAREILLY: A 13-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped at gunpoint by two men in UP's Rampur district. The crime took place at a village under Swar police station on January 20. According to a complaint filed by the girl’s family, the minor was taken to a farm by a local woman, on the pretext of some work where two other men, identified as Shahrukh and Bhura, sexually assaulted her. An FIR has been registered against three of them. The girl’s family alleged that two unidentified men grabbed her and dragged her to the nearby sugarcane field. They then took turns to rape her at gunpoint. The local woman assisted them by putting a cloth into her mouth, the family said in the complaint. She looked traumatised and remained quiet for days, her family said, adding that on being repeatedly asked, she finally narrated her ordeal on Saturday. According to the family, the minor claimed that the accused threatened to kill her if she disclosed the heinous crime to anyone. Rampur police said that a case has been registered against the accused. Circle officer (CO) of Swar in Rampur, Dharam Singh, said, “An FIR has been registered under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 376D(A) (punishment on gangrape of woman under sixteen years of age), 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC and relevant sections of SC/ST Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.” The CO added, “A team has been formed and raids are being conducted across the village and nearby areas to nab the culprits. All three are on the run.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-girl-13-gang-raped-at-gunpoint/articleshow/80726625.cms||Maria Khan
February 7, 2021||Meerut||23-year-old shot dead in full public view in Bijnor Jhalu’s town||BIJNOR: In a broad daylight murder, a 23-year-old youth, Rachit Jaat, was gunned down by five assailants in Jhalu town under Haldaur police station in Bijnor district on Friday afternoon. Police have arrested four accused — one is at large — and are set to slap stringent National Security Act (NSA) against all of them after the victim’s family — residents of Seohara Girdhar village under the same police station — and BJP Youth Morcha activists led by organisation’s Bijnor district president Ravi Chaudhary gheraoed the office of Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh on Saturday. Terming the murder an outcome of an "old rivalry”, police said the assailants pumped at least six bullets into Rachit — a first-year student of LLB (five-year) course at a local degree college — killing him on the spot. However, accusing police of “tardy action”, the victim’s family and BJP Yuva Morcha activists said Rachit could have been saved had police not taken hours to reach the crime scene. The activists demanded that SHO HS Joshi and Jhalu police post in-charge Kuldeep Rana be suspended. They warned that they would hold a mahapanchayat at Jhalu town if police failed to expose faces behind the “conspiracy to kill” Rachit. Rachit’s father Bablu Kumar said, “Police should take strict action against those who killed my son. Had police taken prompt action, my son could have been saved.” Meanwhile, heavy police force and two companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were deployed in Jhalu and its neighbouring villages to maintain law and order situation and inspector general (IG) of police Ramit Sharma, too, visited Jhalu late Saturday evening to take stock of the situation. According to Chaudhary, “Assailants had no fear of police. After killing Rachit, one of them fled the scene, while four others stayed there waiting for police. A few constables with batons in their hands arrived at the spot to arrest the accused who mocked policemen. There is a conspiracy behind the crime. Police should probe the case with all fairness. Thus far, we are not satisfied with police action.” However, terming the situation “normal”, Bijnor SP said, “We have already registered a case in this connection against the assailants — Sarik, Sadab, Sahzaad, Sahbar and Asif, all residents of Peerzadgan village of Jhalu town — under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested four of them on Friday, while the fifth accused would also be arrested, soon. Besides, the NSA will also be slapped on them at the time of preparing a charge-sheet. Additionally, we have deployed a heavy police force and two companies of PAC to maintain law and order situation.” “Prima facie there was an old rivalry between the victim and the accused and they used to hurl abusive at each other,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/23-year-old-shot-dead-in-full-publicview-in-bijnor-jhalus-town/articleshow/80726637.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||Charred body of man found||Coimbatore: A charred dead body was found near Kallar forest check post at Mettupalayam on Friday evening. Police are yet to establish the identity of the deceased. A police officer said the body, which was on fire, was first spotted by anti-poaching watcher M Karuppan, of Kallarpudur. “On Friday evening, he noticed fire on a private land near Kallar forest check post. When checked, he found charred body of a man. Karuppan immediately alerted forest guard Aravindh, who in turn called the Mettupalayam police and Odanthurai village administrative officer Senthilkumar.” Police subsequently put out the fire and sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medial College and Hospital for postmortem. A police officer said it could either be a case of self-immolation or murder. “We could ascertain the same only after the autopsy reports are available.” Forensic experts have, meanwhile, visited the spot and collected some material evidence. Police have also formed a special team to trace the identity of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/charred-body-of-man-found/articleshow/80727095.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Madurai||Pancreatic cancer patient treated at GRH with specialized therapy||Madurai: A 50-year-old man with recurrence of pancreatic cancer was treated successfully with stereotactic radiation therapy, an advanced cancer treatment at the regional cancer centre (RCC) in Madurai. The RCC at Balarengapuram, which is a part of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), was recently inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and is functioning with ultra-modern radiotherapy equipment called linear accelerator. In a statement, GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said the patient, Subramani, was admitted to the hospital’s radiation oncology department with abdominal pain and loss of appetite in December. “Stereotactic radiotherapy was given to the patient and he was relieved of his pain and started eating well. This treatment is being given for the first time in a government institution in Tamil Nadu and only in Madurai,” said Sangumani.Dr K Mahalakshmi Prasad, HOD (in-charge), radiation oncology department, said the patient was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in March 2020 and he had undergone surgery at GRH. He was under follow-up when he suffered distress. “A PET CT scan was done at the GRH, which revealed recurrence of the pancreatic cancer as a small growth close to the area which was operated upon. In such case, resurgery would be highly difficult and carries risk of high mortality, especially with pancreas being positioned in a sensitive area and close to other organs like liver and intestines. So, through stereotactic radiotherapy, the cancer was treated with minimal risk since it is very targeted,” Mahalakshmi told TOI.The duration is also shortened to five to six days in stereotactic radiotherapy instead of 30 to 40 days in conventional radiation treatment. In private institutions, such therapy will cost 4 to 5 lakh, but the surgery at RCC was done free of cost. Deserving public can make use of the facilities at the RCC free of cost under the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pancreatic-cancer-patient-treated-at-grh-with-specialized-therapy/articleshow/80728910.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt uses social media to promote electric vehicle drive||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Saturday launched a social media exercise to promote the ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign, aimed at encouraging people to switch to electric vehicles. The exercise will be led by the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, with a focus on responding to queries and clearing the misconceptions people have on electric vehicles. It will also address grievances and sensitise the public on the benefits of electric vehicles and Delhi’s recently launched electric vehicles policy. Various social media handles have been formed for informing, motivating, and encouraging Delhiites to accelerate the adoption of EVs in the capital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had, earlier this week, launch the ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign. The social media handles will act as a medium to connect directly with the public, address the grievances of people trying to claim subsidies or any other issues they have in buying EVs, while also sharing success stories and testimonials of EV buyers to motivate other Delhiites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-uses-social-media-to-promote-ev-drive/articleshow/80727905.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK cadres held for staging protest against minister||Coimbatore: The city police arrested 38 DMK cadres for attempting to conduct a black flag protest against municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Vilankurichi Road here on Saturday. They were, however, let off on station bail after registering a case against them. Singanallur MLA N Karthik and DMK cadres had staged a protest last week, demanding the state government to relay the pothole-filled Vilankurichi Road at the earliest.Following this, the state government had decided to relay the damaged road and Velumani was scheduled to inaugurate the road work on Saturday. However, the DMK MLA was not invited by the district administration for the inaugural function as per the protocol.To condemn Velumani, DMK cadres gathered near Tidel Park on Vilankurichi Road around 11am on Saturday and attempted to conduct black flag protest. They also raised slogans against the minister. When Peelamedu (law & order) police inspector T Jothi and team tried to arrest the protestors, they squatted on the road. Police then forcibly removed and arrested 38 of them and kept them in a marriage hall at Peelamedu. Among the arrested were five women DMK workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-cadres-held-for-staging-protest-against-minister/articleshow/80727089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Vashi toll plaza vandalism: Raj Thackeray granted bail||NAVI MUMBAI: MNS chief Raj Thackeray was granted bail on personal bond of Rs 15,000 by the Vashi JMFC court on Saturday. Raj was summoned in connection with an FIR registered against him at the Vashi police station, for allegedly provoking MNS workers to indulge in vandalism at the Vashi toll plaza in January 2014. Raj told the court that he had delivered the speech at Vishnudas Bhave auditorium in Vashi but denied the allegations that he had provoked MNS workers or incited them, said advocate Akshay Kashid, one of the lawyers representing the MNS chief. A local MNS worker stood as guarantor.  The next hearing is on May 5 at Belapur court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/raj-thackeray-granted-bail-in-vashi-toll-vandalism-case/articleshow/80728916.cms||George Mendonca
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Pb school teachers can apply for transfer online||Chandigarh: The Punjab school education department on Saturday opened the online portal to receive transfer applications of teachers, computer teachers, education providers and volunteers under notified Teacher Transfer Policy-2019. State school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the online portal would remain open till February 13 and transfers would be applicable from April 10 or starting of the next academic session 2021-22. Till date as many as 7,300 teachers have already availed the benefits of online transfer policy. During the session 2020-21, transfers of teachers did not take place due to closure of schools in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Teachers who had already applied in session 2020-21, need not to apply again but if they want to rectify any data, they would be allowed to do so. Singla said this year, teachers working in the border areas would also be getting benefits of transfers as fresh recruitments had been done by the government especially, for the border areas. Under the online transfer policy, transfers of the teachers will be done on the merit basis which will be prepared on the basis of marks which will be given for efficiency, co-curricular activities and works done for the transformation of the respective school by the teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-school-teachers-can-apply-for-transfer-online/articleshow/80727903.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||RTO pulls up 3,000 private bus operators across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Over 3,000 private tourist buses flouting Motor Vehicle Rules were booked while over 200 were detained across Maharashtra in a late night operation by RTO on Friday. The special drive went on till Saturday morning in which nearly 1000 buses were caught for violations within the Mumbai metropolitan region in which 50 were seized, officials said. The drive was conducted in the interest of passenger safety and was part of ongoing Road Safety Month which concludes on February 17. The operations were conducted under special directives from state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne and for the first time, as many as 623 RTO officers were on ground at the same time__ keeping a vigil on buses on state and national highways and Expressways besides Eastern and Western Express highways and the arterial road in Mumbai. "The officials booked a total 3,062 buses for various violations across the state of which 213 buses were impounded," said a senior transport official. The violations included driving without permit or licence, operating as stage carriages (halting at stops like BEST or MSRTC), not observing passenger/road safety features such as installation of reflectors, proper indicators, tail lights, wipers etc, buses not being fit for travel or not road-worthy, taxes not paid for the vehicles, illegal changes/modifications made in the bus including increasing number of seats, ferrying more number of passengers than what is permitted among other offences. In the island city, the officials booked 56 buses of which three were impounded for flouting rules. Similarly, 59 buses were booked in the eastern suburbs and 108 in the western suburbs for various violations of which six were seized. In Thane and Navi Mumbai, the RTO officials booked a total 539 buses while they booked 258 buses in Panvel. The maximum buses were detained in Pune -- 43 of a total 472 cases. In Kolhapur, 301 cases were registered against offenders while it was 209 in Dhule. The bus operators are being issued show cause notices, imposed with penalty and will be prosecuted as per the law, an official said. Sources said the RTO will carry out similar checks for overloading of goods in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3062-private-buses-booked-for-making-roads-unsafe-213-vehicles-impounded-in-a-major-rto-drive/articleshow/80727960.cms||Somit Sen
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Drop VSP divestment plan: Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to PM Modi||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the disinvestment plan for the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The chief minister wrote a letter to the Prime Minister requesting him to continue with the largest public sector unit in the state as a public sector enterprise. He also offered that the state “government is ready to work with the Ministry of Steel to protect the jewel of Andhra Pradesh.” Jagan's letter comes close on the heels of the resignation of Visakhapatnam-North legislator and TDP leader Ganta Srinivasa Rao from the state assembly. Moreover, the Left parties organised a huge rally in the steel city on Saturday bringing pressure on the YSRCP leadership. Jagan informed Modi about the attachment that the people of the state have for the plant. He said 32 people had laid down their lives for the plant in the 1970s and added that the plant was announced after a decade long public agitation on “Visakha Ukku – Andhrula Hakku (Vizag steel is Andhra’s right)” in undivided Andhra Pradesh. “The steel plant stands as a testimony to the will of the Telugu people and it is continued as an icon of Telugu achievement in our collective psyche till date,” Jagan said. The chief minister highlighted a few issues to convince Modi to withdraw the disinvestment plan. The lack of allotment of captive mines had pushed VSP into a disadvantageous situation, he said. The plant was paying Rs 5,260 per metric tonne of iron ore, which is more than the competitors, the chief minister said and added that allocation of sufficient reserves of iron ore would help reduce the financial burden. He also referred to the financial burden of the plant and said that it has over Rs 22,000 crore dues to be paid at higher rate of interest. He suggested that this debt or the loans from the banks be converted into equity. Jagan said in the letter that the plant was seeing a V-shaped recovery and had achieved the highest ever capacity utilisation of 6.3 MTPA against its capacity of 7.3 MTPA in December 2020. This performance could be continued for a period of two years to bring the plant into profits from the present losses. The plant was making a monthly profit close to Rs 200 crore, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/drop-vsp-divestment-plan-jagan-to-pm/articleshow/80728911.cms||Gopi Dara
February 7, 2021||Indore||Hope shines bright as Covid cases dip by 76% in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Covid-19 case load in Bhopal has dropped a massive 76% in the past month. Active cases in the state capital during the same period have dipped by 66% of their peak in January. Indore, which has reported over 14846 Covid-19 cases more than Bhopal. Compared, the state capital on Saturday accounted for 20% of all cases reported in Madhya Pradesh. Indore reported 17% of the 162 cases reported in MP on Saturday. Bhopal has the most number of medical colleges and associated hospital in the state. Resulting Covid-19 active cases in Bhopal were 667, compared to 331 active cases in Indore. Gwalior which has reported 6.2% of all Covid-19 cases in the state, had 69 active cases of the infection on Saturday. Jabalpur had 193 active cases. 16,663 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state on Saturday, according to health bulletin. Health experts have often cited case load and linked it with people from other districts seeking higher medical care in urban centres. Same has been the situation in during H1N1 and other outbreaks. For the first time in more than six months, active cases of Covid-19 in the state capital dipped below 700 in the state capital. Earlier in January experts were expressing optimism that slopping curve of cases would further accelerate in the coming weeks. One week into February, backed by vaccination against Covid-19, the number of cases has dropped. A drop in hospitalisation levels is indicative of the dip in cases, said an expert from Gandhi Medical College. It has taken six months and seven days to get to this point. On July 17 when active cases crossed 1000 mark for the first time, total reported cases in Bhopal stood at 3979. In the next 191 calendar days, 38042 people were infected with Covid-19 in Bhopal and 474 of them died. If the R value is less than 1, an epidemic eventually dies out because each infected person generates less than one new infection, cited a recent Lancet study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-cases-further-dip-in-bhopal/articleshow/80729875.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board asked to stop pipe work in forest||NEW DELHI: The forest and wildlife department has issued an order to Delhi Jal Board (DJB), asking it to immediately stop the work of laying down a pipeline in a 5.3km stretch on the Outer Ring Road, which is classified as a deemed forest area. The department in August last year had issued a similar notice to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for carrying out work in the same stretch. A notice issued by the deputy conservator of forests (west) to DJB stated that excavation and trenching work was also observed at the site. “The site was inspected by the official of this division and it was reported that the work of laying of new pipeline within the barricades laid by DMRC and in adjacent area extended by using new barricades. JCB machines were working on excavation and trenching activity on road number 26 (outer ring road),” stated the order. The 5.3-km stretch is listed as a plantation/forest area in an affidavit filed by the conservator of forests before the Supreme Court in the case no. W.P(C) 202 of 1995 in the matter of TN Godavarman vs Union of India and others. “Thus, any construction work in this area, without the prior permission of the Government of India, amounts to the violation of Section-2 of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 and a punishable offence with imprisonment/fine,” said the notice. “Therefore, you are hereby restrained from all kinds of work on this stretch of road no. 26 from Vikaspuri to Peeragarhi Chowk with immediate effect and seek permission from competent authority for the same.” DMRC is yet to receive a fresh permission to carry out work in the area, an official said. TOI did not get any response from DJB on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-asked-to-stop-pipe-work-in-forest/articleshow/80727924.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Hope shines bright as Covid cases dip by 76% in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Covid-19 case load in Bhopal has dropped a massive 76% in the past month. Active cases in the state capital during the same period have dipped by 66% of their peak in January. Indore, which has reported over 14846 Covid-19 cases more than Bhopal. Compared, the state capital on Saturday accounted for 20% of all cases reported in Madhya Pradesh. Indore reported 17% of the 162 cases reported in MP on Saturday. Bhopal has the most number of medical colleges and associated hospital in the state. Resulting Covid-19 active cases in Bhopal were 667, compared to 331 active cases in Indore. Gwalior which has reported 6.2% of all Covid-19 cases in the state, had 69 active cases of the infection on Saturday. Jabalpur had 193 active cases. 16,663 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state on Saturday, according to health bulletin. Health experts have often cited case load and linked it with people from other districts seeking higher medical care in urban centres. Same has been the situation in during H1N1 and other outbreaks. For the first time in more than six months, active cases of Covid-19 in the state capital dipped below 700 in the state capital. Earlier in January experts were expressing optimism that slopping curve of cases would further accelerate in the coming weeks. One week into February, backed by vaccination against Covid-19, the number of cases has dropped. A drop in hospitalisation levels is indicative of the dip in cases, said an expert from Gandhi Medical College. It has taken six months and seven days to get to this point. On July 17 when active cases crossed 1000 mark for the first time, total reported cases in Bhopal stood at 3979. In the next 191 calendar days, 38042 people were infected with Covid-19 in Bhopal and 474 of them died. If the R value is less than 1, an epidemic eventually dies out because each infected person generates less than one new infection, cited a recent Lancet study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-further-dip-in-bhopal/articleshow/80727099.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami phone use: Alibaug jailer suspended||PUNE: The state prisons department on Saturday suspended superintendent of Alibaug district jail Ambadas Patil after he was indicted in a departmental inquiry for allowing Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami to use his cell phone on the night of November 5, 2020. Additional director-general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand told TOI, “An inquiry by Arthur Road central jail superintendent revealed that Patil unlawfully gave his phone to Goswami when he was at the makeshift quarantine centre at Alibaug civic school for communication with an outsider.” Ramanand said, “The inquiry officer relied on the statement of a jail guard, who had seen Patil handing over his phone to Goswami, for communicating with an outsider for more than two minutes. Patil’s call data records and personal details of the caller show that a call was made from his phone late that night.” The prison chief said inmates cannot communicate with family or relatives after closing hours at jail, except in an emergency, like medical treatment. “The report submitted few days back shows that there is clear-cut evidence against Patil. After the report was placed before me, I took a call to suspend him under Maharashtra civil service rules,” he said. “The inspector-general of prisons (Byculla) has been instructed to hand over charge of Patil, an official of senior rank, to a competent officer for handling daily administrative work at Alibaug jail,” he added. Patil was not available for comment despite repeated calls. The prisons department had earlier suspended two staff of the jail where Goswami and two other accused in an abetment to suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik were previously lodged on November 10 last year after they allowed some inmates to use their cell phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/alibaug-jail-chief-suspended-for-letting-arnab-use-cell-phone/articleshow/80728063.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Advised to attend classes online, student ends life||HYDERABAD: A class 10 student, who was advised by his teacher to attend online classes instead of physical ones because of a pending enquiry against the former, committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling at his residence in Challapur village in Vikarabad district on Friday night. Vikarabad police said the 16-year-old government school student was found dead by his family members at their residence. Later, police were informed about the minor’s suicide. Police officials recovered a suicide note from the spot. In the note, according to the police, the minor stated that his teacher had counselled him not to come to school and asked him to take classes online, “hence committing suicide”. Police during their investigation found that in February 2020, the boy was caught for misconduct and a decision was taken by his school authorities to give him transfer certificate (TC). “After he was caught for misconduct in class 9, he was counselled by his teachers and his parents were also informed. The school authorities decided to give him TC in February, but in the meanwhile, classes were suspended due to Covid-19. So, through online classes, he continued his schooling and attended class 10,’’ Vikarabad superintendent of police Narayana told TOI. According to him, when the schools reopened on February 1, the minor went to school on February 2. On seeing him, his teacher advised him not to come to school since his issue (misconduct) was yet to be resolved. Vikarabad cops book abetment to suicide case“The teacher, to avoid trouble for the minor boy, advised him to take online classes since the exams are fast approaching and there is every possibility of he facing problems if anyone in the school takes objection to him attending the school physically due to a previous complaint against him,” the SP said. Following this, the boy ended his life by hanging. Police have registered a case of abetment to suicide, but the teacher has not been made an accused as of now. After investigation, if they find any evidence like reprimanding and humiliating the boy, then the teacher would be made an accused, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/told-to-attend-classes-online-student-ends-life/articleshow/80728917.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: After setbacks, TRS back to grassroots, sets up panels||HYDERABAD: With electoral setbacks in Dubbak and GHMC polls, TRS has decided to activate party cadre from village to district level. The party has decided to focus on strengthening party committees, which are instrumental to take the party programmes to the people. The party feels though it has over 60 lakh members and has been implementing schemes like insurance to each worker, it has not been able to utilise their services effectively in taking the programmes to each and every household. “Our party has committees at village, mandal and assembly constituency. In urban local bodies, TRS has town and ward committees. However, the committees have become ornamental and local MLA runs the show. There is a gap between the committee (party leaders) and MLAs in some assembly constituencies,” a senior functionary of the party said. Though the party has general secretaries, secretaries as state body, there are no district-level committee and presidents for the past five years and heads for wings like women and students. “Our rival party, BJP, has dedicated workers with limited resources. BJP is more active on social media. We too have a social media committee, but almost defunct,” a party general secretary said. TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who is going to address the party’s extended executive meeting on Sunday, is likely to guide the leaders on taking up membership and appointment of committees from village to state level before the party plenary and election of president. “The party chief will take a call on whether to have committees only up to assembly constituency level or even up to district level. If district committees are appointed, the CM will decide whether they will be for old districts or all 33 new districts. Till 2015, TRS had district convenor and Rangareddy had two district units — Rangareddy East and Vikarabad. Even BJP divided Greater Hyderabad into four party districts and appointed presidents,” a party leader said. Old-timers recall, there were ‘Udyama committee’ (2013-2015) for the party in each district to take forward the Telangana statehood movement. Meanwhile, the party president election is taking place, though a formality, after four years. Last time, the TRS president election was held during the 2017 party plenary and the term ends in April 2021. As per the Election Commission of India (ECI), it is mandatory to conduct elections for president post and appoint executive committee. The president election was initially for two years, the party constitution was amended earlier and made for four-year term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-setbacks-trs-back-to-grassroots-sets-up-panels/articleshow/80727930.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two charged with rioting granted bail||NEW DELHI: Two men accused of rioting and damaging a school from the rooftop of another during the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020 have been granted bail by a Delhi court. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav referred to a Delhi High Court order, which allowed bail to a co-accused, and observed that the witnesses hadn’t identified the accused, and named them much later, thereby creating doubts over their identification. “The investigation in the matter is complete and chargesheet filed, while the trial is likely to take longer. Applicants cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity on account of the fact that other people have to be identified and arrested,” the court held. The counsels — Abdul Gaffar and Ravindra Narayan — appearing for Irshad and Sirjuddin stressed that their clients, too, were entitled to bail. The court noted that the witness hadn’t named the accused in his statements recorded on March 8 and March 11, but did so on March 24, creating doubt on the identification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-charged-with-rioting-granted-bail/articleshow/80727967.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC seat: Tussle for TRS ticket intensifies||HYDERABAD: With notification for MLC polls for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda and Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituencies expected in a week, demand for the latter ticket in the TRS has soared. With the party leadership’s backing, sitting MLC from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency Palla Rajeshwar Reddy has already begun the campaign in the three districts. Party leaders said Rajeshwar’s re-nomination is only a formality. The ruling party, however, is yet to name its candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. Nearly half a dozen leaders are eyeing the seat. Some of them have already met TRS working president KT Rama Rao. Initially, outgoing GHMC mayor Bonthu Rammohan was keen on the MLC ticket. But now, he is believed to be asking mayoral post for his wife Sridevi Yadav, who won as a corporator from Cherlapally division. He is also eyeing the Uppal assembly ticket in the 2023 elections. Party sources said there is a demand from party leaders to give the ticket to a candidate from outside Hyderabad, especially Mahbubnagar district, to cash in on voter turnout from rural areas going by the trend in the previous elections. The term of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda MLCs will expire on March 29. The Election Commission of India has already completed the process of preparation of electoral rolls for both the constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-rr-mnagar-mlc-seat-tussle-for-trs-ticket-intensifies/articleshow/80727936.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 7, 2021||Meerut||Delhi cops serve notices to UP farmers, gurdwara priest for ‘attempt to murder’||MEERUT/PILIBHIT: Delhi Police reached parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Saturday and served legal notices to nine farm leaders in Baghpat and an elderly gurdwara priest in Pilibhit with charges of "attempt to murder" and "rioting" for their alleged involvement in the Republic Day violence at Red Fort. The chief priest, Baba Gurtej Singh, has been asked to provide the particulars of a tractor which had belonged to the gurdwara and purportedly seen in CCTV footage at the Red Fort on January 26. According to police, the priest, who is around 60 years old, must divulge the names and addresses of those using the tractor. In Baghpat, the nine farm leaders who were charged included a former MLA. "On January 25, we left Baghpat for Delhi but returned from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. On Republic Day, we received frantic calls of villagers' tractors being attacked and tyres punctured at the Red Fort. So, we reached the Red Fort in the evening with some food and changed the tyres to help them return. We came back the same day. These are false notices, a political witch-hunt. We have no hand in the violence," Veerpal Rathi, the former MLA, told TOI. A day earlier, the police team from Delhi reached Baraut Kotwali and informed the local cops about the notices. Dhirender Singh, inspector at Kotwali, told TOI, "They had nine notices to be served seeking information about the whereabouts on January 26." One of the notices issued by Seemapuri police station which TOI got access to mentions about the FIR filed against the nine individuals under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 427 (mischief causing damage) and relevant provisions of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. The notice also directed the accused to remain present at the police station in Delhi on Wednesday. Other names on the list include chief patron of district Jat Mahasabha Vinod Khera, Khap leader Brijpal Chaudhary and farm leader Baljor Singh Arya. Facing similar charges, the Pilibhit chief priest was booked by Delhi Police at Pandav Nagar police station on January 27 under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy), among others. Assistant priest Kuldeep Singh received the notice as the chief priest wasn't present in the gurdwara on Saturday. He has been given a fortnight's time to reply, sources said. When contacted, Pilibhit SP Jai Prakash Yadav told TOI, "A seven-member team of Delhi Police special cell headed by inspector Suresh Pal Rana arrived at Pilibhit and served a notice to the chief priest of Gurdwara Sahbajpur. The team coordinated with the local police of Puranpur Kotwali." Citing "mental harassment of the farm leaders" by police and local administration, farmers in Baghpat have now threatened a "massive panchayat".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/r-day-violence-delhi-cops-serve-notices-to-farmers-gurdwara-priest-in-up-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/80726657.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bareilly||Delhi cops serve notices to UP farmers, gurdwara priest for ‘attempt to murder’||MEERUT/PILIBHIT: Delhi Police reached parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Saturday and served legal notices to nine farm leaders in Baghpat and an elderly gurdwara priest in Pilibhit with charges of "attempt to murder" and "rioting" for their alleged involvement in the Republic Day violence at Red Fort. The chief priest, Baba Gurtej Singh, has been asked to provide the particulars of a tractor which had belonged to the gurdwara and purportedly seen in CCTV footage at the Red Fort on January 26. According to police, the priest, who is around 60 years old, must divulge the names and addresses of those using the tractor. In Baghpat, the nine farm leaders who were charged included a former MLA. "On January 25, we left Baghpat for Delhi but returned from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. On Republic Day, we received frantic calls of villagers' tractors being attacked and tyres punctured at the Red Fort. So, we reached the Red Fort in the evening with some food and changed the tyres to help them return. We came back the same day. These are false notices, a political witch-hunt. We have no hand in the violence," Veerpal Rathi, the former MLA, told TOI. A day earlier, the police team from Delhi reached Baraut Kotwali and informed the local cops about the notices. Dhirender Singh, inspector at Kotwali, told TOI, "They had nine notices to be served seeking information about the whereabouts on January 26." One of the notices issued by Seemapuri police station which TOI got access to mentions about the FIR filed against the nine individuals under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 427 (mischief causing damage) and relevant provisions of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. The notice also directed the accused to remain present at the police station in Delhi on Wednesday. Other names on the list include chief patron of district Jat Mahasabha Vinod Khera, Khap leader Brijpal Chaudhary and farm leader Baljor Singh Arya. Facing similar charges, the Pilibhit chief priest was booked by Delhi Police at Pandav Nagar police station on January 27 under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy), among others. Assistant priest Kuldeep Singh received the notice as the chief priest wasn't present in the gurdwara on Saturday. He has been given a fortnight's time to reply, sources said. When contacted, Pilibhit SP Jai Prakash Yadav told TOI, "A seven-member team of Delhi Police special cell headed by inspector Suresh Pal Rana arrived at Pilibhit and served a notice to the chief priest of Gurdwara Sahbajpur. The team coordinated with the local police of Puranpur Kotwali." Citing "mental harassment of the farm leaders" by police and local administration, farmers in Baghpat have now threatened a "massive panchayat".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/r-day-violence-delhi-cops-serve-notices-to-farmers-gurdwara-priest-in-up-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/80733543.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||MP: No new Covid cases in 19 districts, 315 more recover; but positivity still above 1%||BHOPAL: Tally of Covid-19 cases reached 256214 as 197 fresh positive cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday. Apart from the fresh cases, 1 death was reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. A Covid-19 patient was reported dead in Betul district on Saturday. With the new casualty, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has reached 3820. On Saturday new cases were reported only from 33 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Saturday include Ratlam, Rewa, Hoshangabad, Shahdol, Dewas, Barwani, Raisen, Rajgarh, Harda, Singrauli, Guna, Bhind, Umaria, Tikamgarh, Alirajpur, Mandla, Dindori, Burhanpur and Agar Malwa. Of these 33 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from three districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Bhopal where 90 tested positive, followed by Indore where 22 tested positive and Jabalpur where 14 tested positive. On the brighter side, 315 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 250320. A total of 17063 samples were tested on Saturday and out of it, 197 tested positive, thus a positive rate — which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested — for Saturday stood at 1.1%. As on February 6, there were 2074 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-new-covid-cases-in-19-dists-315-more-recover-but-positivity-still-above-1/articleshow/80727102.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: Two held for killing, burning 16-year-old||MEERUT: A 16-year-old's charred body was found in Kotwali area in the district on Saturday morning. The body was later identified to be of Ashraf, a resident of Lisari Gate area, police said. A blood-stained stone was found from the spot and an injury on the head indicated that the teen was murdered before his body was burnt. Based on CCTV surveillance and manual input, police ascertained the identity of the deceased and later, detained two suspects -- Bilal and Shantanu. According to police, during interrogation, the duo confessed to having killed Ashraf, a drug addict, in a fit of rage following a dispute. They said they hit Ashraf on the head using a stone and later, burnt his body to conceal his identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-held-for-killing-burning-16-year-old/articleshow/80726651.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Anvay Naik case: Arnab Goswami skips hearing again||NAVI MUMBAI: Arnab Goswami, Firoze Sheikh and Nitesh Sarda, accused in the abetment of suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik, did not appear for the second hearing in Alibaug magistrate court on Saturday. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat said they again submitted an application seeking exemption. Arnab’s lawyer told the court of the chief judicial magistrate that he had bronchitis. “But I objected to their application,” Gharat said. The third accused submitted an application in Alibag sessions court seeking discharge from the case, claiming he had not committed the offence. “As the accused’s lawyer was apprehensive that we will demand his arrest warrant, I have told the magistrate that we will not demand the arrest warrant till we obtain a stay on the accused’s application for exemption from appearance,” Gharat said. He said, “For committing the case for trial, the magistrate has posted the matter for hearing on March 10. The chief judicial magistrate has warned that if the accused are not present, stringent action will be taken against them.” Gharat added, “My say before court, regarding Goswami’s reason for not attending the hearing, was that if his lawyer prays before court that he should be allowed to sit on the bench during hearing, I will not object.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/anvay-case-arnab-skips-hearing-again/articleshow/80728064.cms||George Mendonca
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Social activist Varkatam Jagannadh Reddy for MLC seat?||HYDERABAD: Sources say TRS is considering social activist and educationist Varkatam Jagannadh Reddy, hailing from Makthal, for the MLC seat. District ministers — S Niranjan Reddy and V Srinivas Goud — are reportedly supporting his candidature. Jagannadh has reportedly met KTR. Former Telangana State Beverages Corporation Ltd chairman Devi Prasad Rao, TRS Malkajgiri Lok Sabha constituency incharge Marri Rajasekhar Reddy and CM’s OSD Deshapati Srinivas are also in the race. Previously, Devi Prasad, who was also an employees’ union leader, contested but lost to BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao. Leaders like Kasani Veeresh are also tying for TRS ticket under BC quota. The three districts where the MLC polls will be held have more number of BC voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-activist-jagannadh-for-mlc-seat/articleshow/80727966.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal court convicts four Pharma students for ragging junior||BHOPAL: A sessions court in Bhopal has convicted four students of RKDF Pharmacy College for ragging and abetment to suicide of a junior student and sentenced them to five years of imprisonment each. The girls were accused of driving their junior, Anita Sharma, to take the extreme step. The court of additional district & sessions judge, Amit Ranjan, pronounced the senior students guilty and awarded them five years of imprisonment. A case was registered in this regard against the four girls under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on charges of abetment to suicide. The court, however, acquitted a teacher of the institute, who was made a co-accused in the case. The accused- Nidhi Magre, Dipti Solanki, Divyanshi Sharma, and Kriti Gaur have been sentenced for the ragging case reported in 2013. Anita Sharma, an 18-year old B Pharm second year student at RKDF Institute of Pharmacy, had committed suicide by hanging at her residence in 2013. In her suicide note, she had accused the girls in question of subjecting her to torture in the name of ragging ever since she joined the college, so much so that she was even ‘forced her to write their mid-semester copies.’ She claimed that when she tried to inform the authorities about the ragging, Anita was advised to obey her seniors and live with it.In her suicide note, she wrote, “only I know how I have suffered the ragging of these four till now.” The deceased clearly named the four senior students in the note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-court-convicts-four-pharma-students-for-ragging-jr/articleshow/80727142.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s new skyscraper: 44 floors; more highrises to break new ground||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad’s skyline is all set to change with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) approving what will be the city’s tallest skyscraper thus far. Officials gave the nod to Sumadhura Group’s 44-storey residential apartment in the Financial District at Nanakramguda. The new structure will be 153 metres (501 feet) tall. Until now, the tallest building in the city had 42 floors. Sources in GHMC told TOI that this is only the tip of the iceberg. Two applications by builders to construct 55-storey high-rises in Pupalaguda and Narsingi near the IT corridor were put on hold by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) officials recently. Sources said the authorities want to be doubly sure that such tall structures don’t lead to more traffic chaos in the already congested part of the city. GHMC records reveal that more tall buildings are underway. In 2021 till February 6, authorities had received 10 building permission applications for high-rises, eight of which have already been cleared. Most of these are about 25 floors high. Nanakramguda (Gachibowli), Miyapur and Khajaguda are some of the places where these buildings are coming up. In 2020, 95 permissions for high-rise buildings were given. Located adjacent to Waverock (special economic zone), the twin towers with 44 floors each are coming on 5.5 acre land. “The project has just started, there are 846 flats in the two towers,” said an executive of Sumadhura Group. “Study pertaining to traffic congestion is done in detail when an application is received. Traffic report given priority before nodTraffic assessment reports from empaneled agencies should be produced by builders. Traffic density should not be compromised especially in greenfield satellite townships in Kokapet and Tellapur,” said municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) principal secretary, Arvind Kumar. According to GHMC officials traffic assessment was given priority while granting the permission to the tallest building. “The assessment was thoroughly checked while granting permission by GHMC apart from following the routine procedures,” said RP Naik, additional chief city planner, GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyds-new-skyscraper-44-floors-more-high-rises-to-break-new-ground/articleshow/80728925.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Check dams to help Asola animals||NEW DELHI: The forest department of Delhi government has built 45 check dams in Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary to prevent soil erosion, conserve rainwater and raise groundwater table to help wildlife and improve plantation. Forest officials said nearly 40 additional check dams would be constructed in the sanctuary by March-end. When Delhi receives rains in monsoon, around 85 check dams would be ready that would act as perennial pools for wild animals, they added. Eight rain-fed streams ranging from six kilometres to 11 kilometres length have been identified on which check dams are being constructed. “During monsoon, rain washes and takes away water and top soil to city drains. The purpose of building check dams is to ensure that runoff does not take place. The water, which will be collected on the side of check dams, will slowly turn into perennial pools. The check dams are being made manually without any disturbance in the forest and no machinery has been used,” said Sohail Madan, head, Conservation Education Centre, Bombay Natural History Society, which has been helping the forest department in the project. A forest official said the check dams would help in improving soil quality, which would further assist in improving vegetation and replenishing the groundwater. Three types of check dams—gabions, sand dams and grass dams— have been made. Gabions are stone and wire mesh structures, sand dams are made up of sandstone and soil and under grass dams, water is stopped with the help of wooden planks and local grasses are planted to create a wetland. “The location of check dams has been strategically chosen as they run through important wildlife habitats and migration routes. It will help birds and animals, including nilgai, leopards, monkeys and golden jackals, in terms of their water requirement,” said Madan. The construction of check dams began in August last year. “We have built 45 check dams so far and nearly 40 additional check dams will be ready by March-end. When Delhi receives monsoon rains, they would be functional,” said Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forests (South). Grasses are being planted to improve the habitat of wildlife, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/check-dams-to-help-asola-animals/articleshow/80728030.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Cong shows solidarity with farmers, stages ‘chakka jam’||Bhopal: State Congress on Saturday extended support to Chakka Jam protest called by farmers’ unions. Former chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh and Congress workers of Guna joined the chakka jam of National Highway 3 led by the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanyay Samiti, Guna. Addressing the demonstration, Digvijaya Singh said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced demonetisation claiming it will end corruption and black money. “PM announced demonetisation and claimed he will end black-marketeering and get black money stashed in foreign countries. He said corruption and terrorism will end,” Digvijaya Singh said. “But none of what was promised happened. All the laws that this Union government passed is against farmers, workers and the poor. This is why we are protesting here today,” he explained. In the state capital, Congress workers joined farmers’ in their highway block protest on National Highway 12, on the outskirts. “Today throughout the country, in support of farmers, there is Chakka Jam protest from noon to 3 pm. We are protesting for the withdrawal of the black laws brought by Narendra Modi,” said former minister Sajjan Singh Verma. “Nothing reaches his ears so that he can pay heed to what is being said, we are supporting farmers in their protest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-shows-solidarity-with-farmers-stages-chakka-jam/articleshow/80727163.cms||Suchandana Gupta
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||144 volunteers get Sputnik jab at Mumbai’s St George’s hospital||MUMBAI: In an ongoing clinical trial, 144 volunteers here received the Russian Covid-19 vaccine since January 21. The trial is being carried out at the state government-run St George’s Hospital near CSMT. Last week, a study in the international medical journal ‘The Lancet’, showed that the Russian vaccine was 91.6% effective in controlling symptoms of Covid-19. At present, India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme is dominated by Oxford University’s Covishied vaccine manufactured in India by Serum Institute (Pune). Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech (Hyderabad), has got a clinical trial mode clearance and is being given in 11 states, including Maharashtra. Dr Reddy’s has partnered along with Russian Direct Investment Fund to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and its distribution rights in India. It received approval from Drugs Control General of India last month to conduct phase 3 trials. “Of 1,500 volunteers chosen across the country for clinical trial phase 3, we gave the first shot to 144,’’ said St George’s medical superintendent Dr Akash Khobragade. The hospital conducted phase 2 trials for Sputnik in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/144-volunteers-get-sputnik-jab-at-mumbais-st-georges-hosp/articleshow/80728065.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||New pre-litigation centre aims to talk couples out of divorce||On the third floor of a Thane building where relationships go to die, fresh green life is shooting out of tired yellow walls. Along the stairs leading up to the fourth floor of the family court here, kitschy cola bottles with plants jutting out of them now guide visitors to a room with mosaic-tiled stone seating, a small dispensary-like closed office and potted ferns. The warm decor is meant to distract the cold spouses who, for about a month now, have been walking into this room along with a plain-clothed cop. “The idea is for them to forget they are inside a court," says Thane family court Judge Aruna Farswani as she picks out glass centerpieces on her phone this evening for ‘Let’s Talk’, the court’s newly born pre-litigation counselling centre or PLC, whose main job is to talk couples undergoing marital stress out of filing for divorce. While the Thane family court already has a marriage counsellor who guides couples through the many complexities of an official split, the free-of-cost PLC, inaugurated on January 9 this year by the Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority and the family court Thane, is open to married couples as well as senior citizens who want to resolve their disputes amicably without resorting to litigation. Barely a month into its launch, the PLC has seen nearly 11 cases coming in from the nearby Women and Children cell of Thane (rural) police. And the genial cop from the crime branch who has been escorting the couples to the centre, which functions on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, for nearly a month, seems impressed. “The counsellors do not rush the sessions,” he says. “They calmly speak to each party separately first, then call them in together and follow up the next week." Through the interventions of its three Marathi-speaking counsellors, the centre is looking to reduce the workload of the legal system. The court in which it is housed, has been dealing with an average of 1,000 divorce cases a year since 2017. In 2020, when this family court was closed for two months during the lockdown, it received over 700 divorce applications. Over the years, Thane family court’s lone marriage counsellor Deepali Tompe has informally addressed the concerns of many couples going through marital distress before litigation. "Now, they will get a formal platform," says Tompe, adding that typically when a lay person comes in, they tend to be befuddled by the legal process. Their concerns surface in the Thane PLC. “Are you going to be part of the court trial?” some ask Mrunmayee Agnihotri, one of three counsellors at Thane’s Let’s Talk.' “It helps when they see that no one is noting down things and that their confidentiality is assured,” says Agnihotri, who recalls a client recently telling her she felt “comfortable” in that room. Emotional, mental, physical and financial—many festering issues can spell marital discord and sometimes separation may be the best solution, says Agnihotri. But at other times, when the issues are not within the couple so much as the family, there’s scope for an amicable resolution, she says. A peaceful resolution, if not reconciliation, is the unspoken goal. “Typically, a lot of emotional distress leads up to the point when couples decide to file for divorce. They end up seeking help from friends or family. This centre helps them express that distress in a safe space away from the presence of cops or lawyers,” says counsellor Dr Amrita Joshi, part of the monitoring task force that established such pastel PLCs in Thane, Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad over the past three years. At Bombay high court, where the PLC has completed three years, clinical interventions consultant Vishakha Punjani has noticed clients seeing through their own pettiness. “Sometimes, they confess to feeling a sense of revenge or power struggle against the spouse. They either decide to reconcile or, at least, settle for a peaceful divorce by mutual consent." Among her recent clients was an elderly woman client who felt reduced to a maid in her own home thanks to an emotionally absent professor husband. The couple’s misgivings abated when the woman’s son visited the PLC and coaxed the couple to communicate. Resolution came when she decided to start a tiffin service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-pre-litigation-centre-aims-to-talk-couples-out-of-divorce/articleshow/80728945.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Housing society rapped for nomination by bed-ridden member||MUMBAI: Rapping a Breach Candy housing society for taking advantage of Covid-19 lockdown to accept a purported nomination made by a bed-ridden member seven years ago, the deputy registrar of cooperative societies (D ward) directed it to immediately cancel it. Bharat Vaswani had complained against Paradise Apartments Co-op Housing Society. In January 2008, his mother Indira nominated him and his wife Rishika to the flat and garage. His brother Harish had signed as a witnesses and said he had no objection. On June 11, 2020, the society wrote to Indira that it had accepted her 61:39% joint nomination made on December 26, 2013, in favour of Bharat and Harish. Bharat’s complaint said since March 2013 his mother (now 87) was bedridden after suffering a heart attack and paralytic stroke and was physically and mentally incapacitated. His advocate, Jamsheed Master, argued that Bharat was kept in the dark and the managing committee met during lockdown. He submitted a letter of former secretary Vashu Sumaya that the managing committee in February 2017 decided not to act on the nomination. Sumaya had visited Indira and found her bedridden. Harish was told to file the nomination afresh as two witnesses in 2014 withdrew their signatures. Deputy registrar Avinash Bhagwat, in his order, said Harish did not pursue the matter while Sumaya held the post till December 2017. A new committee was formed in 2018. Bhagwat noted that the hospital discharge report of April 20, 2013, showed Indira’s right side was affected. “Therefore that Indira Vaswani in December 2013 would have signed the nomination form seems doubtful,’’ he said in his December 20, 2020, order. Bhagwat said Harish’s contention that his mother had been to Worli in June 2018 to sign the leave and licence papers prima facie cannot be accepted as the process was online. The society’s advocate said it relied on legal advice that witnesses cannot withdraw signatures. Bhagwat said it was not possible to accept submissions of Harish and the society. “Therefore, the society not informing Bharat Vaswani about the December 2013 nomination and during lockdown on June9, 2020, passing a resolution to accept it is illegal,” he said. Also, the society had to conduct an inquiry rather than act on the nomination of 2013 in 2020. He held the society’s June 9 acceptance of nomination was “incorrect and illegal” and directed its chairman/secretary to immediately cancel it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sobo-hsg-socy-rapped-for-accepting-nomination-by-bed-ridden-member/articleshow/80728066.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Not just mail, new-age dakiya to deliver vaccines & prasadam||HYDERABAD: The department of posts (DoP) aka India Post is witnessing an overhaul of sorts. Thanks to digital surge, the postman is able to deliver whatever the customer. needs. From PPE kits to vaccines, from Aasara pensions to MGNREGS wages and documents, you name it, khaki-clad ‘dakiya’ or the good old postman is at your doorstep delivering them. Explaining the drastic change in the way the department operates, chief postmaster general (CPMG), Telangana, S Rajendra Kumar tells STOI that the buzzword in the postal department is digitalisation. “We embraced the digital world (GPS technology) and shifted gears from British-era conventional practices. Our ultimate goal is to make sure customers get their parcels quickly,” he says. For instance, over 75 mail vans delivered crores of rupees worth medical equipment like PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers to every nook and cranny of Telangana during the lockdown. “Our vans travel on 56 national routes connecting 75 major cities to deliver goods under first mile and last mile connectivity,” the CPMG avers. He said thanks to the vast network of India Post, customers residing in areas with no access to banks or any other mode of communication are able to get services like core banking, insurance and e-commerce with just a click of the mouse. “We are overcoming multiple challenges by accepting the new generation technology,” he said. Soon, the department will tie up with endowments department and start delivering prasadams of reputed shrines in Telangana. All the mail vans are now equipped with GPS technology. Beginning with lifting of the material to reaching the destination, the well-trained staff ensure that the parcel is delivered quickly and safely. S Srinivas, sitting in his mail motor service office at Koti, tracks the movement of every mail van carrying key documents to the earmarked destinations on his smart phone. “The consignment tracking system on the web portal has made our task easy,” the assistant manager says. B Sudarshan, senior postman in Secunderabad GPO, says technology has been of great help to them. He tallies a customer’s data on his smart phone while delivering a bulk parcel received from abroad. Despite the scare during the pandemic, the postmen disbursed Rs 340 crore to over 14.84 lakh dailywage workers of MGNREGS at their doorsteps. “Our men effectively handled this task through e-POS hand-held machines which are equipped with GPS technology,” Rajendra Kumar explained. Rajendra Kumar has the last word on the humble postman. Quoting former president APJ Abdul Kalam, he says: “We find hidden reserves of courage and resilience we did not know we had. We are the unsung heroes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-just-mail-new-age-dakiya-to-deliver-vaccines-prasadam/articleshow/80728026.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actress-model held for role in Madh porn video racket||MUMBAI: Actress and model Gehana Vasisth was arrested for her role in shooting and uploading porn videos on her website. Police also stumbled upon the involvement of more models, side actresses and some production houses which edited and uploaded the films shot by the gang on mobile apps and websites. Gehana, who had won the Miss Asia Bikini crown, has featured in advertisements, Hindi and Telugu cinema, was questioned on Saturday afternoon. “She has shot 87 obscene/porn videos and uploaded them on her websites, which require a subscription to watch. Those who have subscribed to the channel have to pay Rs2,000,’’ said a senior police official. She will be produced in court on Sunday. Police said at least three more victims have complained to the property cell that they were forced into doing roles in porn films. The cell had on Thursday raided Green Park bungalow at Madh Island in Malad and arrested Yasmin Beg Khan alias Rowa, Pratibha Nalawade, Monu Gopaldas Joshi, Bhanusuryam Thakur and Mohammed Asif alias Saify. A victim who was rescued was sent for rehabilitation. Police seized three bank accounts in which there was a balance of Rs 36 lakh, generated through subscriptions of their apps. Police said that Yasmin was the producer and director, Saify the cameraman, Pratiba graphic designer, Joshi acted and Thakur an assistant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actress-held-for-her-role-in-porn-video-racket/articleshow/80728067.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 7, 2021||Patna||Jewellery worth Rs 90 lakh looted in Bihar's Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: Four bike-borne criminals looted jewellery worth around Rs90 lakh from the employees of a jewellery shop in Sujaganj market area of the town on Saturday morning. Jeweller Vishal Anand lodged an FIR with Kotwali police station in this connection. Bhagalpur SSP Natasha Gudia told this newspaper that a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate the case. “We will get important lead in the case and recover the looted articles very soon,” she said. City ASP Puran Jha said Anand’s staff Abhishek had brought the consignment from Kolkata by Howrah-Jamalpur Super Express at 6am. Anand’s another employee, Babu Saheb, had gone to the railway station on a bike to receive Abhishek. When the two reached near the Variety Chowk, four armed criminals on two other bikes intercepted them, snatched the bag containing about 1.85kg of gold jewellery and sped away. Jha said the employees were carrying the consignment to Anand’s jewellery shop. When asked whether there was any valid document of the jewellery, the ASP said police will ask Anand for that, but they were focused on recovering the jewellery first. He said the jeweller has mentioned the specific amount. The jeweller did not respond to several phone calls and WhatsApp messages. Kotwali police questioned Vishal and his staff. They were also screening the CCTV camera footages of the nearby and the main market areas. Police sources said the criminals involved in the loot must have specific information about the consignment and some insider could also be involved in the loot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jewellery-worth-rs90-lakh-looted-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/80727174.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four peddlers held with 24kg ganja||HYDERABAD: Excise enforcement team arrested four peddlers and seized 24.1kg of ganja and a bike from their possession. The team intercepted two peddlers—Raju Singh, 35, of Ibrahimbagh and Pooja Bai, 32, of Shankarpally—at Ibrahimbagh near Taramati Baradari and seized 21.2kg ganja from their possession. Pooja’s husband Naresh Singh was arrested in possession of 20kg of ganja four months ago and is in judicial remand. After Naresh’s arrest, Pooja along with her brother in law, Raju has been selling ganja to customers at Rs 1,000 for 30gm. “She recently purchased 1kg ganja from a peddler in Karnataka for Rs 4,000,” assistant excise superintendant N Anji Reddy said. The excise team also raided a house in Jawahar Nagar, Yousufguda and seized 1.1 kg ganja from A Tarun Kumar, 36. Tarun told excise officials that he procured the ganja from Araku in Visakhapatnam for Rs 4,500 a kg. Subsequently, excise sleuths raided a house in Mangalhat near Shivanand Hotel and seized 1.8kg ganja from Rajesh Singh, 43. Rajesh confessed that the ganja was supplied to him by Laddu Singh and Vinod Singh, absconding accused from Dhoolpet. The peddlers were handed over to concerned stations for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-peddlers-held-with-24kg-ganja/articleshow/80728071.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC starts water tax recovery drive; citizens ask for bills||Aurangabad: The civic body, as a part of its ongoing tax recovery drive, has been asking citizens to pay their water tax even though the bills have been not issued for at least five years. With stern action — in the form of disconnection of water supply — being taken against some defaulters, citizens are now demanding delivery of bills in order to get the exact picture on the dues pending at their end. Manohar Relgaokar, a resident of the N-11 sector, said it makes no sense for the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to prevail upon citizens for payment of water tax dies without issuing bills. “I receive bills towards property tax and I make timely payment for the same. However, that is not the case with water tax,” he said. As per the official data, AMC has collected around Rs 18.7 crore towards recovery of water tax, as against the total outstanding dues of Rs 70 crore. When contacted, Aparna Thete, the head of the AMC’s tax-recovery task force, said the distribution of water bills to citizens was expected to start within a few weeks. “The entire database of the city’s water supply was with the Aurangabad City Water Utility Company Limited, a private firm with which the AMC has recently parted ways. There were certain delays in taking custody of the database, including details of more than 1.35 lakh water supply connections. Therefore, we could not issue the bills,” she said. Thete said AMC the has been also developing a system for online payment of water tax. “Currently, citizens can view and pay only their property tax online. They would soon be able to pay water tax also along the same lines. The necessary arrangement will be in addition to distribution to physical copies of water bills,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-starts-water-tax-recovery-drive-citizens-ask-for-bills/articleshow/80727176.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Despite complaints illegal godowns flourish at Mumbai's Mankhurd fire site||MUMBAI: Fire brigade personnel extinguished the blaze at Mandala scrapyard, adjoining Deonar dumping ground, after a 22-hour struggle on Saturday noon. Some politicians alleged that no action was taken against illegal structures despite repeated complaints. MLA Abu Asim Azmi from Mankhurd had alleged that the godowns were illegal and they encroached onto 15 acres of revenue land. He claimed that most activities there were illegal and a mafia operated. Party colleague, Samajwadi Party group leader in BMC and MLA Rais Shaikh, said, “Our party demanded a detailed inquiry. We want accountability to be fixed on officials for not taking action against illegal godowns despite repeated complaints. The collector visited the area last month but nothing has changed.” Times ViewThe burning of scrap material inside dumping grounds by ragpickers and other illegal entrants, to retrieve stuff that is usable and saleable, is well-known. Yet there has been no crackdown on such activities, nor have there been efforts to keep intruders away from such places. Officials who allow such illegal activities to go on unchecked must be held accountable and the rules strictly enforced.The fire, which created panic in the area and affected traffic on the Eastern Freeway on Friday. Several BEST buses were diverted due to the fire. The area is densely populated, with several large slum pockets. Commuters had said that the Freeway was jammed till Wadala on the northbound arm. “I left Fort at 6.30pm and reached Chembur at 8:30pm and the entire road was jammed,” said Vaibhav Chavan, a commuter. Nine fire engines, three foam tenders and 14 jumbo water tankers doused the fire, reported at 2.30pm, which destroyed 35 scrap material godowns. Officials said the fire was confined to large stock of chemical and sludge oil drums. They said chemical and oil drums caused minor explosions and a fireman, Harish Nadkar (40), was injured. Vakil Khan who runs a school in the area, said the fire brigade reached on time and stopped the blaze from spreading to neighbouring slums. , or else many people would have been injured. The scrapyard in Mankhurd (E) is known as Kurla scrap plot as most godowns had shifted from Kurla many years back after BMC demolished illegal structures there while widening Mithi river. Nazim Ali, whose timber godown was destroyed, when asked about the legality of the structure, said, “I am running the business for 12 years at this place.” 1/9Photos: Massive fire breaks out at a scrapyard in Mankhurd, one firefighter injured Previous NextShow Captions<p>A major fire broke out at a scrapyard in Mankhurd’s Mandala area on Friday afternoon. The Mumbai Fire Brigade has identified it as a Level-3 fire. Photo by KK Chaudhary/BCCL</p><p>According to preliminary information, the incident took place at around 2:30 pm. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Photo by KK Chaudhary/BCCL</p><p>Thick plumes of smoke surrounded the region as a result of the fire in the scrapyard. Eleven fire tenders were immediately rushed to the spot. The fire engines are currently trying to douse the fire. A fire officer (40-year-old Harish Nadkar) has been injured during the operation to douse the fire. His condition is said to be stable. Photo by KK Chaudhary/BCCL</p><p>All buses plying from Chheda Nagar and Shivaji Nagar towards Mankhurd and Vashi have been diverted via Amar Mahal, Chembur Naka, VN Purav Marg to Maharashtra Nagar from 4:15 pm, a BEST official said. Photo by SL Shanth Kumar/BCCL</p><p>Mankhurd fire has resulted into a congestion on Eastern Express Highway between Chheda Nagar and Sion and on Santacruz-Chembur Link Road. Photo by SL Shanth Kumar/BCCL</p><p>"The blaze erupted in a scrap material godown. It is a 'level-3' (major) fire. Eleven fire engines and as many tankers are currently engaged in the firefighting operation," a fire brigade official said. The fire has been on for over three hours now. Photo by KK Chaudhary/BCCL</p><p>It took officials 20 gruelling hours to douse the massive blaze. In the process, fire officer Harish Nadkar (40) was left injured and was rushed to the Shatabdi Hospital at Govandi. Photo by SL Shanth Kumar/BCCL</p><p>The area was mostly inhabited by daily wage labourers, who fled once the fire broke out. Local residents told ANI that this is not the first time that this place has caught fire. There were numerous godowns in the area that store used oil, which acts as fuel for fires. Photo by SL Shanth Kumar/BCCL</p><p>Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had earlier visited the spot to take stock of the situation. He said, “Complaints had been registered with the collector office by the civic body's K-West ward officer and local corporator from time to time about the illegal storage of oil barrels at the place.” Photo by SL Shanth Kumar/BCCL</p>A major fire had broken out at Deonar dumping ground and thick smoke had spread over several parts of the city in 2016. A probe had been ordered. The fire brigade took many days to douse the smoulders as many parts were inaccessible. BMC had then decided to restrict entry to the ground by constructing boundary walls but it allocated Rs 19 crore for the walls at Deonar and Mulund only in 2021-22 budget. TIMES VIEW: The burning of scrap material inside dumping grounds by ragpickers and other illegal entrants, to retrieve stuff that is usable and saleable, is well-known. Yet there has been no crackdown on such activities, nor have there been efforts to keep intruders away from such places. Officials who allow such illegal activities to go on unchecked must be held accountable and the rules strictly enforced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-complaints-illegal-godowns-flourish-at-mankhurd-fire-site/articleshow/80728069.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Nursing student attempts suicide, cites mental stress||AURANGABAD: A final-year student at a private nursing college in the city attempted suicide and left behind a note claiming that he was taking the extreme step as he was fed up with the alleged harassment by the college and the mental stress he was going through. He, however, stated that no one should be blamed for his act. Sahil Lavhare attempted suicide sometime on Friday evening by consuming liquid mosquito repellent. He was admitted to a hospital and is out of danger. The student, in the letter, claimed that he was never keen on pursuing a course in nursing, but his family had forced him to take admission and complete the course. He blamed his family for readily accepting the negative feedback given about him by the college. The college administration has refuted the allegations. “In the first year, Sunil took scholarship fees, which the college was allegedly reluctant to give him. This friction continues till date,” said his acquaintance Sanjay Malani. Soon after the incident came to light, other students and members of a political party gathered in front of the college and staged a protest. When contacted, Satara area police station inspector Surendra Malale said, “The student allegedly consumed liquid mosquito repellent and got himself admitted to the hospital, where his condition is said to be out of danger.” The officer said that the agitating students and the college’s staff sat down to resolve the matter. It was found that the students were asked to complete and submit their tutorials and submit them before the stipulated time, or warned of action. Later, the college’s administrative officer refuted the allegations made by the student who consumed poison as well as the agitating students, and said that college will carry out an independent probe in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nursing-student-attempts-suicide-cites-mental-stress/articleshow/80727173.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Bypoll bugle: AAP, Congress declare candidates||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party and Delhi Congress on Saturday announced their candidates for the upcoming byelections to five municipal seats. The AAP candidates include Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) from Kalyanpuri ward 8-E, Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri ward 2-E, Mohammad Isharaq Khan from Chauhan Bangar 41-E, Ramchandra from Rohini ward 41-E and Sunita Mishra from Shalimar Bagh ward 62-N. Bal Kishan (53) from Trilokpuri, Dharampal Maurya from Kondli, Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad (41) from Seelampur, Memwati Barwala (53) from Bawana and Mamta (28) will be contesting the bypolls from their respective ward on a Congress ticket. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar released the names of the candidates. The bypolls will be held on February 28. The state election commission has announced byelections to fill vacancies for five municipal councillor seats— two in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and three in East Delhi Municipal Corporation. “Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) from Kondli has done remarkable work in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. He cooked food for the poor, distributed food to the labourers and slum dwellers. Bunty Gautam has been a part of AAP from the time of its formation. Similarly, Vijay Kumar has been the secretary of All India Safai Mazdoor Union and Dr BR Ambedkar Janmahotsav Committee. Kumar has been the vice-president of MCD sanitation workers’ union. He also runs animal shelters in Trilokpuri,” stated AAP. The candidate from the Shalimar Bagh ward, Sunita Mishra, is the mohalla coordinator and also secretary of the women’s wing of Shalimar Bagh assembly, said an Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson.  The last date for filing nominations for the polls is February 8 and candidates can withdraw their nominations till February 13. Results will be announced on March 3. The seats for two councillors from north corporation — Rohini-C (ward-32) and Shalimar Bagh (ward-62) — are lying vacant for about eight months as the councillors were elected as MLAs. Similarly, the east corporation has three vacant seats— Trilokpuri (ward-2), Kalyanpuri (ward-8) and Chauhan Bangar (ward-41).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bypoll-bugle-aap-cong-declare-candidates/articleshow/80728072.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Crows found dead in Sillod taluka; lab reports awaited||Aurangabad: A day after 10 crows were found dead near a temple at Ambhai village in Sillod taluka of Aurangabad district, the government authorities on Saturday declared the area within 300 meter radius of the shrine a prohibitory zone. Sillod taluka livestock supervisor with Animal Husbandry Department Ashish Salve said that the necessary samples from dead birds have been sent for lab testing. “It could take at least two to three days for lab reports to arrive. In the meantime, we have sounded an alert in the village asking locals not to touch or come in contact with any dead bird and report such deaths, if any, to us,” he said. Gram panchayat member Jagannath Jadhav and staffer Namdev Dandge first spotted the dead crows near the Tridala Temple of Wadeshwar at Ambhai village and alerted government authorities and locals. “The entry of devotees at the shrine is banned temporarily till the lab reports arrive. Barring a few households businesses, the village does not have major poultry firms as such,” Salve said. While parts of Marathwada have already witnessed outbreak of Avian Influenza, the deaths of crows in Sillod taluka is the first suspected incident of the disease in Aurangabad district. Aurangabad: A day after total 10 crows were found dead near a temple at Ambhai village in Sillod taluka of Aurangabad district, the government authorities on Saturday declared area within 300 meter radius of the shrine at a prohibitory zone. Sillod taluka Livestock supervisor with Animal Husbandry Department , Ashish Salve said the necessary samples from dead birds have been sent for lab testing. “It could take at least two to three days for lab reports to arrive. In the meantime, we have sounded an alert in the village asking locals not to touch or come in contact with any dead bird and report such deaths, if any, to us,” he said. Gram Panchayat member Jagannath Jadhav and staffer Namdev Dandge first spotted the dead crows near the Tridala Temple of Wadeshwar at Ambhai village and alerted government authorities and locals. “The entry of devotees at the shrine is banned temporarily till the lab reports arrive. Barring few households businesses, the village does not have major poultry firms as such,” Salve said. While parts of Marathwada have already witnessed outbreak of Avian Influenza or Bird Flu, the deaths of crows in Sillod taluka is the first suspected incident of the disease in Aurangabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crows-found-dead-in-sillod-taluka-lab-reports-awaited/articleshow/80727182.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 53% turnout for jabs on Saturday but week saw 60% jump in takers||MUMBAI: Fewer than usual turned up for vaccination against Covid-19 across Maharashtra on Saturday, but the numbers vaccinated over a week show a 60% rise in the number of recipients. The state vaccinated 37,862 healthcare as well as frontline workers – that is, 53% of the intended number – on Saturday, taking the total vaccinated people across Maharashtra to almost 4.73 lakh. On January 27, which was the eighth day of the mass vaccination drive, the state had vaccinated only 1.78 lakh people. In Mumbai, the BMC did better in terms of daily as well as weekly performances. On Saturday, it became the first civic corporation in the state to hold six days of vaccination in a week, managing to cover 81% (6,914) of the target of 8,575 people for Saturday. Over this six-day work week, the BMC managed to record a 91% increase in the number of recipients – from 39,690 recipients on January 30, the numbers rose to 75,751 on Saturday. Also, BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said that with “micro-planning,” the civic public health department also managed to triple the number of frontline workers who received the vaccine on Saturday (2,507) as against Friday (753).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/saturday-turnout-53-week-saw-60-jump/articleshow/80728092.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Two held for carrying 20 tonne raw material used in making illegal hooch||AURANGABAD: The state excise department, while carrying out a trap in the limits of Latur district, has seized two trucks carrying 20 tonne raw material that is allegedly used in preparing illicit hooch. The seized material is estimated to cost around Rs 28 lakh. State excise superintendent Ganesh Bargaje told TOI, “As per the preliminary probe, this material was illegally obtained from Saibaba Sugar factory situated in Gondri of Ausa taluka in Latur district and was being illegally transported to Solapur for preparation of illicit hooch.” The officer said that the seized material is known as molasses and its sale, supply, transportation, storage and even processing requires different licenses under Bombay Prohibition Act which the suspects failed to produce. The seized material filled with 65 barrels of the raw material was being transported in the trucks when a team led by inspector RM Bangar intercepted the two vehicles and arrested truck drivers identified as Mashaak Nadaf and Altaf Nadaf. They were produced before a court which remanded them to three-day custody. Excise authorities said that the seized material is used for preparing spirit and also used by bootleggers for preparing illicit hooch. Aurangabad State excise department while carrying out a trap in the limits of Latur district, has nabbed two trucks carrying a total of 20 tonnes of raw material, allegedly for preparing illicit hooch. The seized material is estimated to cost around Rs 28 lakh. State excise superintendent Ganesh Bargaje told TOI, “As per the preliminary probe, this material was illegally obtained from Saibaba Sugar factory situated in Gondri of Ausa tehsil in Latur district and was being illegally transported to Solapur district for preparation of illicit hooch.” The officer said that the seized material is known as molasses and under Bombay Prohibition Act, its sale, supply, transportation, storage and even processing requires different licenses, which the suspects failed to produce. The seized material filled on 65 barrels were being transported in the trucks with registration number MH-13-CU-1618 and MH-13-CU-5803, when a team led by inspector RM Bangar intercepted the two vehicles and arrested truck drivers identified as Mashaak Nadaf and Altaf Nadaf, who on being produced before the court have been remanded to three days custody. Excise authorities said that the seized material is used for preparing spirit and also used by bootleggers for preparing illicit hooch. Earlier the state excise department was the authority for licensing the transportation, sale, supply, processing and storage of molasses and other similar by products, but now the state has withdrawn the department’s powers in this regard. Bargaje said that the state excise department now completely depends on tip off and specific information about the movement of such illegal articles and accordingly acts on them. State excise department suspects involvement of some bigwigs in the illicit transportation of molasses from one district to another district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-held-for-carrying-20-tonne-raw-material-used-in-making-illegal-hooch/articleshow/80727179.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Surat||Peeved over ticket denial, PAAS threatens to upset Cong’s fortunes too||Surat: Upset over Congress’s denial to give tickets to two other PAAS candidates, convener of Surat Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti, Dharmik Malaviya, did not file his nomination on Saturday as a mark of protest against the grand old party’s decision. Malaviya was given Congress ticket to contest election from ward 3.Peeved leaders including Malviya have also threatened to continue its protest against Congress. On the other hand, three candidates of Congress who have filed their nominations announced that they too will withdraw it in support of PAAS. Meanwhile, Congress leaders have claimed that 119 candidates have filed nominations as per instructions of the party. PAAS members took out a rally from Varachha on Saturday morning and reached SUDA Bhavan in Vesu to file Malaviya’s nomination. Following the issue they staged protest against Congress outside the campus and raised slogans. “We demanded tickets for Vijay Panseriya and Vilas Dhorajiya from ward 16 and 17, respectively. But Congress did not give. Hence, I did not file nomination in protest,” Malaviya later told TOI. PAAS was lobbying for Dhorajiya, whose husband Sanjay is an advocate and has been fighting many court cases of PAAS members without charging any fees. “Congress leaders have acted as if the party is their private organisation. Till the last moment, PAAS leaders were kept in the dark. PAAS will carry on with their protest against Congress,” said Alpesh Kathiriya, convener, PAAS. Leaders of PAAS also threatened to protest in different areas and said they will not allow Congress to hold election campaign meetings in some of the areas under their dominance. In 2015 municipal election, PAAS played a key role in Patidar dominated areas and Congress managed to win 23 seats from these areas. During 2015 Patidar quota stir was at its peak that helped Congress win seats. However, this year the Patidar community is yet to give a clear signal about their preference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/peeved-over-ticket-denial-paas-threatens-to-upset-congs-fortunes-too/articleshow/80727187.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala faces acute shortage of secretary-level officials||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An analysis of the postings of senior IAS officers in the state cadre shows that the state government is facing an immense shortage of officers at the secretary rank and above. The analysis as on December 2, 2020, shows that the state has at its disposal only 16 officers in the rank of principal secretary, who are holding 31 posts between them, of which at least 27 are cadre posts, while there are only 18 officers in the rank of secretary who are holding 41 posts between them, of which at least 30 are cadre posts as per the cadre rules. Together, 34 officers are making good for 72 posts. On an average, every officer in the rank of principal secretary or secretary grade is holding two to three additional charges. For instance, principal secretaries K R Jyothilal and Rani George are holding at least three different posts each, Rajesh Kumar Sinha two different posts and there are five principal secretaries holding two different cadre posts. Among the secretaries, Tinku Biswal is holding four cadre posts, Sanjay Kaul is holding three, and there are six secretary rank officers holding at least three cadre posts. To make up for the shortage, the government has even appointed officers of additional and joint secretary rank in the charge of secretaries, the data shows. For example, the charge of finance resources secretary has been handed over to G R Gokul who is presently in the additional secretary rank, the charge of secretary of electronics and information technology department has been handed over to Muhammed Y Safirulla, another officer in the rank of additional secretary, and the charge of secretary to chief minister, a post that was held by M Sivasankar, is now with Mir Muhammed Ali who is in the rank of joint secretary. An analysis of the average tenure for the top bureaucrats that the decision taken by state government in 2014 for ensuring a fixed two-year tenure for IAS officers, on the basis of Supreme Court order, has remained only in papers. An analysis of the data shows that the average tenure for the officers of the rank of secretary and above in a post has been only 11 months till 2018, while it has further dropped below 10 months in the period after that. Interestingly, such transfers of officers from the post are in complete violation of the rule as per amendments made in the IAS Cadre Rules, 1954, that was amended on January, 28, 2014. The state government, through an order (GO (MS) No.107/2014/GAD issued on May 5, 2014) had made the rules applicable in the state cadre on the basis of the Supreme Court on October 31, 2013, in TSR Subrahamanian and others vs Union of India and others case. The case was fought by TSR Subrahmanian, former cabinet secretary and 82 other former civil servants to ensure a fixed tenure and an independent working atmosphere for the senior policy makers. As per the sub rule (3) of rule 2 of the cadre rules, the cadre officer appointed to any cadre post shall hold the office for at least two years unless in the meantime he or she has been promoted, retired or sent on deputation outside the state or training exceeding two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-faces-acute-shortage-of-secretary-level-officials/articleshow/80727183.cms||KP Saikiran
February 7, 2021||Delhi||Distance education for dropouts sees a dip in intake: RTI||NEW DELHI: Patrachar Vidyalaya had the lowest enrolment for classes X and XII for the 2020-21 academic session, a Right to Information (RTI) reply has revealed. For Class X, the enrolment was lowest since 2012 and lowest since 2010 for Class XII. The low numbers have been attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic and the improved results of government schools this year. Patrachar Vidyalaya is a platform established in 1968 for opening new vistas of education for students who drop out of schools. It helps students continue in formal education. Students who failed Class IX can directly take admission in Class X in the institute. Students with a gap year after Class X or who have failed Class XI can join Class XII. These students appear for the board exam under CBSE’s Patrachar Vidyalaya and contact programmes are held for them during the weekends and holidays. In a reply to an RTI filed by TOI shows that 529 students enrolled for Class X for 2020-2021 and 1,732 for Class XII. A year before that, there were 3,233 students in Class X and 5,978 in Class XII. In 2010, 1,270 students were enrolled in Class XII, while 487 had signed up for Class X that year. But in the year 2011-2012, just 338 had enrolled in Class X. The highest-ever number of students enrolled in Class XII under this scheme was in 2018-19, when 7,077 were admitted. For Class X, it was in 2019-20 when 3,233 students were enrolled. A K Jha, principal of Government Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya, Sector-8 Rohini, said, “This low enrolment could be due to the pandemic as many people moved away from the capital due to the lockdown.” The admissions were held online this time, but students had to visit the centre for the verification of the documents. According to a senior government official, this reduced number of admissions could be due to the improvement in class IX and XI results. “Due to the pandemic, CBSE had given a concession and asked schools to give students who had failed in classes IX and XI a second chance. It was a one-time measure where schools could conduct assessment in form of exams or assignments. So this year, the pass percentage for classes IX and XI has been higher,” said an official, who did not want to be named. In 2020, the pass percentage of Class XI in Delhi government schools was 96.2%, an increase from around 80% in 2019. In Class IX, where a large number of students fail, the pass percentage had jumped to over 64%, an increase from previous years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/distance-edu-for-dropouts-sees-a-dip-in-intake-rti/articleshow/80728109.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 7, 2021||Aurangabad||Maratha outfit stages protest for reservation||AURANGABAD: A large number of Maratha community members staged a demonstration in support of reservation in jobs and education on Saturday. The agitation was organised under the banner of Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha, during which protesters raised anti-government slogans before police briefly detained them as permission had not been sought. Ramesh Kere-Patil, a leader of the outfit, said the government should impose a blanket ban on recruitment until the quota clears legal hurdles. “Both the state government and the Centre must wage a strong legal battle in the Supreme Court to ensure reservation for the Maratha community,” he said. The protest also saw sharp reaction against Maharashtra relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who recently had raised doubts over the findings of the Gaikwad commission that formed the basis for quota for Maratha. “The comments made by Wadettiwar is creating a divide between the Maratha community and OBC population. He should resign from the post because of the statement despite being a minister,” said Kere-Patil. The Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha has pressed for opening of sub-centre of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute (SARTHI) at Aurangabad, setting up of district-wise hostels for Maratha students and dropping police cases against those who participated in agitation for reservation in the past. On February 1, Maratha community leaders had organised a Mashal rally as a part of the agitation across the state to highlight the demand for reservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-outfitstages-protestfor-reservation/articleshow/80727192.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Some KWA contractors to halt work||KOCHI: To protest non-payment of bills, a section of contractors engaged by Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has decided to halt all work being undertaken by them from February 15. The Kerala government contractors association (KGCA) announced that as part of the indefinite strike its members will stop all repair and Jal Jeevan Mission works and other ongoing projects of the authority. Addressing a press meet here, on Saturday, KGCA president Varghese Kannampally said, “KWA is 18 months in arrears on payments. Without the support of state government the authority will not be able to clear our bills,” he said, indicating KWA will be forced to hike water charges to generate revenue on its own. The contractors are of the view that when granting of administrative and technical sanctions becomes eyewash, the settlement of contractors’ bills becomes a major issue. According to them, project execution should begin after allocating sufficient funds. All technicalities should be considered while planning and executing projects. “No public projects are completed in a time-bound manner. No timely maintenance is carried out. All these aspects together contribute to the ruin of assets created using public money,” said Kannampally. Centre provides 45% of funds for Jal Jeevan Mission. While the state government contributes 30%, local bodies chip in with 15%, with the rest 10% collected from consumers. “Contractors are trying to complete these works on a war-footing, and they receive only 60% of bills. The settlement of final bills remains uncertain,” he said. KGCA demanded extension of benefits provided to medium-scale enterprises. A monitoring committee, comprising a representative of contractors, should be constituted to get funds for central projects and schemes. Repair works to be hit, says KWA The strike would mainly affect ongoing repair and relaying works, according to KWA. “The strike can delay work on various new projects and schemes. However, in the absence of contractors, authority will not be able to undertake repair works and that could adversely affect water supply,” an official said. However, with only a section of contractors striking KWA is pinning its hopes on those not participating. The authority is expected to take the services of contractors outside the purview of the agitation for repair work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/some-kwa-contractors-to-halt-work/articleshow/80727194.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Hyderabad||Fire hazard: Just two skylifts to cater to high-rise buildings in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Though dozens of high-rises dot the city, there are only two skylifts with firefighters, which can be pressed into service in case of a fire emergency. The lifts can reach a maximum height of 18 floors, 180 feet (approximately 65 metres). As per GHMC records, 100 (high-rise building) building permission applications were received in the past three years. In 2020, despite lockdown, 95 applications were received. The state also lacks a law on periodic inspections by lift inspectors unlike Maharashtra and Delhi. As on date, only eight states in the country have a law on elevator safety. In Telangana, the onus of maintaining lifts lies with the members of housing society and apartment associations. In 2015, the state had drafted the Telangana Lifts Bill, but it is yet to be tabled in the assembly. The draft was put in place following the death of a four-year-old after her head got stuck in a malfunctioning lift at her school in Dilsukhnagar. “People don’t turn up when we conduct mock drills. Our housing society is equipped with latest fire safety equipment, but what is the use if people don’t know how to use it,” said a president of a housing society at Nanakramguda. “We also brought fire extinguisher balls which can be used by children too. They need to throw the balls to douse the fire, but parents did not bring their children for the training,” he rued. Telangana State Disaster Response & Fire Services officials said that a decision to increase the number of skylifts should be taken by the government. “The government should take a call pertaining to the number of lifts. Even in developed counties, the lifts go up to 18 floors, post which firefighters have multiple rescue strategies,” regional fire officer, central region, V Papaiah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-hazard-just-2-skylifts-to-cater-to-high-rise-buildings/articleshow/80728079.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 7, 2021||Rajkot||Sisodia to push AAP’s fortunes on Rajkot road today||Rajkot: In the run up to the municipal elections, deputy chief minister of Delhi, Manish Sisodia will stoke aam aadmis’ sentiments in chief minister Vijay Rupani’s hearth on Sunday. Sisodia will kick start his Saurashtra campaign from Rajkot with a four-hour road show that will cover Kalavad road, Dhebar road, Yagnik Road, Raiya Road, Jamnagar road, 150 feet ring road and other main areas. According to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Sisodia is expected to reach at Greenland Chowkdi the entry point of the city by 3pm and after covering all major roads will end his road show at Sardar Patel statue near Bahumali Bhavan on Racecourse road. He is expected to address a public gathering here. This is the first time in Rajkot Municipal Corporation election history that a third party is making efforts to woo and win voters’ confidence in all the 72 seats. Rajkot has stoutly been a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) bastion and also BJP’s since the eighties. Prime minister Narendra Modi started his political journey by contesting his first-ever election from Rajkot. In fact, till date no independent candidate has ever been able to win RMC election, including some of the most prized and strong candidates. The vice president of AAP Rajkot, Shivlal Barasiya told TOI, “Voters know how we (AAP) have changed the definition of governance in Delhi. We will replicate it in Rajkot and we don’t need to make false promises.” Box AAP wins over BJP, Congress dissidents Whether this translates into the big win or not, for the time being AAP has managed to win confidence of at least the dissenters in rival parties, both Congress and the BJP. Disgruntled workers denied tickets in those national parties preferred to support AAP. In Rajkot it is BJP’s Sanjaysinh Vaghela, and Congress’s Kinjal Joshi. Both will contest on AAP tickets this election. Deputy mayor of Jamnagar, Karsan Karmur joined AAP on Friday, while Chetna Purohit, another dissident BJP leader from his ward joined on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sisodia-to-push-aaps-fortunes-on-rajkot-road-today/articleshow/80727203.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kochi||2019 Valentine's Day event in Kerala: Crime branch records Sunny Leone’s statement||KOCHI: The Ernakulam unit of crime branch collected a statement from actor Sunny Leone after an event coordinator filed a petition alleging that she had failed to turn up for events planned in connection with Valentine’s Day celebrations in 2019 despite accepting a fee for her appearance. Crime branch sources said that a team met the actor and recorded her statement a couple of days ago at Poovar in Thiruvananthapuram. According to police sources, the complainant alleged that by not attending the event, the actor had caused a loss of Rs 29 lakh to the organizer as the said amount was paid to her as her fee. The event was postponed multiple times and was finally scheduled to be held at Adlux International Convention Centre in Angamaly. However, crime branch sources said that the actor had given them a statement that the programme was rescheduled multiple times by the organizer and it was not due to her inconvenience. She also told crime branch that the remaining amount of her agreed fee was never paid. Shiyas, a resident of Perumbavoor, had then filed a complaint with the state police chief and it was forwarded to the crime branch for enquiry. Police sources said that the actor claimed that a sum of Rs 12.50 lakh, which was to be paid seven days before the event, was not paid by the scheduled date. This was part of their agreement for her visit. Sources said that though the petitioner alleged cheating, the case was more of a civil dispute in nature. Crime branch also came across some WhatsApp communications between the parties concerned over the payment dues. Crime branch is likely to approach other celebrities who were also supposed to attend the said event and did not appear to ascertain if they also have a similar narration for this incident. Sources said that the actor was very positive in her approach towards attending an event organized by the complainant, provided it was rescheduled as per her convenience in future. Sources added that she would attend if the organizer followed their agreed-upon condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/crime-branch-records-sunny-leones-statement/articleshow/80727205.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Closure report in bid to murder case against Chhota Rajan accepted||MUMBAI: A special CBI court on Saturday accepted the closure report submitted against underworld gangster Chhota Rajan (62) in a case involving attempted murder of Baljeet Parmar (70), a crime reporter, who was injured after motorbike-borne shooters attacked him at Antop Hill in 1997. The investigating agency told court there was no material to connect Rajan to the crime. This is among over 70 cases CBI took over after Rajan was deported from Bali in 2015. Rajan is serving a life sentence, for the 2011 murder of journalist J Dey, at Tihar jail for security reasons. The court order noted that Parmar was not traceable at the given address. It said accordingly CBI submitted an “unserved report”. Parmar said he was unaware of the proceedings. “I came to know CBI took over the case only from social media. No one contacted me. I have lived at the same address for a decade. It is easy to get in touch with me,” Parmar said. He added that he was even in touch with cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/closure-report-in-bid-to-murder-case-against-rajan-accepted/articleshow/80729025.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 7, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Pinarayi Vijayan launches KSEB’s ‘service at doorstep’ facility||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the statewide launch of KSEB’s ‘Service at Door Step’ facility here on Saturday. Vijayan who hailed KSEB’s performance and commitment said the board should continue with service-centric reforms to meet the challenges ahead. Power minister M M Mani said the board was planning to introduce the ‘Service at Door Step’ facility at all 775 electrical sections. Currently, the service is being introduced at 362 section offices. KSEB chairman and managing director N S Pillai elaborated the features of the programme. Kerala State Electricity Board, as part of improving the customer service, recently decided to replicate ‘Service at Door Step’ facility in more electrical sections. The board had introduced the service on pilot basis in 39 section offices in Palakkad district and the decision to extend the same to all electrical sections was taken after its success. The services thus offered include new electricity connection, ownership change, connected and contract load change, tariff change, electricity meter/ line change. To avail these services customers have to register their name and phone number over the phone at the respective electrical section office. The officials concerned would then call on customers at their home and give necessary guidelines for filling up the applications. An approach paper approved by the board in this regard pointed out that the initiative would help improve the board’s bond with consumers, especially since Kerala has a relatively high number of senior citizens. KSEB would resolve the shortcomings it encountered during the initial phase of the programme, before its statewide rollout. The enhanced services would transform the customer care call centre number 1912 to a one-stop service point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pinarayi-launches-ksebs-service-at-doorstep-facility/articleshow/80727209.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Surat||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi to address rally in Bharuch today||BHARUCH/SURAT: Political atmosphere is all set to get charged ahead of the civic body election with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) supremo Asaduddin Owaisi set to address his maiden public meeting at Manubar village in Bharuch taluka on Sunday. While addressing media persons at the Surat airport on Saturday Owaisi said, “This is my maiden visit to Gujarat. We have entered a political alliance with the BTP to contest the municipal elections. I hope and wish to get the support of the people of Gujarat.” Owaisi will be addressing two meetings, in Bharuch and Ahmedabad, during his one day visit to Gujarat. At Bharuch, Owaisi, who has forged a political alliance with the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) will address a public meeting with BTP chief Chhotu Vasava at Manubar at about 11 am and later leave for Ahmedabad where he will address another meet in the evening. The BTP and AIMIM will jointly contest the district, taluka panchayat and municipality (nagarpalika) election in Bharuch district. The AIMIM is also contesting in some of the wards in Ahmedabad. A source close to the development said that the AIMIM will field its own candidate in some of the seats in the municipality election. BTP’s Vasava, who is a strong opponent of both BJP and Congress, has been eyeing a tribal and Muslim votes. Paresh Vasava, BTP’s vice-president of BTP said, “Both the leaders (Owaisi and Chhotu Vasava) will have a discussion on the political alliance before addressing a public meeting. All preparations are complete and we expect a huge crowd tomorrow (Sunday).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aimim-chief-asaduddin-owaisi-to-address-rally-in-bharuch-today/articleshow/80727218.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||Modi hails courts for upholding 'rule of law'||AHMEDABAD/ NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised judiciary for being alert in safeguarding the "rule of law" and individual liberties and prioritising the national interest when necessary. "As you all must be aware, the rule of law has been central to our civilisation, social fabric and traditions. In our ancient literature, it has been said that justice is central to good governance and the rule of law. These views are part of our sacraments for ages. This very mantra gave moral power to our freedom fight and this was kept supreme by the makers of Indian Constitution. The Preamble of the Constitution is the manifestation of this very pledge," the PM said while speaking at the diamond jubilee celebration of the high court of Gujarat, via video conferencing. His elaborate emphasis on the "rule of law" for which he cited a Sanskrit shloka, "nyaymulam suraajyam syat" (justice is in the roots of good governance), came amid ongoing protests against the three farm laws and demand for their repeal. The SC had last month stayed implemetion of the laws in question and had formed a committee to study them. "The responsibilities assigned to the legislature, executive and judiciary are a lifeline to our Constitution. People of the country can say with conviction that the judiciary has firmly safeguarded the lifeline of the Constitution. By creative and positive interpretation, our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution," the PM said and also hailed the Gujarat high court for its determination and alertness for years towards safeguarding truth and justice, which, he claimed, has strengthened the Indian judiciary as well as democracy. The PM said that whenever a situation arose where national interest was at stake or the people's rights or liberties were threatened, the judiciary understood its duties and discharged them responsibly. Modi expressed satisfaction over the swift embrace by courts of the digital infrastructure put in place by the law ministry's e-Courts Integrated Mission Mode Project. More than 18,000 courts have been computerised e-proceedings in court have gained momentum after the Supreme Court gave legal sanctity to tele-conferencing and video conferencing. PM Modi also released a commemorative postage stamp marking the completion of sixty years of the establishment of the Gujarat HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-hails-courts-for-upholding-rule-of-law/articleshow/80729457.cms||Saeed Khan
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||CCTV net to be widened in East Singhbhum||Jamshedpur: East Singhbhum Police have planned to install 50 more close circuit television cameras (CCTV) in a phased manner. “We will seek the cooperation of the commercial and business houses for installing the CCTVs in a phased manner,” SSP M Tamil Vanan said. At the moment, there are 180 CCTVs installed in areas like Bistupur, Sakchi, Sidhgora, Golmuri, Telco, Jugsalai and Kadma, among others. “The existing CCTVs are mostly installed in main streets. The new ones will be set up at peripheral locations,” Vanan said. He added that intersections and strategic points will be identified for installation of the cameras. Besides installing new ones, the defunct CCTVs will also be repaired. A senior police official said the new CCTVs would be a mix of high resolution dome and static cameras covering about 300m. “CCTVs are quite effective in aiding investigation, particularly in identifying vehicles involved in road mishap cases,” he added. Vanan said along with the new CCTVs, new screens will be added to the existing ones set up at the control room in CCR campus for better view of the footage. He added that the exercise is underway to identify locations for installation of third eye cameras across the urban police stations’ limits. The decision to install new CCTVs was met with appreciation from shopkeepers who said that although a considerable number of shop owners in the markets have set up such cameras in their respective shops, several more surveillance cameras are required in the market place to keep an eye on snatchers, robbers and other types of miscreants. “Incidents of crime in market places will come down with the increase in surveillance,” 37-year-old mobile shop owner Sunny Kumar said. Police had planned to install the new surveillance devices last year but due to the pandemic, the plan was put on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cctv-net-to-be-widened-in-east-singhbhum/articleshow/80727059.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Noida||Nine held for murder of Kamal Nath's kin in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: A day after retired businessman Narendra Nath, a cousin of Congress leader Kamal Nath, and his wife were found murdered in their house in Greater Noida, the police probe has reached MP’s Gwalior, where the local cops on Saturday detained two men, including the father of the prime suspect. In Greater Noida too, police have rounded up seven people, including one who had borrowed money from Narendra on interest.  Narendra (70) and his wife Suman (65) were found murdered in their house in Greater Noida’s Alpha II on Friday morning. The injuries indicated that Narendra had been tied up, gagged and brutally clobbered with a blunt object before being strangled, while Suman was badly thrashed and then shot in the chest. One of Narendra’s relatives, meanwhile, told TOI that there were many people to whom he had lent money. “Narendra had given Rs 15 lakh to one person, named Kapil, as his share of a “committee (informal money collection from several persons and taking a lump sum by one at the end of a fixed-time period)” and he had been dilly-dallying in paying it back,” he said. “He runs a canteen somewhere in Greater Noida. While Narendra gave Rs 15 lakh in this, when his turn came, Kapil claimed that the money was reinvested. Another person called Alok had also borrowed money from him but he had been returning the same with interest. Some local vendors also took money in some thousands,” the relative added. Though the Greater Noida police have identified three suspects, including a local chowmein seller who too would borrow money from the deceased, they believe the main accused in the gruesome double murder have fled towards MP after orchestrating the crime. However, seven people, including two to whom Narendra had given money , a plumber, an electrician and some hawkers, have been detained for questioning. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey told TOI that they’re close to nabbing the accused. “Seven suspects are being interrogated. We have identified some of the accused who are on the run. Teams have been formed to trace them,” he said. Their counterparts in Gwalior, meanwhile, claimed to have detained two men — Dev Sharma and Lallu Singh Bhadoria. One of them is said to be the father of the prime accused involved in the double murder. They were detained from Govardhan Colony and Sainik Colony, which are in the jurisdiction of Gole Ka Mandir police station. “The duo was questioned at the local police station and taken away to UP,” an official said. However, Narendra’s son-in-law Jatin Thankappan said there could be at least four-five persons behind the crime. “The way they were killed, it suggests that the accused were at least four-five in number. There is a possibility that after committing the crime, the accused have reentered the basement and consumed liquor and eatables. Some plates were found lying at a corner of the entrance,” he said. Police suspect that the murder was committed between 11.30pm on Thursday and 5.30am the next morning. “Phone records indicate that Suman had last spoken to her son-in-law and daughter around 10.55pm on Thursday, and her phone was switched off around 25 minutes later. Suman’s daughter had been trying her number from as early as 5.30am but it was not reachable. An anxious daughter and her husband reached their house after some time,” a police official said. Family sources also claimed that Narendra’s phone has been recovered by cops in the same sector. “A close family member has been told by police that the accused’s phone has been recovered from near Heritage Resort,” a family member said. However, on record, police claimed that the phone is yet to be recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-double-murder-probe-reaches-mp/articleshow/80729142.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||Chakka jam paralyses Jharkhand for 3 hours, Left parties, gathbandhan lend support||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Ramgarh/Gumla/Sindri: Vehicular movement across the state, particularly along the national highways, suffered on Saturday because of the three-hour chakka jam from 12pm-3pm called by various farmers’ unions and supported by the ruling coalition government, Left parties and members of different rights groups against the new farm laws. In Ranchi, Congress MLA and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh led the bandh by staging a sit-in at Booty More along the Ranchi-Hazaribagh stretch of NH-33. Workers of JMM, RJD, Left parties and others, too, blocked the streets here. At Piska More, Namkum and other entry points to the city witnessed similar scenes as trucks and buses were forced to halt. Patralekh said the protests will intensify until the Union government repeals the laws. “The laws are like a death warrant for the farmers who have realised this and thus everyone across the country is staging protests against the Union government. At the Delhi borders, farmers are fighting for their survival, risking severe cold and other hardships, to safeguard their future,” Patralekh said, adding that they are firmly behind the farmers in their fight. State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said corporatisation of farming and agricultural land will prove to be the death knell for farming in the country. “Inducing corporates into farming will lead to an imbalance in the agro-economy of the country. For many in the villages, farming is a part of their civilization and culture and entry of private players will end this,” he said. Criticising Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee, who also staged a sit-in along with party workers at the Booty More, said, “The Union minister in Parliament had asked what is black in these laws. We say that the wrong intentions of the Union government to bring these laws through the back door without enough consultation with the states expose their sinister plans to sell the farming sector to the corporates.” In Namkum, Congress-JMM protesters distributed food to the stranded truck drivers. Rajesh Thakur, co-working president of Congress, said the chakka jam was successful. “The strike got voluntary support as every Indian is in favour of the farmers, who are our country’s annadata,” he said. Member of CPM’s state secretariat, Prakash Viplav, said all anti-BJP parties, including CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L), Marxist Coordination Committee and others, took part in the agitation. CPI’s Ajay Singh said, “The fight is to preserve the interests of the farmers and the Constitution.” Protests were also held in Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Gumla, and Ramgarh. In Jamshedpur, vehicles remained off the road on the Paridih-Dimna stretch of NH-33 for over three hours with several Sikh community members taking part in the protest. Long queues of the vehicles could be seen on either side of the Chandil-Jamshedpur and Jamshedpur-Ghatshila roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chakka-jam-paralyses-jharkhand-for-3-hours-left-parties-gathbandhan-lend-support/articleshow/80727067.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||Grand alliance allies to fight it out for last remaining cabinet seat||Ranchi: While JMM might have silenced its allies as far as Madhupur assembly seat is concerned by a the sudden induction of Hafiz Ul Hassan, the lone empty slot in the cabinet is sure to lead to a tug of war with Congress sources hinting that the party will stake claim on it soon. In the 12-member cabinet, one seat is lying vacant since the formation of the alliance government in December 2019. The JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has a seat sharing deal of 6:4:1 ministers and taking a cue from that, Congress insiders said going by the number of MLAs they have in the House, the Grand Old Party has a natural claim over it. Responding to a query in this regard after the swearing-in ceremony of Hassan, state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Friday had told vernacular dailies that the last slot should go to them. Speaking to TOI, Oraon said the state party will press for the 12th slot, but a final decision be taken by the party high command and the chief minister. He said, “Our coalition is united and will remain united. However, the reason why state Congress feels that it has more stakes on the last vacant seat is because of the number of MLAs we have. Moreover, JMM has with it the post of CM and speaker, two key positions and hence, state unit feels that the last berth should go to us,” he said. Rajesh Thakur, one of the co-working presidents of the Congress too conceded on Saturday that they have a strong edge when it comes to the last berth. “Filling ministerial berths is always a prerogative of the chief minister. Talks in this regard are yet to resume with our lead alliance partner. Moreover, any such decision will be finalised between Congress and JMM high commands. But having said so, there is a general perception and feeling among us that the last empty berth should come to Congress as we have a good number of MLAs in the assembly,” he said. Of the total 29 seats it won, JMM currently has 28 MLAs after the demise of its Madhupur legislator Haji Hussain in October last year. Congress on the other hand has 18 while RJD has one. “If RJD with one MLA can get a ministerial berth, Congress with 18 MLAs must get the vacant seat,” said another MLA and a Congressman unwilling to be named. “We will press for it with our party high command too,” he added. Notably, Jharkhand affairs in-charge of Congress RPN Singh during his recent visit to Ranchi last month had said talks on further cabinet expansion will be considered after the Madhupur bye-elections, which is expected to happen in a few months from now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/grand-alliance-allies-to-fight-it-out-for-last-remaining-cabinet-seat/articleshow/80727100.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||NFSU to now export vial examination kits||AHMEDABAD: What happens if a micro-sized fragment of glass or fabric gets inserted in a vial of medicine? If injected into the bloodstream, it can cause severe complications for the patient including death. Thus, global standards for the injectables are very high, and discovery of a small anomaly can lead to rejection of entire batches. Thus, National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) developed a kit for training of the personnel handling the vials and calibrate the machines to find the smallest of the inconsistencies. The kit, which is used by over 10 multinational drug manufactures based in India, recently got their first overseas orders from Indonesia and Singapore. Jayrajsinh Sarvaiya, a faculty with NFSU, said that the university is associated with the quality control for long with various firms. “USFDA and other authorities have stringent standards about particulate matter contamination which can be in micron to sub-micron range. Recently even top companies’ batches were rejected. Thus, we decided to make our own kit to identify every possible contamination and how to identify them,” he said. The kit contains different vials, which are presented to the personnel and they are asked to identify whether the specific vial contains any anomaly. “There are more than 40 different types of contamination sources we have come across. Our experience to handle such cases has made it possible to come out as making Knapp test Kits as per regulatory requirements,” said Prof Sarvaiya. Dr J M Vyas, vice-chancellor of NFSU, said that they are receiving four times more contamination investigation assignments compared to past couple of years. “It’s a matter of pride for us that the kit and our method has got global recognition,” he said. For the industry, it means smoother process with international agencies. Manthan Trivedi, general manager with an MNC pharma company, said that the tests and training improve the compliance rate and reduce rejection rates in overseas market. For the personnel, it’s the battle of survival. “If they can detect the contamination, they can retain their job against the machines that do the same job,” said another pharma company official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nfsu-to-now-export-vial-examination-kits/articleshow/80727601.cms||Parth Shastri
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||‘Ranchi smart city a model for others’||Ranchi: Secretary of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs Durga Shankar Mishra, who was on a two-day tour to the state, said Ranchi smart city will not only change the way of life of the residents of the state capital, but will also emerge as a role model for other cities to follow. On Saturday, Mishra visited the site of the Ranchi smart city, the control and command centre and Jharkhand Urban Planning and Management Institute (JUPMI) and inspected other infrastructural projects which are being undertaken at the site by Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL). Terming the control and command centre as the nervous system of the city, Mishra directed officials to ensure that the centre becomes a self-sustainable institution and more versatile to assist the day-to-day life of citizens for the next 100 years. “The control and command centre developed for Ranchi smart city is a state-of-the-art infrastructure which is helping in women’s safety, crime control and providing traffic assistance. We should not stop here and ensure that more and more people are made aware of this so I have asked the officials to arrange visits by school and college students so that they are aware how technology is assisting them in their day-to-day lives,” said Mishra. RSCCL CEO Amit Kumar and municipal commissioner of Ranchi Mukesh Kumar explained the role of the control and command centre to Mishra and assured him that they will be making a detailed project on how the project can be made sustainable. “We informed the visiting secretary about the command centre services, which includes ANPR, RLVD, public address system, SOS for women’s safety and emergency boxes and he expressed happiness. We will be soon bringing up a revenue model to make the project sustainable.” At JUPMI, Mishra was all praises for the building and said the Union government is committed towards development of smart cities and all required support will be provided to RSCCL for the development of the smart city. Earlier in the day, Mishra reached Morhabadi ground and used the bicycle sharing system of RMC and did cycling along with other officials of RSCCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-smart-city-a-model-for-others/articleshow/80727094.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||APSFL to start underground cabling soon||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh State Fibernet Limited (APSFL) will soon start the underground cabling process for fibernet across the state. The APSFL aims to achieve a 70-lakh connections mark within three years, according to chairman Dr P Gowtham Reddy who officially took charge on Saturday and held a meeting with authorities. Speaking to reporters, the APSFL chairman said the government is keen to develop internet connectivity across the state. “Increasing reach in rural areas is our target and we will focus on establishing internet parks in villages,” he said adding that they were aiming to provide fibernet at a cheaper price. “We are presently offering a combo of cable TV, internet and phone which is burdening consumers. Hence we have decided to give separate connections as per their choice. A new variety set top box will be introduced soon at an affordable price which will help reduce burden on consumers,” Reddy said. He added that enquiry on corruption cases during the previous administration will continue and action will be taken against those responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsfl-to-start-underground-cabling-soon/articleshow/80726783.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Panchayat polls reignite controversy over Kotia villages||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh has notified panchayat elections in Kotia villages even as neighbouring Odisha has announced several development projects there. Kotia villages are a group of 27 villages, which are claimed by both AP and Odisha governments. Andhra Pradesh has listed the villages under Salur mandal. The dispute over these villages has been going on since 1953 and several rounds of talks between the two governments did not yield any result thus far. Recently, both states conducted survey of lands in these villages. These villages came to focus recently after Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik through video conference inaugurated some development works. Odisha government’s move comes in the wake of announcement of schedule by AP state election commission in these villages. Though 27 villages are part of the Kotia villages, the dispute is mainly over Talaganjeipadar, Phatuseneri and Phagunaseneri villages under Salur mandal of Vizianagaram district. Odisha has proposed development works worth Rs 150 crore and of it, Rs 18 crore was sanctioned recently. AP is hold panchayat election in these villages on February 13 and 17. The process for filing of nominations concluded on Thursday. Revenue minister Dharmana Krishna Das said that he would ask the officials concerned to look into the issue as it is the dispute between two states. “We will bring it to the notice of the chief minister,” he said. Kotia-Ganjabhadra dispute is a long pending border issue between AP and Odisha. The dispute started after the formation of AP in 1953. The area under dispute is just north of the hills of Salur mandal involving 27 villages. Odisha is claiming 21 villages out of 27 villages. Both states approached Supreme Court in 1968 claiming sovereignty over the villages. Fourteen years ago, the apex court gave opinion that only Parliament could resolve the matter and directed two states to maintain status quo over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/panchayat-polls-reignite-controversy-over-kotia-villages/articleshow/80726823.cms||Siva G
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Survey to study status of higher education in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) is about to conduct a comprehensive survey to assess performance of higher education in Andhra Pradesh. The survey will study higher education trends in various districts as well as the industry perception towards the graduates and their future needs. The study, spanning six weeks, would be conducted in a hybrid model with a sample size of 12 per cent of the total student strength. Of the 12 per cent, eight per cent will be sampled online while four per cent will be sampled offline. The survey will include students who have graduated over the last two years. According to the council, APSCHE is working on ensuring that the sample represents regional, gender, social and economic segregations across various fields of study such as general education, technical education, law, arts, commerce and science. The study will cover both public and private institutions of higher education. Urban and rural populations will be given due weightages. The study will examine the existing status of graduates and the potential skill gap and suggest measures to improve the situation. The other major objective of the survey includes studying the migration aspect — the phenomenon of students migrating to other states for purposes of higher education and what triggers this trend. The survey methodology will include in-depth interviews, focus group discussions and case studies to appropriately capture responses from all stakeholders including students, faculty, parents, officials and alumni. Speaking to TOI, APSCHE chairman Prof K Hemachandra Reddy said that this will be the first comprehensive survey on the status of higher education in Andhra Pradesh. “APSCHE is in the process of hiring a private agency for the survey,” he informed. Prof Reddy further said: “The survey would capture the aspirations, satisfaction levels and employment potential of students. It would also highlight the perception of society and industry on higher education. Based on outcomes of the study, an action plan can be prepared for the transformation of higher education in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/survey-to-study-status-of-higher-education-in-state/articleshow/80726835.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Senior resident doctors request stipend, hike||VISAKHAPATNAM: Senior resident doctors of Andhra Medical College (AMC) are asking the government to release their pending stipends and increase their stipend by 100 per cent. The rationale behind the request, according to senior resident doctors, is that their current stipend is lower than doctors pursuing postgraduate degrees and is far less than what their counterparts receive in other states. According to senior resident doctors, they have six months of stipend pending. “After repeated enquiries, we got to know that the template format in the Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS) website had an issue,” said a senior resident doctor at AMC. AMC principal PV Sudhakar said, “There is some technical issue with the CFMS website. The format has been changed and updated, but there has been no answer on the complaint number yet. Hopefully the problem will be solved soon .” Regarding the request for a hike, members of Senior Resident Doctors’ Association pointed out that their stipend, Rs 45,000, is currently less than those in their final-year of postgraduate degrees, Rs 48,973.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/senior-resident-docs-request-stipend-hike/articleshow/80726843.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Protest against VSP privatisation||Visakhapatnam: Traffic on NH-16 ground to a halt on Saturday as trade unions staged a ‘rasta roko’ demonstration to protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Several trade union leaders were arrested. AP Congress president Sake Sailajanath said that the state Congress should form a special committee to carry out agitations across the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/protest-against-vsp-privatisation/articleshow/80726852.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Tirupati to Puri train via Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The railways will launch a special train between Tirupati and Puri via Visakhapatnam. The Tirupati-Puri special express will leave five days a week from Tirupati at 10:35am starting February 8. The train will reach Visakhapatnam at 04:40am the next day and depart at 05:00am to reach Puri at 02:35pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tirupati-to-puri-train-via-vizag/articleshow/80726855.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||As more Western celebs and Extinction Rebellion back farmers’ protests, the UN Human Rights office calls for restraint||LONDON: American actors Susan Sarandon and John Cusack, the US fashion magazine Vogue and environmental movement Extinction Rebellion have joined the growing stream of voices endorsing and amplifying the farmers’ protests in India. Sarandon, known for her roles in films like “Bull Durham”, “Thelma and Louise” and “Dead Man Walking”, tweeted an article on the protests, saying: “Standing in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India.” Standing in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India. Read about who they are and why they’re protesting below. https://t.co/yWtEkqQynF— Susan Sarandon (@SusanSarandon) 1612552215000Cusack, known for his roles in “High Fidelity” and “Grosse Pointe Blank”, tweeted enigmatically: “#FarmerProtest #r #FarmersAreIndia”. Vogue published an article on the protests with the tweet: “This is what’s happening in India and how you can help.” The US celebs join NBA player Kyle Kuzma, American climate justice activist Jamie Margolin, US actress Amanda Cerny, Lebanese-American artist Mia Khalifa, former NBA player Baron Davis, journalist Lauren Frayer, British TV presenter Ranj Singh and Canadian NPD leader Jagmeet Singh in a video alongside pop singer Rihanna, climate activist Greta Thunberg and Kamala Harris’s niece Meena Harris titled “Roar of the farmers has gone global”. The video ends with “World is watching you #ModiGovernment.” Such videos were proposed in the toolkit that Thunberg deleted last week. Farmers protest live updatesThe teen activist has not backed down despite the media storm she created and retweeted a tweet by the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on Friday that said: “India: We call on the authorities and protesters to exercise maximum restraint in ongoing #FarmersProtests. The rights to peaceful assembly & expression should be protected both offline & online. It's crucial to find equitable solutions with due respect to #HumanRights for all.” Extinction Rebellion, too, has written about the farmer protests on its Instagram account, saying: “The world needs to know that India is retreating from democracy, regressing at an alarming pace and rushing headlong into fascism. International focus on these protests may be the only thing preventing state-sponsored violence.” Read Also'Toolkit' case has revealed a lot, MEA responded to irresponsible remarks by some celebrities: JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said that there was a reason why MEA reacted to the remarks of some celebrities in relation to protest by farmer unions and noted that they spoke: "on matters on which they obviously didn't know very much". The minister told ANI that 'toolkit' case,Thunberg’s original toolkit promotes a Zoom call that Extinction Rebellion was to hold about the farmers’ protests on January 23 and an Instagram Live on Republic Day that Extinction Rebellion was to hold with the farmers at the borders. Labour Sikh MP Preet Gill has tweeted a link to a website which appears to be a new toolkit for the farmers’ campaign. It gives links to five organisations, including Khalsa Aid — which is under the NIA scanner — to donate to. It lists templates of letters to send to lawmakers in the UK, Canada and the US, global petitions to sign, journalist and social media accounts to follow and its narrative on the issues with the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-more-western-celebs-and-extinction-rebellion-back-farmers-protests-the-un-human-rights-office-calls-for-restraint/articleshow/80729473.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Consensual sex of minors is a grey area, admits Bombay HC||MUMBAI: While granting bail, pending appeal, to a 19-year-old convicted in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act case, the Bombay high court said it is “conscious of the fact that consensual sex between minors has been in a legal grey area” because their consent is not considered valid in the eyes of the law. The teenager was convicted of having repeatedly raped and assaulted his minor cousin who lived in the same house as him. In her statement recorded before a magistrate, the girl, 15 at the time, said it was a “consensual act”. He was 19 then, said HC. The boy appealed against the conviction and sought suspension of the concurrent sentence of 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for rape and aggravated penetrative assault. The crime allegedly occurred first in September 2017. It was the minor’s class teacher who registered the FIR in March 2018 after being informed of it by the girl’s classmate. The minor alleged she was sexually assaulted again in October 2017 and February 2018. The boy was on bail during the trial. Read AlsoTop court stays HC skin-to-skin ruling in sex assault caseThe Supreme Court on Wednesday took just two minutes to stay a Bombay high court order, which had acquitted a man of charges under the Pocso Act on the specious logic that groping a 12-year-old girl without removing her clothes was not sexual assault though it convicted him under the IPC provisionHC gives 19-year-old bail, says girl resiled from rape chargeThe Bombay high court on Thursday granted bail, pending appeal, to a 19-year-old convicted in a Pocso Act case. HC’s Justice S K Shinde said the medical officer who examined the girl said he did not notice any external injury on her person suggesting forcible assault. The doctor said, “Overall clinical findings were consistent with sexual assault, subject to the final report of the Forensic Science Lab (FSL).” The FSL report, though, was not received till the trial concluded. HC said, “Thus...the opinion of the doctor was...not final.” The girl also deposed that her statement to the police was at her teacher’s instance. Read AlsoNot sexual assault if no skin-to-skin contact: Bombay HChen there is “no direct physical contact—skin to skin with sexual intent, without penetration”, it would not amount to ‘sexual assault’ under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, Bombay high court held while acquitting a 39-year-old man who had been sentenced to three years’Justice Shinde said, “I am conscious of the fact that the passing of Pocso has been a significant and progressive step in securing children’s rights and furthering the cause of protecting children against sexual abuse. The letter and spirit of the law, which defines a child as anyone less than 18 years of age, is to protect children from sexual abuse.” HC said the case was distinctive as the teenagers were first cousins. “A fact that cannot be overlooked,” said HC, is that “the victim had resiled from her statement” and even her mother was “unfriendly to the prosecution”. HC heard the boy’s counsel, Manoj Mohite, who sought suspension of the sentence. The prosecutor, R M Pethe, opposed the boy’s plea pointing to sections 29 and 30 of Pocso Act, which call for presumption of culpability of the accused and his mental state. HC said it could be gone into during the hearing of his appeal. At this stage to suspend the sentence, HC said, it “cannot ignore the evidence of the victim and her mother.’’ HC thus granted bail for Rs 25,000 and has directed the trial court be kept informed of his address and contact details. HC said the girl had disowned part of her statement and this was something that cannot be lost sight of. It said, “Thus, in consideration of the distinctive facts of the case, the evidence on record, the impugned sentence is suspended and the appellant is directed to be released on bail on certain conditions.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/consensual-sex-of-minors-is-a-grey-area-admits-bombay-hc/articleshow/80729495.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 7, 2021||Vadodara||Man held with dagger, cash during night curfew||Vadodara: A man living on Waghodiya Road was arrested near his house in the wee hours of Saturday for possessing a dagger and Rs 3 lakh in cash. During night watch near Vaikunth Society, the surveillance staff of Panigate police station noticed accused Ganu Bharwad approaching them in an SUV at high speed. Suspecting him to be involved in some illegal activity, cops stopped Bharwad and checked his car. Police found a dagger, a gun-shaped cigarette lighter and Rs 3 lakh in cash. When asked, Bharwad said that the dagger was his, but could not give any satisfactory reply about the cash. “The accused was roaming during night curfew without any purpose and also had a weapon and huge amount of cash from unknown source at a time when the elections are around. We arrested him and seized his valuables including the car and two mobile phones,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-with-dagger-cash-during-night-curfew/articleshow/80727276.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covaxin medical trial ends at Sola Civil Hospital||Ahmedabad: The third phase clinical trial of Covaxin, one of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the central government, got over at Sola Civil Hospital on Saturday. Dr Parul Bhatt, head of the medicine department, said that over 1,000 volunteers have got both shots of the vaccine. While the second shots of the formal vaccination drive, which started from January 16, will start from the third week of February, the volunteers in the trial have already completed the vaccination course. Dr Bhatt however refused to divulge information on side effects reported on the participants and how many of the volunteers contacted viral infection after the first or both the shots. “We have submitted the data to the parent company. They would compile and publish the data. We cannot give information on these aspects,” said Dr Bhatt. The trial, which started from end of November last year, primarily enrolled citizens of Ahmedabad who had not contacted Covid-19 and were below age of 60 years. The initial leg of the trials did not involve volunteers with co-morbidities. Sola Civil Hospital was part of the nationwide trials for the homegrown vaccine. Gujarat currently is administering both Covishield and Covaxin to the healthcare workers and frontline workers. As on Saturday evening, over 5 lakh have got vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covaxin-medical-trial-ends-at-sola-civil-hospital/articleshow/80727665.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||VSPM Dental College fails to list 72 residents on time for jab||Nagpur: Having been left out in the Covid vaccination programme so far, 72 resident doctors of Vidya Shikshan Prasarak Mandal (VSPM) Dental College and Research Centre at Digdoh, Hingna, are a worried lot as their administration has allegedly said that now there are no chances of facilitating the jab for them. The residents said their college administration had collected details from them in November last year for vaccine registration. “But we haven’t been vaccinated in the last 22 days. We were shocked to find our names missing in the list of registered healthcare workers. Our administration says government has now stopped the registration process. But vaccination is going on everywhere, as per media reports,” they said.The revelation comes at a time when the state government, Zilla Parishad (ZP) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) are continuously appealing all institutions to register all healthcare workers for the vaccination.The resident doctors on the condition of anonymity told TOI, “All professors, clerical staff and even attendants from our college got vaccinated. We are postgraduate students of this college. We have examined and treated patients throughout the pandemic.”The students claimed that apart from daily work at the college, they have worked at Covid testing centres of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Students of first year said they worked from August till two weeks of September last year. Students of second year said they took over from there and continued till two weeks of October. Final year students worked for remaining days of October and up to November 14, they said. “We even did not go to our homes during festivals including Diwali because of Covid duty,” they said.Dean of NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences and Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, Dr Kajal Mitra who is also-in charge of entire campus including Dental College, said, “Authorities had sought list within a deadline. After inquiring, I learnt that Dental College submitted list of resident doctors very late. We have received the list now. We will send it to authorities and ensure their registration. I was not aware of the issue earlier and will personally see that all students are registered and vaccinated,” he said.The officials of ZP and NMC said, “We accepted data from October till launch of vaccination programme on January 16. Before launch, 31,377 healthcare workers were registered. More were registered even after commencement of vaccination and now the number has crossed 40,000 in the district. New registration could not happen for few days in Co-WIN application, which has been resolved by the government now,” they said.ZP has provided one centre at Lata Mangeshkar Hospital since beginning of the vaccination programme. For the last few days, there are two centres there.-----------------------------IAN* Registration of healthcare workers started in October last year* Vaccination programme launched on January 16* 31,377 were registered before the launch. Number crossed 40,000 as registration continued* NMC and ZP are urging all to take the jab* VSPM Dental College administration did not register 72 resident doctors while professors, clerks, attendants etc got the jab* Residents examined and treated patients throughout pandemic, worked at NMC testing centres from August to November* According to residents, administration says no chances of vaccination as government has stopped registration||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vspm-dental-college-fails-to-list-72-residents-on-time-for-jab/articleshow/80726995.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 7, 2021||Nagpur||Covaxin trials for kids likely soon in Nagpur||NAGPUR: For parents concerned about sending their children, especially primary students, to school due to Covid-19, and wanting to know when vaccine will be approved for those below 18 years, here’s something that will give them a sense of safety. Bharat Biotech, makers of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, is expected to start vaccine trial for the paediatric population by February-end or early March this year. Sources confirmed that a leading children’s hospital in the city has been earmarked as one of the sites for trials to be done on children and youngsters in the age group 2 to 18 years. The trials will start as soon as Bharat Biotech, a company from Hyderabad, gets formal go ahead from Government of India. In January, Bharat Biotech MD Krishna Ella had stated that the vaccine for children will be ready in the next four months — by May 2021. “It will be the first such trial in the world in which paediatric population right from toddlers to teens will be tested for the Covid-19 vaccine,” said coordinator for these trials, Dr Ashish Tajne. Dr Tajne further said Nagpur was one of the sites for Covaxin’s phase I, II and III human trials. “Trials for Covaxin through intradermal route are under way in the city. Soon, Covaxin trials through nasal route will also commence. However, the paediatric trial has a special importance,” he said. According to him, these trials will be conducted in age slabs like 2 to 5 years, 6 to 12 years and 12 to 18 years. “Special protocol will be maintained. It will be the crucial trial in fight against Covid-19,” he said. As per international regulations, only vaccines based on inactivated virus can be administered to children under the age of 16 years. Hence, Covaxin is the only suitable option for children in India. Other Made-in-India vaccines are based on mRNA and chimpanzee adenovirus vector platforms. Earlier in January, the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) had given conditional approval for administering Covaxin to children above 12 years of age. But later in the month, the government disapproved this authorization. After this, Bharat Biotech declared that it will be submitting a proposal for Covaxin trials for children between 2-12 years. A senior paediatrician from the city, who is most likely to be the principle coordinator of these trials at Nagpur site, said that formal announcement about the trials will be done only after receiving government’s final nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-trials-for-2-18-age-group-likely-soon/articleshow/80726999.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver in mishap held guilty for not getting medical aid||MUMBAI: In a rare conviction, a 49-year-old Sewri resident was found guilty by a magistrate court of not securing medical aid for a bike-borne couple who got injured after his car got into an accident with them at Marine Drive in 2019. He was, however, acquitted on charges of rash driving. On Friday, the accused, Sudeep Muzumdar was also held guilty for not reporting the matter to the police. The court said the accused was duty-bound to do both. He was fined Rs 1,000 total for both offenses. Lenient sentence as issue amicably settled, minor was inside the carThe prosecution has, on the basis of evidence, proved that the accused after the accident has not performed his duty cast under Section 134(a) of The Motor Vehicles Act, to provide medical aid to the injured. The accused has not disputed the fact that his vehicle was involved in the accident. He had not stopped at the spot and it is also [an] admitted fact that he has not given information to the police,” the court said. While both offences punishable under the Motor Vehicles Act attract a maximum sentence of 6 months of imprisonment, the accused was only fined a total of Rs 1,000. The conviction came even as the accused told the court that the matter was settled outside court. “Considering the fact that the minor daughter was with the accused and there is amicable settlement between the injured and accused, in my view, instead of sentencing the accused for substantive sentence, it will be proper to direct him to deposit the fine only which will be the ends of justice,” the court said while imposing the minimum punishment. The victim, Abhay Shah, submitted that on April 21, 2019, he went to a swimming pool with his wife on his scooter. When he reached Wilson College junction, around 12.50 pm, they met with an accident while taking a turn. According to him, his scooter collided with the four-wheeler on the right and fell. The car, however, left. He further deposed that he fractured his right ankle. He identified Muzumdar in court. Another witness, a police naik, who was on duty nearby, said that since he heard the “sound of brakes”, he went to the spot. He stated that he saw a fourwheeler had dashed a scooter before fleeing. The cop said that he noted the vehicle number and gave it to the victim. An FIR was registered at Gamdevi police station. Later Muzumdar was found and booked. He was granted bail. Muzumdar’s lawyer denied allegations of rash and negligent driving. In his final statement, Muzumdar accepted he was driving the car. While acquitting Muzumdar under the Indian Penal Code charge of rash driving, the court said that the victim had not deposed about the manner in which the accident took place. “In the present matter, if the evidence of the entire prosecution witnesses is perused, nowhere the circumstances on spot where the accident took place is deposed by the witness... It is very difficult to conclude that the accused was driving in a rash and negligent manner,” the court said, adding that the prosecution had failed to prove this charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-driver-in-mishap-held-guilty-for-not-getting-medical-aid/articleshow/80729525.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 7, 2021||Mumbai||Jharkhand navy sailor kidnapped from Tamil Nadu, set ablaze in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: A 26-year-old naval sailor who went missing while on his way to his Coimbatore base after a holiday at his village in Jharkhand, was found in a jungle in Palghar on Friday morning with 90% burn injuries. He succumbed to the injuries the same night at Sion Hospital. In his dying declaration to the Gholvad police, Leading Seaman Surajkumar Dubey said he was abducted by 3 unknown men outside Chennai airport at 11pm on January 30 in a white SUV, said API Sarjerao Kumbhar. The armed men allegedly demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from him and kept him captive for three days at an unknown place in Chennai. When he still refused to pay up, they brought him by road to Vaiji-Veljipada jungle in Gholvad, Palghar, and set him ablaze with petrol on Friday. Kin got no ransom call, cops probe personal anglePolice said they are baffled as to why the abductors chose a jungle in faraway Palghar, a distance of almost 1,500km from Chennai. They suspect the ransom demand may have been an excuse used by the accused and are investigating any personal angle in the crime. Police said the autopsy report is awaited. The men fled from the spot and Dubey was found in a semiconscious state about three hours later by some locals who had entered the jungle to gather wood. They informed the police, who rushed him to Sion Hospital. Dubey, who had joined Indian Navy in August 2012, was posted at INS Agrani in Coimbatore. After spending around two weeks with his family in Kolhua village in Jharkhand’s Palamu district, he took a flight from Ranchi to Chennai on January 30. According to his father, Dubey had last spoken to his parents from Hyderabad airport. Thereafter, his two cellphones were switched off. He was to report to work on February 1. A missing complaint was registered with Chainpur police station. Palamu SP Sanjiv Kumar had then stated the complaint was being investigated. The family had not received any ransom call. In his dying statement, Dubey also said his cellphones were taken away. The men demanded Rs 10 lakh from him and on February 4, they drove and reached Palghar the next day. While Dubey did not know where he was being taken, he told the police the road travel took over 25 to 26 hours. A case has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder, 364 for kidnapping and ransom, and 392 for robbery, and under the Arms Act against unknown persons. Police said they are examining closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage of the highway for leads on the vehicle used for the crime. They suspect a stolen vehicle was used to carry it out. Dubey was unable to provide the description of the men as his condition was critical. He managed to indicate they were in their 20s and 30s though. (With inputs from Ranchi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-abducted-sailor-found-in-jungle-with-burns-dies/articleshow/80729550.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 7, 2021||India||Covid jabs do have a side effect: Vaccine envy||Eighteen-year-old Nitant Pandya, the youngest in his family and usually the more pampered of them all, suddenly found himself navigating a new normal - of not getting his share - when the gift of life arrived for the rest of his family last month. When the vaccine rollout turned the tide for healthcare workers for whom the past 10 months have been gruelling, Nitant was "happy" to see his family immunised. Yet, the newly disenfranchised teenager couldn't help but feel a tinge of jealousy after everyone in the Pandya household - his grandfather and father (both doctors); his mother (a hospital administrator); and his sister (a medical resident) - received the jab of joy except him. "I'm very bummed out because I know it's going to take a long, long time before I get my first dose of the vaccine. And although my paranoia that I might infect elders in my family is gone, I don't see their life changing much because they can still infect me. And that secretly makes me glad!" admits Nitant as he delights in his unique vantage point. "I love how I still hold them back and they can't do whatever they want!" he laughs. "Yes, that's true. Given my son's age, he's likely to get the vaccine in the very last phase and all our attempts at pulling his leg - that he wouldn't be able to join us for dinners and outings after the vaccine - have backfired" laughs Dr Samir Pandya, a gynaecologist from Santacruz. At a time when new words and phrases such as Covidiot, anti-vaxxer, WFH, coronageddon and superspreader have taken over people's lexicon, there's another new pandemic term on the horizon - vaccine-envy - a sentiment unlikely to be quelled until people in general start receiving the much sought-after immunisation. And when it's the same family divided by the prick of a needle the dynamics can be an awkward mix of hope, joy and playful jealousy. For Saly Susheel, deputy director of nursing at Hiranandani Hospital, a crucial competition is heating up at home. To produce targeted antibodies not just for her personal immunity boost against the virus but to beat her husband who tossed her an "antibody challenge" after her vaccine jab last week. "My husband had contracted Covid some months ago and thinks he has more antibodies in him than I do despite the vaccine! I'm waiting for my second jab after which I'll do a serology test for both of us to see who wins," she sighs. Gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Sudeshna Ray's turn at the vaccine brought a palpable sense of victory among her family as her husband and children frantically shared pictures of their newly inoculated wife and mother with friends, family and colleagues, relieved that "at least one of us is safe even if Covid brings the world to an end". And Ray has been enjoying the short bursts of attention. "On the day of my vaccination, my husband fed me a hearty breakfast. My children are hailing me as a hero, my mother's been showing me off to her family and friends have been keeping a constant check on how I'm feeling. It feels good because healthcare workers don't get so much attention!" A near-war erupted on a live broadcast recently when Dr KK Aggarwal, a Delhi-based doctor, faced the wrath of his wife yelling over a phone call when she learned her husband had got himself vaccinated without her. While her feeling of abandonment is unlikely to last too long since she belongs to the medical fraternity, vaccination for non-medico family members, especially younger ones like Nitant, will arrive at a pace that could stretch well into autumn or even next spring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-jabs-do-have-a-side-effect-vaccine-envy/articleshow/80729570.cms||Mohua Das
February 7, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Girl, 1, battles Covid for 74 days; poor parents pay Rs 6 lakh||BENGALURU: One-year-old Vishalini overcame acute Covid-19 pneumonia after a 74-day battle and was discharged last month. Her family, which has limited means, spent nearly Rs 6 lakh on medicines during her stay in Rainbow Children’s Hospital, a private facility in Marathahalli, and currently doesn’t have the money to pay for her next chest X-ray. This has prompted questions as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had referred Vishalini to this hospital and the state government is supposed to cover the full treatment cost of all such cases. A senior civic official said that the hospital erred by not raising the full treatment bill with the government. A doctor at the hospital provided a different account, saying authorities released only a part of the funds, forcing it to launch a crowdfunding effort. Vishalini, from Laggere, had stomach swelling and fever in the last week of October. She was first admitted to government-run Vani Vilas Hospital on October 26. Though she tested negative for Covid-19 initially, she developed breathing problems. Four days later, she tested positive and doctors suggested that she should be shifted to the private hospital. The toddler had 95% infection in the lungs and also developed E.coli bacterial infection. She was on a ventilator for 44 days. Experts say Vishalini is a rare case as severe Covid pneumonia is not seen among young children. “The doctors were thorough, so our baby survived. Though the government referred our child to the private hospital, we were asked to pay Rs 6 lakh for her medicines. We sold our farm and house and took a loan. Now, we don’t even have money for her next chest Xray,” said Vishalini’s mother, Anita Shaktivelu. For some reason, three discharge dates are mentioned in Vishalini’s files. BBMP’s Centralised Hospital Bed Management System has listed the discharge date as November 11. The same day, her name was also shown under the ‘bed changed’ category. The Survarna Arogya Suraksha portal shows December 29 as the discharge date. Doctors who treated her told STOI that she was actually discharged on January 8. “Only the hospital is authorised to click on the discharge link; we can’t do it,” said a health official at the RR Nagar Covid-19 war room. On the payment issue, the official said: “The hospital made a mistake by not informing BBMP about the enhancement of treatment and making the parents pay for medicines. The parents should have alerted us.” Another civic official said the government had assigned an ‘Aapta Mitra’ to every hospital for effective communication with the patient’s family and BBMP. N Manjunatha Prasad, the BBMP commissioner, said that no Covid-19 patient referred by the BBMP could be asked to pay for medicines. “I am not aware of the girl’s case. Financial settlement is done through the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust. We will forward this case to it,” he added. Dr Divya Shetty, medical director of Rainbow Children’s Hospital, said that the government paid Rs 5 lakh as against the total bill of Rs 9 lakh, and the hospital raised the remainder through crowdfunding. A doctor claimed that BBMP didn’t provide adequate support despite multiple requests. The hospital did not respond to queries on why the family was asked to pay for the medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-girl-1-battles-covid-for-74-days-poor-parents-pay-rs-6-lakh/articleshow/80729577.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 7, 2021||Vadodara||Independents, ‘others’ join party||Vadodara: An interesting lot comprising independents and candidates from smaller parties as well as rebels who were denied tickets dropped their hats in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) poll ring. Most important development on the last day of filing nominations was that of Waghodiya BJP MLA Madhu Shrivastava’s son Dipak Shrivastava, who filed his nomination from ward 15 as an independent candidate. He was denied ticket as his father is an MLA and chairman of Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation. The party had decided that it will not give tickets to kin of party leaders and Dipak fell in the bracket. He had won 2015 VMC polls with the highest majority in the city from BJP. In 2010, he had contested from Janta Dal (U). The reason why the likes of Shrivastavas are peeved is that the party did give tickets to persons who were relatives of some party leaders. Dipak said that while he had to accept the BJP policy, he was contesting as his ward residents wanted him owing to his good work. He also rubbished rumours about him having three children. BJP old-timer Rajesh Thakkar too filed nomination as an independent from ward 12 where he was denied a ticket again after promising him in 2015 that he would be considered in 2020. Efforts to convince him against contesting the polls did not yield results. Former NSUI leader Zuber Pathan rebelled against the Congress and filed nomination from ward one from the Rashtriya Samaj Paksha (RSP). The Congress is hopeful of a good performance in this ward, but the RSP may complicate matters here. Shwejal Vyas who was one of the key aides of former corporator Rajesh Ayre was in a quandary after Ayre quit the RSP and joined the BJP. Vyas decided to contest the polls as an independent from ward eight. In all, 542 forms were filed for the VMC polls. These include 475 filed only on Saturday, the last day of filing nominations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/independents-others-join-party/articleshow/80727295.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||Covid tests below target in dists, health secy issues warning||Ranchi: Taking cognisance of the decline in sample collection and testing for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, state health secretary Kamal Kishore Soan has directed all deputy commissioners of the districts to maintain optimal levels of sample collection and testing apart from enforcing guidelines and other important advisories issued by the Centre and the state. Soan issued a directive to warn the districts in this regard on Thursday after several complaints were received regarding non-adherence of standard operating procedures and not achieving the test per million (TPM) target. Expressing serious concern over the falling number of tests in several districts, Soan directed the deputy commissioners of such districts to ensure that the numbers are strengthened as per the targets issued by the health department through its letter dated November 24, 2020. According to Soan’s letter, six districts — Sahibganj, Palamu, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh and Bokaro — have reported a decline in testing and were asked to increase it by identifying the reasons behind the poor performance. The order also directed the DCs concerned to ensure implementation of proper Covid-19 safety norms, including social distancing, use of mask and hand sanitizer at crowded places like market places, public transport vehicles, places of worship and conduct regular sample collection drives at such places. Meanwhile, Pakur and Khunti, which had become Covid-free on December 24 and January 25, have again reported fresh cases last week. Even though the number of active cases in both the districts remained below five, the state health department has also issued the order to the two DCs to ensure that there are no fresh infections. Talking to TOI, state head of Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) Dr Praveen Karn said, “There has been a significant decline in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths during the past few months in the state. But we have to be careful at this time because any negligence can cost us dear. Hence, the need to strengthen testing and to enforce proper Covid-19 protocols at places with high footfall to eliminate any infection threats.” On the reasons behind the fresh cases in Khunti and Pakur after a gap of over three weeks, Dr Karn said, “The gap in the detection of cases is due to the hesitancy among people to get tested. However, proper contact-tracing has been done and none of the contacts has tested positive in both districts, which is a good sign.” Highlighting efforts to increase testing, Dr Karn said, “We are not using rapid antigen tests for now and our focus is on RT-PCR and TruNat tests. We have also asked the districts to continue with information, education and communication (IEC) process for Covid-19 as well as the vaccination drive so that we can beat the pandemic at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-tests-below-target-in-dists-health-secy-issues-warning/articleshow/80727220.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||Cong MLA adopts backward village in Simdega||Gumla: Congress MLA from Simdega, Bhushan Bara, has adopted Karangagudi, a remote village which is extremely backward but a rich hub of sporting talent and has produced as many as seven international hockey players. Addressing a function at Karangagudi to felicitate three women international hockey players on Saturday, Bara announced his decision to adopt the village, located in Kersai block, about 32 km away from the Simdega district headquarters, and promised to take up all-round development work. The three players — Sangeeta Kumari, Beauty Dungdung and Sushma Kumari — were part of Team India which played a six-match series at Santiago in Chile recently. They had scored 10 goals of the team's 18. Speaking on the occasion, the MLA said, "Karangagudi has produced several hockey stars but it is devoid of basic facilities. Children still play the game on uneven ground, barefoot and with bamboo sticks. There is no facility for sports at all in this village. Even basic amenities like drinking water, electricity and roads are not there.” He further said, "I will put in efforts to provide these facilities to the village. The previous BJP government did nothing for the players and their villages. Hence, I have decided to adopt this village. A request will be made to chief minister Hemant Soren to lay an astroturf here. Other resources will also be provided for the promotion of the sport.” Bara also said district officials will start assessing the requirements of the village to prepare plans accordingly. “All government schemes will be implemented here and projects under my own MLA fund will also be taken up to develop this village,” the MLA promised. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said the village is emerging as a cradle of hockey players but lacks infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-mla-adopts-backward-village-in-simdega/articleshow/80727277.cms||K A Gupta
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Abhishek dares Suvendu to contest against Mamata from Nandigram||Kanthi (Purba Midnapore): Trinamool Congress’s number 2 and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday threw a challenge to BJP, saying Midnapore — the cradle of the country’s freedom struggle — had no place for “Mirjafars and company”. On Adhikari family’s home turf Kanthi, Abhishek dared Suvendu to contest against Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram. “Mamata Banerjee is contesting from Nandigram. Let Suvendu contest against her from Nandigram. He should at least express his wish instead of fielding someone else,” he said. Abhishek built his anti-Adhikari narrative playing the opposition as he lashed out at the “gaddar” from an impressive gathering adjacent to the Doishai bus stand, five km from the Adhikaris’ Santikunj residence. “Go and tell your father I have come to your place,” Abhishek said on Saturday, a day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Haldia visit on Sunday. Trinamool MP from Kanthi Sisir Adhikari and the party’s Tamluk MP and member of Haldia Development Authority, Dibyendu Adhikari, have been invited to the PM’s programme. Abhishek spent a large part of his speech against “betrayers” who have blemished the soil of Midnapore. “Those who have sold out Midnapore’s rich heritage to Delhi will lose their deposits in the coming polls,” he said. Explaining why Suvendu got upset with TMC, Abhishek said: “He got upset the day Trinamool abolished the observer’s post. Prior to this, he was the party observer in Purba Midnapore, Murshidabad, Malda and Uttar Dinajpur. His plan was to get his candidates elected from this district and then go into a bargain with BJP with 35 MLAs. We anticipated the plan and took guard.” Without naming Suvendu, the Trinamool MP said: “I will remind you that miscreants led by a senior leader of a party had desecrated Bengal icon Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar’s statue in Kolkata. A person from your district has now fallen to the feet of that leader. Defeat the gaddars in all 16 seats in the district.” “A few days ago, the Saradha CEO wrote a letter from jail in which he said Suvendu Adhikari took Rs 6 crore from him. I am given to understand that many of you lost your deposits in the Saradha, Rose Valley scam. I will mob Santikunj with all these cheated depositors,” Abhishek said. “He is now talking about the rural-urban divide. He has been saying that the government is run by a handful of leaders in south Kolkata when he was in charge of three departments and chairman of a couple of public bodies.” Livid with Suvendu’s Trinamool-Enamul coinage, he added: “Who is Rakhal? What did he do? I understand why you all want the same party government at the Centre and the state. It helps you protect the embezzled money.” Abhishek didn’t even spare BJP’s father figure and Bharat Keshari Syama Prasad Mookerjee, saying how the leader had mocked at the Quit India movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abhishek-dares-suvendu-to-contest-against-mamata-from-nandigram/articleshow/80728617.cms||Suman Mandal
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Black flags, brooms greet Sovan rally in Maheshtala||Kolkata: There was ruckus at a BJP rally in Maheshtala on Saturday afternoon after alleged Trinamool Congress supporters waved black flags, shoes and brooms at former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee. Police had a tough time controlling the crowd. The BJP road show was held from Jinjira Bazar to Purano Dakghor area in Maheshtala, which is represented by Sovan’s estranged wife Ratna Chatterjee’s father Dulal Das. Angry TMC supporters shouted “go-back” slogans at the BJP leaders soon after the march began. The rally encountered seven such disruptions along the 6km route. “They (TMC supporters) are afraid of the BJP’s rise and that is evident. This is part of their culture. While police tried to take action and disperse the mob at some places, they remained inactive most of the time,” Chatterjee said. Maheshtala MLA Das said people were simply angry at a man who had deserted his family. “My daughter (Ratna) was in deep trouble when she was still with him. I had to rescue her,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/black-flags-brooms-greet-sovan-rally-in-maheshtala/articleshow/80728727.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Deboshree defamation case dismissed||Kolkata: A defamation case filed by Ruksana Khanam, a close associate of actor-turned-MLA Deboshree Roy, has been dismissed by a city court. Khanam had moved the court against Sovan Chatterjee and Baisakhi Banerjee for their alleged personal attacks on the MLA. However, since the defamation case had not been filed by Roy herself and instead by Khanam who is “not the aggrieved party”, the court rejected the plea. Advocate Tamal Mukherjee, counsel for Roy, said he was planning “further action” once the MLA gave him “clearance”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/deboshree-defamation-case-dismissed/articleshow/80728784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s resignation letter on display at Victoria Memorial Hall fake: Kin||KOLKATA: The copy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s resignation letter from the Indian Civil Services on April 22, 1921, displayed in an exhibition at the Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH), is fake, the icon’s family has claimed. Netaji’s grandnephew and chairman of Netaji Research Bureau, historian Sugato Bose, has written to VMH curator Jayanta Sengupta asking that the letter be immediately taken off display. The high- profile exhibition was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi on January 23, the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji. Sugato Bose has said in his letter to Victoria Memorial Hall curator Jayanta Sengupta that the original letter lies preserved in the India Office, London and the one displayed at the exhibition does not match Netaji’s handwriting. Besides, there are mistakes in the salutation and the spelling of the word, “servant”. “My parents, discovered the letter for the first time and brought with them copies of it. My mother, Krishna Bose included it in her book, Itihaser Sandhane,” said Bose, who is extremely upset that a fake letter could be used in an exhibition planned as a tribute to the patriot. “The worst is that the Netaji Research Bureau has been named as the source of the fake letter. I want Victoria Memorial to immediately remove the fake letter with an apology and clarification for all those who have seen it since the exhibition was inaugurated. The Bureau is an authentic reserve of documents related to Netaji, by ascribing the fake letter to it, quite a lot of damage has been done,” Bose said. “Since a copy of the original letter is available in public domain, it should not be a problem for VMH to replace it immediately. Though I have written to them, I am yet to hear from VMH about what they are doing to replace the letter,” he added. Several calls made by TOI to VMH curator Sengupta went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/netaji-letter-on-display-at-vmh-fake-kin/articleshow/80728785.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||No further unlock in sight till Feb 19||Ranchi: No further unlock is in sight in Jharkhand at least for the next couple of weeks as the state disaster management department’s proposed meeting on Friday has now been postponed to February 19. On Saturday, chief minister Hemant Soren flew to Maldives with his family for a trip and is expected to return on February 10. As Hemant is the chairman of the state disaster management authority (SDMA), any decision regarding unlock cannot be taken without his consent. State disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal said, “Besides further unlock, there’ll be a host of other issues which will be taken up during the SDMA meeting on February 19.” Even though majority of the commercial and business sectors have been reopened after being shut since March last year owing to the Covid-induced lockdown, cinema halls, coaching centres and parks are yet to resume their services. Needless to say, the further delay has irked those who were hoping to resume business this week. Jharkhand Coaching Association’s joint secretary S D Mishra said, “We were hoping for some good news on Friday and now all our hopes are pinned on the February 19 meeting.” He added, “It’s about time that the government allowed us to reopen as any further delay will create problems for the next academic session. We have already faced huge losses in the current academic session. If we continue to remain shut, it’ll be impossible for us to admit students in the next session.” Currently, schools have been allowed to resume classes for only the Class X and XII board examinees and a maximum of 300 people have been allowed at marriage ceremonies and other gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-further-unlock-in-sight-till-feb-19/articleshow/80727207.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Minister Swapan Debnath heckled at Burdwan ‘chakka jam’||GALSI: Left supporters participating in the ‘chakka jam’ programme against the Centre’s three farm laws allegedly heckled state minister Swapan Debnath when his car was caught in the protest at Galsi in East Burdwan on Saturday afternoon. State fire services minister Sujit Basu was also stalled on his way to an event. The protesters allegedly rushed to Debnath’s car, shouting “chal chor” slogans.The ruckus continued for some 20 minutes. Debnath claimed that Left supporters blocked his car, thumped on the bonnet and kicked on the doors. “Is this the way to protest? What is the point of a political programme if it boils down to heckling a minister?” he said. Basu too condemned the incident. “They should protest against those who have promulgated the laws. Our party has been opposing the farm laws right from the start. How do they gain by intercepting two state ministers?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/minister-heckled-at-burdwan-chakka-jam/articleshow/80728872.cms||Mohammad Asif
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal elections 2021: 4 teleserial actors join Trinamool Congress||KOLKATA: Four Bengali teleserial actors formally joined the Trinamool Congress on Saturday, continuing the trend of Tollywood’s support for the ruling party in the run-up to the assembly polls. Ranieeta Das, Souptick Chackrabarty, Sritama Bhattacharjee and Disha Roychowdhury were handed party flags by party MP Dola Sen. The actors interacted with the media briefly. “We have been with Didi (CM Mamata Banerjee) for the past 10 years. We will shoulder whatever responsibility the party gives us,” said Ranieeta. Souptick echoed her and said: “We have been supporters for so long and now we are workers. The younger generation can see how far Bengal has come in 10 years.” Sritama said she was joining the TMC to serve people. “We all know how this team (the TMC) works,” she said. Disha heaped praises on the CM. “Didi’s fight has tremendously encouraged me. She has always helped everyone like family members,” Disha said. MP Sen said: “The CM has inspired many people in several ways. It is due to this that people from all sections of society are reposing their faith in her and pledging to fight for people along with her. We have seen many people joining Trinamool in the past and we will continue to see them in the future too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-teleserial-actors-join-trinamool/articleshow/80728684.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Centre denying states share of revenue: Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on cess||KOLKATA: A day after the Bengal budget, state finance minister Amit Mitra came down heavily on the Centre for imposing cess and surcharges to allegedly deny states their share of revenue. In the 2021 Budget presented by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, agro cess was imposed on petroleum products in lieu of additional excise duty. This has left the price unchanged, but reduced the share of states. Besides petroleum, basic customs duty has been replaced by cess to a certain extent in some other products. Mitra on Saturday said that the Centre had increased cess and surcharges from 8% to 16% over and above taxes only to deprive states of their share. “The quantum of cess and surcharges have been increased in the past several years. Since collection from cess and surcharges are not to be shared with the states, that is why they are being raised,” he said. He said that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India had asked the Centre not to jack up cess and surcharges in this manner. Regarding the vote-on-account, Mitra had said that the state’s tax collection had increased 3.5 times since 2011 and debt/GDP ratio had declined from 40.6% in 2011 to 34.8% at present. He said even the fiscal deficit had dropped from 4.2% to 2.9% in the latest count. He had said that the state’s development expenditure had risen six times, capital expenditure 14 times and social expenditure 9.1 times. According to him, capex has increased from Rs 2,226 crore to Rs 31,180 crore in the past 10 years. Mitra said during Trinamool rule, expenditure on physical infrastructure had increased 5.5 times. The state government, he said, had taken massive strides in developing school and higher education, and in spending on health, minority affairs and public works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centre-denying-states-share-of-revenue-mitra-on-cess/articleshow/80728838.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||Sudden rain and thundershowers bring down temperature||Ranchi: After a comparatively warm January, the temperature has gone considerably down this month. The average minimum and maximum temperature in most parts of the state was three to four degrees above normal but in February it has remained mostly below the normal temperature. On Saturday, the temperature plummeted suddenly in the afternoon as western and central districts, including Palamu, Lohardaga, Gumla and Ranchi, received rainfall. “Owing to the western disturbance over eastern parts of Jammu & Kashmir and a cyclonic circulation over south Assam and its neighbourhood, the temperature has gone down,” Abhishek Anand scientist at Ranchi centre of IMD said. He added that another cyclonic circulation over northeast Madhya Pradesh that was hovering over north Chhattisgarh and its neighbourhood extending up to 2.1km above mean sea level entered Jharkhand and is now proceeding towards Bengal. Owing to these developments, IMD has predicted drop of around 3-4 degree Celsius in minimum temperature thereby resulting in cold wave condition in northern and central districts like Palamu, Garhwa, Chatra, Koderma, Latehar, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Gumla Bokaro, Hazaribag and Giridih. The cold wave conditions will further proceed to north western and southwestern districts by Monday. On Saturday the maximum temperature in most parts of the state remained few notches above normal. While Chaibasa was the warmest with 31.6 degree Celsius and a deviation of 3.9 degrees Ranchi recorded the maximum deviation of 4.4 degrees from normal to record maximum temperature of 29.4 degrees. Though the minimum temperature of Ranchi Bokaro and Daltonganj was above normal, it remained lower in Jamshedpur and Chaibasa, the latter recording coldest minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees. “The maximum and minimum temperature would start receding from Monday when the northern winds enter the state. Temperature usually falls when the sky is clear and the sky is likely to get clearer from Sunday,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sudden-rain-and-thundershowers-bring-down-temperature/articleshow/80727250.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||Murder accused escapes from Rims ICU, search on to nab him||Ranchi: A murder accused, admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), escaped on Saturday morning after managing to cut the rope tied to his handcuffs. Police have launched a search operation to nab him. The accused, identified as Sidhheshwar Madaya, was lodged in Dumka jail and after he developed health problems and was vomiting blood, he was brought to Rims on Thursday. DSP (sadar) Prabhat Ranjan Barwar said two policemen who were deputed for his security found him missing from the bed around 4:30am. “After receiving information about the incident, police alerted all its patrolling parties. His photo was circulated at all police stations and we are keeping a watch at bus stands and railway stations. A case has also been registered against the accused at Bariatu police station,” he said. Barwar said police are also examining closed circuit television cameras at Rims and other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/murder-accused-escapes-from-rims-icu-search-on-to-nab-him/articleshow/80727229.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Ranchi||20-acre plot identified for Chatra med college||Chatra: Officials of Sadar circle division in Chatra have identified a fresh plot of land for the construction of a proposed a medical college in the district. Earlier, a 16-acre plot was identified, but it was deemed inadequate for the project, prompting a new search for land had begun. Officials said that they are now preparing a proposal to forward to deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha, who will send it to the state government for further action. Sources said the Centre had informed the state government about setting up medical colleges in aspiring districts, including Chatra, asking it to finalise a 20-acre plot. A plot near Chatra sadar hospital was finalized, but Jha rejected it as it was a 16-acre plot. A search for new land started again under the supervision of sadar subdivisional officer Mumtaz Ansari. The fresh land was identified at Damdoiya under sadar circle is best for setting up the college, the sources added. “We had sent proposal to additional collector Santosh Kumar Sinha, who will visit the plot and forward the recommendation to Jha for action,” they added. Sinha said he had received the proposal. “I will do the needful and forward it to deputy commissioner,” he added. Locals have for long been demanding better healthcare facilities in the district as they have to visit Hazaribag, Ranchi and Gaya in Bihar in case of emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/20-acre-plot-identified-for-chatra-med-college/articleshow/80727196.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Graffiti threat to Santipur MLA Arindam Bhattacharya: Leave turf or die||SANTIPUR: Graffiti has appeared in Nadia’s Santipur, asking Trinamool Congress-turned-BJP leader and MLA Arindam Bhattacharya to leave the place within seven days or face death. Bhattacharya said he would stay put in his constituency. “I fear this is the handiwork of the Trinamool. The party has realised that it is losing ground fast. Party leaders are trying to create an atmosphere of terror. I accept the challenge,” the MLA said. Posters and graffiti in two wards of Santipur Municipality appeared since Bhattacharya joined the BJP in Delhi on January 20. Trinamool’s Nadia leaders have denied the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/graffiti-threat-to-mla-leave-turf-or-die/articleshow/80728645.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal farmers deprived, people want change: BJP president JP Nadda||MALDA/NABADWIP: BJP president JP Nadda turned the tables on Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from a farmers’ feast in north Bengal on Saturday, pointing to the plight of the state’s farmers when the CM was focussing on the continuing stir at the Singhu border. “Mamata didi has done gross injustice to Bengal’s farmers. Caught in her ego, she didn’t allow the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. Her stubborn stance deprived 70 lakh Bengal farmers from getting benefits for more than two years. A farmer lost out on Rs 14,000 in the process,” Nadda said before having lunch with farmers at Sahapur village in Malda. The BJP president followed up the topic while flagging off the party’s “parivartan yatra” from Nabadwip in south Bengal and coined a slogan: “Onek hoyechhe Mamata, paribartan chaihhe janata (Enough of Mamata, people want change).” But he ended his speech with the “Jai Bharat, Jai Bangla” slogan that sounded similar to Banerjee’s. Hitting out at the CM’s late response, Nadda said: “After realising that 25 lakh farmers have applied online for PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the CM has said she wants to implement the scheme. She has missed the bus. People of Bengal have made up their minds to bring change,” he said. Nadda also cited a host of welfare schemes, namely Ayushman Bharat, Ujjwala Yojana and Soubhagya Yojana, and said: “Mamata ji stood as a wall to prevent the PM’s welfare schemes in Bengal. She says ‘hobe na, hobe na (won’t happen)’ at the drop of a hat. We will turn these noes into ayes after people of Bengal vote BJP to power.” Nadda then rolled out the PM’s new initiative for farmers such as introducing a direct farmer train from Bengal to Maharashtra and his allocation for 665 km of Bengal roads. The BJP president also took a dig at the Bengal CM over walking the extra mile for Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “The Congress since Jawaharlal Nehru took no interest in Netaji. Now, after the PM came to Kolkata to observe the 125th birth anniversary, the CM took the commemorative initiatives,” he said. The BJP president wondered why Banerjee got irritated after hearing the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan. “Mamata ji ko gussa kyun ata hai? As I came to this place, people shook hands and greeted me saying ‘Jai Shri Ram’,” he added. Nadda flagged off the “parivartan yatra” from Nabadwip, the birthplace of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, and also visited a Mahaprabhu temple. Prior to this, Union home minister Amit Shah was scheduled to pay a visit to the ISKCON temple in Mayapur, though he had to cancel his Bengal visit at the last moment. Nadda made light of the building tension in Malda following allegations that BJP party flags were being replaced by Trinamool flags. “I see people carrying photos of pishi and bhaipo wherever I go in Bengal. But people have decided to say namaste to bhaipo,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-farmers-deprived-people-want-change-nadda/articleshow/80728639.cms||Subhro Maitra
February 7, 2021||India||Didi's 'ego' deprived Bengal farmers of Central schemes: Nadda||MALDA/NABADWIP: BJP president JP Nadda took on Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday, alleging her of depriving the benefits of central government schemes because of her "ego". "Mamata didi has done gross injustice to Bengal's farmers. Caught in her ego, she didn't allow the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. Her stubborn stance deprived 70 lakh Bengal farmers from getting benefits for more than two years. A farmer lost out on Rs 14,000 in the process," he said before having lunch with farmers at Sahapur village in Malda district. The BJP president flagged off the party's 'Parivartan Yatra' from Nabadwip in south Bengal and coined a slogan: Onek hoyechhe Mamata, paribartan chaihhe janata (Enough of Mamata, people want change). But he ended his speech with the 'Jai Bharat, Jai Bangla' slogan that sounded similar to Mamata's. Hitting out at the CM's late response, Nadda said: "After realising that 25 lakh farmers have applied online for PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the CM has said she wants to implement the scheme. She has missed the bus." Nadda also cited a host of welfare schemes, namely Ayushman Bharat, Ujjwala Yojana and Soubhagya Yojana, and said: "Mamata-ji stood as a wall to prevent the PM's welfare schemes in Bengal." Nadda also took a dig at Mamata over walking the extra mile for Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. "The Congress since Jawaharlal Nehru took no interest in Netaji. Now, after the PM came to Kolkata to observe the 125th birth anniversary, the CM took the commemorative initiatives," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didis-ego-deprived-bengal-farmers-of-central-schemes-nadda/articleshow/80729653.cms||Subhro Maitra
February 7, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ultra-luxurious deal: Penthouse in Ahmedabad sold for Rs 25 crore||AHMEDABAD: In the city known for being one of the most affordable housing markets in India, sale of ultra-luxurious flats at a hefty price tag of Rs 25 crore has set the market on fire. In fact, this cracker of a sale of a lavish penthouse in the city has become the talk of the realty town and is being pegged as one of the costliest apartment deals in the history of the city. The sprawling penthouse, with 18,000 square feet super built-up area, is part of an upscale residential apartment project located behind Rajpath Club and Ashok Vatika in Bodakdev. Going by the estimated value of the deal, the property price works out to be Rs 14,000 per sq ft. A duplex apartment in this project was sold for Rs 18 crore a couple of years ago. What’s more, just one-anda-half kilometre from this project, one more luxury penthouse was recently sold for Rs 11 crore. The 11,600-sq ft (super built-up) property is part of an ongoing project on the Iscon-Ambli road. ‘Luxury home market got pandemic push’Another penthouse of 9,000 sq ft (super built-up)in thesame project has been bought for about Rs 9 crore. If sources are to be believed, as many as seven other luxury flats with a super built-up area of 7,000 sq ft in the project have also been booked. Realtors say the Covid pandemic has given an unprecedented traction to the ultra-luxurious residential marketwith more peoplewilling toinvest in sprawling homes for greater work and home comfort. Such projects offer a single flat on one floor, separate lifts, multiple parking spaces,biometricsystem for entry and exit, and swimming pools among others, to the owners. “Multiple ultra-luxurious apartments with a ticket-size of more than Rs 5 crore are coming up on the Ambli-Bopal road and the area behind Rajpath Club,” said Ashish Patel, president,CREDAI-Gujarat,whichis a body of real estate developers in Gujarat. “Safety, height and lavish amenities are the major driving forces for the growing demandof such apartments,” he added. Realtors say businessmen, entrepreneurs, corporate firms and high networth individuals are largely going for such costly apartments. “The trend of luxurious residential real estate is gaining traction in Ahmedabad. Flats costing above Rs 5 crore are constructed and sold in the city,” said Balbirsingh Khalsa, Branch Director, Ahmedabad, Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm. Apartfrom ultra-luxuriousduplexes,thereis also a gooddemandfor highend apartments having super built-up areas of 4,500 to 6,000 sq ft, say industry players. “The demand for high-end apartments in Ahmedabad has surged by 35-40% after Unlock 1 in July,” said Ajay Patel, president, GIHED-CREDAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ultra-luxurious-deal-penthouse-in-ahmedabad-sold-for-rs-25-crore/articleshow/80729662.cms||Kalpesh Damor
February 7, 2021||World||1 dead, several injured in hotel shooting in Chicago suburb||BLOOMINGDALE: A shooting early Saturday at a hotel in suburban Chicago left one person dead and several others injured, police said. Officers who responded about 2:35 am to a report of shots fired on the fifth floor of the Indian Lakes Hotel in the village of Bloomingdale saw several people fleeing the hotel and found “multiple apparent gunshot victims” inside, police said in a news release. The victims were taken to area hospitals, where a man in his late 20s was later pronounced dead, Bloomingdale Public Safety Director Frank Giammarese told WLS-TV. It was not clear exactly how many other people were shot, and he did not have their conditions. One or more suspects involved might have fled after the shooting, in which no police officers were shot, he said. It's not yet clear what led to the shooting. The Bloomingdale Police Department Facebook page asked the public in a posting to avoid the area if possible, but added that, “there is no known imminent threat to any members of the community." Located about 30 miles (48 kilometres) west of downtown Chicago, the five-story Indian Lakes Hotel features 300 recently renovated rooms and more than 7,000 square feet (650 square metres) of event space, according to the resort's website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/1-dead-several-injured-in-hotel-shooting-in-chicago-suburb/articleshow/80729675.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Vadodara||Cong picks final seven at last minute||Vadodara: The Congress finalised its list of candidates only in the early hours on Saturday, the last day of filing nominations for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). The party had not declared candidates for seven seats in the city till Friday night even as candidates were declared on the other seats in two phases. The party gave a ticket to sitting corporators Atul Patel and Hemangini Kolekar from ward two and ward 14. Ronak Parikh was given a ticket from ward three. The names announced well after midnight included Ranjan Brahmbhatt and Ashfak Malek from ward 10 and Chirag Shah from ward 12. The party chose Niles Khatri from ward 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-picks-final-seven-at-last-minute/articleshow/80727328.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||Farmers protest: BJP ups back-channel efforts to douse fire||NEW DELHI: BJP on Saturday appeared to be drawing confidence from what it considered "poor response" to farmer unions' call for chakka jam and is likely to step up the persuasion campaign to win over the agriculturalists. "The chakka jam was a complete no-show except in pockets of Punjab and Haryana, which was only expected. Obviously there were some photo-ops by professional agitators, but farmers ignored the call for paralysing traffic across the country. We feel encouraged to redouble effort to isolate the farmers from the professional agitators," said a senior BJP member who preferred anonymity. Read AlsoFarmers protest: 'Not moving, govt has till Oct to repeal laws,' says Tikait“We give time to the Centre till October to take back the farm laws and ensure guaranteed MSP. If our demands are not met, we will plan and intensify our agitation elsewhere in the country from October 2,” said farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. "We will not talk under duress. Talks this time will beBJP functionaries also emphasised what they termed as popular indifference to the efforts to engineer disruptions. "At how many places, farmers have protested in UP, Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra, the most populous states of the country," asked a party member. Farmers protest live updatesSources felt that many protesters on the borders of Delhi are also annoyed with the opposition taking over their agitation, though they are reluctant to say so openly because of the fear of the leaders of unions. Read AlsoChakka jam stalls traffic on key routes in stir heartlandTraffic stalled for three hours along arteries in the heartland of the farmer agitation on Saturday, but farm groups enforcing the chakka jam across Punjab and Haryana ensured there were no palpitations over law and order at any of the protest sites. In Rohtak, commuters stranded in the three-hourThough BKU's Rakesh Tikait wrong-footed them by calling for escalation of protests after having negotiated his "arrest" with UP government, BJP has since intensified back channel efforts to resolve the issue. They have emphasised that the government is ready to offer concessions without altering the "soul" of the three laws. They have been aggressive in highlighting the "doublespeak" of the opposition parties which had on several occasions in the past advocated legislations similar to the three enacted last year. Citing a 2010 tweet of Congress member Shashi Tharoor supporting private players' role in grain storage, Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday reiterated the party's allegation that most of the opposition parties have supported the same legislations and their current opposition is politically motivated. "Another exposition of Congress' hypocrisy on #FarmLaws. Here is a tweet by @ShashiTharoor in 2010... And now #Congress thinks exactly the opposite," he tweeted. Another exposition of Congress' hypocrisy on #FarmLaws. Here is a tweet by @ShashiTharoor in 2010... And now… https://t.co/vnu5uQmuI0— Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) 1612592486000On January 23, 2010, Tharoor had tweeted, "It seems we waste more wheat every year to storage and distribution losses than Australia grows! Real need for the private sector to move into grain storage." BJP-supporting social media handles have also shared several videos of Congress members like former PM Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, when they strongly pitched for removal of the "arhtiyas" (middlemen) in purchase of grains from the farmers. Taking a dig at Tharoor's tweet, BJP spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sudhanshu Trivedi shared initial lines of famous Hindi song, "Iss rang badalati duniya mein, insaan ki niyat theek nahi, jhaanko to zara gireban mein, Imaan ki niyat theek nahi." Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had on Friday strongly defended the three farm laws in Rajya Sabha, daring the opposition to find flaws in the statutes. As part of the efforts to reach out to farmers, the party's Uttar Pradesh unit, including Union minister Sanjeev Balyan and UP minister Suresh Rana, have reached out to fellow Jats in Western UP, who are the mainstay of Tikait's BKU. "We are also in touch with khaps, some of which are said to have extended support to the agitation," a member said, adding that barring fear of law and order issues, there is no large scale perceptible sentiment against the laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-bjp-ups-back-channel-efforts-to-douse-fire/articleshow/80729713.cms||Akhilesh Singh
February 7, 2021||Visakhapatnam||RINL privatisation row: TDP leader Ganta Srinivasa Rao resigns||VISAKHAPATNAM: Former minister and Visakha North MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao of TDP on Saturday submitted his resignation as member of the AP assembly in protest against the proposed privatisation of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) by the central government. The legislator sent his resignation letter to the speaker of the AP assembly. It may be recalled that the Union cabinet recently approved 100% privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, which is managed by RINL. Trade unions and various political parties have been staging protests demanding that the Centre withdraw its proposal. Rao warned the Centre of a long agitation if the proposal was not dropped. He said the agitation against privatisation of the steel plant will be 100 times bigger than the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national capital region. The TDP leader’s sudden resignation move has surprised many. Though he won from Visakha North constituency in the 2019 assembly elections, he has been keeping a low profile after the polls. There were reports earlier that he was planning to join the ruling YSRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rinl-privatisation-row-tdp-leader-ganta-srinivasa-rao-resigns/articleshow/80729728.cms||Siva G
February 7, 2021||India||PSU denies info on pact that lets it collect deposits from med aspirants||Hundreds of crores of rupees are collected as security deposit every year from candidates registering for the all-India quota seats in MBBS and postgraduation in medical specialties by the public sector company HLL Lifecare Ltd, according to an agreement with the medical counselling committee (MCC). Yet, in response to right to information (RTI) applications, HLL Lifecare refused to reveal the terms of the agreement citing its confidentiality clause. The chief information commissioner (CIC) has, however, ruled that the information sought "does service larger public interest, particularly aspiring medical students and is as such linked with public health in general". Every academic year, MCC conducts counselling for admission to UG (MBBS/BDS) and PG medical courses (MD/MS/MDS) for seats in the all-India quota and in deemed universities. For participating in the counselling, MCC stipulates a security deposit - Rs 10,000 for general candidates and Rs 5,000 for reserved category candidates for all-India quota seats and Rs 2 lakh for all candidates for deemed university seats. Every year, almost 1.2 lakh students participate in the UG counselling. For PG seats, the security deposit is Rs 25,000 for general category candidates, Rs 10,000 for reserved and Rs 2 lakh for deemed university seats. About 50,000 register for PG counselling. Since MCC does not have any bank account to collect or deposit this money, it is collected by HLL Lifecare and refunded after admissions end. Almost Rs 600 crore collected as security deposit from candidates is kept by HLL Lifecare for about six months or more before being refunded. But the interest, which would amount to crores of rupees, is not passed on to the candidates. Dr Mohammed Kader Meeran filed an RTI application in September 2018 seeking details of the agreement under which HLL collects the money. The MCC under the health ministry's directorate general of health services claimed no knowledge of the money deposited with HLL and directed all queries about it from candidates to HLL Lifecare, referred to as "the financial custodian" by the MCC. HLL Lifecare said an agreement for providing support services was executed between the MCC chairperson and HLL in January 2018. HLL claimed the agreement "stipulated HLL to hold all information data, material, instructions, communications, terms and conditions of the contract as strictly confidential and breach of this clause by HLL shall be construed as material breach" for which the MCC chair may terminate the pact. Dr Meeran appealed against the response given by HLL's PIO and followed it through the last two years all the way to CIC's office. CIC YK Sinha's order on January 6 stated the commission wasn't convinced by HLL's argument to deny disclosure of information and decided to implead the PIOs of the MCC and the health ministry. There was no response from the health ministry to TOI's queries. In response to several queries including one on how much interest was earned on candidates' security deposit and to which authority HLL transferred this money, Dr Unnikrishnan of HLL said the information was ready but could not be shared since there was no clearance from the MCC to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/psu-denies-info-on-pact-that-lets-it-collect-deposits-from-med-aspirants/articleshow/80729737.cms||Rema Nagarajan
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Punjab needs to rationalise free agri power’||CHANDIGARH: Recommending transfer of Rs 1,20,339 crore - including revenue deficit grant of Rs 25,968 crore - for the debt-ridden Punjab in next five years, the 15th Finance Commission has emphasised that the state government needs to carry out reforms in Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act to facilitate abolition of agents in food grain procurement and other impediments. The commission headed by NK Singh has also recommended if Punjab wants to improve its fiscal health between financial year 2021-22 to 2025-26, it needs to rationalise free power for agriculture and streamline excise revenue collection. “With such a large subsidy burden, Punjab’s capital expenditure is very low, preventing the state from generating new streams of income,” underlines the commission's report, tabled in the Lok Sabha earlier this week and accepted by the central government. Among other states in its class - West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh - Punjab has the highest subsidy expenditures as a percentage of total revenue expenditure at 18%. The commission had grouped states on the basis of per capita income for the purpose of analysis. It has also been pointed out that Punjab needs to undertake comprehensive reform of stamp duty and registration, excise and electricity duties. “The steps taken by Chhattisgarh and West Bengal could be emulated for better revenue streams,” reads the report. The commission also found that despite the fact that Punjab has not implemented the recommendations of the latest pay commission yet, its fiscal situation is extremely precarious. Although the per capita income in Punjab is highest in its class of states, Punjab’s key social and fiscal parameters have been found deteriorating consistently. “Though almost all the finance commissions on the last two decades have been recommending various reform measures for Punjab (and some other states), Punjab has not been able to improve its fiscal situation much,” reads the report. Punjab also has an increasing dependence on ways and means advances, which is a temporary loan facility of the Reserve Bank of India. Punjab needs to improve on sustainable development goals of gender equality and sustainable consumption and production, said the commission. Punjab ShareThe commission has recommended total transfer of Rs 1,20,339 crore during the next five financial years to Punjab. This includes share in central taxes and duties (Rs 76,343 crore), grants-in-aid (Rs 43,996 crore), post devolution revenue deficit (Rs 25,968 crore), local government (Rs 10,305 crore), disaster management (Rs 2,736 crore), agriculture (Rs 1,966 crore), health (Rs 902 crore), Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana (Rs 230 crore), higher education (Rs 156 crore), judiciary (Rs 145 crore) and statistics (Rs 43 crore). The total amount also includes Rs 1,545 crore as state-specific grant to meet special obligations of regional and national concern. Punjab is among the 17 states for which the commission has recommended revenue deficit grant. The state has also got some relief as the commission has increased its share in the divisible pool of the central taxes to 1.807% from the existing 1.577% under the 14th Finance Commission. Highest Interest PaymentPunjab’s interest payments to total revenue receipts (TRR) ratio in 2018-19 at 26.2% was the highest among all states, noticed the commission. The gross borrowings of Punjab are not even enough to meet its expenditure on repayment of principal and interest payment, leaving little scope for the state to spend on developmental works. Committed expenditure comprising salary, interest payment, and pensions constituted around 75% of the total revenue receipts of the state during financial year 2018-19. The state had also not been adhering to its Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act limit in the recent years. Therefore, the commission has advised Punjab to address various issues in such a manner that fiscal reforms lead to sustainable streams of enhanced revenues, investments are made in durable capital infrastructure, power subsidy is rationalised to restore the water table and soil fertility and investments in the social sector lead to improvements in key socio-economic indicators. Agrarian DistressThe commission pointed out that Punjab showed a declining trend in the crop diversification index during recent years. Punjab, where farmers get free power, had the second highest discharge of ground water through irrigation (34.1 billion cubic metres in 2017) and the estimated ground water availability for future irrigation use is negative. Hence, it has been recommended that the state needs to diversify away from paddy and wheat into crops with low water intensity and high value including horticulture crops. The commission said though Punjab has already charted on some effective measures like Super Straw Management Systems (SMS) to check stubble burning, more effective efforts are required for effective management of air quality. Local Bodies, PSUsNoticing that the Examiner, Local Fund and Accounts (ELFA) is yet to be established in Punjab as the statutory auditor of rural local bodies (RLBs) and urban local bodies (ULBs), the commission said, “The state needs to effectively devolve the 3Fs -Finance, Functions and Functionaries - to the third tier.” It was noticed that the accounts of Punjab’s RLBs and ULBs were in arrears from financial year 2011-12 to 2017-18. Out of the 167 ULBs, only 17 were eligible for performance grants in 2017-18. Also, there is no process of consolidation of panchayati raj institution (PRI) accounts from village accounts to block to district and finally to the state level. The commission found that Punjab has 33 working public sector undertakings (PSUs) - 29 companies and four statutory corporations - and 20 inactive companies. Out of these, 16 accounts reflected loss of Rs 5,081 crore and 13 accounts reflected profit of Rs 115 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-needs-to-rationalise-free-agri-power/articleshow/80729746.cms||Sanjeev Verma
February 7, 2021||Vijayawada||Vaccine sent to 15 countries, 25 in queue: S Jaishankar||VIJAYAWADA: External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday that India had held nine rounds of talks with China at the senior military officers' level, mostly around the withdrawal of forces in the Ladakh area, and that though "some progress had been made" there was so far no "visible expression" of the talks on the ground.  He said these talks would continue as would diplomatic-level talks. The minister added that India had supplied Covid-19 vaccines to 15 countries so far. Another 25 countries had made requests that the Centre was examining, he said. On China, he said, "The disengagement talks are a very complicated issue because everything depends on troops. You have to know the geography - which position and what is happening. This is being done by the military commanders," Jaishankar said. Referring to the 2021-22 budget, Jaishankar said that the budget had shown 18% increase in capital expenditure for the defence ministry. He said that all nations and all sectors have suffered last year due to Covid-19. However, India had seen a V shaped growth which was visible in the budget. He said that the growth seen in the economy after the Covid-19 is positive and encouraging. The minister added that the allocations to various sectors reflect the priorities of the government which are in line with the nation's interests and its citizens' welfare. "Unlike some of the countries, India had recovered from the Covid-19 damage," he said. Jaishankar said some poor and middle-income countries are approaching India while other countries are reaching out to the manufacturers of the vaccine. The government is helping the poor countries with the vaccine in the form of a grant, while other countries have sought the vaccine at the price that India purchases. The minister said the government is planning to make India the pharmacy of the world in the years to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vaccine-sent-to-15-countries-25-in-queue-s-jaishankar/articleshow/80729748.cms||Gopi Dara
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Crop payment bungling: Punjab and Haryana HC rejects bail plea of ‘arhtiya’||CHANDIGARH: Rejecting the bail plea of an "arhtiya" (commission agent) who had allegedly not paid the amount received from the Punjab government to farmers for procurement of their crops, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that "it would be perversity of justice and injustice to farmers if the middle men usurping the price of farmers crops are allowed to go scot-free". The HC has observed, “... Leniency and misplaced sympathy cannot be shown to the petitioners by granting concession of pre-arrest bail to them by ignoring the plight of the complainant/ farmers, who do hard work and put in lot of efforts in the agricultural operation hoping to get reward for such efforts in having good crops and then to earn their livelihood by sale of such crops." Justice H S Madaan of the HC has passed these orders while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea of Vijay Kumar and his wife, who are commission agents. A case of cheating, criminal conspiracy and breach of trust was filed against them on the complaint of several farmers from Lassoi village of Sangrur. As per the allegations, accused Vijay Kumar and his whole family had been working as commission agents at Lassoi village and purchased Kharif (rice crop) from farmers but did not make the payment to the concerned farmers according to J forms. ‘Old age or ailments won’t help accused escape arrest’It was also stated that the accused owned four houses in Malerkotla, two big plants in industrial areas, a cold store on Ludhiana Road, two rice shellers at Lassoi village and 130 bighas of agricultural land. The farmers had alleged that these properties had been bought with the money belonging to the innocent farmers. On December 29, a local court in Sangrur had dismissed the accused’s plea for prearrest bail. In their plea before the HC for bail, the accused contended that as per normal practice in the villages, the farmers receive money from the commission agent from time to time, which is finally adjusted against the money payable to them as price of the crops sold by them through the commission agent. On this, the HC observed, “Counsel for the petitioners has just referred to a general practice without specifying as to how much amount had been received by which of the complainant... No copies of account books in support of such contentions have been placed on record." The HC also observed that their old age or ailments cannot help them in escaping arrest and custodial interrogation, which in this case is found to be necessary to recover the misappropriated money belonging to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/crop-payment-bungling-punjab-and-haryana-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-arhtiya/articleshow/80729760.cms||Ajay Sura
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Prohibition no solution for nashamukti: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that prohibition is not the solution to his resolve of making MP ‘nashamukt’ (intoxication-free). “If there are boozers (peenewale), booze will be available from here and there. Our resolve is to make MP nashamukt so that people stop drinking on their own,” he said at a programme in Katni. The CM administered a pledge to the audience to give up intoxicants. The CM’s remark came in the wake of a call from BJP veteran Uma Bharti for prohibition, which found support in Union minister Prahlad Patel on Saturday. “Measures should be initiated in the direction of ‘nasha mukti’. Whether it will be done by the government or people should always be discussed,” Patel, a close aide of Bharti, told reporters in Jabalpur on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/prohibition-no-solution-for-nashamukti-madhya-pradesh-cm/articleshow/80729776.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||I’ll shoot, threatens AWOL cop in Madhya Pradesh's Guna district||BHOPAL: A policeman has gone AWOL in Guna district and declared himself a ‘baagi’ (rebel), threatening to shoot anyone who gets in the way. Police constable Neeraj Tony claims he is being harassed and accuses a senior IPS officer of taking ‘bribe’ from him. Two videos of him firing a barrage of shots from an Insas rifle and calling himself a rebel went viral on Saturday evening. Senior police officers said he returned the rifle but hasn’t turned himself in. ‘If anyone comes near me, I’ll shoot them’In one of the videos, he is filmed with an Insas resting against his leg, and saying: “I was a constable till yesterday. Now, I am a rebel and people in my own department are responsible. I have been booked under various charges, like attempted murder and SC/ST Act, but was never found guilty. Four departmental inquiries have been initiated against me, and my increments slashed.” He accuses an IPS officer of threatening to sack him. “I paid Rs 2 lakh and the matter was kept pending,” he added. He threatens murder. “If anyone comes before me, I will shoot. I request policemen not to come in, or else I will kill. I have broken bread with cops and don’t want to fire on any policeman but anyone who comes after me will die. I have declared myself dead before moving out with this weapon,” he says. Senior officers said they are trying to trace him. Watch MP: Cop turns rebel, accuses police officials of implicating him in false cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ill-shoot-threatens-awol-cop-in-madhya-pradeshs-guna-district/articleshow/80729779.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Lift-and-loot gang on prowl again, targets executive||GURUGRAM: After a few months, lift-and-loot gangs have become active again in the city. On Saturday, a gang allegedly robbed a man of Rs 80,000 after offering him a lift in their cab at IFFCO Chowk, the police said. The incident happened on February 3 when Ved Prakash, a hotel executive in Gurgaon, finished his work and was waiting for transport at 11.15pm to return home in Dwarka. He has been working as a beverages executive with a five-star hotel in Gurgaon for the last four years. After waiting for a long time, around 1am, a white cab stopped near him. “The driver asked me where was I headed, to which I said Dwarka mod. The driver said he too was going in the same direction and offered to drop me,” said Prakash. He then boarded the car. He said four people, including the driver, were sitting inside the car. He sat on the back seat. “After a while, one of the passengers requested me to exchange his seat with me, saying he was not feeling well. As soon as I shifted to the middle seat, two people took me hostage. The accused thrashed me while the driver continued to drive,” said Prakash. They snatched his wallet and mobile phone and also forced him to share his debit and credit card passwords with them, an officer said. “After an hour, they threw me out of the vehicle near Rewari,” he said. Later, the victim found that Rs 80,000 had been withdrawn from his debit card. On the basis of a complaint filed by the victim, a case was registered at Sector 18 police station against unknown persons under section 379A (snatching) of IPC. “We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to identify the accused and vehicle used in the crime,” said police spokesperson Subhash Boken, adding that the police have been urg-ing people to not take a lift from strangers. The gang targets people waiting for transport on Delhi-Gurgaon expressway in late evening hours, an officer said. Multiple incidents of lift and loot were reported last year on the same stretch. The police had busted most of the gangs and this was the first incident in the past several months. “A new lift-and-loot gang seem to have become active,” said a senior officer, adding that soon they will track this gang as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lift-and-loot-gang-on-prowl-again-targets-executive/articleshow/80729042.cms||Bagish Jha
February 7, 2021||Gurgaon||8,000 from NSG, CRPF to get jabs in Phase 2 of Gurugram’s vax drive||GURUGRAM: As many as 8,000 recipients from the National Security Guard (NSG) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will be administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the second phase of the vaccination drive in the city. Separate session sites will be set up for these recipients on Monday. The health department received 21,240 doses of Covishield and 18,000 doses of Covaxin on Saturday. The city also collected doses for neighbouring districts Faridabad (2,000 Covishield and 12,000 Covaxin doses), Palwal (1,500 Covishield and 10,000 Covaxin doses), Nuh (1,000 Covishield and 8,000 Covaxin doses) and Rewari (1,500 Covishield and 8,000 Covaxin doses). These districts will be getting their share by Sunday. Haryana has vaccinated 1,38,339 healthcare workers so far out of the targeted 2 lakh recipients. Out of these, as many as 1,34,127 got Covishield shots. Meanwhile, Gurgaon witnessed 83 % turnout on Saturday, the third day of the second phase of the vaccination drive. Altogether, 445 frontline workers of the 500 scheduled lined up to get their first dose of the Covid vaccine. Covishield was administered to the recipients at five sites. No Covaxin session site has been held for frontline workers so far. For healthcare workers, five session sites were held in the city on Saturday, which recorded a turnout of 31.5%. Of the targeted 200, just 63 recipients turned up. No session sites were created on Saturday for MCG and revenue department staff. City reports 15 new cases The city’s caseload rose to 58,332 with 15 new Covid cases on Saturday. The health department said 28 patients also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 57,630. No one succumbed to the infection on Wednesday. So far, 355 people in the city have died of Covid, of whom 273 had comorbidities. The city has a total of 347 active cases, and 310 of the patients are in home isolation. The recovery rate stands at 98%. Positivity rate is at 0.6% in Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/8000-from-nsg-crpf-to-get-jabs-in-phase-2-of-gurgaons-vax-drive/articleshow/80728113.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Fog returns as night temp drops to 11°, Met predicts further dip||BHOPAL: Stay tucked in your blanket this weekend as cold nights and windy days continue to shiver state capital. Also, reschedule your jog timing as Sunday morning is likely to be foggy, says Met department. On Saturday, the minimum temperature of Bhopal dropped down to 11 degrees from 13.6 degrees Celsius on Friday. Similarly, the maximum temperature went down to 23.4 degrees Celsius from 25 degrees Celsius on Friday. It is likely to go down further to 9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, predicts Met department. Weather office said that similar weather conditions would continue to prevail for some more days, however, it ruled out any possibility of rainfall. Weather office issued a warning for fog on Sunday in all the districts of Bhopal, Rewa and Chambal divisions and also in the districts of Panna, Chattarpur, Gwalior and Datia districts. It said that there would a drop of 2 to 4 degrees Celsius across the state. With 9 degrees Celsius, Tikamgarh was the coldest in state on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, according to the IMD, many places in the districts of Rewa, Sagar and Shahdol divisions recorded some rainfall. Thick to moderate fog was witnessed in Chattarpur, Tikamgarh, Gwalior and Bhopal districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-fog-returns-as-night-temp-drops-to-11-met-predicts-further-dip/articleshow/80729802.cms||---
February 7, 2021||India||45 years on, West Bengal still to provide land for rail project||NEW DELHI: Over 45 years after being sanctioned, a 75-km railway project in West Bengal is still held up for want of land. Only a 43-km stretch of the Howrah-Amta and Bargachia-Champadanga project has been commissioned over this period and no fresh time-line set by the railways for the remaining stretch due to uncertainty over land acquisition by the state government. Railway ministry officials said the project was modified 10-12 year ago to include three more small stretches taking the total project length to 110 km, which was aimed at meeting the requirement of local suburban traffic. Railway minister Piyush Goyal said his ministry has written several letters to successive Left and TMC governments in the state to expedite the land availability, but there has been little progress. Sources said while the 43-km stretch between Howrah and Amta has been operational, the 32-km section from Bargachia to Champadanga has been held up "on account of non-acquisition of land by the Bengal government". One of the officials said, "Now since the cost of land has increased manifold, the project can be taken up further only if the Bengal government provides land free of cost as per the MoU executed between the railways and the state in 1973." The stretches that were added to the project have also been held up due to non-acquisition of land by the state. Talking to reporters on Thursday, Goyal said there is no dearth of funds for taking up projects. "Now, we have decided to start a project only after we have the land required for it. We have identified critical and supercritical projects which would be completed in a focused manner," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/45-years-on-west-bengal-still-to-provide-land-for-rail-project/articleshow/80729808.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: 45-year-old man found dead at Habibganj flat||BHOPAL: A 45-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances inside his home in Natasha Apartment in Habibganj locality on Saturday. Habibganj SHO Rakesh Shrivastava said that the deceased was identified as Rakesh Soni, a resident of E-7 Arera colony. His wife and children left him and here he used to reside alone in the home. SHO Shrivastava said that locals informed cops that he was ill for past few days and he wasn’t spotted for past three to five days. Initially, his neighbours thought that he was staying inside the home because of illness, but on Saturday when they smell still coming from his home. They informed cops on Dial-100 after which it came to light that his house door was locked from inside. The SHO said that he was found dead lying inside his room and no injury marks were spotted on his body. His body was sent for post-mortem. Further investigations are underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-45-year-old-man-found-dead-at-habibganj-flat/articleshow/80729805.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Ghaziabad||Two women found murdered in Sarita Vihar||GHAZIABAD: A 35-year-old woman and a 16-year-old girl who gave tutions to her daughter were found murdered in the former’s house in Madhuban Bapudham’s Sarita Vihar area on Saturday night. Three injured children, including the deceased woman’s daughter, were also found lying next to the bodies in the house. A local carpenter is the prime suspect in the double murders, police said, adding he was caught on a CCTV camera entering the house a couple of hours before the crime along with an accomplice. The deceased woman has been identified as Hemlata. Her daughter has been admitted to a private hospital, where her condition is said to be serious, a senior police officer said. The identities of the two other children have not yet been established by cops, but are said to be out of danger. “Hemlata and the 16-year-old, who gave tuitions to Hemlata’s daughter, were found killed by the woman’s father-in-law Lok Man when he returned home around 9pm. He, in turn, called the cops. A team from the local police station soon reached the crime scene,” the officer said. Police suspect the role of a local carpenter, Aas Mohamad, in the crime. “He was caught on a CCTV camera in the area entering the house, along with an accomplice. We have been informed that Aas is known to the family as he had worked with Hemlata’s husband, who owns a food stall,” said the official. “Perhaps he had entered the house on the pretext of collecting his toolkit that he intentionally left behind after some carpentry work, but attacked the woman when they caught him trying to steal cash and valuables. Efforts are on to nab him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/two-women-found-murdered-in-sarita-vihar/articleshow/80728766.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||Six-month-old falls from third floor in Bhopal's Shahpura, dies||BHOPAL: In a tragic incident a six-month-old girl died after accidentally falling from the roof of a three storey building in Shahpura locality of the city. The incident took place at Maruti Nandan Complex under Shahapura police station late on Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Akanksha Yadav, daughter of Dhaniram Yadav. Yadav originally hails from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and has been living in state capital for past three years. He has been working as a guard in the Maruti Nandan complex. Police said that that the family consisted of Dhaniram, his wife, his daughter Akanksha, and a five year old son. His employers had given him a room on the roof of the building where he lived with his family, said police. On Friday evening at around 4.30 pm, Dhaniram was on duty on the ground floor, while his five-year-old son was playing with him, police said. At the same time his wife was drying some clothes on terrace and the deceased Akanksha was playing around with her mother, police said. The roof is guarded by railing but there are small gaps at regular intervals, Akanksha got closer to the gap between the railings while playing and by the time her mother could rush to pull her, she fell down from the roof, said police. They rushed her to nearby hospitals, doctors there referred her to another hospital, there during treatment that lasted for more than two hours, Akanksha succumbed to her injuries, said police. After information was received from the hospital, a cases has been registered and detailed investigations are going on, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-month-old-falls-from-third-floor-in-bhopals-shahpura-dies/articleshow/80729813.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Noida||Noida panel to curb illegal commercial activity||NOIDA: The Noida Authority has formed a committee to curb illegal commercial activity. From now, four officials on special duty, who are heading land, industries, institutional and group housing divisions in the Authority, will have to verify the actual status of a plot or a unit that is under the scope of probe before initiating disciplinary action. Officials said the decision was taken since commercial schemes launched by the Authority in the past two years had failed to generate enough traction. It was found that due to abundant availability of commercial space across the city, individuals were not interested in buying units or plots from the Authority. CEO Ritu Maheshwari said the four-member panel was set up to regulate unauthorised commercial activities. Besides plots given out in the residential sectors, the panel will also probe complaints pertaining to diversion of non-commercial land allocated by Authority within group housing projects as well as industrial and institutional sectors. The housing schemes, comprising multi-storey buildings constructed by the Authority in the past, will be also examined for violations. While manager of the particular work circle will have to supervise the area and respond to complaints, showcause notices will be issued to original allottees by respective OSD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-panel-to-curb-illegal-commercial-activity/articleshow/80728807.cms||Shalabh
February 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Old market in a new world: Sadar Bazar makes a digital splash||GURUGRAM: Sadar Bazar, the answer to all shopping needs from spices to smartphones for the city’s residents, now has a new address, a virtual one — sadarbazaronline.com. In the battle to sustain itself during the Covid-induced lockdown, one of the city’s biggest marketplaces that had thrived on old world ways for years was forced to go online and reach out to customers who were finding it difficult to get essentials. The transition from weighing grocery items on the weighing scale to uploading pictures on a portal and taking orders online was difficult for the traders here. It was in July last year that city resident Pankaj Pathak developed the portal, which provided shopowners the opportunity to showcase their items after registering themselves. Pathak, who has worked with multinationals before starting an NGO that helps underprivileged kids with education, said the idea to develop the portal struck him when he saw many of his neighbours struggling to buy grocery and others items that did not fall under the “essential” category during the lockdown. “We have several delivery platforms, but almost all of them were finding it difficult to deliver the required volume during the lockdown. They were either charging a premium on deliveries or only taking prepaid orders. And on the other hand, shopkeepers on the ground were struggling to make ends meet,” said Pathak, who runs the NGO called Shree Ram Society. He and his team then got together for days and came up with the shopping portal, where traders can register themselves for free. The portal now has more than 1,200 registered traders and sees an average traffic of 10,000 customers daily. And the Sadar shopowners have little to complain about. “I joined the platform around three months ago. My profits have gone up by 30-35% ever since,” said Ganpat Lal Suthar, who deals in spices. While most other delivery platforms charge a commission from traders, a shopowner registered with sadarbazaronline.com only has to pay courier charges. Manish Sharma, a trader, said he had seen a post about the portal on Facebook and decided to join instantly. “I joined the portal around six months ago and now, I am selling more products online than I do from the shop. This is better than other online portals as it is free and ensures better margins,” said Sharma, who owns a shop selling mobile phones. For those traders who aren’t that tech-savvy, Pathak and his team has technical lessons on offer. “Once they send us a request for registration, we have a technical team that helps them put up pictures and descriptions of their products online,” said Pathak. Those registered with the portal are now getting orders from other districts as well. “We are now getting customers from other cities and districts too,” said Akhilesh Sharma, another Sadar trader who deals in mobile phones and computers. With this increased interest, Pathak sees his portal doing sales across the country soon. “Our Prime Minister has been talking about Make in India, but we don’t have a single home-grown e-commerce portal. I hope we can fill that void with sadarbazaronline.com,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/old-market-in-a-new-world-sadar-bazar-makes-a-digital-splash/articleshow/80729062.cms||Shubhra Pant
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||IIFM Bhopal goes the e-way to celebrate 40th Foundation Day||BHOPAL: The Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal e-celebrated its 40th Foundation Day on Saturday through. Prof Ashwani Kumar, TATA Institute of Social Science, was the guest speaker on the occasion. With speech themed ‘The Fragile Earth: Rethinking, Homo Sapiens, Turtle and Forests’, Prof Kumar spoke on the environmental crisis faced by human society and the limitations this pandemic crisis of Covid-19 has made it’s experience. He explained how Himalayas could be spotted from Jalandhar during lockdown, as a result of cleaner air. Next he highlighted the examples of return of Riddle Turtle on the beaches of Gopalpur beach coast of Odisha. Using these narratives, he discussed how nature and development can be balanced. Director IIFM, Dr Pankaj Srivastava, presided over the function and laid out the road map of the institute’s development in the decade of 2021-30 and motivated the employees for a new journey. Prof Amitabh Pande, coordinator of the Foundation Day function proposed the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/iifm-bhopal-goes-the-e-way-to-celebrate-40th-foundation-day/articleshow/80729826.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 7, 2021||Bhopal||50-year-old rapes 10-year-old girl in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 10 year old girl was raped by a 50 year old man in Shahapura locality of the city. The incident took place on Friday, however later survivor informed that the accused had done the same with her in past too. Police said that the survivor who is class 3 student was playing in neighbourhood while her parents-—both her father and mother work as labourers-—had gone out for work on Friday.It was in the evening that accused identified as Sunil Tilore, 50, resident of the same neighbourhood, took the survivor in his lap and touched her privates indecently. Subsequently she got scared and rushed to her room. “When the parents asked the girl, she then narrated her ordeal to them. She also informed that a couple of times in past also including on February 3, the accused had done the same with her . The kin, along with survivor and neighbours, rushed to the police station in the night and a case was registered against the accused and teams were sent for arrest”, incharge of the Shahpura police station, sub-inspector Dharmendra Singh Jat told TOI. “Accused has been booked under relvant sections of POCSO Act”, he said. Sources however said that the accused has been arrested by the police and probe is underway. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/50-year-old-rapes-10-year-old-girl-in-bhopal/articleshow/80729815.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Hire sanitation workers based on area population, officials told||GURUGRAM: The sanitation department of MCG has been directed to increase the number of workers based on the population of the city. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, in a recent meeting, told the department to evaluate the requirement of workers as the current ones were deployed as per the Census, 2011. MCG officials said the population of the city has grown and thus the deployment of sanitation workers will also have to be proportional to cater to the needs of the residents. “We were told that future recruitment of sanitation workers should be made on the basis of the existing population and not as per Census, 2011,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner for Swachh Bharat Mission, MCG. The sanitation department was told that in case of a demand of workers, the deployment should consider the existing population of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hire-sanitation-workers-based-on-area-population-officials-told/articleshow/80729071.cms||---
February 7, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 20 firms in the race for power department privatisation||CHANDIGARH: A total 20 companies have shown interest in privatisation of the power department of the UT administration. The last date for purchasing documents to participate in the bidding process has already ended while Monday is the last date for bidders to deposit Rs 10 crore earnest money deposit (EMD) before the engineering department. From Tuesday, the department will start the technical evaluation of the companies according to the laid down norms and procedures. Out of the 20, only two are public sector companies controlled by the government. Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited and L&T Limited are among the rest of the private companies. All have purchased the documents costing Rs 5 lakh each. “Since we want only serious people in the project, we had kept Rs 5 lakh fee for the interested companies or bidders for purchasing the documents. Besides, the EMD is fixed at Rs 10 crore. The last date for it is on Monday, when the entire process of inviting the bidders will come to an end. From Tuesday, we will begin selecting the suitable and competent company for power department privatisation, starting from technical evaluation,” a senior UT official said. The ministry of power of the central government is involved in the process. “The technical committee will have at least six members from the ministry of power, engineering, finance and personnel departments of the administration. Technical evaluation will take time as the committee will evaluate each point and seek clarifications against them. After its completion, the financial bid will be opened to award the work to the suitable company,” sources said. Sources said since the central government has been monitoring the exercise, the administration is taking the project seriously. Moreover, after the Supreme Court removed the stay on the matter, the department has fastened the pace to select the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-20-firms-in-the-race-for-power-department-privatisation/articleshow/80729842.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 7, 2021||Noida||Noida: 20-year-old arrested for stalking, slapping girl||NOIDA: A 20-year-old youth has been arrested for allegedly stalking and slapping a 15-year-old girl on her way to her school. While the accused had been following the girl for the past few months, he allegedly followed the girl to her school in Gadhi Chaukhandi on Thursday and slapped her repeatedly when she objected to the youth holding her hand. Police said that the girl, who stays in Behlolpur under Phase III police station area, walks to her school in Gadhi Chaukhandi area regularly. On Thursday, when she was walking to her school around 1.30 pm, the accused allegedly followed her and forcefully held her hand. Phase III SHO Jitendra Dikhit told TOI, “When the girl objected to this, the accused slapped her repeatedly after which the girl raised an alarm. She was saved by onlookers and then she approached cops.” The accused has been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354 (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) and Sections 7 and 8 of the Pocso Act. Additional DCP (crime) Elamaran said that the accused has been identified as Ramjas and has been arrested. In yet another case, a resident of Sector 53 on Friday tweeted about three people allegedly abducting a woman and forcefully taking her into the jungle area of Sector 54. The incident came to light after a resident of Gijhore informed the Noida police and tweeted about it. This had the cops on their toes and a team from Sector 24 police led by the ACP reached the location and started scanning the area but didn’t find anything. The informant had said that the three men were on a black Bullet while the woman was wearing a skin colour cap. “We kept searching for the accused for three hours till 3am but to no avail,” Sector 24 SHO Prabhat Dixit told TOI. Police later concluded that it was possibly a transgender involved in sex trade who later did not turn up to file a complaint. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/20-year-old-arrested-for-stalking-slapping-girl/articleshow/80728457.cms||Shikha Salaria
