February 8, 2021||Goa||Shikha leads the way as cricketers start training||Panaji: Goan cricketers can make it to the Indian team and nobody embodies that better than Shikha Pandey. The 31-year-old proved her mettle by featuring in the Women's World Cup where India went down fighting against hosts England in the final. The focus is now on the next Shikha as 60 players are going through their paces. Three women's teams — seniors, U-19, U-23 -- are training hard under coach Anuradha Redkar at the GCA Academy ground, Porvorim. Shikha is the first one to hit the ground and is taking keen interest in grooming players for the Senior Women's One-day tournament, likely to be held soon. "We asked players to attend trials from January 22. The girls are coming out of a nine-month break, so it is essential to give them a long trial and camp," said Prakash Mayekar, GCA’s director of coaching and cricket operations. The selectors are keeping a close eye on the players by regularly making their presence felt at the ground. "It is too early to pick our teams for the one-dayers. Once BCCI announces dates, groups and fixtures, we will shortlist the team. We will have practice matches too," said Mayekar. Shikha is expected to lead the senior team. A lot will be expected from seniors like opener Purvaja Verlekar, allrounders Sanjula Naik and Sunanda Yetrekar, while wicketkeeper Vinavi Gurav could provide stability to the team. Bowling allrounders Nikita Malik and Tejaswini Duragad add depth to the batting. Purvaja, Vinavi and Sanjula have already appeared in Hemant Patil T20 League in Pune before joining the trials. Goa have been a part of Elite group where they played eight matches, winning three and losing five in the 2018-19 season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shikha-leads-the-way-as-cricketers-start-training/articleshow/80739773.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 8, 2021||India||Why did glacier break in cold winter month of Feb?||DEHRADUN: It's winter. February temperatures can drop to below zero in the hills of Uttarakhand's Chamoli and summer is a long way off. Why, then, did a glacier break off, with disastrous effect? Geologists who have been studying the region's glaciers said climate change is to blame. "This is an anomaly. In winter, glaciers remain firmly frozen. Even walls of glacial lakes are tightly bound. A flood of this sort in this season is usually caused by an avalanche or landslide. Neither seems to be the case here," Manish Mehta, senior scientist at Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, told TOI. He could not immediately recall a precedent. Read AlsoMassive damage after glacier burst triggers flood in Uttarakhand; 7 dead, 170 missingAt least 170 people have been reported missing after a glacier broke off near Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli district in the Garhwal Himalayas on Sunday morning, triggering massive damage in its wake that was reminiscent of the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. By evening, bodies of seven men wereMehta had led a study last year which found that the eight glaciers of the upper Rishiganga catchment - Uttari Nanda Devi, Changbang, Ramni Bank, Bethartoli, Trishul, Dakshni Nanda Devi, Dakshni Rishi Bank and Raunthi Bank - had lost over 10% of their mass in less than three decades. From 243 sq km in 1980, they had shrunk to 217 sq km in 2017, with Uttari Nanda Devi receding the most (7.7%). The upper Rishiganga catchment is where the glacier burst took place on Sunday. Read AlsoUttarakhand glacier burst: ‘We helplessly watched our loved ones washed away’While those in the higher reaches saw their loved ones swept away, those downhill darted in panic. “Bhaago (run),” people were screaming. But they could not keep going. “The air was thick, pungent. They could not breathe, could not run faster. They just buckled down and waited,” Sangram Singh Rawat,In the same period, the equilibrium line altitude (the zone on a glacier where its mass lost is balanced by its mass gained over a year) fluctuated a lot - between 5,200m above sea level and 5,700m. "It does not change if climate conditions are consistent," MPS Bisht, director of the Uttarakhand Space Application Centre, which was also part of the study along with IIT-Kanpur and HNB Garhwal University, said. Read AlsoArmy, ITBP, DRDO teams rushed to ChamoliThe government on Sunday deployed a column of the Army's engineering task force and 200 personnel from the ITBP in Chamoli's glacier burst site for relief and rescue while a team from DRDO, monitoring avalanches, was being flown in for surveillance and reconnaissance. Efforts are on to rescue thoseHimalayan glaciers have been retreating faster than anywhere else in the world. "Yet, the state of glacier response (how much it retreats or advances) has not been studied extensively. So, we mapped the variations of extent and dynamics of the glaciers in the upper Rishiganga catchment, Nanda Devi region and found most glaciers have been shrinking," Mehta said. Read AlsoTragedy could be result of ‘very rare’ bursting of water pockets in glacierCalling the glacial burst in Uttarakhand a "very rare incident", scientists on Sunday said satellite and Google Earth images did not show a glacial lake near the region, but there was a possibility of 'water pockets' (lakes inside glaciers) which might have burst, leading to this extreme event evenThis has been pronounced since the 1990s. "We found south-facing glaciers receded faster than north-facing ones, possibly because of longer exposure to insolation (solar radiation). How glaciers respond to climate is also dependent on its size and geometry." Read AlsoVillage struck by disaster was the cradle of the Chipko movementDEHRADUN: Raini, the village in Chamoli where the disaster struck on Sunday, is the cradle of the Chipko movement initiated by villagers in the Uttarakhand hills in the 1970s to save trees. Residents of this ecologically-conscious village say, "We have been crying hoarse over major devastation thatBecause the glaciers are of the "winter accumulation type," a decrease in precipitation may have caused this, the study said. "The equilibrium line altitude swing suggests glaciers in the region have responded to deprived precipitation conditions since 1980," Bisht said. And while temperatures have been increasing since the 1980s, the study said, the glaciers are more sensitive to changes in precipitation. The larger context, however, is that of increased global temperatures. Mehta said, "Against the backdrop of warming since the mid-1990s, accelerated glacial reduction could be correlated with increased global temperature." 1/18In pics: Flooding in Chamoli's Joshimath area after glacier breaks in Uttarakhand Previous NextShow Captions<p>Locals inspect the site near damaged Dhauliganga hydropower project at Reni village, after a glacier broke off in Joshimath causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river, in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, Sunday. (PTI)</p><p>80 - 100 meters depth achieved (cleared off debris). Tunnel is on upslope and 2.5 kms long. The second tunnel is being searched out: ITBP</p><p>After tireless efforts of Army personnel, including Engineering Task Force, the mouth of the tunnel was cleared. Work continued throughout the night with earthmovers by installing generators and search lights. Field Hospital providing medical aid at the incident site: Indian Army</p><p>A team of Scientists of DRDO-SASE flown in last night to Dehradun, is leaving for Joshimath area for surveillance and reconnaissance: Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA)</p><p>The operation to rescue the people trapped in a tunnel is underway. Efforts are on to clear the tunnel with the help of JCB machine. A total of 15 people have been rescued and 14 bodies have been recovered from different places so far: Chamoli Police, Uttarakhand</p><p>Aerial rescue & relief missions have resumed with Mi-17 & ALH helicopters flying from Dehradun to Joshimath with disaster relief teams on board: Indian Air Force (ANI)</p><p>General view during a flood in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. (Reuters photo)</p><p>Damaged dam of the Rishi Ganga Power Project, after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>Glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>Rescue teams managed to establish contact with 16 persons stuck inside a tunnel in the Tapovan area. Rescue operations have begun to save them, according to DGP.</p><p>ITBP personnel assess the damages in Tapovan and area of Reni where flash flood occurred earlier today. (Photo source: ITBP)</p><p> More than 150 labourers working at the Rishi Ganga power project may have been directly affected.</p><p>A rescue team works at the site of a flood in Chamoli, Uttarakhand, India February 7, 2021 in this still image obtained from a video. </p><p> Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat being briefed on flood situation by Army and ITBP jawans, in Tapovan area of Chamoli district.</p><p> A view of damaged dam after a Himalayan glacier broke and crashed into the dam at Raini Chak Lata village in Chamoli district in the northern state of Uttarakhand, India. (Reuters)</p><p>Rescue operation underway after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>Chamoli: Damaged dam of the Rishi Ganga Power Project, after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>A dam is shattered by a river in Chamoli, Uttarakhand, India February 7, 2021 in this still image taken from video. (Reuters)</p>||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-did-glacier-break-in-cold-winter-month-of-feb/articleshow/80740391.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 8, 2021||India||Glacial burst takes heavy toll on NTPC's Tapovan project: 148 missing, main dam washed away||The glacial burst in Uttarakhand on Sunday morning took a heavy toll on the National Thermal Power Corporation's under-construction Tapovan Vishnugad Hydropower plant project in Chamoli district as nearly 150 of its workers went missing and its main dam washed away. According to an action taken report by the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority issued at 5pm on Sunday, "Over 148 personnel of NTPC and 22 of Rishiganga hydro power projects (another power project) have gone missing." It also said that over "12 labourers stuck at the Edit tunnel (passage to the main tunnel) have been rescued but 30 labourers in the main tunnel are still stuck". A senior NTPC official told TOI, "The main dam and an office have been washed away in the flash floods. The approximate cost of the total NTPC project is around Rs 13,500 crore and the expected loss due to the glacial burst is estimated to be around Rs 450 crore." The official said, "As it was Sunday, most of the engineers were off and some of them who were supposed to come for work were expected to arrive only around noon. As the glacial burst happened around 10am, these engineers escaped death. It was a colony of labourers near the barrage that bore the brunt of the glacial burst. And that is the reason why nearly 150 labourers have gone missing." Around 200 civil engineers have been working on the NTPC power project since the construction began. The foundation stone of the 520 MW hydroelectric project, which is expected to generate over 2.5k GWh of electricity annually, was laid by the then Union power minister P M Saeed on February 14, 2005 and its construction started in 2006. The project was at an advanced stage of completion and was supposed to start power production within the next one year. However, with the main dam washed away and NTPC suffering heavy losses of its men and machines, the project's fate now hangs in balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/glacial-burst-takes-heavy-toll-on-ntpcs-tapovan-project-148-missing-main-dam-washed-away/articleshow/80740356.cms||Surendra Singh
February 8, 2021||India||Army, ITBP, DRDO teams rushed to Chamoli||NEW DELHI: The government on Sunday deployed a column of the Army's engineering task force and 200 personnel from the ITBP in Chamoli's glacier burst site for relief and rescue while a team from DRDO, monitoring avalanches, was being flown in for surveillance and reconnaissance. "Around 12 people trapped in a tunnel have been rescued by the ITBP; while efforts are on to rescue others trapped in another tunnel, which is being coordinated by the Army and the ITBP. All out efforts are being made to ensure that all missing people are traced and accounted for," a home ministry statement said. The armed forces swung into action with over 1,000 personnel, including medical teams, engineering task forces, divers, helicopters and aircraft, to help in the rescue operations. The flash floods washed away a bridge constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on the Malari axis, which provides crucial access to the Line of Actual Control with China. BRO director general Lt-Gen Rajeev Chaudhary has directed his officials to reconstruct the bridge as soon as possible by moving personnel and supplies to the area. "Some areas are cut off due to the bridge being washed away," an officer said. "Two Cheetah helicopters of Army aviation are conducting aerial reconnaissance and other missions in the area. A control room has been established at Joshimath. A field hospital is also ready to receive casualties," the officer added. The IAF has deployed two C-130J 'Super Hercules' aircraft and an AN-32 medium-lift plane as well as Mi-17 and Dhruv advanced light helicopters to airlift over 15 tonne emergency supplies and equipment as well as NDRF personnel to the Jolly Grant airport near Dehradun and other areas. The Navy has also kept over 50 marine commandos, including divers, on standby for rescue operations. Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) too were flown in from Hindon Air Force base, it added. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met here on Sunday and reviewed the situation arising out of the disaster in Chamoli’s Reni village with hundreds feared killed in the glacial burst. A statement issued by the NCMC said the glacial burst washed away the Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2 mw. “The flash flood also affected the downstream hydro project of NTPC at Tapovan on the river Dhauliganga, which is a tributary of the river Alaknanda,” it added. NTPC’s MD has been asked to reach the affected site immediately. The NCMC, however, said there was no danger of downstream flooding and the rise in water level had been contained. There was also no threat to neighbouring villages. There is no rainfall warning in the region for the next two days. The cabinet secretary also directed the agencies concerned to work in close coordination and extend all assistance to the state administration. Watch Uttarakhand avalanche: Specialised rescue personnel reached Dehradun, says Wing Commander Indranil Nandi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-itbp-drdo-teams-rushed-to-chamoli/articleshow/80740551.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||NTPC hydel project may be all but gone in nature's fury||NEW DELHI: State-run NTPC's 520-MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project on Dhauliganga river in Uttarakhand may be all but gone in Sunday's flash flood in Rishiganaga river triggered by a glacier burst in the state's Chamoli district. Preliminary reports said the flash flood has washed away the dam and office, accounting for about 60% of the completed construction work. Initial estimates put the cost of the dam and the office at Rs 450 crore. Company executives said chairman Gurdeep Singh left for the project site with a team of executives to co-ordinate rescue and relief operations with government agencies and take stock of the damage. The executives said about 70% of the project work had been completed. The reports suggest at least 60-70% of the construction may have been lost. This is the second setback for the Rs 13,500-crore project, which had suffered damage in the flash flood of June 2013. This time a glacier broke off in Reini village of Joshimath, setting off a massive flow of 'cold lava' made of snow, water, silt and boulders. This huge mass flowed down Rishiganga, a major tributary of Dhauliganga, and sliced through a 13-MW private hydel project. The debris then slid down to swamp the Tapovan-Vishnugad project. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said silt and debris had entered 150 metres into a 250-metre tunnel, "trapping" an estimated 40 workers. The project has been delayed by more than eight years because of the geological surprises encountered during drilling tunnels and the damage in 2013. Construction had begun in November 2006 and the first of the four units was to come on stream in September 2012. There were also reports of THDC's 444-MW Pipal Koti and Jaypee group's 400-MW Vishnuprayag projects also suffering damage in the deluge. The Tapovan-Vishnugad project is being built near Tapovan village, about 11 km upstream of the confluence of Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers near Joshimath. The barrage site is next to the Joshimath-Malari road, 15 km south-east of Joshimath. The project has a 3,100 sq km mountainous catchment area that includes the Nanda Devi Basin, which drains into Rishiganga. About 46% of the catchment is covered in snow and extends up to Nanda Devi, the second-highest mountain in India at 7,817 m. About 90 km of the Dhauliganga flows above the barrage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ntpc-hydel-project-may-be-all-but-gone-in-natures-fury/articleshow/80740561.cms||Sanjay Dutta
February 8, 2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: In 2019, PIL flagged firm’s ‘hazardous practices’||NAINITAL: The Rishiganga hydroelectric power project which was washed away after the glacier burst in Raini village and where several workers are still feared trapped had been red-flagged by local villagers as an "impending disaster". In 2019, a village resident named Kundan Singh had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Uttarakhand high court (HC) alleging unfair and environmentally hazardous practices by the private firm involved in the project. It was alleged that the firm was "using explosives and blasting the mountains for mining". The blasting, the petition said, had damaged the sensitive areas around the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve. Singh had said that all the waste material from the project was being dumped into the Rishiganga river adding that despite complaints from the villagers, no action was taken. "Moreover, it was also noticed that the blatant stone crushing activity was being carried out on the riverbed "It flouted all norms that the government had laid down for stone crushing activity in this area.... Even though the villagers complained to the authorities about the violations, no credible action was taken," Singh said in the petition. Based on the PIL, the court had observed that use of explosives may "result in destruction of the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, and the Valley of Flowers". Therefore, the court banned the use of explosives in the area, and in June 2019, directed the member secretary of the pollution control board and the district magistrate to constitute a joint inspection team and visit the site. However, the report, a copy of which is available with TOI, exonerated the firm and said that it found no proof of illegal mining or blasting. "During the inspection, there was no proof of any illegal mining being done on the spot and no evidence could be collected," read the report. However, the court was informed that there still was some muck around the barrage and power house which was yet to be cleared. On July 26, the court had listed the case for further hearing in August. There hasn't been a single hearing after that and the case is still pending in the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-in-2019-pil-flagged-firms-hazardous-practices/articleshow/80740578.cms||Prashant Jha
February 8, 2021||Business||Over 300 PSUs may shrink to barely two dozen||NEW DELHI: The government may reduce the number of public sector enterprises to just around two dozen, from over 300 at present, following the new policy that focuses on privatisation in non-core sectors, while shutting down loss making state-run enterprises. Top government sources told TOI that the final number will be decided by the Union cabinet based on recommendations by NITI Aayog, which has been tasked with identifying the next set of companies to be offered for strategic sale. The budget has made it absolutely clear there will be only four key strategic sectors and in these key segments, there will be a maximum of three or four public sector units. In non-strategic sectors, PSUs would be privatised or closedAll other areas where there are PSUs, the government will move out and there will be less than two dozen PSUs left. This will include banks and insurance companies, especially in the general insurance space. In her third Budget, FM Nirmala Sitharman had identified atomic energy, space, defence, transport, telecommunications, power, petroleum, coal and other minerals and banking, insurance and financial services as strategic sectors. The policy states that in the strategic sectors, there will be bare minimum presence of the public sector enterprises. The remaining CPSEs in the strategic sector will be privatised or merged or subsidiarised with other CPSEs or closed. In non-strategic sectors, CPSEs will be privatised, otherwise shall be closed. The policy marks a huge shift in the government’s attitude towards privatisation of state-run companies and flags its commitment to go ahead with the process. There is a clear shift to involve the private sector and global investors to bring in efficiency and provide much needed cash for the government to help revive the economy hit sharply by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the Public Enterprises Survey 2018-19, there were 348 central public sector undertakings as on March 31, 2019, out of which 249 were operational. Remaining 86 were under construction and 13 were under closure or liquidation. The policy comes with its own set of challenges. For instance, government officials said, there were nearly a dozen consulting firms, such as Engineers India, where the appetite may be low. “It will be easier to set up a new consulting company, and get manpower from some of the PSUs, instead of taking over the entire baggage,” a senior officer told TOI. Besides, the government will also need to carefully weigh the appetite for large stake sale. For instance, back to back privatisation of companies in sectors such as oil may not find too many takers or fetch the government adequate value. “We have to calibrate our strategy. It will also depend on the condition in the sector,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/300-psus-may-shrink-to-barely-two-dozen/articleshow/80740632.cms||Surojit Gupta
February 8, 2021||India||Amid row over 257 a/cs, Centre asks Twitter to block 1,178 more||NEW DELHI: In fresh trouble for Twitter over the “misuse” of the platform regarding farmers’ protests, the Centre has served a new notice to the micro-blogging giant, asking it to block 1,178 accounts, suspected to be linked to Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan. This is in addition to 257 handles the Centre earlier demanded should be blocked. While the latest notice was served Thursday, Twitter is yet to comply with the directions issued under Section 69A of the IT Act, sources said. The fresh demand has been made by the IT ministry after it received an advisory from MHA and security agencies, sources said. A Twitter spokesperson did not answer a detailed TOI questionnaire on the matter. "The accounts ordered blocked are of Khalistan sympathisers, or those backed by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories… Many of the accounts are also automated bots that were used for sharing and amplifying misinformation and provocative contents on farmers protests,” said a source. The government is of the view that the activities conducted through the accounts that are sought to be blocked have the potential to “cause threat to public order in view of the ongoing farmers protests” in parts of the country. The fresh face-off comes at a time when the government has warned Twitter that its officials may land a jail term of up to seven years and the company slapped with a penalty over its refusal to comply with the orders. After bringing down the 257 accounts that were mentioned in the first list (related to farmer protests that had the hashtag #ModiPlanning-FarmerGenocide), Twitter had swiftly unblocked most of them, angering officials at the IT ministry — headed by Ravi Shankar Prasad — who sent a detailed notice to the company, asking them to comply with their orders. “Twitter is an intermediary and they are obliged to obey directions of the government. Refusal to do so will invite penal action,” the IT ministry had said in the first notice sent on February 1, as per sources. The government said that the “motivated campaigns” and the hashtag being mentioned by the 257 accounts were being run to “abuse, inflame and create tension in society on unsubstantiated grounds.” “Incitement to genocide is not freedom of speech; It is threat to law and order. Delhi had witnessed violence on Republic Day,” the government said. Twitter, however, had said that it had decided to unfreeze most of the accounts as the tweets sent out by them constituted “free speech and are newsworthy”. The IT ministry clearly did not agree. “It may be noted that as per the relevant provisions of Indian law, the intermediary (Twitter in this case) is bound to comply with the order of the Designated Officer authorized by the Central Government, and in case of non-compliance, statutory consequences shall follow.” The government said that even though the platform is not the creator of the inflammatory content, it would still have to share the liability in case some problematic content breaches the stipulations of the law as it enables the largescale projecting / publicising /advertising of the content. Sources said that with the latest refusal to block content, Twitter is only “testing the government’s patience” and “forcing it to take action” under the provisions of the IT Act. The government feels that Twitter is free to file an appeal against its action in the courts if it does not agree with the decision. Watch Farmers' protest: Centre asks Twitter to block 1,178 more accounts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-row-over-257-a/cs-centre-asks-twitter-to-block-1178-more/articleshow/80740666.cms||Pankaj Doval
February 8, 2021||India||Amid faceoff, big boost for LAC surveillance||NEW DELHI: India is going in for a major upgrade of surveillance capabilities along the northern borders with China through an array of drones, sensors, reconnaissance and electronic warfare equipment to keep tabs on the People's Liberation Army (PLA) in real-time and strengthen measures to detect intrusions. The military confrontation in eastern Ladakh since May last year, along with the continuing PLA infrastructure build-up in other areas as well, has jolted the defence establishment into planning the revamp of the entire surveillance and intelligence-gathering mechanism along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "The LAC cannot be continuously manned like the 778-km line of control (LoC) with Pakistan. Therefore, the urgent need to crank up the existing surveillance capabilities for gap-free coverage and real-time information along the LAC," said a defence ministry source. The acquisition and induction plans range from mini-drones for high-altitude areas and ultra-long-range surveillance cameras to MALE (medium-altitude long-endurance) and HALE (high-altitude long-endurance) remotely-piloted aircraft systems, said the MoD sources. There is also a project simultaneously underway to lease three to four satellite communication-enabled Heron UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) from Israel through an inter-governmental agreement for the Army, apart from the acquisition of additional Harop kamikaze attack drones for the IAF. The DRDO, in turn, has almost finished developing a border observation and surveillance system (BOSS), with a well-integrated system of multiple sensors, for manned as well as unmanned areas of the LAC, said the sources. The Army also inked a 140 crore deal with an Indian firm last month for advanced versions of "Switch" drones, which are small enough to be used by infantry soldiers and special forces deployed in high-altitude areas like Ladakh. "Induction of such drones for surveillance at the tactical level will give a clear operational picture to battalion commanders and troops on the ground," said a source. Officials say the way China has continued to create new military infrastructure as well as reinforce PLA positions all along the LAC, from eastern Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, points to the prospect of "a hot summer" again this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-faceoff-big-boost-for-lac-surveillance/articleshow/80740684.cms||Rajat Pandit
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chill may stay till Wednesday, say weathermen||KOLKATA: A light drizzle swept through Kolkata and its adjoining areas early on Sunday and the minimum temperature climbed to 16.2°C. The rain was accompanied by lightning, which was triggered by clouds generated by a cyclonic circulation that sailed into the city from central India and floated towards Bangladesh, the Met office said. On Monday, the mercury is set to plunge by at least 2°C. “The rain was triggered by the passing clouds. With the system having moved away, the path is now clear for the northwesterly wind to blow in. We expect the minimum temperature to drop to 14°C on Monday and slide to 13°C on Tuesday,” said RMC director G K Das. The chill will continue in Kolkata till at least February 10, Das said. “The strong northwesterly has been flowing in with reasonable intensity. Even though we are approaching the end of winter, the chill will not disappear immediately,” he said. Last Monday, Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4°C, making it the coldest February day since February 2, 2008, when it dropped to 10.8°C. Since 2012 — when Kolkata recorded 11.6°C on a February day — the mercury has not dipped below 12°C during the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-gets-light-rain-chill-may-stay-till-wed-say-weathermen/articleshow/80739208.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘Pregnant women with epilepsy need special care’||VISAKHAPATNAM: On the occasion of International Epilepsy Day (February 8), neurologists highlight the need for special care for pregnant women with epilepsy. If epilepsy in would-be mothers is neglected, it can lead to several complications in childbirth and congenital defects in babies. Medical experts say epilepsy and pregnancy care has to start even before conception. In case of frequent seizures, pregnancy should be postponed till epilepsy is under control. Also, the patient has to be careful about anti-seizure medication and take the dosage exactly as prescribed by doctors for the safety of the foetus. According to Dr G Butchi Raju, professor and head of the department of neurology at King George Hospital (KGH), annually, between 1,000 to 1,200 new patients turn up at the epilepsy clinic at KGH-AMC of which 2 to 5% are pregnant women. “Some women can also develop temporary eclampsia during pregnancy. Breastfeeding can be undertaken by most women who have epilepsy, even those who are on anti-seizure medication. We generally continue with the medication the woman has been using so long and with advancement in pharmacology, drugs are usually safe even for the unborn child.” Dr Ch Vijay, consultant neurologist at Kims Icon Hospital said, “Seizures during pregnancy can cause slowing of the foetal heart rate, decreased oxygen to the foetus, injury, premature separation of placenta from the uterus or miscarriage due to trauma, such as a fall during a seizure, preterm labour and premature birth.” “Also, sometimes epilepsy medication during pregnancy can affect the infant’s health. Birth defects are a side effect associated with anti-seizure medications. The risk seems to increase with higher doses and if more than one anti-seizure medication is being used. To minimise risks, the safest medication and effective dosage as prescribed by doctors has to be used,” the doctor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pregnant-women-with-epilepsy-need-spl-care/articleshow/80738275.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 8, 2021||Pune||Pune Metro will get funds from overall allocation: Prakash Javadekar||PUNE: Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said funds would be available for the Pune Metro from the overall allocation made to Metro projects across the country. He explained that no new funds were allotted to Pune Metro in the Union Budget 2021-22 because of a lack of fresh proposal. “The government got proposals from Nagpur and Nashik for new projects and were allotted separate funds. No such proposal has come from Pune, so some of the funds allotted to ongoing Metro works across the country will be available for Pune,” he said. On the delay in the Centre Maharashtra its GST share, Javadekar said allocations and GST rate finalization is done in consensus with all state governments. “The Union government does not discriminate in GST share allocation based on who is power in that state. The specific details about GST dues of Maharashtra will be checked,” Javadekar said. Javadekar said the Union Budget will benefit people from all spheres, including farmers. “Because of the pandemic, we were expected to raise taxes to deal with the financial crises. But we made no such imposition, which came as a relief to common citizens,” Javadekar said. He also said farmers in West Bengal will benefit under Kisan Swabhiman Yojana. “Though the West Bengal government did not cooperate, the allocation will be done by April,” he said. He also spoke about the ‘One Nation One ration card’ initiative, which he said would help people who migrate between states for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-metro-will-get-funds-from-overall-allocation-javadekar/articleshow/80740287.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Varanasi||UP: Man kills wife after having sex in Hamirpur||KANPUR: A 28-year-old man strangled his 25-year-old wife after having sex with her in Hamirpur district on Saturday. The murder came to light on Sunday after police recovered the body from a farm field. Following a complaint by the family members of the woman, the police arrested her husband who has confessed to physically involving her and then strangling her using her ‘dupatta’, police said on Sunday. The victim, identified as Kanchan (25), hailed from Pari Ojha locality in Hamirpur while her accused husband Amit Lal is a native of Nasirpur village in Kanpur Dehat district. The two were married about three years ago and have a two-year-old son. Kanchan often had fights with her husband and in-laws, who allegedly used to torture her for dowry. “Fed up with constant harassment by her husband and in-laws, Kanchan had gone to her parents house in Hamirpur on January 4 from where she disappeared under mysterious circumstances on February 2. Subsequently, her parents lodged a missing complaint at Kuchecha police out-post which comes under Sadar Kotwali police station on February 3,” said the police. When she remained untraceable, her parents approached SP Hamirpur Narendra Kumar Singh suspecting their son-in-law’s hand behind their daughter’s disappearance. Circle Officer (City) Anurag Singh said, “The accused, who was arrested from Kanpur Dehat on Saturday, has stated that as he wanted to live with his wife but she and her parents were objecting to this arrangement. He then hatched a plot to kill her.” “He said that over the pretext of giving money, he lured her and asked her to come to the district headquarters. From there he took her to a nearby field and after making physical contact with her, he strangled her and threw away her mobile phone in a river. He also hid her body in nearby fields and escaped thereafter. The body, which was recovered from fields on Sunday, was sent for post-mortem examination. An FIR under relevant sections of IPC including 302 against the accused has been lodged and he has been sent to jail,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-kills-wife-after-havingsex-with-her-in-hamirpur/articleshow/80738868.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||125 people may be missing; I appeal people to not share old videos: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, after the aerial inspection of the Raini village area where a glacier broke and fell in Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers on Sunday morning, said that around 125 people are feared missing. However, the CM was quick to add that the number of missing people may be higher. Earlier in the day, CM sent out a tweet appealing to people to not share old videos to trigger panic among the locals. He also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the next of kin of those who died in the natural calamity. “Around 125 people are missing. All our teams are involved in rescue operations. However, the exact number of missing people cannot be ascertained as yet. Two police personnel are also missing. Till the last reports came in, seven bodies have been recovered,” CM Rawat said. The CM stated the rescue teams have so far been successful in communicating with 15 people, who were stuck in one tunnel. “In the other tunnel, where we believe 35-odd people may be trapped, the rescue teams are making efforts to clear the debris and enter inside. It is a 250-metre-long tunnel and efforts are underway to rescue the stranded people,” he added. CM Rawat pointed out that one motorable bridge and four suspension bridges have got damaged in the calamity. He added that choppers have been stationed to ensure that all essential items are provided to the 11 villages, which have got disconnected. Seven other villages also got affected but they were lying vacant as the locals tend to shift to plain areas during the winter season. “The calamity occurred around 10 am and teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), ITBP unit, and the Army have started the rescue operations. The NDRF team will be joining in soon,” the CM said. CM Rawat pointed out that water in Alaknanda was clear from Rudraprayag onwards. “Several locals work in the hydro power project but being a Sunday, not many had gone to work,” he said. Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Union home minister Amit Shah have spoken to CM Rawat and offered the required assistance for the rescue operations. “Three choppers of the Army, one helicopter of the Air Force, and private choppers operating in Uttarakhand have been deployed in the Chamoli district,” he added. The CM also lauded the role of the media saying that it prevented any spread of rumour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/125-people-may-be-missing-i-appeal-people-to-not-share-old-videos-cm-rawat/articleshow/80739305.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 8, 2021||Kanpur||Woman burns self atop tube-well in Sajeti||Kanpur: A 46-year-old widow, depressed due to mental illness, allegedly committed suicide by setting herself on fire at the rooftop of a tube-well in Sajeti police area of the district on Monday morning. Ramsakhi, wife of late Manphool Nishad, a resident of Rampur village, who was reeling under depression owing to some kind of psychological disorder, on Monday morning left her home for her nearby farms. “There she climbed atop the roof-top of her tube-well and after dousing herself with kerosene oil set herself afire. She suffered hundred percent injuries and died at the spot,” said station house officer Ravendra Kumar Mishra. According to the police, the woman was mentally ill since the death of her husband, who had died 25-years ago. “As per her family members, she was being treated by a psychiatrist of Kanpur,” said police further. “The woman used to go to her farms daily and even on Monday morning, she left home as usual. It seems she had purchased kerosene on the way to farms without bringing it to the notice of her family members. On reaching farms, she climbed atop the rooftop of her tube-well and poured kerosene oil and later set herself on fire. Some locals working in the nearby fields noticed her and raised alarm and tried to rescue her, but by then the woman who sustained hundred percent burns succumbed at the spot,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-burns-self-atop-tube-well-in-sajeti/articleshow/80755507.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Allahabad||Community feast at Magh Mela keeps tradition alive||Prayagraj: Apart from holy dips, attending religious discourses and performing rituals, several religious and spiritual organisations are promoting the tradition of feeding devotees and pilgrims at the Magh Mela by holding bhandaras (community feast). Prominent organisations like Aum Waheguru Rishi Ashram, Om Namay Shivay, Maniram Das Ji Ki Chawani Shivir, Dandi Swami Nagar and Devraha Baba Balak Baba ji maharaj are holding community feast round the clock for seers, saints, devotees and the pilgrims. Apart from organisations, individual devotees are also taking up the task of organising community feast events at different sectors of the mela campus to serve pilgrims and devotees. Interestingly, these religious and spiritual organisations are serving different meals to devotees on different days to satisfy the taste buds of the pilgrims. From serving puri -kachuri , daal chawal, paneer kofta, hari matar to poha, kichari and kheer, the organisations are trying to add variety to the menu at the mela. The devotees, pilgrims are served basmati rice, hybrid flour and organic vegetables at the ‘anna kshetra’. Moreover, tea and coffee is also available on the menu. A saint associated with anna kshetra at sector no 1 said, “Serving devotees and pilgrims at anna kshetra gives satisfaction and encourages us to do good.” He added that devotees, after covering miles, arrive at the mela campus to take a holy hip and when one serves them, it is a real mantra of obtaining punya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/community-feast-at-magh-mela-keeps-tradition-alive/articleshow/80738414.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Sisir skips PM’s event, son Dibyendu attends it||Haldia: Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari did not attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s programme in Haldia on Sunday though his younger son Dibyendu — the Tamluk MP — was there. Dibyendu, incidentally, has sought an appointment with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on February 10. Sisir, a former Union minister of state, was invited to attend the government programme as an MP. While Dibyendu cited “protocol” for his attendance, calls to Adhikari senior went unanswered. Sisir was recuperating from an eye surgery, family sources suggested. BJP leader Suvendu, who attended the event on the Haldia helipad grounds, attacked the Mamata Banerjee government and took a jibe at her budget promises while presenting the vote-on-account. Suvendu had sparked speculation by claiming that lotus will bloom at his Santijunj home in Kanthi before Ram Navami. Among the Adhikaris, apart from Suvendu, only Soumendu has formally joined the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sisir-skips-pms-event-son-dibyendu-attends-it/articleshow/80740558.cms||Suman Mandal
February 8, 2021||Varanasi||Fix onus for lineman’sdeath in Kashi: Sharma||Varanasi: UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma took cognizance of the alleged lapses that led to the electrocution of contractual lineman Rohit Bind in Varanasi and directed UP Power Corporation Limited’s chairman to fix responsibility for the incident. Expressing his ire, Sharma tweeted on Sunday, “The death of contractual lineman Rohit in Varanasi is sad. My deepest condolences to his family members. This is gross negligence and lapse of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited. Fix the responsibility of those responsible and ensure such incidents do not recur in future.” Expressing his displeasure, Sharma also asked the management to ascertain why the contractual staff was sent to work without providing safety kit properly. Rohit (30) was electrocuted when power supply resumed in high tension wire when he was repairing cables on a pole between Varanasi Municipal Corporation campus and Shahid Park on Saturday afternoon. His body kept dangling till police made arrangements to bring it down. Superintending engineer R K Prasad had constituted a three-member probe team comprising two executive engineers and a sub-divisional officer to investigate the incident and assured appropriate legal action against whoever is found guilty. The lineman’s family was paid compensation and handed a cheque of Rs 5 lakh immediately besides Rs 25,000 in cash for cremation. The body was sent for postmortem, said Sigra inspector Ashutosh Ojha. There was resentment among the contractual staff who questioned how the power supply restarted when shutdown had been taken, which led to electrocution of Rohit, who was repairing damaged cables on a pole while wearing a rubber glove in one hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/fix-onus-for-linemansdeath-in-kashi-sharma/articleshow/80738843.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Raj among top states in India’s success story of vaccination||JAIPUR: Rajasthan played a key role in India’s success story in securing the third spot with highest doses of Covid vaccine administered. Only the United States and the United Kingdom are currently ahead of India in vaccination. Eight per cent of the country’s vaccination have been done in the state, which indicates that the health department has rolled out the drive with proper preparations and encouraged beneficiaries to get the jab without any fear and confusion. Rajasthan is the third among 12 states which have vaccinated more than 2 lakh beneficiaries. The state has administered 4,59,652 vaccine doses till Sunday morning. UP tops the list with 6,73,542 followed by Maharashtra (4,73,480). Gujarat (4,38,573), Karnataka (3,86,186), Bihar (3,74,538), West Bengal (3,54,000), Madhya Pradesh (3,42,016), Andhra Pradesh (2,99,649), Kerala (2,91,852), Odisha (275,055) and Telangana (2,09,104) are the 12 states which have vaccinated more than 2 lakh beneficiaries. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 53,04,546 healthcare workers and 4,70,776 frontline workers.Since Rajasthan is among the top states with highest vaccinations, the health department claimed that it became possible by team efforts. “It is a coordinated effort of the health department staff,” said a senior health department official. The percentage of adverse events following immunisation is just 0.03 in the state. So far, 167 such adverse event cases have been reported, but all of them were of minor nature, the officials said. A total of 8,105 sessions have been held so far. The state organised 7% of the country vaccination session and reported 8% of vaccinations in the country. Total of 1,16,478 sessions have been held so far in the country till Sunday morning. BOX: CountriesDosesUS36.82millionUK11.48million (Feb 4)India5.42 millionIsrael5.38millionUAE3.85millionGermany3.12millionBrazil3.07millionUP6,73,542Maharashtra4,73,480Rajasthan4,59,652Gujarat4,38,573Karnataka3,86,186Bihar3,74,538West Bengal3,54,000Madhya Pradesh3,42,016Andhra Pradesh2,99,649Kerala2,91,852Odisha2,75,055Telangana2,09,104||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-among-top-states-in-indias-success-story-of-vaccination/articleshow/80739304.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||Trafficking victims to appear in Delhi court from Sitamarhi||PATNA: In a first in the country, two child trafficking victims will depose before a Karkardooma court in Delhi from a special POCSO court in Sitamarhi. Manish Kumar, additional standing counsel for Bihar government in Supreme Court, told TOI over phone on Sunday that this pilot project has been taken up for the first time in the country on the direction of the apex court. “Once the child trafficking victims return home after they are rescued, it becomes very difficult to ensure their deposition before a court for trial. Non-deposition leads to acquittal of traffickers. The new move is aimed at preventing such occurrences,” Kumar said. “In context of Bihar, it’s important because large number of trafficking takes place in the state,” he said. Child rights activist Suresh Kumar said five minor male child trafficking victims would depose from Sitamarhi before ADJ court in Karkardooma. He said they were rescued from Delhi in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trafficking-victims-to-appear-in-delhi-court-from-sitamarhi/articleshow/80739438.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Drizzle no dampener as Times Cyclothon makes fitness fun||KOLKATA: On a rainy, cold Sunday morning, 270-odd people participants of the Times Cyclothon, presented by Motovolt and powered by SRMB TMT in association with Bidhannagar City Police, pedalled around New Town to promote cycling and fitness. Flagged off from Eco Park Gate 1 at 6am, cyclists chose between 9km and 18km cyclothon categories. With Novotel as the hospitality partner and Cycle Network Grow (CNG) as the community partner, the event was open for all age groups. There were no separate winners at the event supported by Coffee House New Town and Snehodiya, but all participants received medals and certificates. Participants took the service road along Gates 2, 3 and 4 before taking a left from Akankha More towards CC2 before turning left on Street 706 opposite Ecosuite Business Tower. From there, they turned left from Ram Mandir More before going right towards the deer park and moving towards Gate 6. Cycling towards Herbal Garden, they then turned right to get back to Gate 1. Among the guests who were present were Hidco chairman-cum-managing director Debashis Sen, founder director of Motovolt Tushar Choudhary, GM of Novotel Kolkata Sandeep Johri, president of Cycle Network Grow (CNG) Ashish Bajaj, Bishop Paritosh Canning of the Church of Northern India and vice-president, administration, of Apollo Hospitals, Kolkata, Joy Basu. Race director and sports enthusiast Sudhir Ahuja, who is a marathoner, trekker, cyclist, restaurateur and hotelier, along with strength and conditioning coaches Anwar Wahab and Sumana Dutta Burman, were also present. Both Wahab and Dutta Burman helped the participants warm up and condition before they pedalled away. Cycle enthusiasts from across the city said it was an amazing experience. Actor and cycling enthusiast Anindya Chatterjee said it was a wonderful feeling to take part in the cyclothon. “I have been into cycling for about a year now. Earlier, I used to be a night person, but now I have become a morning person. Besides acting, I now look forward to cycling every morning. I try to ride about 250km in a week now and I wish to participate in cycle races this year,” Chatterjee said. Sen said the drizzle and cold breeze in the morning brought a feeling of mountain biking to the cyclothon. “We are committed towards cycling and want to make New Town the cycling capital of Bengal,” he said. “It was amazing to see so many people around who had so much energy and passion and were ready to ride cycles,” said Choudhary. Director of SRMB Srijan Pvt Ltd Ashish Beriwala, who could not be present at the event, sent a message instead. “We at SRMB are pleased to be associated with Times Cyclothon. We believe that, as a young nation, such initiatives are needed to encourage our youngsters to stay fit, stay healthy and take up sports as a career. We have had the pleasure as a company in the past to contribute to various sports, like cricket, football and walkathons, and are pleased to be a part of Times Cyclothon,” the message said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drizzle-no-dampener-as-times-cyclothon-makes-fitness-fun/articleshow/80739252.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Business||Govt to back asset recast co’s dues if lenders require it: Nirmala Sitharaman||MUMBAI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday that the government is willing to extend a guarantee to the National Asset Reconstruction Company, which would take over bad loans from lenders, if a scheme formulated by banks required it. Sitharaman also called to have 20 institutions like SBI to “meet the aspirational needs” of the country. Addressing her first offline press conference in Mumbai since the Covid outbreak, the finance minister said the solution for the asset reconstruction company (ARC) has come from banks. “I am glad that the RBI is also working with them. The government will probably have to provide a guarantee but since it is a formulation from the banks, it has a great probability of succeeding,” said Sitharaman. According to the finance minister, banks do not have the wherewithal to deal with bad assets. Thus, the ARC structure would help them address the problems faced in the pace of recovery, reducing haircut value and depreciation. Last week, SBI chairman Dinesh Khara had indicated that the proposal had gone from banks and had their support. Bankers said that some form of guarantee for the security receipts issued by the ARC would help address disputes about overvaluation of assets among banks and with the regulator for making provisions. When asked how the strategic divestment of public sector banks would take place given the RBI’s requirement of fit-and-proper guidelines for promoters, Sitharaman said the details are being worked out with the central bank to get a framework for it. The finance minister denied market speculation that the Centre was looking at a holding company for public sector banks. “There is no such discussion. I do not know where this is coming from, but we do want banks to operate in a professional manner and they are getting out of risk aversion and appointing risk assessment managers from outside,” said Sitharaman. On taxes, the finance minister said the government would not unilaterally rationalise custom duties but would take feedback until August and spare imports that are required to make exports competitive and the new regime will come in only from October 2021. She also warned businesses that the government was using big data to find out ‘who was helping whom’ with fake bills. “There is no tax terrorism. If technology delivers, it cannot be called tax terrorism, though you may call it technology terrorism. In the last three months, GST revenues have been rising because of revival, but there is a big role of technology, which is capping leakages,” she said. On setting up a development finance institution (DFI), Sitharaman said that the government would carry learnings from the IDBI experience before giving shape to the new DFI. She added that it would operate in a competitive environment and private sector DFIs would be needed as well. Sitharaman said that the emergency credit line guarantee scheme has been extended to all the stressed sectors identified by the Kamath committee. On being asked whether the scheme would be extended beyond Rs 3 lakh crore, she said that a decision would be taken when the credit limit is close to being exhausted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-back-asset-recast-cos-dues-if-lenders-require-it-fm/articleshow/80740026.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Probe into student’s suicide||VIJAYAWADA: Taking serious note of the suicide of BTech student Teja Sri, the education department has passed orders appointing a committee to probe the issue and submit a detailed report soon. Education minister Adimulapu Suresh in a press release here on Sunday expressed grief over the death of the student. He said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has taken the issue seriously and ordered a detailed inquiry into the issue. Professors Yesu Ratnam, Swarna Kumari and Swaroopa Rani will lead the committee, the minister said, adding the government will take action against those responsible on the basis of the inquiry report. Teja Sri, a BTech student at a corporate college in Ongole, was eligible for the fee reimbursement scheme, but was allegedly harassed by the college management for payment of fees as the money under the scheme was not released on time. Depressed over inability to pay fees, the student committed suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/probe-into-students-suicide/articleshow/80738284.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Marriage still a hurdle for epilepsy patients||VISAKHAPATNAM: While neurologists advise that epilepsy patients lead an active life, the stigma and psychosocial consequences of the illness often pose a major hurdle when it comes to marriage, especially for women. In some cases, this common neurological disorder is concealed from one’s in-laws, leading to exacerbation of the condition brought on mainly by non-compliance with medications. Speaking to TOI on the occasion of International Epilepsy Day that falls on the second Monday of February every year, senior consultant neurosurgeon at Sunshine Hospitals, Gachibowli, Dr P Ranganadham said, “It is not like vitamin supplementation. The patient has to continue the medication for certain years or the prescribed time by the doctors. Unfortunately, the families of the girls suffering from epilepsy would be at the receiving end during marriage negotiations. It is always better to be transparent during matchmaking.” Dr Ranganadham added that surgery should be the last resort for patients battling epilepsy. “However, advanced surgical modalities like magnetic resonance–guided laser interstitial thermal therapy that ablates the area causing seizures and responsive neurostimulation have become available. Responsive neurostimulation is implantation of a device that detects unusual electrical activity in the brain and works as the seizure inhibitor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/marriage-still-a-hurdle-for-epilepsy-patients/articleshow/80738294.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||75-year-old loses Rs 3.5 lakh on fake ticketing website in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A retired senior research engineer from IIT-Bombay was duped of Rs 3.5 lakh after he reportedly visited a fake website (www.indigoairlines.com) of a private airline (genuine website is www.goindigo.in) to postpone his and his wife’s travel plan to Varanasi. The 75-year-old Powai resident said he ended up losing money from his savings account after his phone got hacked. “We have sought details from the bank about which account the money was transferred to,” said an officer from Powai police station. The victim has stated that due to the pandemic, they first rescheduled their flight tickets to March. “As the vaccine is not yet available, I planned to postpone it further to April. I came across a toll-free number—18004122345 —on the fake website. The telecaller informed I would get a call from another number and they would help with ticket rescheduling. I immediately got a call from another number and the person asked me to install ‘AnyDesk’ app and also asked me to share the four-digit pin received on my mobile,” the complaint states. The victim realised he had been scammed when he received a transaction alert for Rs50,000, and then noticed eight more transactions for Rs3 lakh. A police officer said they are inquiring with the airline to check if they are aware of the fake website. A case of cheating and identity theft has been registered against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/75-yr-old-loses-rs-3-5l-on-fake-ticketing-website/articleshow/80740282.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 8, 2021||Pune||Patwardhan quits UGC, back at Savitribai Phule Pune University||PUNE: Six months before his tenure ends, Bhushan Patwardhan, vice-chairman of the University Grants Commission, has resigned from his post. He has cited personal reasons for the decision. He will join the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) as distinguished professor. “I am in Pune, and will be teaching and conducting research at the SPPU,” Patwardhan told TOI on Sunday. Patwardhan was appointed in September 2018. Before joining UGC, he headed the SPPU's Interdisciplinary School of Health Sciences. He was also interviewed for the post of chairman of UGC. Patwardhan has been on the advisory board of the World Health Organization and has research experience spanning three decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patwardhan-quits-ugc-back-at-sppu-as-distinguished-professor/articleshow/80740280.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Business||Dengue, malaria claims drop 20%||CHENNAI: Health insurance claims for vector-borne diseases fell by nearly 20% in the previous year due to the emphasis on sanitation amid the pandemic. The sharp fall in these claims, which largely refer to mosquito-borne infections, come at a time when the insurance regulator Irdai has called for a standard cover for these cases, which include dengue, malaria, filaria, kala-azar, chikungunya, Japanese encephalitis and Zika virus. Although the average claim size for vector-borne diseases is just Rs 35,000 — half of overall average health claim size of Rs 68,000 — they have a high prevalence in India. Irdai’s prescription is for a standard cover for these specific illnesses, which could be an add-on or a basic health cover ICICI Lombard’ head of claims, Sanjay Datta says, “We saw a 10-20% YoY drop in health claims made for the treatment of vector borne disease category — especially dengue and typhoid- between April-December, 2020. This is primarily due to the fear of contracting coronavirus which drove everyone to keep their surroundings clean.” Bajaj Allianz General Insurance said the frequency of claims made for vector-borne diseases were at about 6% in 2019 and has come down to 4.6% in 2020. Its head of health claims Bhaskar Nerurkar said, “There is a 20% decline in claims made under vector-borne diseases. Hospital and treatment costs of these diseases are costlier after the Covid outbreak. We get maximum claims for treatment of dengue — over 50% of total claims.” After bringing in a standard health cover, Covid cover, and a term cover, the insurance regulator has released an exposure draft for a standard vector-borne disease health policy. General and health insurers are encouraged to offer this one-year cover, which will have a minimum sum assured of Rs 10,000 and a maximum of Rs 2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dengue-malaria-claims-drop-20/articleshow/80739130.cms||Mamtha Asokan
February 8, 2021||Varanasi||No place for mafia in new UP: Yogi||Varanasi: Alluding to the ongoing crackdown on organized crime by the state government, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said there is no place for mafia in the new Uttar Pradesh, which will only be known for development. During his visit to Ghazipur, the home turf of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari, the CM said, “There is no place for mafia in the new UP of new India. UP will now be known only for development.” Addressing a gathering in Ghazipur after reviewing the progress of 340-km Purvanchal Expressway on Monday, he said, “The mafia culture had been hindering the development of east UP. We are working for the welfare of villages, farmers, youth, and development, while the mafia culture that had become a hindrance in the development of Purvanchal is being destroyed simultaneously.” Yogi’s message had special significance here as under the drive against mafia elements launched by the state government against those running a parallel power centre, major action had been taken against Mukhtar Ansari. The state government has seized illegal assets worth over Rs 1,000 crore of over 40 mafia dons like Atique Ahmad, Vijay Mishra, Sundar Bhati. Mukhtar’s economic empire of over Rs 254 crore and armoury has been hit in Ghazipur, Mau and adjoining districts. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “The mafia elements in the 10 districts of the zone suffered loss of Rs 356 crore in 2020, of which only Mukhtar, his family and gang lost over Rs 254 crore. Now, nobody tries to use the name and terror of mafia dons like Mukhtar for extortion, grabbing contracts in government departments or running any illegal trade.” Police have ended the monopoly of Mukhtar gang’s in fish trading, animal slaughtering and coal trade and in grabbing contracts of government departments, he added. “We arrested 178 close aides of Mukhtar, while his wife, sons, brothers-in-law and other aides were booked in cases and are absconding. Police cancelled 110 arms licenses of the Mukhtar gang and booked 131 under Gangsters Act,” Bhushan said. “We targeted the illegal earnings of the mafia and sustained action like razing illegal properties, removing their illegal possession from the land grabbed by them by using their terror has borne results,” the ADG said. The encroachment from government land, including Andhau airstrip of Ghazipur, was removed and buildings worth around Rs 138 crore were demolished. Mukhtar, who was lodged in jail since 2005 was shifted to Ropar jail in Punjab in January 2019 from Banda jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-place-for-mafia-in-new-up-yogi/articleshow/80755405.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: In the dark for decades, 1,000 Agency hamlets may get electricity soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: Dependent on caster oil lamps, solar and smartphone flashlights after sunset, inhabitants of nearly 1,000 Agency hamlets in Visakhapatnam have been living without electricity for several decades now. Interestingly, all these places are located near tourist hotspots such as Borra Caves and Araku Valley. These areas — Dayartu, Avalaguda, Kottavalasa, Chimidivasala among others — fall under the jurisdiction of Anantagiri sub-division of AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL). Speaking to TOI, a resident of Dayarti village, S Somanna said, “We have 110 families living here of whom at least 90 have ration cards but till date, we don’t have any electricity. The government wants to set up solar power. We want electricity supply lines like others have other places.”  APEPDCL assistant engineer and Anantagiri in-charge G Shankar said they had conducted surveys for electrification of hamlets. The department had earlier suggested locals to take solar power but they rejected the plan. “All these areas don’t have proper road connectivity which is an essential requirement for transporting the materials like electrical poles,” Shankar said. “Now, we have readied materials and will lay lines by end of this month. We are ready to do our work with support from World Bank. We will provide the lines at any cost,” Shankar added but pointed out that logistics will still be a challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-the-dark-for-decades-1000-agency-hamlets-may-get-electricity-soon/articleshow/80738321.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 8, 2021||Goa||Anchovy swims into Goa’s 400-odd fish list||PANAJI: Goa’s first record of scaly hairfin anchovy would have ended up on somebody’s dinner plate. A fisheries scientist’s luck ensured it is now preserved in formaldehyde in the research lab. The Setipinna taty is found aplenty on the east coast, but this could be the first record on this side. “It was probably caught in a gillnet off Chorao and this fisherwoman had laid it out for sale at Ribandar ferry point along with peddi (anchovies) and tarle (sardines),” G B Sreekanth, scientist, Indian council of agricultural research (ICAR), Old Goa, said. The ICAR scientists were in the area conducting a survey of fish species in the Mandovi estuary. This follows a similar inventory in the Zuari that helped identify its bay as a fish biodiversity hotspot with a total of 290 documented species. “This specimen of ray-finned fish species had a total length of 14.6cm and body weight of 23.3gm. Its maximum reported length is 15.3cm,” Sreekanth said. It is known for its peculiar whisker-like long pectoral fin filaments. Fisheries scientists in Goa have shown more interest in studying fish species in recent years. NIO’s survey a few decades ago in coastal waters at Grande island had recorded 50-odd fish species, which was later updated by the Old Goa institution. The anchovy is yet another species for scientists and others to admire among the 400 documented ones. Scientists are trying to confirm if this vagrant is the first report from the west coast. “More data is needed, based on certain identifications,” E Chakurkar, director, ICAR said. The geographic distribution of this fish extends from Bay of Bengal to Penang, Malaysia. “The fish is found in seas, rivers as well as brackish waters. In India, it is found straying into the Hooghly in West Bengal,” Trivesh Mayekar, scientist, ICAR said. Fresh water bodies are major sources of new species. Though unexplored and neglected, they hold potential for new discoveries. “Rock pools of water in upper river streams during dry season harbour these fishes, which are a dietary source for wild animals. Therefore, this also needs to be inventorised and researched to conserve and propagate them,” reputed fisheries scientist, Baban Ingole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anchovy-swims-into-goas-400-odd-fish-list/articleshow/80740525.cms||Paul Fernandes
February 8, 2021||Business||Family offices up allocation for startups post Covid||Chennai: As more first generation entrepreneurs set up family offices and as the pandemic throws focus on digital businesses, HNIs and family offices (FOs) have increased allocation of funds to startups. “Given the rapid run up in public markets worldwide during 2020, it is natural for FOs to increasingly look at re-balancing their asset allocation. This should favour increased allocations by FOs if their capital towards alternative assets — which includes PE-VC investments, both directly (into privately held companies) and indirectly (as Limited Partners), Arun Natrajan, CEO, Venture Intelligence, a firm that tracks PE and VC activity. While FOs have traditionally invested in startups indirectly through VC funds, instances of direct investment in startups have increased, analysts said. While small in value currently, a key driver of this trend is VC funds offering co-investment rights to family offices. Infosys co-founder and chairman of Axilor Ventures Kris Gopalakrishnan, who pioneered the trend of making bets on startups, says many senior employees at early startup success stories have now set up family offices and this has increased the exposure to the venture capital asset class. “Post the pandemic, the focus of family offices on tech and digital solutions in their business domain is seeing a rise- be it biotech, healthtech , consumer tech and others,” he said. Waterfield Advisors, a multi-family office advisory firm, has noted an increase of almost 53% in the number of family office and UHNI clientele in 2020 compared to the previous year. The family office asset base managed by the firm has increased by around 19% in the same period. Rohan Paranjpey, director — head of alternative investments, at Waterfield Advisors, said that more FOs now show interest to co-invest in startups with VC funds and are keen to participate in pre-IPO and growth rounds. LetsVenture Plus, a platform that launched in May 2020 in the peak of Covid to connect FOs with startups, has managed to bring on board around 150 family offices and 300 Ultra high networth individuals. “Our inquiries and onboards have been at an all-time high during the pandemic as there is a behavioural change toward digital,” Nimesh Kampani, president, LetsVenture Plus, said. Investors said Covid-19 has made family offices take a pause and reflect on next-generation businesses and allocate more capital to the startup sector. “Family offices are also backing venture debt funds actively. The Jetline Group has seen around 20%-30% year-on-year increase in exposure to startups, and quantum tech and enterprise tech are a few favorites,” Rajan Navani, vice chairman and MD, Jetline Group of Companies, said. Gopal Srinivasan, founder and chairman of TVS Capital Funds that closed a fundraise of around Rs 2,000 crore recently, says family offices contributed to a large majority of the investor pool. The value family offices see in building new businesses has increased over the years. Cheque sizes and the evaluation and monitoring mechanism they employ is also maturing, Srinivasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/family-offices-up-allocation-for-startups-post-covid/articleshow/80739102.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 8, 2021||Patna||Smugglers send arms to WB in exchange of drugs||PATNA: The state police headquarters has come to know that illegal arms manufacturers in Munger have adopted barter system when it comes to supplying their products to West Bengal as they are accepting narcotics from smugglers in the neighbouring state in exchange. The matter came to light when a special task force team of Bihar police arrested Pintu Yadav, Rohan Kumar and Mohammad Abu Salim from Khagaria town on February 2 and recovered four semi-automatic country-made pistols, 19 cartridges, three extra magazines, four cellphones and a bike from their possession. Salim had come from Malda in West Bengal to take arms consignment from Pintu and Rohan, residents of ward number 24 of Khagaria town, who had collected the consignment from illegal firearms manufacturers in Munger. Interrogations revealed that drug smugglers from West Bengal had supplied narcotics to the Munger arms manufacturers. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said this was the first such case in the state. He added economic offences unit (EOU) of the state police would be roped in to carry out investigation. ADG (EOU) Nayyar Hasnain Khan said they would start working on the case after getting instruction from the police headquarters. Meanwhile, an IPS officer said prohibition and government’s crackdown on drug smuggling have resulted in rise in narcotics price in the state. “This is one strong reason why criminals have adopted barter system,” he added. Another senior IPS officer said Munger and neighbouring diara areas were earlier a hub for illegal firearms manufacturing. “Due to continuous crackdown on mini gun factories, the manufacturing units have now shifted to West Bengal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/smugglers-send-arms-to-wb-in-exchange-of-drugs/articleshow/80739410.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 8, 2021||Business||Healthcare hit by 45% spike in e-virus cases||MUMBAI: It’s just not the novel coronavirus that is keeping pharma and healthcare honchos awake at night. Pharma companies, hospitals and healthcare firms are being increasingly hit by another lethal virus lately, and this one is from the virtual world. Researchers reported a 45% increase in cyberattacks on healthcare organisations worldwide between November and December. This makes it the most targeted sector by cybercriminals, according to Check Point Research, a firm that provides cyberthreat intelligence. In India too, in the previous year, pharma biggies Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Lupin reported incidents of cybersecurity breach that affected multiple internal IT systems. Sensitive data of lakhs of patients was reportedly accessible online, according to cybersecurity firm Hackrew. There was a 37% increase in cyberattacks on healthcare organisations in the country during November and December, totalling 2,915 incidents. Of these, ransomware incidents showed the biggest increase, Omer Dembinsky of Check Point Software Technologies told TOI. What’s more alarming, the 45% surge in cybercrime globally in the healthcare sector is double the increase of such attacks on all other industries during the same period. Sectors outside of healthcare witnessed an increase of 22% in cyberattacks in the same period. Though the spike in cyberattacks came in November-December, hospitals and healthcare organisations have been targeted by a rising wave of ransomware attacks throughout 2020. Experts believe that the major motivation for these attacks is financial, and/or to disrupt vital research operations. KPMG India partner and head (cybersecurity) Atul Gupta said, “Cyberattacks have increased significantly. Attackers are very focused in targeting organisations/entities, which can maximise the commercial value of the attack. The current trend clearly indicates that the attackers go after data that can be of significant value, such as customer financial data, health records and intellectual property. Cybersecurity is a constantly moving target, with the attacker having an opportunity to exploit the smallest of potential weaknesses and, consequently, it’s critical for organisations to have a comprehensive cyber-programme with adequate technical controls deployed. Cyber should not be considered as technology risk only and it’s absolutely must for organisations to establish it as business risk with direct oversight from the board.” Further, the use of test-and-track apps globally during the pandemic could also make individuals vulnerable to cyber-risks, industry experts say. Globally, the average number of weekly attacks in the healthcare sector reached 626 per organisation in November, compared with 430 in October, the data showed. Ransomware is the biggest malware threat to healthcare organisations when compared to other industry sectors. These attacks against hospitals and related organisations may be particularly damaging because any disruption to their systems could affect their ability to deliver care. This endangers life — all this is aggravated with the pressures these systems are facing trying to cope with the global increase in Covid-19 cases, the research added. Significantly, cybersecurity failure is ranked fourth as part of ‘clear and present danger’ over the short term (0-2 years), among the top risks of the next 10 years, according to the recently released Global Risks Report 2021 by the World Economic Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/healthcare-hit-by-45-spike-in-e-virus-cases/articleshow/80739901.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Very poor’ days doubled, bad January records sharp spike in air pollution||KOLKATA: The city saw a sharp rise in air pollution in January compared to the same period last year. There was more than 100% increase in ‘very poor’ (AQI range 301-400) days across the continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations in the city this time compared to January 2020. Track the pollution level in your cityEven the number of ‘poor’ days, with AQI between 201 and 300, increased quite significantly. On the other hand, there was more than a 100% drop in ‘moderate’ days when AQI fell between 101 and 200. Last year, there were four ‘satisfactory’ days, with AQI between 51 and 100, and one ‘good’ day with AQI between 1 and 50. But this year, there was not even a single ‘satisfactory’ day. The most prominent pollutant in the city’s air is PM2.5 — ultrafine particles of diameter less than 2.5 micrometres, which is about 3% the diameter of human hair, and can travel straight into the bloodstream. This January, the sharpest rise of ‘very poor’ days was in Jadavpur, which had 16 such days compared to none last January. At the Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) monitoring station, there was a majority of very poor days — 26 compared to just five last January. In Ballygunge, very poor days rose to 11 from four. The number of very poor days rose to seven from three at Victoria and to eight from four in Bidhannagar. The only exception was Fort William, where the number dropped from eight to one. Poor days also increased across the city, with Jadavpur clocking a 100% rise from seven to 14. While Bidhannagar recorded 21 such days compared to last year’s 12, RBU showed a decrease from eight to two. The sharpest drop in the number of moderate days was recorded at Jadavpur — from 18 to one — followed by Ballygunge, from 11 to three, Victoria from 11 to seven and Bidhannagar from 17 to six. Only at Fort William did the number of moderate days increase from five to 12. In January, because of the thermal inversion, pollutants hang at a breathable height, said a WBPCB scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/very-poor-days-doubled-bad-jan-records-sharp-spike-in-air-pollution/articleshow/80739216.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 8, 2021||Patna||Patna libraries continue to operate in restricted manner||PATNA: With most public and academic libraries in the city closing their doors due to the Covid-19 pandemic, youngsters preparing for competitive examinations are unable to consult relevant books and journals. There are several public libraries apart from those attached to premier educational institutions in the city and all of them are functioning in a restricted manner. The Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library, for instance, is allowing only research scholars with prior permission to enter the premises and consult books or manuscripts. “The Khuda Bakhsh library is virtually closed for general readers, including students. The regular members cannot issue and return books as the reading section is still shut,” library and information assistant Afroz Ahmad told this newspaper. Patna University (PU) Central Library chief Abhay Kumar admitted that the entry of general students into the library was still banned. “Only those pursuing PhD coursework in PU and some registered research scholars are allowed here. We are, however, conducting online classes for the students admitted to the Bachelor of Library Science programme.” PU students’ union president Manish Yadav, on the other hand, demanded that “the library should be reopened for general students as well as research scholars because those who are poor cannot afford to buy costly books”. The library of Nalanda Open University has also not resumed its normal operation yet. Assistant librarian Aftab said, “Only faculty members and research scholars are allowed in the library where complete hygiene is maintained. All of them apply sanitizer and wear masks.” Officiating director of state libraries, Subhash Sah, pointed out that all the 41 government-aided public libraries had been allowed to reopen. “They, however, have to abide by all the Covid safety protocols,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/libraries-continue-to-operate-in-restricted-manner/articleshow/80739205.cms||B K Mishra
February 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar assures all help to Uttarakhand CM||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday spoke to his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat over the phone and enquired about the flood situation in the northern state after a glacier break in Chamoli district. Nitish offered support to Rawat in this hour of crisis, an official communique issued by the Bihar CM’s office said. Nitish also asked Bihar officials to remain alert as the flood waters may reach Bihar in the next few days through Ganga river. Earlier, Nitish prayed for the safety of people trapped in Uttarakhand as well as those engaged in carrying out relief and rescue operations. “I pray for those who may be trapped or are engaged in carrying out relief and rescue operations following the Uttarakhand disaster. The entire state of Bihar is with the people of Uttarakhand. Our officials are in touch with the Uttarakhand chief minister’s office,” Nitish tweeted in Hindi. Earlier, while talking to reporters at the state assembly premises soon after getting the news about the glacier break, Nitish said, “We are gathering details on the flash flood in Chamoli district. Our officials are in contact with authorities there. As it concerns Ganga river, we need to remain alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-assures-all-help-to-uttarakhand-cm/articleshow/80740293.cms||Madan Kumar
February 8, 2021||Patna||Slain IndiGo manager’s family calls on Bihar CM||PATNA: Nitu Singh, widow of slain IndiGo station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh, met chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Sunday at the latter’s residence and sought “justice” and “speedy trial” in the high-profile murder case. Rupesh (42), a resident of Punaichak area in the state capital, was shot dead by some unidentified bike-borne gunmen outside the gate of his apartment on January 12. Earlier, Rupesh’s widow and other members of his family had been raising voice for a CBI probe into the murder case, but when they met the CM on Sunday afternoon, they did not press for a CBI probe into the case. Accompanied by family members and her two children, Nitu called on Nitish Kumar around 4pm at his 1, Anney Marg residence. The CM had also called DGP S K Singhal and Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma at the same time at his residence so that he could listen to both the sides — Rupesh’s family and police. Nitu and other members of Rupesh’s family came out of the CM’s residence in a car after spending almost an hour and a half there. However, they preferred not to speak to a battery of reporters waiting outside. A news reporter kept asking, “Nitu madam, please open the window of the car to give a statement.” But she did not ask her driver to stop the vehicle. The DGP and the SSP also did not speak to the mediapersons outside the CM’s residence. Contacted over phone, Rupesh’s brother Nandeshwar Singh, who was present at the CM’s residence, later told TOI that Nitish asked the Patna police to arrest all the culprits in the next few days and complete the investigation as early as possible. Nandeshwar said the family did not have trust on the Patna police’s theory of road rage. “But we are not sure whether Rituraj, who has been arrested by the Patna police, was involved in the murder or not. Only police can provide necessary evidence to prove his involvement,” he added. Nandeshwar further said, “The CM heard Nitu’s grievances in presence of the DGP and the SSP. She requested him to ensure justice by asking police to arrest the real culprits. She also demanded speedy trial in the case.” He added, “If we do not get justice from the Patna police, we will again come to the CM and make a request for a CBI probe into the case.” Earlier on Friday, the DGP had said the state police headquarters would consider the demand for a CBI inquiry into Rupesh Singh’s murder case if his family submitted a petition in this regard. Patna police on Tuesday arrested one Rituraj Singh claiming that he was the main accused who shot dead Rupesh to take revenge for a road rage incident near the Patna airport in November last year. However, Rupesh’s widow and his elder brother raised serious doubts over police’s claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/slain-indigo-managers-family-calls-on-cm/articleshow/80739407.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||‘Rs 5,150cr allocations to accelerate rly infrastructure development in ECR’||PATNA: Experts and senior railway officials have welcomed the budgetary allocation of Rs5,150 crore to East Central Railway (ECR) for 2021-22 fiscal. The allocation, which is said to be the highest ever, will give an impetus to various ongoing railway projects to complete them within stipulated time, they said. According to former ECR GM and technical expert Madhuresh Kumar, the Union Budget has focused on two major parts of the rail network, which included completion of dedicated freight corridor (DFC) on both eastern and western ends to segregate faster running of goods trains as well as running high-speed passenger trains on different routes by building new infrastructure. Allocation of adequate funds to the ECR will no doubt give a fillip to various major projects being carried out in Bihar, he said. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the budgetary allocation is basically aimed at ‘infrastructure growth oriented ‘process’. “Unless railways strengthens its infrastructure, it cannot spread its development network connecting all big and small towns of the state. Besides, railways has to maintain a sustained growth, which is possible only when new infrastructure is developed to cope with the fast running traffic operations in the ECR,” he said, adding allocation of Rs171 crore towards passenger amenities will further give much relief to passengers to avail modern facilities on railway platforms. According to a senior ECR official, allocation of Rs100 crore exclusively for the Jayanagar-Bijulpura-Bardibas in Nepal, a stretch of about 69km, will further strengthen the bonds of neighbouring relationship with Nepal by starting rail communication soon. Sanction of Rs250 crore to complete gauge conversion work all along Sakri-Loukaha Bazar-Nirmali- Saharsa-Forbesganj route of about 206km will prove a landmark achievement for the state, he said. Former chief engineer G N Sahay, however, said the Union Budget has made allocations for all ongoing railway projects in Bihar. In fact, no new rail projects have been sanctioned this time, except a survey work for new lines between Ara and Balia. The budget was silent on allocating funds for laying a third line between Buxar and Mokama, he said. Besides, Dalmianagar wagon periodical overhauling workshop, which was announced in the 2019-20 fiscal, found no place in the present Budget while there was no mention about Dehri-on-Sone-Banjari new line project for which funds were sanctioned in 2008-09 rail budget, he said, adding that the fate of Dalmianagar freight wagon coupler manufacturing plant for higher axle load wagons was still hanging in the balance for want of funds, Sahay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-5150cr-allocations-to-accelerate-rly-infrastructure-development-in-ecr/articleshow/80739337.cms||Kumod Verma
February 8, 2021||Business||Rural lending co SarvaGram raises Rs 77cr||Mumbai: Rural lending startup SarvaGram Fincare has raised Rs 77 crore in a series-B funding, led by Elevation Capital (formerly SAIF partners). Elevar Equity, a social impact private equity investor, had provided seed funding of Rs 25 crore and has participated in the current round to retain its stake. The two investors together hold more than 50% in the company, which was co-founded by Utpal Isser, who earlier headed rural banking in ICICI, and veteran banker Sameer Mishra. Isser told TOI the company is targeting rural households that are looking for growth capital and those who are seeking funding outside the joint lending groups of banks. These would be at a level above those targeted by microfinance companies. “Considering that only a third of income in rural areas comes from farming, we have decided to look at lending outside the sectoral verticals like agriculture, salaried or self-employed and provide loans assessing borrowers at household levels,” he said. According to Isser, SarvaGram uses technology extensively to enable its employees to take credit decision within minutes and restricts transactions to digital without the use of cash. The engagement with customers is through physical interaction. He said that this model was scalable because every business unit (branch) was profitable within six months. At the end of next year, the company expects to have a loan book of Rs 325 crore, which will grow to Rs 7,000-8,000 crore in five years. “We are currently present in Gujarat and Maharashtra and will be in four states by adding Karnataka and Rajasthan soon,” said Isser. By the middle of next year, SarvaGram will have 50 branches and a presence in four states. The company is targeting 500 branches with 5,000 officials covering 5 lakh borrowers. According to Isser, the high level of engagement with the borrower has enabled SarvaGram to continue with its collection efficiency during the pandemic with the company back to growing its loan book by the second quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rural-lending-co-sarvagram-raises-rs-77cr/articleshow/80740015.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 8, 2021||Vadodara||Driver torched alive by unidentified man in Dabhoi village||Vadodara: A 51-year-old man living in Dabhoi suffered severe burns as he was torched by an unidentified person. The victim Amrish Vasava lodged a complaint of attempt to murder at Dabhoi police station on Saturday. Vasava, who works as a car driver, told police that when he was leaving his house late in the night on February 5, some person splashed inflammable substance on him from behind and threw a lit match-stick. As it was dark and his body had caught fire, he did not see who had set him ablaze. Seeing Vasava caught in flames, his neighbours rushed with water and doused the fire. He was taken to referral hospital in Dabhoi where is currently undergoing treatment.Police suspect that Vasava was attacked over enmity in the village. However, before arresting anyone, police are questioning villagers about the incident. On February 5, before Vasava was attacked he was booked for assaulting a man named Suresh Bhatia from his village. Bhatia alleged that Vasava beat him near Fatikui bus stand following heated argument between the duo. Vasava was alleging that Bhatia had extra-marital affair with his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/driver-torched-alive-by-unidentified-man-in-dabhoi-village/articleshow/80737815.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||76.6% of beneficiaries get vaccine shots in first phase in Bihar||PATNA: Thanks to several measures taken by the health department, the state achieved 76.6% of target in the first phase of Covid vaccination, the highest in the country. Mostly healthcare workers were vaccinated in the first phase. In terms of number of healthcare workers taking the vaccine jab in the first phase, Bihar stands at the sixth position. Data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare shows that 3,68,413 healthcare workers took the vaccine jab in Bihar till Saturday evening and accounted for 76.6% of registered beneficiaries in the state. The number of beneficiaries increased a little more in Bihar by late evening and the final figure reached 3,69,979. Across the country, 56,36,868 beneficiaries falling in the category of healthcare workers were vaccinated in the first phase. Madhya Pradesh, where 76.1% of registered healthcare workers were vaccinated, stood second and Tripura finished third with 76%. Bihar health department officials cited several reasons for this achievement. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh and Patna Medical College and Hospital superintendent Dr I S Thakur said the decision to carry out vaccination seven days a week led to improvement in percentage. Earlier, vaccination was being done four days a week. The 38 districts in the state were then divided into two groups and each group (19 districts) started carrying out vaccination twice a week on alternate days. However, the state health department made several relaxations and allowed district magistrates and civil surgeons to carry out vaccination on any number of days according to necessity. Private health institutes were allowed to conduct vaccination even on Sundays. Dr Vibha said team work, coordination and motivation led to high percentage of vaccination in the state. “From principal secretary to other senior officials of the health department as well as heads of different hospitals set example by taking vaccine shots,” she said, adding when the second phase of vaccination drive was launched in the state on Saturday for frontline workers, 28 district magistrates took the vaccine shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/76-6-of-beneficiaries-get-vaccine-shots-in-first-phase/articleshow/80739043.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Safety steps in place, consent forms sent out: Coaching centres gear up for offline classes||KOLKATA: The state’s decision to bring students back to school campuses could be followed by reopening of tutorial classes and test preparation centres across Bengal. Some of the big ones, like Aakash Institute, Pathfinder, FIITJEE and Erudite, have started adopting various safety measures for a smooth reopening — in a phased manner — from February 12. The SOP have been drawn up and consent forms distributed among the guardians. “We plan to start the on-campus classes from February 20, a weekend. The decision to reopen the offline classes was taken after the state gave permission for face-to-face interactions between students and teachers. Since we have to maintain the social distancing norms, the centres have formulated a model where not more than 50% students of each class will be present on campus at any time,” said Sunil Agarwal, centre director of Aakash Institute. Students who enrolled for the virtual classes during the pandemic will, however, continue that way. “Only those who had been enrolled for offline coaching and were forced to go online will be given the choice to either resume in-person classes or remain on the virtual mode. We are sending consent forms to parents, which students will need to submit on the first day of classes. We will check temperature with thermal guns at the eight centres of the institute. The offline classes will also be live-streamed for those at home,” Agarwal said. In the six integrated schools and 42 coaching centres of the Pathfinder Group in Bengal, the in-person interactions will begin from February 25. “Parents have requested resumption of offline classroom coaching. We will continue with the virtual class option for those who can’t return to campus for any reason. But almost 90% of students have agreed to resume in-person classes,” said chairman Debdutta Sreemany. FIITJEE Kharagpur has initiated doubt-removal classes. Full-fledged offline classes will start based on directives from the government and the corporate office. “We are expecting to resume from April. Usually, we begin guiding the students for national entrance tests and other competitive examinations after the board exams and other internal assessments. Since the schedule has been adjusted this year, we will commence the offline batches from April after seeking consent from parents,” said Biplab Paul, senior manager (admissions) of FIITJEE Kharagpur centre. Naveen Saraf, director of Career Launcher, Kolkata, which runs three centres in the city, said, “We plan to restart offline classes for MBA and law aspirants from February 22. The government’s prescription to the schools will be adhered to by the coaching centres. We plan to limit the number of students to allow sufficient social distancing, apart from wearing of masks. We will also regulate entry of outsiders. Initially, we plan to simultaneously run the virtual classrooms with the offline tuition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safety-steps-in-place-consent-forms-sent-out-coaching-centres-gear-up-for-offline-classes/articleshow/80739198.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar registers 99.09% Covid-19 recovery rate||PATNA: The recovery rate in Bihar reached 99.09% on Sunday as 53 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,61,299. Altogether 5,621 beneficiaries, including 3,380 frontline workers and 2,241 healthcare workers, took the Covid-19 vaccine shots in the state on Sunday. They accounted for 31% of the targeted beneficiaries who were supposed to take the vaccine on Sunday. Vaccination on Sunday was carried out at 161 centres involving 805 human resources in the state. No adverse case was reported following immunization. As per the data shared by state health society, total 3,80,328 beneficiaries in Bihar have been inoculated since the drive was launched on January 16. They include 3,72,466 healthcare workers. Vaccination for frontline workers started on Saturday and is expected to continue for another eight days. Officially, one death was reported, taking the toll to 1,516. AIIMS-Patna reported the death of a Gumla resident. While four patients were admitted, one was discharged on Sunday. New Covid-19 cases were reported from 19 districts, including 16 from Patna, where the tally reached 52,468. However, with 51,593 recoveries and 426 deaths, there are 449 active cases in Patna. Other districts reported less than ten new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-registers-99-09-recovery-rate/articleshow/80739193.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Elderly wait for turn to be vaccinated||PATNA: After Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said in reply to a question in the Parliament that the third phase of Covid vaccination was likely to begin in March, people above the age of 50 years are waiting for their turn. There is, however, a mixed feeling among them. While some are excited, others want to wait for a couple of months to see the long-term results of the first and second phases of vaccination. Octogenarian Bishwanath Verma, who retired in 1995 and is working as a laughter therapist now, is eagerly waiting to be vaccinated. “There is no hesitation at all. I am waiting for my turn so that I can get the vaccine shots. Many of my friends are waiting too,” Verma told TOI, adding that he was encouraging others to get themselves vaccinated. Like Verma, 67-year-old Gopal Sharan Singh, who retired from the post of a divisional engineer, said there was no apprehension about the effectiveness of the Covid vaccines. “If healthcare workers have already been vaccinated, there is nothing to worry about. I will definitely take the shots,” he added. A 57-year-old government official, on the other hand, said he would observe the long-term results of the vaccines. He added, “Even from the point of view of health, I am fit. I think my body is strong enough to fight any virus.” Retired civil surgeon Dr Kumkum Upadhyay will also wait for getting vaccinated. “It is not that I have no faith in the vaccines, but the results will be clearer by March,” she claimed while heaving a sigh of relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-wait-for-their-turn-to-get-covid-vax-shots/articleshow/80739142.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 8, 2021||Allahabad||‘Bhoole Bhatke Shivir’ aided by social media in reuniting families||Prayagraj: Digital technology is offering a whole host of brand new ways to bring families and friends closer together and fostering happy relationships. Similarly, it has also helped the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir (lost & found camp) to reunite 491 persons including 411 male, 66 female and 14 children between January 14 and February 5 at the ongoing Magh Mela. Preparing a database of lost and reunited persons both manually and digitally, over 30 active volunteers of the shivir (camp) spread in five sectors of Magh Mela circulate details of missing persons on social media and popular messaging apps to help find separated people and reunite them with their families at the earliest. Umesh Tiwari, the organiser of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir (camp) and head of Bharat Seva Dal, told TOI that the digital and social media has proved to be a boon for the volunteers of shivir to share details like name, age, sex, address, photograph and physique of missing persons and connect with other volunteers and police for the reunion. He said that the volunteers share missing person’ details on the WhatsApp group, Bharat Sewa Dal, and social networking sites connecting the volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir across the country to get leads." He added, "we have deputed volunteers at five static spots including Sangam noze to connect volunteers with each other and take the missing person to the camp till their family members arrive. If the missing person provides the phone number of their families, we call them." The majority of missing people hail from a rural background and don’t have mobile phones. The chunk of missing people involves aged people, senior citizens and women. “There were many cases when elderly people could not speak much about their native towns \village and we have to take care of them for 24 hours to 48 hours till they were reunited,” said Tiwari. "We also maintain manual records as well.” He also said that, “many volunteers who hail from other states and speak other languages, particularly dialects, often help us to connect with missing persons who could not speak Hindi fluently." Devotees and pilgrims from across the country are flocking Magh Mela and camping on the banks of the Ganga. IG (Prayagraj zone) KP Singh said, "volunteers of Bhoole Bhatke Shivir is doing a novel job of the reunion of separated people at the ongoing Magh Mela." The 57-day annual religious gathering started on the banks of the Ganga on Makar Sankranti and will culminate on Mahashivratri (March 11).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bhoole-bhatke-shivir-aided-by-social-media-in-reuniting-families/articleshow/80738388.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Help MSME sector: CPM leader||Coimbatore: CPM politburo member G Ramakrishnan on Sunday urged the Union and state government to waive loans taken by micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) and allot funds for them.Ramakrishnan met the family of Yesuraj of Peelamedu, who committed suicide at his engineering workshop at Irugur on January 28 after suffering losses. “The pandemic not only affected guest workers, but also MSME unit owners. Yesuraj’s suicide is an example,” the CPM leader said.“The central and state governments have given various concessions and waived loans of corporate companies. But they failed to protect the MSME sector. They should take the responsibility for the suicide of an entrepreneur in Coimbatore. Ahead of the assembly election, ruling parties in the state and central met entrepreneurs. They should allot funds for the development of the MSME sector and waive the loans of entrepreneurs. They should also extend the loan repayment period. That will provide job opportunities to lakhs of workers,” Ramakrishnan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/help-msme-sector-cpm-leader/articleshow/80740289.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||Missing chit fund operator’s body found in Maharashtra's Konkan river||PUNE: The body of Anand Unawane, a 45-year-old chit fund operator missing since February 3, was found floating in Savitri river near Mahad in Konkan on Saturday. Based on circumstantial evidence, the Mahad MIDC police have registered a case of murder and began the probe. “The victim appeared to be bludgeoned to death. We registered the offence of murder and shared the photographs of the body with our counterparts in neighbouring districts,” Nilesh Tambe, sub-divisional police officer (Mahad), told TOI. Tambe said a team from Pimpri Chinchwad police and Unawane’s relatives reached Mahad on Sunday. Unawane’s brother Vishnu lodged a complaint with the Pimpri police on February 5. “A team of Pimpri police and also the crime branch team swung into action immediately after Unawane’s brother lodged the missing person’s complaint. Our teams tracked Unawane’s cellphone and visited every location but were unable to find him,” deputy commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad police Manchak Ipper said. “We suspect a conspiracy — his cellphone location was not consistent. Moreover, his cellphone’s current location is quite far from where his body was found,” Ipper said. “On February 3, Unawane had told his manager to withdraw Rs40 lakh from her bank account. He then told her to send the money to his flat in Pimpri. Unawane then told the driver to park the car near the building and keep the cash under the front seat. After half-an-hour, when the secretary contacted Unawane, he told her he was in Bhosari. Nobody heard from him since then,” a crime branch officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/missing-chit-fund-operators-body-found-in-konkan-river/articleshow/80740290.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress forms governing boards in 48 civic bodies||JAIPUR: The ruling Congress on Sunday formed governing boards in 48 municipal bodies, while its arch-rival BJP managed majority in 37, followed by independents at three places. The elections for Ajmer mayor and chairpersons in 89 other urban local bodies (ULBs) gave an upper edge to the Congress, which had a clear majority in just 19 bodies compared to BJP’s 24 in terms of seats that the two parties had won. The saffron party suffered majorly as it has been reduced from 60 ULBs it won in 2015 to 37 this time. It has managed to win three ULBs out of five in former CM Vasundhara Raje’s bastion Jhalawar. The elections for the 90 ULBs spread in 20 districts were held on January 28 and the results were announced on January 31. On Sunday, the elected councillors voted for a mayor in Ajmer and for chairpersons in 86 other bodies. For three ULBs, the chairpersons were elected unopposed. Congress had a clean sweep in two districts, Hanumangarh and Bundi, while BJP won in Pali. BJP recorded its best performance in Ajmer Municipal Corporation by securing 61 votes for its mayor candidate Brajlata Hada. BJP gained support of 13 independents in Ajmer to increase its tally from 48 to 61 in the house of 80 seats. Two chairmen—BJP’s Surendra (Ladnu municipal body, Nagaur) and Congress’ Sagir Ahmed (Pirawa municipal body, Jhalwar) are illiterate. Congress had been exuding confidence about forming governing boards in over 50 bodies, while the BJP was keeping its cards close to its chest. “I predicted much earlier that Congress will form its boards in more than 50 ULBs. Other than the 48 Congress boards, the two boards formed by independents are with our support. NCP which formed one board is part of our national alliance under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA),” said PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra. The party was unwilling to give credit to independents for its victory. Dotasra cleared that leaving seats vacant in over 250 wards was a strategic decision that worked in favour of his party. “The reason why majority of the independents have gone with the Congress is that they belong to our party,” said Dotasra. BJP doesn’t seem to be lucky as Congress in its strategy of not fielding candidates in over 300 wards. It sustained major losses in Bundi, Rajsamand and Churu. “Congress has grossly misused government machinery to bring independents in their favour. Our party contested against Congress and the government machinery is a reason that we missed out forming governing boards at several places,” said Satish Poonia, BJP state president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-forms-governing-boards-in-48-civic-bodies/articleshow/80740294.cms||Shoeb Khan
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Damage from pollution no less than from other crimes: NGT||NEW DELHI: National Green Tribunal has rapped Uttar Pradesh government for not taking effective steps to control pollution in Hindon river, noting that damage from pollution is no less than the damage from other heinous crimes. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice A K Goel said, “It is a matter of regret that the state authorities have failed to discharge their constitutional obligation of taking remedial measures inspite of attention of the highest authorities in the administration being drawn to the problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/damage-from-pollution-no-less-than-from-other-crimes-ngt/articleshow/80740302.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Forest dept lodges police complaint against tribal association president||Coimbatore: Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) officials have filed a police complaint against Tamil Nadu Tribal People’s Association’s district president V S Paramasivam for attempting to bring NGO members to the reserve without prior permission from the forest department.During the pandemic, the Pollachi forest division provided various welfare assistance to the residents of 18 tribal settlements, a press note issued by ATR deputy director S Arockiaraj Xavier on Sunday said. Several NGOs offered their help to the tribes through the forest department. Paramasivam on Saturday brought 18 members of an NGO to Aliyar forest check post and told the officials that he wanted to take the members to the Chinnarpathi tribal settlement to construct toilets.“The officials refused to let them enter the forest and told Paramasivam that he should get prior permission from the forest department. However, Paramasivam argued with them. His supporters used abusive language and did not allow them to do their duty,” Xavier said.Paramasivam also posted a message against the forest department on Facebook and attempted to instigate tribal people against the department, the official said. “The forest department has a good relationship with the tribal people. Paramasivam’s activities would affect this relationship. So, we lodged a complaint against Paramasivam with the Aliyar police station,” he told TOI.As per the National Tiger Conservation Authority and Wildlife Protection Act 1972, construction activities in tribal settlements inside tiger reserves should be carried out by the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-lodges-police-complaint-against-tribal-association-president/articleshow/80740286.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||CDR racket: Duo held, cops look for rest involved||MUMBAI: The city crime branch unit 5 has busted an illegal Call Detail Record (CDR) racket where a few private detectives or agents would access CDR and Subscriber Details Record (SDR) to sell them to buyers or clients. Two persons from Goregaon have been arrested and the cops are looking for over a dozen private detectives from Delhi, Mangalore, Haryana and Bangalore. The CDR of a person reveals the number of calls made and received from their phone, the date, time and duration of the calls. Based on a tip off, the cops sent fake clients to procure CDR of a person. The arrested duo has revealed the names of masterminds of the CDR racket, who were also arrested in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cdr-racket-duo-held-cops-look-for-rest-involved/articleshow/80740305.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||Admin evacuates people from low-lying riverside areas in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Hours after the Chamoli disaster claimed several lives, people living along the banks of the main stream of Ganga were evacuated by the Haridwar district administration on Sunday. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh irrigation department closed the upper Ganga canal and the local administration, with the help of police, evacuated the Har-Ki-Pauri area. The Kumbh works were also stopped by the Mela administration as a precautionary measure. Later in the day, the irrigation department said that the water flow of the river has decreased and only 21,000 cusec water will reach Haridwar till Sunday night. Notably, the capacity of the main stream of the Ganga is around five-to-six lakh cusec water. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “After getting the initial inputs from the control room, we ordered to evacuate the low-lying areas along the bank of Ganga in the rural part of Haridwar. Also, the slum areas at the bank of the main stream of river in the city area were put on high alert. Many were shifted to safe places. We also halted the Kumbh works being carried out in the main stream of the Ganga. The situation remains under control but our teams are on alert. We are also in touch with the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department.” Meanwhile, the irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh has said that water level in the Ganga river is beyond the danger mark. SDO Upper Ganga canal Anil Nimesh told TOI, “As a precautionary measure, we closed the upper Ganga canal and according to our estimate, around 21,000 cusec water will reach Haridwar till Sunday night which is quite normal given the river capacity. The situation is now completely under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/admin-evacuates-people-from-low-lying-riverside-areas-in-haridwar/articleshow/80739309.cms||MS Nawaz
February 8, 2021||Pune||Operators miffed with govt’s licensed driving schools’ plan||PUNE: Driving schools in the city have opposed the latest proposal floated by the Union ministry of road transport and highways, under which a student who has passed out of an “accredited” driving school and applied for a driving licence, will not be required to appear for the regional transport office’s (RTO) driving test. The ministry on Friday had proposed that driving schools across the country would be provided with “accreditation” if they enhanced their facilities, which included setting up of test tracks over one acre land, have the latest equipment and simulators for the students, among other facilities. The ministry, which has opened the proposal for public consultation, said if a student passed out of such driving centres and went on to apply for a driving licence, they would not be required to give the examination conducted by the RTOs and the certificate of the accredited driving school would be enough. Pratap Jadhav, the proprietor of Jadhav Motor Training School, which had two branches in the city, said if the proposal was approved, it would lead to the closure of many driving schools, resulting in loss of livelihood and business. “In cities such as Pune or Mumbai, how will a driving school get so much land for driving test tracks? Around eight years back, the Centre decided that permanent test tracks were mandatory to get a licence. The Institute of Driving Training and Research (IDTR) then came up in Pune. It had scanner-fitted tracks, which minimized the role of the RTO inspectors, thus ensuring more transparency. However, at present, many of the automated scanners at the test tracks in the facility are kept disconnected. The government must first ensure that their facilities follow regulations,” Jadhav said. At present, there are around 200 driving schools in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits that are registered with the RTO. “We have learnt about the new proposal, but commenting on it right now will not be wise as more details are awaited,” a senior Pune RTO official told TOI. The owner of another driving institute in Pune, which has three branches, told TOI that if the proposal was approved, the new plan would end their business. “We cannot afford to build such infrastructure for at least three to four years, considering the pandemic. However, the big players such as the automobile companies can always have their own driving training facilities as it isn’t a big investment for them,” the owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/operators-miffed-with-govts-licensed-driving-schools-plan/articleshow/80739312.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Youth held for impregnating minor girl||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur north all-woman police arrested a 25-year-old man on Saturday on charges of impregnating a minor girl under the Pocso Act. The arrested person has been identified as K Karthik, who was working at a printing unit on Kongu Main Road in Tirupur. Police said Karthik befriended a 15-year-old girl, who was residing in his area. Whenever the girl was alone at her residence, Karthik sexually assaulted her on multiple occasions for the past one year. When the girl became six-month pregnant, her parents learned about it. They lodged a complaint with the Tirupur north all-woman police who registered a case against Karthik under section 5 (l) (penetrative sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) read with 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-held-for-impregnating-minor-girl/articleshow/80740303.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||2 kids who beat AES develop symptoms of physical disability||PATNA: At least two children, who had recovered from acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) in Muzaffarpur district last year, have shown symptoms of physical disability, much to the worry of health officials. Of the 43 children infected with AES in the district last year, 36 had recovered and seven died. Taking a serious note of the matter, DM Pranav Kumar has decided to hold a meeting of the district coordination committee on AES on February 18. Last week also, the DM had held a meeting with the health department officials and sought a status report on all the cured children in the district. During the survey conducted by the health department officials, it was found that two children — one from Gaighat and another from Paroo blocks in the district — had developed symptoms of physical disability. Both the children are undergoing treatment at Shrikrishna Medical College & Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur. While the four-year-old Md Kuwaid from Gaighat has complained of blindness, six-year-old Sakshi from Paroo is unable to speak. District malaria officer Dr Satish Kumar too confirmed that two children have developed symptoms of physical disability. He said the number of the children infected with physical disability post recovery may increase as reports from some primary health centres (PHCs) have not been submitted yet. “The status report of three children — two from Musahari and one from Saraiya blocks — are still awaited,” he said. Dr Satish said the disability may vary from affecting limbs to mental retardation depending on the damages to brain cells. “That’s the reason it is also called ‘dimagi bukhar’,” he said, adding a meeting will be held on Monday with members of the expert committee on AES to discuss the report received from the 16 PHCs. Muzaffarpur acting civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar said he would comment on the issue only after receiving the status report. Dr Kumar said gap assessment in the health facilities was being done to oversee the availability of doctors and paramedical staff at the earmarked hospitals and other health facilities in the district. Care India has been assigned the task, he added. When told about the physical disability of the two cured children, the DM said, “I have asked the health department officials to submit a status report after physical verification of the children.” It may be recalled that 90 children had died due to AES in 2014, forcing Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to visit the SKMCH to assess the situation. Meanwhile, the state health department has asked the Muzaffarpur district administration to launch awareness campaigns in affected areas properly. In all, 19 facilities have been earmarked for the treatment of AES patients in the district. Last year, a special ward was made operational at the SKMCH for the treatment of AES-infected children. Besides Muzaffarpur, a few cases were also reported from neighbouring districts like East Champaran and Sitamarhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-kids-who-beat-aes-develop-symptoms-of-physical-disability/articleshow/80740307.cms||Ramashankar
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||TN farmers to send coconuts to protesters in New Delhi||Tirupur: As an expression of solidarity, the Tamil Farmers Protection Association has decided to send one lakh coconuts to farmers protesting in Singhur against the three contentious farm laws for more than two months.President of the association Nalla Gounder said that there was concerted propaganda to dilute the farmers’ agitation.There were also attempts to discredit the protesting farmers by citing the violence on Republic day, though the violence was handiwork of anti-social elements who intruded into the protest, he said. “The other propaganda was that there was no support for the Delhi farmers protest from farmers in other parts of the country,” he said.In a bid to disprove the propaganda, they have decided to express solidarity by sending coconuts. Nalla Gounder said they would collect 10 coconuts from each farmer here and send the load. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-farmers-to-send-coconuts-to-protesters-in-new-delhi/articleshow/80740292.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||It’s time that Uttarakhandis join hands against development projects to save their own lives, say noted environmentalists||DEHRADUN: “When we started the revolution in the 1970s at Reni village, the reason was its vulnerability to cause natural disasters. And today, Bhagirathi and Alaknanda have shown us a trailer. Uttarakhand is yet to witness an array of devastations,” said Chandi Prasad Bhatt, who was one of the spearheads of the Chipko movement which started in Reni. After Sunday's glacier burst, Bhatt recalled how he had expressed concerns against the hydropower plants and other unabated blastings in the fragile Himalayas. “Nearly two decades ago, I had written to the Centre to stop all kinds of projects in Reni, knowing its sensitivity,” Bhatt told TOI. Another noted green crusader Sundarlal Bahuguna urged Uttarakhandis to "join hands for a mass movement" against the hydropower plants and all the major projects which are converting Himalayas into shallow mountains. “The need of the hour is to bring all the villagers together, apprise them about threats to their lives from these mass killing projects and conduct massive protests by means of movement to save Uttarakhand from these shallow road, rail and hydropower plans,” Bahuguna told TOI. Seers of Matri Sadan who have been at the forefront of opposing hydropower projects in the Himalayas held a press conference on Sunday noon. Swami Shivanand Saraswati said, “Swami Sanand [late professor GD Agrawal] lost his life requesting the government to stop construction of these hydropower plants, including Tapovan-Vishnugad, which took so many lives on Sunday. The nature is repeatedly alerting the mafia not to exploit it, else the results would be much more devastating.” Another activist Vimal Bhai said, “Late Narayan Dutt Tiwari after the Tehri dam project had stated that Uttarakhand will not see any big dam. But, thereafter, Pancheshwar, Roopali Gadh and Kishau dams are among the government's top priority. The government needs to ensure environment clearance as they go ahead with such major plans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/its-time-that-uttarakhandis-join-hands-against-development-projects-to-save-their-own-lives-say-noted-environmentalists/articleshow/80739314.cms||Shivani Azad
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Western Railway commuters to get real-time updates on trains||MUMBAI: Commuters on Western Railway’s (WR) suburban network will get real- time information in the compartment in case of any snag in the train or problem on tracks during the commute. The Mobile Train Radio Communication will also ensure smooth communication between train crew and the control system. WR’s chief PRO Sumit Thakur claimed that the system will improve communication between the control room and train or between various trains. “This system is used in metro and monorail projects and has proved successful to communicate between controller and crew,” said Thakur. The communication system is in its final stages of implementation. At present, in case of emergency, train crew can alert the control room over cellphones. “But train crew are not allowed to use mobile phones. Also, network is erratic due to weak signals that can also cause miscommunication,” said Thakur. In the radio communication system, the control room can communicate with each train individually, or with a group of trains or all trains simultaneously. Thakur added that a group call can be made to pre-defined and dynamic group of trains. A senior railway official said that the biggest advantage of this system is broadcast can be done via public address system directly from the conttrol in each compartment of that train or group of trains. Thakur said that currently, there is no mechanism on trains to broadcast any message to WR’s 35 lakh passengers who use it daily, especially in case of major disruptions. “This causes passengers to jump off trains and walk on tracks, thus posing a risk to their lives. Timely information will help reduce anxiety of passengers,” he said. Train crew can immediately convey a message about water level on tracks so that an informed decision can be taken on train running pattern. Also, messages about an accident victim lying on the tracks can be conveyed to the control room to arrange for help, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-commuters-to-get-real-time-updates-on-trains/articleshow/80726335.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Do not delay Sipcot project, says Anbumani||Dharmapuri: Rajya Sabha member and youth wing president of Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) Anbumani Ramadoss urged the state government to implement the Sipcot industrial estate project without delay.“It was PMK that mooted the idea of Sipcot in 2000. As a result of our continued pressure, the government in 2008-09 announced the Sipcot project in Dharmapuri. But little progress has been made on the project,” Ramadoss said.Though the district administration identified nearly 1,733.40 acres, including 1183.05 acres of government poramboke lands and 550.35 acres of patta lands at Adhiyamankottai and Balajangamanahalli villages, the then government did not start the project, the PMK leader said. “After being elected MP of the Dharmapuri constituency, I urged the state government to set up Sipcot park, alarmed by the unemployment rate in the district. PMK had organized several protests to implement the project. CM Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the park would be set up on a 1,183.05-acre government poramboke land. It will have textile industries, food processing units and units to manufacture vehicle accessories, in the first phase.”The park will give jobs to more than five lakh youths in the district, who are now working in neighboring states including Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, Ramadoss said. “The state government should start preparatory works for the park and lay foundation stone at the earliest.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/do-not-delay-sipcot-project-says-anbumani/articleshow/80740297.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||Minimum temperature likely to rise over the week in Pune||PUNE: The minimum temperature in the city is expected to increase gradually over the week, after dropping to 10°C for the last few days, while the maximum temperature is expected to stay above 30°C. The temperature might increase to 15°C towards the end of the week, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. At the same time, the maximum temperature in the city was expected to remain over 30°C. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecast division of the IMD, said, “The northerly wind flow would be curtained by Southerly or Southerly westerly wind in the coming days and so the night temperature was expected to increase gradually in the coming days. On Monday, it will be in the range of 10-11°C. At the same time, the day temperature till Wednesday, will hover around 29 to 30°C. Thereafter, it would remain in the range of 30 to 31°C.” On Sunday, the Shivajinagar observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8°C, which was below normal by 0.6 degree Celsius. The maximum temperatures in Shivajinagar was recorded at 29.2°C, which was 2.2 degrees Celsius below normal. Even Lohegaon recorded 29.2°C maximum temperature, which was 2.8 degrees Celsius below normal. On Sunday, the temperature mostly remained cold with clear sky. In the evening, the temperature fell further with cold breeze, the met official said. At many observatories across all regions, the night temperatures had fallen by one or two degrees Celsius in the state. The Nashik observatory in Madhya Maharashtra region recorded 10degrees Celsius, which was the lowest minimum temperature recorded in the state. Ratnagiri recorded 35.4 degrees Celsius, which was the highest maximum temperature recorded in Maharashtra. The maximum temperature in Jalgaon city was recorded at 30.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the met department data showed. Malegaon, another city in north Maharashtra, recorded minimum temperature at 11.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was recorded at 28.2 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/min-temperature-likely-to-rise-over-the-week/articleshow/80739323.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||28 elephants to attend rejuvenation camp||Coimbatore: At least 15 temple elephants from across the state arrived at Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam on Sunday for the annual rejuvenation camp, which would get underway on Monday. Another 13 elephants are expected to arrive at the camp before the inaugural ceremony that would be held on Monday evening. “Usually, the camp is inaugurated in the morning by some ministers and bureaucrats. This time, the inaugural ceremony is likely to happen only in the evening, as some political upheavals are likely to occur after the ousted AIADMK leader, Sasikala, arrives in Chennai from Bengaluru on Monday,” said a source with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department, which has organized the annual rejuvenation camp for the temple and mutt elephants in the state.According to an HR&CE source, four elephants - Abayambigai from Sri Mayuranathaswamy temple at Mayiladuthurai, Bhooma from Oppiliappan temple at Kumbakonam, Gandhimathi from Nellaiappar temple in Tirunelveli and Kalyani from Perur Patteeswarar temple - arrived at the camp in trucks on Sunday afternoon. They were accompanied by their mahouts and assistants, who had to produce Covid-19 negative certificates to the HR&CE officials at the camp.The HR&CE officials have arranged green fodder and medicines for the elephants. Temporary sheds have been set up at the camp for the mahouts and their assistants. The camp, which is under the surveillance of CCTV cameras, also features exclusive bathing facilities for the elephants. Visitors won’t be allowed to enter the camp premises, because of the Covid-19 restrictions.To prevent wild elephants from entering the camp, the forest department has deployed anti-poaching watchers on the camp premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/28-elephants-to-attend-rejuvenation-camp/articleshow/80740306.cms||A Subburaj
February 8, 2021||Varanasi||Govt not giving security, putting my life in danger: Rai||Varanasi: Congress leader Ajay Rai accused the BJP government of putting his life in danger by overlooking court orders on providing proper security cover to him as he has serious life threat from jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari since he is the prime witness of the murder of his brother Awadhesh Rai. Addressing reporters at his residence on Sunday, Rai said, “I had sent a letter to chief minister for security cover as per court order as I am the prime witnessed in a murder case in which conviction of Mukhtar is sure. But, despite the court order, security cover, which was withdrawn due to unknown reasons, is not being given.” “It seems this government is protecting mafia dons like Mukhtar and all actions being taken against them are eyewash,” Rai alleged. “In the last hearing on January 27, I submitted an application in MP MLA court informing that my security cover had been withdrawn and I have serious life threat in appearing as prime witness. The MP MLA court had ordered SSP Varanasi to provide security cover, but nothing was provided,” said Rai. In my letter to the CM, I had said that I am finding it difficult to pursue the case fearlessly due to the threat, he added. In October 2020, Rai had targeted BJP MLA and Krishnanand Rai’s widow Alka Rai for writing a letter to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accusing her of shielding Mukhtar after Ropar jail authorities did not hand him over to UP Police for producing the don in court for hearing. “This BJP MLA is writing letters to Priyanka, but she should know Congress never backs any mafia. If BJP governments at centre and state are not able to bring Mukhtar from Punjab jail, it is their failure,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/govt-not-giving-security-putting-my-life-in-danger-rai/articleshow/80738803.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||‘Aspirational toilets’: South Delhi corporation plans upgrade for better Swachh ranking||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will upgrade up to 200 public toilets complexes to get an ODF++ ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021. The corporation has made a list of 162 complexes on main roads, market areas or near public places that will get additional facilities. Ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has divided public toilets in five categories for the Survekshan based on their upkeep and facilities. These are unusable, usable but dirty, clean, very clean, excellent and aspirational. “The indicators for the aspirational category are developing greenery around the complex, installing sanitary vending machines, incinerator or other facilities for disposal, paper napkins, multiple bins, soap dispensers, a feedback system and functional floodlights outside the complex for safety, in addition to regular services,” said an official. “Further, the spaces for advertising should be defined and there should be no encroachment around the space.” The civic agency has also assigned a nodal officer for each of these toilets for daily inspection. “We are putting extra efforts on cleanliness and maintenance of these toilet complexes, which are open to the public from 6am to 10pm,” said Rajiv Jain, nodal officer for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan for the corporation. There are a total 590 public toilet complexes under the south corporation. On Sunday, the civic agency also launched a drive for plastic waste removal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aspirational-toilets-south-corpn-plans-upgrade-for-better-swachh-ranking/articleshow/80740311.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Pedestrians risking lives in absence of foot overbridges on NHs||Ludhiana: In the absence of foot overbridges on national highways passing through the city or on the outskirts, pedestrians are putting their lives in danger every single day by crossing the highways from over the medians. Areas like Tajpur road crossing, Basti Jodhewal chowk, Subhash Nagar crossing, Sundar Nagar crossing, Kakowal road crossing, Kailash road crossing on the Ludhiana-Delhi and Ludhiana-Amritsar highways, besides Chandigarh road are the points where the pedestrians can be seen crossing the highways from over the medians. Interestingly, there is only one foot overbridge that is near Sherpur chowk. Majority of the areas around the national highways either have accommodations of migrant labourers or factories where they work. Therefore, in the morning when the labourers head towards the factories and similarly, when they get free in the evening, more chaos is witnessed on the highways. The people, including labourers, on foot or cycles are seen crossing the highways from over the medians, putting their lives in danger, even leading to accidents in some cases. A resident of Kashmir Nagar, Sudesh Kumar, who is a hosiery factory worker, said, “Several crossings on the national highways have been closed. Therefore, we have to take a longer route to take a turn or U-turn. The pedestrians or cyclists will always want a shorter route to not exhaust themselves physically. Therefore, we have to take this risk of crossing the highway in a wrong way.”“There should be underpasses or foot overbridges for cyclists or pedestrians to cross the highways. We know that we put our lives in danger, but we have no other option,” said another labourer Panna Singh of Tajpur road. Assistant commissioner of police, traffic, Gurdev Singh said, “There is a need for some underpasses to manage the traffic and foot overbridges for pedestrians, who can meet with an accident while crossing the roads. One foot overbridge is near Sherpur and another is ahead of Jalandhar bypass. In between, there are many such crossings where foot overbridges are needed. We have already written to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) for the same. A meeting between the project directors of the NHAI and joint commissioner of police Deepak Pareek is scheduled this month. We are hoping to come up with some solution.” The ACP added that, “In the meeting with the project directors of the NHAI, we are also putting up a proposal of setting up police assistance check posts. We are planning to establish halts on the national highways, where police will remain present to assist people.” Box- Pedestrian deaths in Ludhiana commissionerate 2016- 30 deaths 2017- 24 deaths 2018- 26 deaths2019- 14 deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pedestrians-risking-lives-in-absence-of-foot-overbridges-on-nhs/articleshow/80738531.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Switch-hit: Kailash Gahlot starts drive to adopt e-vehicles in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday kickstarted Delhi government’s ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign aimed at adoption of electric vehicles (EV) in the capital. A Delhi government statement said that the first week of the eight-week mass campaign would focus on outreach regarding the two-wheeler segment, including electric bikes and e-scooters, to accelerate its adoption. “Delhi’s EV policy focuses on incentivising the purchase of two wheelers, which comprise two-third of all vehicles in Delhi and cause maximum pollution,” Gahlot said. “Delhi government has been working tirelessly to lay the ground for a successful transition to electric vehicles in the national capital. I urge Delhiites to now switch to EVs — make this a mass movement, take responsibility for our environment, and make our city the EV Capital of India,” Gahlot said. Delhi’s EV policy, which was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in August last year, offers various financial and non-financial incentives on purchase of two-wheelers. A purchase incentive of Rs 5,000 per kWh of battery capacity is provided per vehicle to the registered owner, up to a maximum of Rs 30,000 per vehicle. Vehicle owners will also receive a scrapping incentive of up to Rs 5,000 for scrapping and de-registering old ICE two-wheelers registered in Delhi. Road tax and registration fees will also be waived for all electric two-wheelers during the period of the policy. “The total cost of ownership of an electric two wheeler over a period of 10 years is approximately 50% of that of a petrol scooter in Delhi and approximately 54% of that of a petrol bike in Delhi, as per analysis by RMI India,” he said. The minister said that electric two wheelers are up to Rs 2.05 cheaper to drive per kilometre compared with petrol scooters and upto Rs 1.82 cheaper to drive per kilometre against petrol bike. “Electric two wheelers will achieve cost parity with the petrol scooters and bikes in a maximum of six months,” he added. “An average electric two wheeler provides a life time savings of 1.98 tonnes of carbon emissions compared with an average petrol two wheelers,” he said. “To put it simply, we need roughly 11 trees to sequester 1.9 tonnes of CO2. We can save our environment by making this switch and we owe this to our future generations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/switch-hit-gahlot-starts-drive-to-adopt-e-vehicles-in-delhi/articleshow/80740323.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Locals red-flagged blasting near sensitive areas of Nanda Devi for Rishiganga hydel project years ago||NAINITAL: The Rishiganga hydroelectric power project which was washed away after the glacier burst in Raini village and where several workers are still feared trapped had been red-flagged by local villagers as an “impending disaster”. In 2019, a village resident named Kundan Singh had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Uttarakhand high court (HC) alleging unfair and environmentally hazardous practices by the private firm involved in the project. It was alleged that the firm was “using explosives and blasting the mountains for mining”. The blasting, the petition said, had damaged the sensitive areas around the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve. Singh had said that all the waste material from the project was being dumped into the Rishiganga river adding that despite complaints from the villagers, no action was taken. “Moreover, it was also noticed that the blatant stone crushing activity was being carried out on the riverbed “It flouted all norms that the government had laid down for stone crushing activity in this area…. Even though the villagers complained to the authorities about the violations, no credible action was taken,” Singh said in the petition. Based on the PIL, the court had observed that use of explosives may “result in destruction of the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, and the Valley of Flowers". Therefore, the court banned the use of explosives in the area, and in June 2019, directed the member secretary of the pollution control board and the district magistrate to constitute a joint inspection team and visit the site. However, the report, a copy of which is available with TOI, exonerated the firm and said that it found no proof of illegal mining or blasting. “During the inspection, there was no proof of any illegal mining being done on the spot and no evidence could be collected,” read the report. However, the court was informed that there still was some muck around the barrage and power house which was yet to be cleared. On July 26, the court had listed the case for further hearing in August. There hasn’t been a single hearing after that and the case is still pending in the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-red-flagged-blasting-near-sensitive-areas-of-nanda-devi-for-rishiganga-hydel-project-years-ago/articleshow/80739332.cms||Prashant Jha
February 8, 2021||Patna||Human traffickers change modus operandi in Bihar||PATNA: Human traffickers operating in the state have of late changed their modus operandi, thanks to continuous crack down on them by the law-enforcing agencies and awareness campaigns launched by several non-government organisations. The human traffickers have stopped taking children from the state to other places in bulk since 2019. They have also stopped accompanying the victims. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) sources said the traffickers now deal with only two or three children at a time to avoid getting caught. “The traffickers keep an eye on the children from distance instead of accompanying them,” a senior SSB official told TOI on the condition of anonymity. He said the change in modus operandi has led to decline in trafficking cases in the state. The SSB had reported more than 80 cases of human trafficking to the state police, rescued 550 victims and arrested more than 155 traffickers in 2018. The number of trafficking cases came down below 60 in 2019 when 40 traffickers were arrested and less than 200 children rescued. This pattern also reflects in anti-human trafficking data available with CID (weaker section) of the state police. Child rights activist Suresh Kumar also confirmed change in modus operandi of traffickers. Kumar, who is also the executive director of an NGO fighting against child trafficking, said lockdown due to Covid-19 further changed the operating style of traffickers. “They even started hiring luxury buses for trafficking children,” he said. CID SP (weaker section) Bina Kumari said Gaya, Katihar, Purnia, Nawada, Madhepura and Saharsa districts are prone to child trafficking. “Pockets which have a population of minorities or backward strata of society are vulnerable to trafficking,” she said, adding these children are mostly taken to Jaipur and other places in Rajasthan and even to Hyderabad where they are used in bangle and carpet factories. “The children are also taken to Bengaluru and Mumbai to work in construction sites. In Punjab and Haryana, these children are engaged in farm work,” she said. The SP added a rescued Khagaria child told police that at least 38 male children from Bihar were being used as bonded workers at a farmhouse in Jalandhar. “All these children were rescued later,” she added. The SP said apart from child trafficking, girls from Nepal, Bangladesh, north-eastern states and West Bengal are being brought to Bihar and engaged in orchestras. “Such girls are mostly adults. In guise of orchestra, they are pushed into flesh trade. Such cases mostly remain hidden from law-enforcing agencies due to lack of complaints,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/human-traffickers-change-modus-operandi-in-state/articleshow/80740314.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||BMC gets earful for razing part of gymnasium despite HC restraining order||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has lambasted the BMC for razing a portion of a gymnasium on an over 16,000sqft piece of land in Bandra (W) despite its general order restraining it from carrying out demolitions during the Covid-19 lockdown. The BMC had given the land on lease to a private trust. “You were not supposed to demolish. How could you demolish the structure?” questioned a bench of Justice Ramesh Dhanuka and Justice V G Bisht on February 4. The court heard a petition by the Bandra Physical Culture Association on St Martin Road challenging the November 2 demolition and a January 21 notice to take possession of the land on February 8. The high court on October 29 had suo motu directed the BMC not to initiate any action against any person suffering orders of dispossession, demolition or eviction passed by public authorities till December 21. The order was extended till January 31. The trust’s petition said the gymnasium was functioning since 1925. Its land was leased to it by the Bandra municipality for recreational purposes. In 1947 the lease was made permanent subject to allowing it to be kept open to the public. After the erstwhile Bandra municipality came under the BMC, the lease was continued for Re 1 annually. In February 2000, the BMC issued a show-cause notice over non-access to the public. In March 2000 it revoked the lease. The trust moved the City Civil Court, which restrained the BMC from taking action. In 2006 a new lease was issued. In 2008, the BMC issued a second show-cause notice alleging breaches. It issued a demolition notice in September 2017 and in October 2017 a speaking order declaring the structure unauthorised. On March 3 last year, a demolition notice was issued, which the trust was unaware of due to the lockdown. In view of the state’s unlock phase 5 guidelines, in October-end gymnasiums were allowed to reopen. On November 2, the BMC carried out the demolition and damaged equipment worth Rs 10 lakh. The petition said the BMC was “acting as an agent of some third party”. When the BMC advocate said there were violations of the lease and therefore it was terminated, Justice Dhanuka retorted: It is your creation.” The trust’s advocate Kuber Wagle said the municipal corporation cannot dispossess it without a hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-gets-earful-for-razing-part-of-gym-despite-hc-restraining-order/articleshow/80740320.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 8, 2021||Goa||Centre to develop Goa into country’s first fisheries hub, invest Rs 400 crore||PANAJI: Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh on Sunday announced that Goa will be developed into the first fisheries hub of the country, and that the Centre is investing Rs 400 crore in the project. Singh also said that of this investment, Rs 41 crore has already been approved for Goa under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. Stating that Goa has the requisite coastline, inland waterways and saline khazan lands that can produce the largest quantity of fish in the country, Singh said, “There are around 70 villages here where fishing takes place.” “Thirty landing centres and jetties for fishing boats will be developed with road connectivity as part of the fisheries hub as also for tourism purposes,” he said. Besides, there are also plans to set up a seaweed and ornamental fish complex in the state, as seaweed is a 15 million dollar business across the world. The industry is currently dominated by Indonesia and China, and the Union minister said that Goa is capable of competing for a share of this market. Singh was speaking at Dona Paula during his three-day Goa visit. “We have just started a seaweed complex in Tamil Nadu, a similar one for seaweed and ornamental fish can be set up in Goa,” Singh said. “Since Goa is one of the main tourism centres, ornamental fisheries can lead to very good employment and income. For this, about Rs 30 crore will be given for an aquarium with the formation of a cluster in ornamental fisheries. With an investment of Rs 5 crore, 50 fish vending kiosks, especially for women, and retail fish markets will be developed in Goa,” Singh said. He said that the wholesale fish market in Margao will also be upgraded by the Centre at a cost of Rs 50 crore. “We are not only registering and insuring all fishing boats in Goa, but work is on to tag them to provide them with technological assistance so that it enables fishermen to know where the fish concentration is more,” Singh said. Additionally, a marine hatchery will be constructed in the state at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore, which will provide quality seed. “The Centre has also decided to develop a fishing harbour in Vasco Bay with the help of the ministry of shipping. There are about 300 fishing boats and 1,200 people in the area who have been facing a lot of difficulties for long,” Singh said. Sagar Mitras will be trained in the 70 fishing villages to help educate the population dependent on fishing about fisheries. Singh said that in addition to the projects approved for Goa in the fisheries sector, the state will also be provided a disease diagnosis referral lab for livestock at a cost of Rs 10 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-to-develop-goa-into-countrys-first-fisheries-hub-invest-rs-400-cr/articleshow/80740486.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Allahabad||Magh Mela turns into a Sangam of spirituality and technology as saints and seers reach out to their distant followers through mobile apps||Prayagraj: The ongoing Magh mela seems to have turned into a Sangam of technology and spirituality this year. As a number of devotees from across the country have not been able to make it to the grand annual fair owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the seers have found a way to quench the spiritual thirst of their followers through technology. They are connecting to their disciples through Skype, WhatsApp, Facebook live and module applications, and even uploading religious discourses on social media platforms. Swami Pranav Puri regularly uploads Bhagwat Katha and Shri Ram Katha on his Facebook account for devotees who could not arrive at the mela this year. “When it comes to serving our distant followers, we do not hesitate in using the latest thechnology to connect with them,” he says. “Well acquainted with latest mobile applications, we interact with our followers online, and also inform them about the auspicious dates and their significance,” says Swami Brahmashram Maharaj, national president of Akhil Bharatiya Dandi Sanyasi Parishad. “Social media platforms and the latest video conferencing applications have undoubtedly helped us have uninterrupted conversations with our distant disciples,’ he adds. Unlike previous years, when they used to be cut off from the outside world during kalpwas, this time the mahants and gurus are spending considerable time spiritually connecting with their distant pupils. On the mela campus, a majority of saints armed with smart phones and laptops can be spotted having virtual meetings with their followers. Even the devotees sitting in foreign countries are able to connect with their gurus at the Magh Mela. Ashutosh Varshney, head of Ram Naam bank, says, “It is our pleasure to be able to communicate with and provide spiritual satisfaction to our followers sitting in faraway lands, and this could not have been possible without the use of latest technology.” The young seers seem to be more tech savvy as they remain connected with their followers round the clock. “Technology is a boon for all of us, and this is why we are able spread our spiritual knowledge to different corners of the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/magh-mela-turns-into-a-sangam-of-spirituality-and-technology-as-saints-and-seers-reach-out-to-their-distant-followers-through-mobile-apps/articleshow/80738429.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Second phase faces tepid response in dist||Ludhiana: The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive is receiving a tepid response in Ludhiana district.Less than 23% of the registered frontline workers have got themselves vaccinated from February 3 to February 6 evening. The frontline workers include revenue department, municipal corporation, disaster management employees, police, security forces like Army, BSF, CRPF personnel, among others. Around 20,000 of them had got themselves registered on the government portal till February 1.The health department data from February 3—when the vaccination of frontline workers started—to February 6 shows that the immunization authorities could meet only 22.04% of their target. The data indicates that the percentage witnessed a fall from 36.9% on the inaugural day to 21.1% on February 5 and 17.2% the day after.District immunization officials say as vaccination is voluntary, people have the option of not going for it. District immunisation officer (DIO) Dr Kiran says, “There is a target when vaccination is mandatory. As this is a voluntary drive, we cannot set targets. We are making efforts to encourage people to come forward for the drive.”The drive for the frontline workers will continue for another one week.The health department officials say, “Since a sizeable number of healthcare workers didn’t get themselves vaccinated, it created doubts among frontline workers. Besides, many frontline workers are apprehensive as rumours of side-effects are doing the rounds.”  “Reluctance on the part of people is abating. The department concerned should create awareness about vaccination and make use of social media, among others, to reach out. There is a need to dispel rumours against the drive,” says Dr Sunil Katyal, former president of Ludhiana Indian Medical Association. Frontline workers say they will wait and watch.“We have heard about the adverse reactions of the shots in some healthcare workers. We will wait for some more time to see the effect on large majority of those vaccinated before going for it,” says a frontline worker.‘Create awareness’A health department officer says, “It is the responsibility of the departments concerned to create awareness among their frontline workers about the safety aspect of vaccination and ask them not to believe in rumours.”54.6% of healthcare workers vaccinatedTill February 1—when the deputy commissioner had announced the start of the second phase of the vaccination drive—16,297 (54.6%) of the registered 29,827 healthcare workers had got themselves vaccinated, according to the health department data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/second-phase-faces-tepid-response-in-dist/articleshow/80738542.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Equivalence in qualification for jobs should be left to employer: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) to set up a committee of experts to determine equivalence of subject and nomenclature of degrees required for appointment to the post of a post-graduate teacher (PGT) in home science. The high court ruled that equivalence in qualification for appointment to a post should be left to the employer or subject experts. The HC has asked the state government authorities to take a final decision on the issue within a period of two months after deputing a senior official, at the level of secretary in the education department along with a subject expert to decide the matter. Justice Anil Kshetrapal of the HC passed the order while disposing of a large number of petitions filed by candidates who were not considered eligible by the HSSC for appointment to the post of PGT (home science) on the basis of the nomenclature of their MSc degrees related to home science. Most of the petitioners possessed degrees in MSc (food and nutrition) but one of them, identified as Sonia Lakhra, had a degree in MSc (extension education), petitioners Suman Lata and Banita had a degree in MSc (dietetics and food service management), petitioners Manju Kumari and Pushta Rani had a degree in MSc (food science and technology) and petitioner Tanuja had a degree in MSc (food technology). The petitioners had approached the HC seeking directions to declare their qualifications equivalent to MSc (home science). Representing one of the petitioners, senior advocate Chetan Mittal contended that the expert committee constituted by the Haryana government had given a report in her favour and various institutions such as Kurukshetra University and University Grants Commission (UGC) do recognize that both the qualifications are equivalent. Contesting the issue, the Haryana government contended that in the exercise of its power of judicial review, the high court is not expected to go into the question of equivalence of qualifications. “The question of equivalence of qualification for recruitment is a matter which should be left to the employer, recruitment agency and the experts. As per the service rules, the requirement is a degree in MSc (home science) and there is no provision for recognizing any equivalent qualification.” After hearing all the parties, the high court observed that the entire dispute is required to be remitted to the employer — in this case the Haryana government and the recruiting agency — with a direction to take a final decision on this aspect. The high court also asked the authorities to hear the petitioners either virtually or by way of giving them a physical hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/equivalence-in-qualification-for-jobs-should-be-left-to-employer-hc/articleshow/80740322.cms||Ajay Sura
February 8, 2021||Goa||At executive meet, BJP backs contentious Mollem projects||PANAJI: BJP, at its state executive committee meeting on Sunday, resolved to support the three linear projects at Mollem in the interest of the state, and said the government would complete all development projects. “While all this development is happening in Goa, the opposition led by Congress and other smaller parties, which were detached from the public during the pandemic, have been busy criticising each and every proactive action of the government through press conferences addressed from safe offices,” said BJP general secretary Damodar Naik. “The success of the proactive decisions taken by the government has left them red-faced,” Naik, a former Fatorda MLA, said. “They have also been trying to oppose many of the infrastructure projects which the state government has undertaken with Central assistance, like development of roads, railways, and power. It is our firm belief that such projects are necessary for the development of the state, to provide employment to the youth of Goa, and also to provide basic facilities to citizens.” The decision comes mere months after the core committee asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to go slow on the controversial linear projects, following reservations expressed by their MLAs from South Goa/ “The results of the zilla panchayat elections have proved that for a majority of Goans, these development projects are not an issue,” the executive committee said. The BJP state executive condemns Congress and other opposition parties for its machinations and false propaganda against the BJP government.” BJP also hailed the state government under Sawant for fighting Covid and taking the state on the path of growth and progress. In its political resolution, the party said that BJP, which initially provided stable government under the leadership of the late Manohar Parrikar, now does to under Sawant’s leadership, with a strong and supportive government at the Centre led by PM Narendra Modi.” “With the entire world and our country battling the Covid pandemic during most of 2020, the Goa government led by the CM and assisted by health minister Vishwajit Rane and active warriors from various departments like health, police, etc, have successfully battled the pandemic by providing adequate health infrastructure and medical facilities,” BJP said. “With this proactive approach and the support of the people, Goa has been able to overcome the battle with the pandemic, and the situation is slowly and steadily returning to normal, and business activities also slowly improving to pre-Covid levels.” The party also congratulated Sawant and state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade for leading it to win both ZP seats, and thanked the people of Goa for reposing their faith in the party. The BJP state executive committee also thanked Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for allocating Rs 300 crore to celebrated the 60th year of Liberation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-exec-meet-bjp-resolves-to-support-mollem-projects/articleshow/80740535.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||Udhayanidhi Stalin’s ‘offer’ if Senthil Balaji wins by a lakh||Trichy: DMK youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin has resolved to be in Karur for 10 days a month if voters ensured the party’s candidate V Senthil Balaji won the assembly election with a margin of over one lakh votes. Speaking at Karur as part of Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) campaign, he recalled that Balaji won the Aravakurichi byelection on a margin of over 40,000 votes and the margin of victory this time should at least be a lakh.All ministers have been rattled by the release of expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala from prison and some, like Jayakumar and C V Shanmugam, fear speaking about her in the open, according to Udayanidhi. He said the government has closed the memorial of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to prevent Sasikala from visiting it. “There is no difference between AIADMK and BJP. If it was RSS which is mixing politics and religion, AIADMK is doing it now,” he said. He said the the state government had sought Rs 10,500 crore crop damage relief but obtained only Rs 1,500 crore. Saying that a total of 14 students have taken their lives because of NEET in the last three years, he reiterated DMK’s resolve to work towards abolishing NEET in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/udhayanidhi-stalins-offer-if-senthil-balaji-wins-by-a-lakh/articleshow/80740329.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Struggling with low coverage, Pb records 7% vaccine wastage||Chandigarh: Struggling with low coverage, Punjab has reported vaccine wastage of about 7% since the start of the inoculation drive. Around 5,000 doses of Covid vaccines have been wasted in the state so far. The central government has provided 4,38,260 doses of vaccine to Punjab and so far, the state has managed to give the first dose of vaccine to only 75,853 members of the priority groups — 68,376 healthcare workers and 7,477 frontline workers. Due to cost factors, vaccines come in multi-dose vials, which tends to increase the wastage rate. Single vial contains 10 doses, which must be administered within four hours of opening. Low turnout is one of the key reasons for the wastage. There have been several instances where only one beneficiary showed up to take the jab, resulting in a wastage of nine doses. Of the total wastage, districts with poor turn out account for maximum wastage. On Wednesday, 3 one frontline worker in Bathinda and Ferozepur, three each in Barnala and Ropar got themselves vaccinated. On Friday, only one health worker in Fazilka turned up. All the unused doses had to be discarded as per the laid down norms. To ensure maximum utilisation, the central government has asked all the states to take corrective steps. Acting on the instructions, the Punjab health department has issued directions to civil surgeons to reduce the wastage. The nodal officers of the vaccination sites have been asked not to open new vials near the closing time of session. They have been asked to make the beneficiaries wait and open a vial only when there are a minimum of 6 to 8 recipients present at the site. Terming the wastage as unavoidable, Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar stated that the department was making efforts to minimise it. “Wastage factor is there in all vaccines and cannot be eliminated. Instructions have been issued to civil surgeons to minimise the wastage,” said Dr Bhaskar. As per guidelines set by the central government, 10% wastage is permissible and keeping that in mind all the states have been provided 10% additional doses. In case the number remains less even after waiting, nodal officers have been asked to vaccinate those who are present on the site. Punjab will wrap up the first phase of vaccination on February 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/struggling-with-low-coverage-pb-records-7-vaccine-wastage/articleshow/80740324.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Tots tag along at bird race, cry ‘save nature, save Mumbai’||MUMBAI: At the 17th annual Mumbai Bird Race held on Sunday, avid bird-watchers stressed on the need to save nature to save the city. As over 150 participants visited various birding areas like forests, hills and wetlands to spot birds, many took along cameras and lenses, while some were accompanied by wide-eyed children. Lesser flamingos, green bee-eaters, sunbirds, Baya weaver birds, ducks, Black kites, cormorants, and Asian paradise flycatcher were among bird species seen at various sites. “This is the first Bird Race for my daughter, Yatee (5), said regular bird watcher, Kunal Munsiff. “She enjoyed seeing colourful birds. We went to NRI Complex wetlands in Seawoods and Green Valley Park in Belapur. The rare eye-browed thrush and Tickell’s thrush were spotted at Belapur,” said Kunal. Chief organiser, naturalist Sunjoy Monga, said: “Like every year, the Mumbai Bird Race saw a lot of enthusiasm and excitement this time too. However, due to the pandemic, we did away with the evening get-together of participants. Teams went as far as Matheran and Karnala to spot local and migratory winter visitors.” Bird Race coordinator, Ravi Vaidyanathan, said: “Four Nilgiri wood pigeons were noticed at Matheran. These are uncommon species.” Kharghar resident, Nareshchandra Singh said, “We’ve been writing to government authorities to save surviving wetlands and hills in Kharghar.... Presence of birds is the strongest indicator of a healthy biodiversity. If nature is further destroyed, birds will stop coming to our cities,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tots-tag-along-at-bird-race-cry-save-nature-save-city/articleshow/80740344.cms||Vijay Singh
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||67 new Covid cases in Hry, 90 recover||Chandigarh: Haryana reported 67 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Sunday. A total of 90 persons recovered, pushing the recovery rate to 98.54%. As for vaccination, 61 persons were administered vaccine shots on what was otherwise, a non immunisation day. Haryana now has 2,68,431 cases, 2,64,519 recoveries, 3,029 deaths and 883 active cases. A total of 1,39,762 vaccine shots have been administered throughout the state. Out of the active cases, 30 patients are said to be critical. With 21,946 samples taken during the day, positivity rate was recorded at 5.04% while doubling rate was 125 days. The fatality rate remained constant at 1.13%. Of 22 districts, 21 reported less than 10 cases, of which eight reported zero new cases. The districts of Faridabad and Sonipat reported one death each. Gurgaon reported 15 new cases while Faridabad reported nine new cases. Gurgaon now has 58,361 cases with 335 deaths and 331 active cases while Faridabad has 46,329 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/67-new-covid-cases-in-hry-90-recover/articleshow/80740330.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||Bodh Gaya monasteries yet to reopen for visitors||GAYA: Most of the monasteries at Bodh Gaya are still to reopen for tourists and the devotees since their closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. Presently, only the world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara and the 80ft tall Buddha statue are open for the visitors. In the absence of international flights, the footfall of foreign tourists and devotees at Bodh Gaya is almost nil. However, domestic tourists have started visiting the town, though even their numbers are not very encouraging compared to the normal days. International Buddhist Council (IBC), Bodh Gaya general secretary Bhikkhu Prgyadeep said: “In the absence of international flights, there is no sign of foreign tourists visiting the heritage city. Although a couple of monasteries have reopened, but others are taking their time. It might take some more time for the situation to become normal.” Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) secretary Nangzey Dorjee said it was discussed at the meeting of BTMC advisory board to approach the representatives of the monasteries. “But no formal meeting has been held so far. Delay in reopening the monasteries individually is due to their own constraints,” he said. Monk incharge of Chakma Buddhist monastery Bhikkhu Priyapal said it would be a welcome decision to reopen the monasteries. “Since March 23 last year, all monasteries have been closed for visitors. Only Mahabodhi Mahavihara and the Buddha statue have been reopened. Mahabodhi Mahavihara, of course, is the main attraction for tourists and the devotees but other monasteries also have their importance,” he said. “The visitors get a glimpse of life history of Buddha exhibited through paintings and text in the monasteries. The monasteries are also a symbol of Buddhist architecture. Thus, devotees and tourists are deprived of a good tour of the heritage city,” he added. Bhikkhu Priya said opening of monasteries can be of some help for the stakeholders of tourism industry, like footpath vendors, tourist guides and the hoteliers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bodh-gaya-monasteries-yet-to-reopen-for-visitors/articleshow/80740334.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||170 missing, seven bodies recovered after huge glacier burst in U’khand’s Chamoli, hydropower project washed away||Dehradun: At least 170 people were reported missing and bodies of seven people recovered as a glacier broke off near Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli district in the Garhwal Himalayas on Sunday morning triggering massive calamity in its wake which was reminiscent of the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. The 13.2 MW Rishiganga hydropower project near Raini village was completely washed away whereas the 520MW NTPC hydro project on the Dhauliganga river was partially damaged and at least five bridges were impacted by the surge of water that was unleashed, cutting access to a number of villages in the area. "The maximum water level at the Tapovan barrage is 1803 meters, but it seems, as per preliminary reports, the water level crossed 1808 meters, causing the breakage,” said Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of the state’s disaster mitigation and management centre (DMMC). According to the State Emergency Operation Centre, of the 170 persons missing, 148 were in the NTPC hydropower site whereas 22 were at Rishiganga. Most of them are believed to be workers involved in the hydropower projects. CM Trivendra Rawat who conducted an aerial survey and also went to the areas near the disaster site, announced Rs 4 lakh relief to the next of kin of those who had died. PM Modi also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the families of the deceased. At a press conference later in the evening in Dehradun, the CM said that a team of 100 personnel of Indian Army, including those from the engineering task force, and about 250 personnel from ITBP's 1st battalion are actively engaged in the rescue operations,. He added that the army has also pressed its three choppers into service to assist in the rescue operations. “The choppers are supplying essential items to the 11 villages, which have got disconnected. There are seven other villages in the area but they are lying vacant as residents shift to plain areas during the winter season,” the CM said. Officials monitoring the situation said that water flow in the Alaknanda river had gradually stabilised ahead of Nandprayag in Chamoli district during the day although a high alert has been issued and people living along the Alaknanda and Ganga river banks on all the districts -- from Chamoli to Haridwar -- have been asked to evacuate. Earlier, as a precautionary measure, the flow of Bhagirathi river was stopped and the reservoirs of GVK dam in Srinagar and Veer Bhadra dam in Rishikesh were emptied in order to manage the flow of the surging Alaknanda river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/170-missing-seven-bodies-recovered-after-huge-glacier-burst-in-ukhands-chamoli-hydropower-project-washed-away/articleshow/80739339.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Woman found murdered in Sahnewal||Ludhiana: An unidentified woman was found murdered at a vacant plot near Dhandari Bridge, Sahnewal, on Sunday morning.On spotting the body, a passerby sounded the police.Sahnewal police station SHO sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said, “The woman seems to be around 30-year-old. A muffler was tied around her neck. It appears she was strangled to death. We found no signs of struggle or any other injury on her body. Besides, there were no signs of dragging the body. Therefore, it seems that the woman had come to that vacant plot with someone, who killed her and escaped.” The police have also recovered a brush, a lipstick, a bindi packet and men’s shots from a polyethene bag near the body. “Perhaps the woman had gone shopping in a nearby market and was murdered while returning home. We are questioning the nearby shopkeepers,” he added.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-found-murdered-in-sahnewal/articleshow/80738548.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Varanasi||UP CM Yogi Adityanath reviewed progress of 123 development projects||VARANASI: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the progress in 123 on-going development projects worth Rs 9,175.77 crore in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency on Sunday evening. The CM said that new milestones of development is being set in Kashi, which is emerging fast on global canvas. After reviewing the progress in all on-going projects, the CM asked the officials to ensure that all projects are completed in scheduled time maintaining the quality and initiating all safety measures. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and other officials concerned informed the CM that 10 projects worth Rs 137.87 crore have already been completed in January while 14 projects of Rs 201.69 crore will complete by February end and 28 projects worth Rs 1,166.65 crores, including Rudraksh International Convention Centre being built with the cooperation of Japan, will complete by March end. December end is the deadline of 59 projects worth Rs 4,470.59 crore, they said adding that the remaining 12 projects of Rs 3,198.97 crore will be completed in 2022, said the officials. The national highway widening projects including Varanasi-Jaunpur (part of Lucknow highway), Varanasi-Ghazipur and Varanasi-Azamgarh will complete in June and July, they said adding that the widening of Bhikharipur road up to NH-2 will complete in two months while rail over bridge on Kapsethi-Bhadohi road will complete by June end. The CM also sought details of progress in the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project, which will complete in August as well as other projects including laying of lines for piped gas supply, CNG stations, parking zones, hospital, hostel, residential, educational institutions buildings and ghat beautification. Earlier, the CM’s chopper landed at Amini village in Sevapuri, the first model block of the country, where Yogi took stock of the Arogya Mela (health fair). He said that such fairs are enabling rural masses to avail better health facilities near their homes. A class-III boy Ansh Yadav surprised the CM by telling him names of all the 75 districts of UP fluently. Ansh answered correctly on being asked the meaning of ‘I love colours’ written on his text book. Later his teachers asked him to tell names of all the districts on which the CM asked him to tell the name of the district he dwells in. But, the little boy not only told the names of 75 districts in one go but also brought the CM’s appreciation for the standard of education maintained by the primary school of this model block. The CM also took stock of Anganadi, primary school campus, panchayat bhavan, health centre and infrastructure related works in the village and said that qualitative changes are visible. He also performed the rituals of Godbharai and Annaprashan before leaving for the city and asked the women to consume vegetables and fruits and also to cultivate vegetables at their homes. Important among others the UP minister Nelkanth Tiwari also accompanied the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-reviewed-progress-of-123-development-projcets/articleshow/80738817.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Two groups to battle it out in Lodhi Club elections||Ludhiana: In a twist to the election arena of the city’s Lodhi Club, now two groups of candidates have been formed which will contest against each other in the elections of the managing committee of the club. Though the date for the elections is yet to be finalised by the deputy commissioner-cum-president of the club, Varinder Sharma, even then the campaigning of both groups, one led by current general secretary Nitin Mahajan, a CA, and the other by current vice-president Dr Gaurav Sachdeva (both contesting for the post of general secretary), has already got intense. Besides this, in a bid to project their popularity some of the club members contesting elections have started approaching prominent personalities of the city to seek their support and also posting their pictures on social media, along with these personalities to woo the voters. Some of the candidates have also started visiting temples, religious institutions to take blessings from the almighty and also to meet the committee members of these institutes and request them to support their candidature. Lodhi Club like the Sutlej Club is headed by the serving deputy commissioner of Ludhiana, who is de facto president of both clubs. Except for the president post, a total of nine office-bearers have to be elected for the managing committee of the Lodhi Club, which has a membership base of over 3,000 members. So far, for the post of general secretary Nitin and Gaurav are contesting against each other, for the post of vice-president Kawaljeet Singh Dang and Jogesh Gupta are the candidates, for the post of joint secretary Sarju Ralhan and Amrit Bhambri are contesting against each other. For the post of mess secretary, Nishit Singhania is contesting against Avinash Jindal, for the post of finance secretary Vishal Mahajan is contesting against Munish Gupta. Besides these posts, for the post of sports secretary Ram Sharma is contesting against Vibhor Garg, for the post of bar secretary Jagatvir Singh Bittu is contesting against Sachin Goyal. For the post of executive member, Rajiv Gupta is contesting against CM Jindal, while for the post of culture secretary both Mahajan group and Sachdeva group are supporting the same candidate Mohanjeet Kaur and using her photograph in the election poster of their groups. This means that Kaur is likely to be elected unopposed if no other candidate comes forward to stake claim for the culture secretary post. Meanwhile, as per sources, the annual general meeting of the club is due to take place soon and it is then that the date of the elections will be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-groups-to-battle-it-out-in-lodhi-club-elections/articleshow/80738585.cms||Mohit Behl
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Lahaul-Spiti schools to teach solid waste mgmt||Manali: The tribal students of Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh will now learn solid waste management in their schools as district administration has started the subject as part of curriculum in some schools on pilot basis. The district, which has been witnessing a sudden surge in tourist footfall and related challenges including waste management, has discovered this unique idea to sensitise the residents. Initially, the solid waste management subject has been introduced in a few government primary schools and remaining schools will also be brought under its purview soon. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai on Monday inaugurated the inclusion of this subject in school curriculum from Government Primary School, Keylong-1. “Education on solid waste management is the need of hour. It has been started in a few schools on pilot basis. The students will learn waste management besides cleanliness in schools and will spread awareness at home, villages and society,” the DC said. He added that Lahaul will face challenges regarding waste management in the future as increasing tourism activities, more commercial establishments and increasing floating population will contribute to producing more waste. “This is a part of our endeavours in preparing district for management of solid waste and making residents more aware. Students are the best carriers of good messages and they execute things very efficiently. They care for beauty and cleanliness of their areas. To fulfil the purpose of implementing regular solid waste management policy and to spread awareness among people, this subject has been included in the school curriculum,” he added. The subject will be taught to both junior and senior students informally so that they take interest in it. Students will be shown various videos, will be taught on different topics and educational programmes will be organised for them. People of Lahaul have been using liquid waste in their fields as manure for a long time. Lahaul-Spiti administration has signed a MoU with IIT Delhi for arrangements of solid waste collection, management and its disposal in entire Lahaul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lahaul-spiti-schools-to-teach-solid-waste-mgmt/articleshow/80740342.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath sets deadlines for infrastructure projects in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath's relentless quest to expedite development and turn Ayodhya into a global pilgrim destination was re-emphasised on Sunday, when he took stock of key infrastructure projects in the temple town. He directed officials to swiftly cross land acquisition hurdles and resolve logistical bottlenecks and meet deadlines to keep the commitment of turning Ayodhya into a modern pilgrim destination, while keeping its intrinsic religiosity and spiritual character untouched. “We have to set an example to the world and stand up and be counted. There’s increasing curiosity among pilgrims across the world and footfalls to the temple town are rising manifold,” he said.  The CM instructed officials to remodel ‘Ram Ki Paidi’ around Haridwar’s ‘Hari ki Paidi' and ensure seamless water flow into Saryu to kick off cruise services from Naya Ghat. The CM also sought setting up temporary parking stations at key areas linking Chaurasi Chaudah and Panch Kosi Parikrama Marg with gram sabhas and parks. “Basic facilities for pilgrims should be in place at Parikrama Margs, besides separate track and roads for pilgrims on foot and those on vehicles,” he added. Immediately after reaching Ayodhya, CM Yogi Adityanath offered prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi and Hanuman Garhi, before meeting the ailing temple trust president Nritya Gopal Das and other saints at Mani Ram Chawni. He then held set up a review meet with officials at Ram Katha Museum. He said, many states want to construct guest houses here, while seers and akharas want to build temples, hence development needs to be expedited. “Saplings of Vedic nomenclature would be planted in green belts and sewage flow into the Saryu should be stopped. Also, ghats, roads, crossings and parikrama margs should be properly illuminated. The municipal corporation and administration should work overtime to maintain cleanliness,” the CM said. Reiterating plans to develop Ayodhya into an eco-friendly solar city, Yogi said, the city’s power grid should also be linked to a solar generating system. He particularly focussed on completing railway projects, including railway over bridges and modern bus stands airport en route to the new airport. The CM also directed officials to communicate with shopkeepers and others, who were displaced by the road-widening projects and ensure relief and rehabilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-sets-deadlines-for-infra-projects-in-ayodhya-says-footfalls-rising-world-is-watching/articleshow/80740444.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Electronic Media trounce Digital to lift Inter-Media T20 Cup||LUCKNOW: Electronic Media registered a comprehensive 8-wicket victory over Digital Media to lift the Inter-Media T20 Cricket Cup at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Sunday. Aggressive bowling spell by Faheem (four wickets) and an all-round performance by Mayur Shukla (23 runs; two wickets) helped Electronic Media demolish rivals. Batting first, Digital Media failed to make a steady start and collapsed in the face of aggressive bowling by Electronic Media. No batsman, except Gajendra Mishra (14), could score in double digit. The team was bundled out for 68 runs in 15.1 overs. Faheem, who was also adjudged the man of the match, claimed four scalps conceding only 10 runs in 3.1 overs (including a maiden). Mayur Shukla and Deepak Taneja claimed two wickets each while Rajiv Srivastava struck once. In an effortless chase, Akash Mahajan’s 36 runs (not out) and 23-run contribution by Mayur Shukla helped Digital Media romp home. Mayur was named the best all-rounder while Satya Prakash and Faheem were adjudged best batsman and best bowler, respectively. Earlier, the final match was inaugurated by UP sports minister Upendra Tiwari while additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal attended the concluding ceremony of the tournament. Workshop on cricket coaching A two-day workshop on measures to improve cricket coaching was inaugurated at Khadi Bhawan, Dalibagh, on Sunday. On the first day of the programme, young sportspersons were given tips on batting techniques. Senior coach of Cricket Association, Lucknow (CAL), Arun Bharadwaj, and Ranji player and BCCI (level B) coach Kanhaiya Tejwani conducted the seminar. CAL secretary KM Khan said at least 20 coaches are participating in the seminar. The coaches include ex-Ranji player Anshul Kapoor, Mohd Shoaib Kamal, Dr RP Singh, Siddharth Dwivedi, Shubham Saxena, Saurabh Khetrapal, Mohsin Siddiqui, Poornanand, Madhukar Mohan, Shameem Ahmed, Nadeem Khan, Rishi Kumar Yadav, Sandeep Kushwaha, Brijesh Yadav, Devesh, Saurabh Mishra, Umesh Yadav, Nitin Kumar, Liyaqat Ali and Yash Sahni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/electronic-media-trounce-digitalto-lift-inter-media-t20-cup/articleshow/80740443.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: After lagging, homeopathic college to provide list of staff for vaccination||LUCKNOW: The administration of the National Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital swung into action on Sunday after the director of the institute asked for a list of healthcare workers to be sent immediately to authorities to ensure Covid vaccination for them. Despite being deployed for Covid-19 duty, around 200 staff members of the college including doctors, nurses, interns, PhD scholars and class IV employees were not included in the list of healthcare workers to be vaccinated in phase 1. This was because of the failure on the part of the college administration to provide data in required format to the district health authorities. TOI had highlighted earlier how the employees of the college could not be enlisted for vaccination. Joint director, homeopathy, Dr Manoj Yadav said, “As soon as the matter came to my knowledge on Sunday, I gave directions to the principal to share the details at the earliest so that workers can get shots.” Dr Yadav also said he was investigating the reasons behind the delay and would seek an explanation from the college administration. College principal Dr Arvind Verma confirmed that he has got the directions from the director. “The list of employees is being prepared. We are in touch with health officers and would provide them details soon,” he said. He added that the health department has details of employees as they were shared in March-April for deployment in Covid duty. They could have used this data for vaccination as well, he said. However, district immunization officer Dr MK Singh said, “We needed data in a specific format and for that purpose, all heads of institutes and hospitals were informed in writing in November”. In fact, he said, college officials had been reminded several times since November. “However, college officials said they had not received any instruction from their seniors to provide details,” Dr Singh added. According to Dr Singh, the college contacted the health department on Sunday. It has now been asked to submit details at the earliest so that their employees can be included in the mop-up round. When TOI asked the joint director why the college was not directed earlier to submit details, Dr Yadav said there was no need for directions from the top because all state homeopathic colleges were free to take decisions on their own. In fact, he added, barring Lucknow, all other homeopathic colleges had submitted details well in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-lagging-homeopathic-college-to-provide-list-of-staff-for-vaccination/articleshow/80740364.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Less than 40% city’s healthcare workers take jab in 1st schedule||Nagpur: Less than 40% doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc working in hospitals run by the government, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and private institutions have taken the jab in the first schedule of vaccination for all registered health care workers which almost got completed on February 6.As per press release issued by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Saturday, 12,578 health care workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) have been administered vaccine in the city. Out of them, 12,132 were HCW.The civic body claimed target was to vaccinate 17,900 beneficiaries while achievement was 70.27%.Like in case of all authorities in the state, the NMC too is calculating achievement against target of 100 per centre. But actual scheduling was 120-200 per centre.As per NMC’s data, 34,327 HCW and FLW were scheduled for vaccination between January 16 and February 6. Thus, the actual vaccination comes to 36.64%.Out of around 800 FLW scheduled for vaccination, only 223 (27.88%) turned up for the inoculation.Remaining 33,527 were HCW. Before launch of vaccination, 22,208 HCW were registered. The number has increased to around 31,000.NMC official told TOI, “We have started second round for HCW who did not turn up in the first round. Around 15% HCW are turning up.”Thus, around 37% HCW took the jab despite all had registered on their own through institutions. The HCW had given their details like identify proof, date of birth etc for registration.The NMC has facilitated 20 vaccination centres across the city. Vaccines too are available in sufficient quantity. The civic body has facilitated vaccination centres even in 10 private hospitals.The lowest turnout is at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) which is the only centre in Nagpur division for Covaxin. As against scheduled HCW of 7,241, only 1,204 (16.63%) have turned up for the inoculation.An NMC official added vaccination is voluntary. “We are creating awareness on importance of vaccination of all to end the pandemic,” said the official.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Refusal might be around 10% and others might not be taking vaccine due to hesitation. Since cases and deaths have declined, seriousness about the pandemic seems to be diminishing. But herd immunity can control cases and deaths for some time. But vaccination of all is must to end the pandemic,” he said.Dr Shinde suggested that the government should make vaccine available to all and in open market. “Currently, only two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — are available. Reactogenecity of Covishield, especially among recovered Covid-19 patients, is high. Covaxin is best in this regard but requires undertaking etc. I think more options of vaccines can encourage all,” he said.The state government had set deadline to complete first dose of all registered HCW by February 14. Now, six days are remaining and over 60% HCW need to be covered, especially those who did not turn up in the first schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-40-citys-healthcare-workers-take-jab-in-1st-schedule/articleshow/80738580.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||‘Aarogya vatikato have positive impact on Lucknow cops’||LUCKNOW: Aarogya Vatika will have a positive impact on police personnel. This initiative of Navbharat Times of setting up medical plants in different parts of the city is good for the environment and would help people in leading a healthy life. This was stated by police commissioner DK Thakur at the Aarogya Vatika event at the police commissioner's office in Mahanagar on Sunday. "Aarogya Vatika will be set up at police stations of the city. It would help reduce stress levels and also spread awareness about medicinal plants," said the commissioner. At the Aarogya Vatika event, medicinal plants, including tulsi, giloi, lemongrass and ashwagandha, were planted at the police commissioner’s office in the presence of senior police officials. "Medicinal plants like amla and tulsi have wonderful health benefits. There is a need to spread awareness about these plants and NBT is successfully doing it," said one Dinesh Kumar Puri. "Aarogya Vatika should reach every household so that people stay healthy by making full use of herbs and medicinal plants in their daily life,” said Ruchita Chowdhury. NBT will set up Aarogya Vatika in different parts of the city. Those interested in getting the vatika in their localities may mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatikato-have-positiveimpact-on-cops/articleshow/80740447.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||BJP contesting few seats, to face tough time in dist||CIVIC POLLSLudhiana: The wary BJP didn’t field candidates for local bodies elections in many municipal councils of Ludhiana, but wherever it has, the party may have to face a tough battle. BJP is not contesting in Raikot, Payal and Samrala municipal councils’ elections, but has fielded 31 candidates in 33 wards of Khanna MC, 10 in 23 wards of Jagraon MC and four in 15 wards of Doraha council.“We will give a jhatka (shock) to the BJP in these elections. It is because of our strength that they didn’t even field candidates in many MCs. We are taking out motorcycle rallies from Sunday. BJP candidates, wherever they are contesting, will flee. Their members are already leaving the party,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Punjab, president Rajinder Benipal. The farmers’ organisations are sore with the BJP as the Union government has so far failed to repeal the “anti-farming laws”. “Wherever they have fielded candidates, we will oppose them. We will tell voters not to let them win. In Jagraon, they will face a stiff opposition,” said Inderjit Singh, block president of BKU, Dakonda.Gurpreet Singh of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said people of Punjab were also against the BJP. “Many of them are leaving the party because of public castigation.” BJP leaders, however, said they were ready to face all opposition. “Can’t we put forward our word in a democracy? We are already campaigning and getting a good response from people. No one has opposed us till now,” said Gaurav Khullar, BJP, Ludhiana rural president. He heads the party in Jagraon and Raikot. Sources in the BJP said farmers’ agitation could cause problems on some seats of Khanna and Jagraon, which were earlier held by them. They added that party candidates were focusing on the “failure” of the ruling party in addressing the civic issues of roads, sewerage system and garbage disposal.Poll schedule Elections will be held on February 14 for Khanna, Samrala, Payal, Doraha, Jagraon and Raikot municipal councils. Votes will be counted on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-contesting-few-seats-to-face-tough-time-in-dist/articleshow/80738576.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Mind your language, YAD chief to Raja Warring||Ludhiana: A day after Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Raja Warring entered a war of words with Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Badal and others, the youth wing of the SAD has launched a scathing attack on Warring now. Terming his remarks on Sukhbir as unparliamentary, Youth Akali Dal Ludhiana president Gurdeep Singh Gosha has demanded his expulsion from the Congress. According to Gosha, “By using such objectionable remarks against our party president Sukhbir Badal, MP Harsimrat Kaur and others Raja Warring has stooped to a very low level and he has exposed his real self that he is nothing, but a cheap person. With the kind of unparliamentary language used by him, chief minister Amarinder Singh should immediately sack him from the party as Warring has also challenged the authority of the CM after he ordered registration of an FIR against Congress leaders who were involved in the firing incident in Jalalabad. Everyone knows that Warring has been often taking potshots at his own leaders too deliberately and that too on public platforms.” Gosha added that, “We warn Warring to mind his language, otherwise Youth Akali Dal will give a befitting reply to him. Whether its him or his brother, both are misusing power. Latest example of this being the ongoing municipal council elections at Gibbderbaha, where Warring got the papers of some of our candidates cancelled by exerting pressure on the authorities concerned, but now he claims that those candidates filed wrong papers. Moreover, when our party president exposed Warring’s misdeeds in his home town, he started indulging in dirty politics and used derogatory and threatening remarks against our leader and others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mind-your-language-yad-chief-to-raja-warring/articleshow/80738571.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Rs 427cr bogus bill racket: Raids to nab mastermind||Ludhiana: A day after the TOI reported about a Rs 427-crore bogus billing racket executed by a city businessman, teams of Central GST (CGST) commissionerate, Ludhiana, have started conducting raids to nab the mastermind, Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal. Nagpal’s accomplices, Sandeep Kumar, alias PP, and Rajinder Singh, who were arrested by the CGST on February 5, have been sent in judicial remand till February 19. Owing to whopping cash withdrawals of about Rs 100 crore to Rs 125 crore by the accused, other investigating agencies, including the enforcement directorate (ED) and the income tax department, will also probe the case from angles of money laundering and black money. Sources said kingpin Nagpal, who lived a lavish lifestyle, was under the radar of the state taxation department. Modus operandi of his nexus in which Rs 65-crore input tax credit (ITC) is involved included luring businessmen by offering them discount on GST applicable on purchase bills of iron and steel and scrap. For example, if he offered a bill of scrap to a customer on which 18% GST is applicable, he would give 5% discount and charge 13% GST. Sources said no actual transfer of goods ever took place in any of the transactions. Principal commissioner, CGST, Ashutosh Baranwal said, “Out of the two arrested persons in this case, Rajinder had created and operated two bogus firms in his own name. He had issued GST invoices of Rs 21 crore involving fake ITC of Rs 4.28 crore. He had also availed and utilised fake ITC of Rs 3.43 crore through bogus GST invoices. In addition to being the operator and controller of the two bogus entities, Rajinder was also engaged in performing banking operations (like RTGS entries, cash withdrawals) for other 30 firms controlled and operated by Nagpal. He had been withdrawing Rs 10 lakh to Rs 40 lakh almost daily from May 2018 to date. He has, till now, withdrawn Rs 100 crore to Rs 125 crore from the bank accounts of 32 firms operated by Happy Nagpal.”Baranwal added, “Sandeep Kumar, the second accomplice of the kingpin, created fake firms on ID proofs of different persons and gave their GST registration details to Nagpal. Sandeep himself was operating five such fraudulent firms under the supervision of Nagpal, for which he used to receive Rs 60,000 per month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rs-427cr-bogus-bill-racket-raids-to-nab-mastermind/articleshow/80738572.cms||Mohit Behl
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Go with party symbol or not, that the question for HP govt||Shimla: In the backdrop of the opposition Congress alleging horse trading in panchayati raj and urban local body elections, the state government is yet to take a decision on contesting on party symbols. State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore wants elections on party symbols and AICC joint secretary Gokul Butail has written a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur saying that a direct election would stop horse-trading among elected councillors for the post of mayor and deputy mayor. He said it would also permit elected heads to work for public welfare without undue pressure. Sources said elections to the four municipal corporations of Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan is likely to be held in April. The issue of use of party symbol was informally discussed in the Cabinet meeting on Friday, during which members said they were in favour of elections on party symbols. Sources said a decision on this could be taken in the forthcoming Cabinet meeting. At present, municipal elections in the state are not held on party symbols. In the event of municipal elections being held on the party symbol, both BJP and Congress will get a chance to assess their support base before the 2022 assembly elections. Shimla MC elections are also to be held in 2022 after elections of four municipal corporations. Congress chief Kuldeep Rathore accused BJP of making false claims of its prospects in the panchayati raj and urban local body elections. Holding elections on party symbols would make the BJP and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur understand ground realities, he said. In his letter to the chief minister, Gokul Butail said the state government should bring in an amendment that enables direct elections to the post of mayor and deputy mayor. He said various NGOs and civil society members have already approached the chief minister with this demand. Observing that the mayor and councillors would be responsible for financial decisions, future planning and public policy as well as its implementation in a city, residents should have the right to elect their city head. He said this is fundamental to any democratic set-up. “Even when this basic right is given to every individual living in rural areas, which they exercise by voting for their village head or pradhan – how can residents of these corporations be deprived of that,” the letter stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/go-with-party-symbol-or-not-that-the-question-for-hp-govt/articleshow/80740341.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Covid warrior booked for ‘outraging doctor’s modesty’||HISAR: Hisar Police have registered a case against biologist Ramesh Poonia, a Covid warrior, for allegedly insulting the modesty of a woman doctor of a private hospital. According to sources, Dr Ritu Khurana, whose husband run the private hospital, was tested positive on September 1, 2020. Her husband Dr Karnjit did not close the hospital and also refused to give his sample for testing. But on September 10, 2020 he gave a sample of himself and his father in the office of a BJP leader. On September 12, 2020 both of them tested positive but when the health team went to the hospital, they drove the team out of the hospital with the help of security guards and kept accepting patients in OPD. Later, the health department closed the hospital with the help of police and created a containment zone there. Sources said the doctor threatened the duty magistrate of the containment zone and tore the poster of home isolation and went to the gym while Covid-19 posited. When he was tested again, he again tested positive. On December 15, 2020 Dr Karnajit and Dr Ritu Khurana presented before the inquiry committee constituted by civil surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti, comprising deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goel, Dr Subhash Khatreja and Dr Uma Aggarwal, threatened Poonia in front of all the committee members. The inquiry committee, referring to this incident, submitted its report to the civil surgeon. Deputy superintendent of police Ashok Kumar gave his report after investigation on January 13, 2021 and recommended to register a case against the doctor couple under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and Section 54 (false warning) of Disaster Management Act. Following the recommendation of the DSP, the Urban Estate police registered a case on the complaint of Poonia on February 5, 2021. Meanwhile, the city police station registered a case on a complaint by Dr Ritu Khurana against Poonia under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-warrior-booked-for-outraging-doctors-modesty/articleshow/80740331.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra trails nation, has two weeks to finish 1st jab drive||MUMBAI: Maharashtra may add more Covaxin centres to the existing six as additional doses of the Bharat Biotech vaccine are expected soon. In a bid to accelerate vaccination, the state has also planned to finish administering at least one Covid vaccine dose to its healthcare workers in the next 12 session days. Maharashtra is behind over a dozen states on vaccination: its completion rate of 45% is well below the national average of 55%. Among the states, it has the highest number of registered healthcare workers to be vaccinated, though till now UP has vaccinated the most in India (6.73 lakh) followed by Maharashtra. Additional centres to administer Covaxin will be added depending on the volume of next supply, even though the vaccine given under ‘clinical trial’ mode has seen a mixed response. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, confirmed that Maharashtra would receive more doses of the Bharat Biotech vaccine in the coming weeks. “Following that, we will add more centres,” he said. The state had received 20,000 Covaxin doses initially, of which 2,000 each were distributed to the six centres, including JJ Hospital. So far, 4,601 health workers have taken the vaccine. In Mumbai particularly, many doctors who were originally assigned Covishield, opted to take Covaxin. The Centre, meanwhile, is believed to have told every state to schedule the vaccination of all healthcare workers at least once before February 20 and for all frontline workers before March 6. In Mumbai, around 40% of 1.85 lakh registered health workers have been vaccinated. Incidentally, the tentative deadlines were given after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said in Lok Sabha on Friday that the third phase of vaccination for citizens above the age of 50 and those who are younger but have serious comorbidities is likely to begin mid-March. Dr Archana Patil, head of the Directorate of Health Services, said the drive would be intensified to push up coverage. “We will also involve the private sector on a larger scale. Our aim is to finish administering at least the first dose to all health workers in the next 12 session days,” she said, refuting vaccine hesitancy as a factor for a slow uptake of the vaccine. For frontline workers, Patil said, police and corporation employees are two of the major groups. “We have asked districts to hold mixed sessions for faster coverage,” she said. However, vaccinating all frontliners could be a long road ahead. The state is estimated to have nearly 20 lakh in this group, of which 5.5 lakh have been registered. The immunisation officer said vaccination cannot be done in a “mission mode”. “We are talking of vaccinating lakhs so it will go hand-in-hand,” he said. But, he added, more centres will be added every day. Currently, over 661 centres have been activated, to be increased to 750 gradually. In Mumbai, where the vaccination of frontline workers has seen a slow start, officials said mapping of civic wards has been posing a hurdle. “Software can create sessions through blocks at district levels. But Mumbai doesn’t have blocks and is instead divided into 24 wards,” said an official. About 20% of the roughly 4 lakh combined force of healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-trails-nation-has-two-weeks-to-finish-1st-jab-drive/articleshow/80739546.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Less no. of cases due to immunity and not vaccination’||As Ludhiana continues to witness cases of Covid-19 and vaccination process has not achieved much success, people will have to battle the pandemic for a longer period. Amid all challenges, an organisation that works for doctors and paramedical staff, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), also played a role in fighting the pandemic and has been offering advice on issues related to the pandemic and vaccination. Its president Dr Saroj Aggarwal talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the current Covid-19 scenario and vaccination process. Q: How do you see the current Covid-19 scenario in Ludhiana district? At present, the pandemic is in a controlled situation. Somehow by God’s grace Ludhiana is not in that kind of a situation. The number of cases have fallen down and then risen a little bit. But still it cannot be called a wave. Probably, we didn’t have a second wave and we just had that first wave. Overall, the cases are varying and lessening, but it is not due to vaccination, but due to immunity the people have attained otherwise. Q: Active cases have risen and recovery rate has fallen a bit in Ludhiana district. What do you have to say on that? I think that is because of the tests. Sometimes you do tests on active people and sometimes people don’t come forward and they just have fever and keep sitting at home. Though the total number of cases is under-reported, Covid infection is not that much in hospitals now. Whatever RT PCRs are being done before surgeries, mostly those are coming out negative. Q: Is there a risk of an increase in cases if people don’t follow norms? Is there a chance for a second surge? The people who are not following norms were not doing it earlier too. If people follow the norms, we will be saved from the infection rising. So, the people who are given vaccine, including us, are following norms like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and we advise all people to follow such norms. So far, as the chances of a second surge are concerned, I don’t think so that it will come. Rest is in God’s hand. Q: How do you see vaccination process because a sizeable percentage of people didn’t get the vaccine shot? There are people who haven’t taken and it is good if they take it. If they haven’t taken in the first phase, probably they will become more aware and will not be scared further and take the vaccine. 70-80% doctors have already taken vaccine shots without really feeling any side effects, etc. 20-30% paramedics have also been covered. Q: Why people are not coming forward for vaccination? There is less awareness and more rumours among them that the vaccine will give them side effects. There is a need to create more awareness among them. Doctors are already sending videos of vaccination to dispel such rumours. Q: What about the schools which are being opened amid the Covid-19 pandemic? That had to be done. You just cannot keep the things closed for ever. Q: Does the district administration need to monitor these schools? Can they carry out surprise visits to these schools to see if the norms are being followed there? Yes, that can be done. Officials can do that, even motivate the people to get their RT PCR done, at least for the children who are comparatively elder. Any child reporting of fever, etc. teachers can play a part there. The government can also conduct surprise visits in this regard. Q: What is your message to the people? They shouldn’t be scared of the vaccine. They should come forward and should trust the scientists who have brought these vaccines after proper research. When doctors are getting the vaccination done, why should the people be scared of taking the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/less-no-of-cases-due-to-immunity-and-not-vaccination/articleshow/80738597.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Case count at 26,063 as 23 more test +ve||Ludhiana: No death due to Covid-19 was reported in Ludhiana on Sunday, when 23 residents tested positive for the disease.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 1,006 and that of outsiders at 483.To date, 6,15,182 persons have been tested.Of the 23 new cases, 10 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), one contact of a positive patient, six from OPD, five through tracing process, among others. The day also saw six cases from outside Ludhiana testing positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,063 and that of outsiders 3,974.So far, 24,700 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.77% of the total cases.There are 354 active cases. As many as 707 persons were under home quarantine.On Sunday, 29 persons were quarantined and 2,321 samples collected.No patient is on a ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/case-count-at-26063-as-23-more-test-ve/articleshow/80738587.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||07 Chodankar_Candidates in a flux over delimitation of seats in Bicholim for municipal polls||Bicholim: Aspirants for the Bicholim municipal council (BMC) seats for the upcoming municipal polls have been left in a state of flux after the delimitation and reservation of wards was announced recently. As per the reservation announced in the BMC area, out of the total 14 wards, three are reserved for OBC and four for women, while the remaining seats are general. Ward numbers two,four, six and eight will be reserved for women, while ward numbers three, six and ten are reserved for OBC. Remaining seven wards have been kept open for all. Some councilors felt that this has been done deliberately to defeat them at the upcoming polls.However, the fate of most candidates is still not clear, as it will depend on how the ward is restructured finally. A reshuffle of areas has been carried out, but this has not yet been made public and so it is not known which wards have been shifted to other council area. Panels floated by former Bicholim MLA Naresh Sawal, Bicholim Vikas Parishad and speaker Rajesh Patnekar are among those set to throw their hats into the ring for the municipal polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/07-chodankar_candidates-in-a-flux-over-delimitation-of-seats-in-bicholim-for-municipal-polls/articleshow/80740351.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Classes 9-12 in UP residential schools to resume from Tuesday||LUCKNOW: Classes IX-XII in all residential schools of Uttar Pradesh will resume from Tuesday. A government order issued on Sunday mentioned the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of residential schools such as Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, Sainik Schools, Rajkiya Ashram Vidyalaya in the offline mode. “The decision to reopen the residential schools has been taken in students’ interest and to ensure that the academic session does not derailed. All schools will have to ensure that Covid-19 safety norms are strictly implemented,” said deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma. He said the authorities of residential schools have been directed to get the campuses and hostels fully sanitized before reopneing. All schools will have handwash, thermal scanners, sanitizers and basic health care facilities, he added. The deputy CM said that if any teacher, student or non-teaching employee has cough, fever, or any Covid-19 symptom then he/she should be isolated with immediate effect and provided medical treatment. If any hosteller falls ill then he/she should be given treatment following the guidelines of the medical and health department. Under the standard operating procedures issued by the government, wearing a face mask will be mandatory for all present on the campus and only necessary staff will be allowed to enter the hostel. Students coming to the hostels after travelling from various places should avoid interaction and maintain social distancing. It should be ensured that masks, sanitizer and tissues are available in schools and in hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/classes-ix-xii-in-up-residential-schools-to-resume-from-tuesday/articleshow/80740414.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi to inspect Purvanchal e-way today||Lucknow: Seeking to expedite construction of Purvanchal expressway, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inspect the progress of the project at six locations in Ghazipur, Azamgarh and Sultanpur on Monday. The expressway is touted as one of the key development projects of the Yogi government in the run up to the next year’s UP assembly elections. The CM’s inspection of the expressway, which will connect Lucknow with Ghazipur, comes close to the completion of four years of his government. The expressway worth Rs 22.494 crore will be opened for light vehicles next month and is expected to get fully operational later this year. It is being constructed by the Uttar Praedesh Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA). The 340-km-long expressway will pass through seven UP districts including Amethi and Ayodhya. A state government spokesperson said the expressway would fulfil the dream of people seeking to drive from Lucknow to Bihar. The project, spokesperson said, would boost economic development of east UP besides opening employment avenues. “It would be the biggest gift to the people of UP this year,” he said, adding that the upcoming Bundelkhand expressway, Ganga expressway, Gorakhpur link expressway and defence corridor would also change the face of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-inspect-purvanchal-e-way-today/articleshow/80740417.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Glacier burst ripples: UP likely to escape flash flood fury in downstream Ganga||LUCKNOW: The glacier burst in Reni village of Chamoli in Garhwal Himalayas of Uttarakhand on Sunday is unlikely to have any adverse impact on river water levels in Uttar Pradesh. According to experts from the Geological Survey of India, Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences and other scientific institutes in the city, the effect of the outbreak will fizzle out by the time it reaches the plains, therefore, water levels of river Ganga in Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur and other UP cities are not expected to go above danger mark. Glaciologist and former deputy director general & head of northern region, Geological Survey of India, Siddharth Swaroop said, “Prima facie, it appears that the glacier burst in Rishi Ganga catchment eventually resulted in reservoir collapse and consequential flash floods.” He said Rishi Ganga was a tributary of river Dhauliganga, which has its confluence with river Alaknanda, near Joshimath. “Downstream of its confluence with Bhagirathi river at Devprayag, it is called Ganga which flows through major UP cities like Kanpur, Allahabad and Varanasi. Check on the flow of Bhagirathi river and other adequate measures undertaken by SDRF and NDRF teams, the river with reduced flow and velocity is not expected to rise above danger mark in UP,” he added. Director (Glaciology division) of the Geological Survey of India, Rakesh Mishra, said the water flow would lose force by the time it reaches the plains. As per the inventory prepared by GSI on glacial lakes in Uttarakhand, at least 71 lakes of different size and types are there in the upper reaches of Rishiganga and Dhauliganga valley. GSI needs to find out the focal point of the flash flood, Mishra added. “It is not clear if the flood is a typical Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF) or some temporary damming due to a landslide and avalanche that might have blocked the mainstream to form a temporary lake which bursted. Once the water level recedes, a team of experts will assess the damage as well as the factor that triggered the disaster,” he said. Former scientist at Remote Sensing Application Centre (RSAC), AK Tangri, who has been carrying out research in the field for last three decades, said: “The impact is likely to be observed in upper reaches and may even increase the water level to some extent at Rishikesh and Haridwar but would not leave much impact in Uttar Pradesh.” Similar views were expressed by glacier expert and senior scientists at the Birbal Sahni Institute of Paleosciences, Anupam Sharma. “The Ganga meanders as it enters the plains due to which the velocity of water goes down. Since there is no rain, there is no likelihood of any adverse impact in the state,” environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-rivers-unlikely-to-bear-the-bruntof-uttarakhand-flash-flood-experts/articleshow/80740433.cms||Mohita Tewari
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||People alert others through social media; some circulate old videos of Kedarnath tragedy||DEHRADUN: Soon after the natural disaster in the Raini village area – where a glacier broke and fell in Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers on Sunday morning – people started circulating several videos related to the disaster on social media. While some videos made people aware of the overflow of water in the rivers, other clips — mostly of Kedarnath deluge — contributed to spread of rumours and triggered panic. With both types of videos being largely circulated on social media, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat took to Twitter, where he requested people to not post old videos to give birth to rumours. Soon after, the state machinery, including the disaster management department, took to WhatsApp and other forms of social media to “pass on genuine information to people”. The state machinery within a short time released videos of ITBP and SDRF teams rescuing people, entering the tunnels and entering valley areas with the help of ropes. In his press conference in the evening hours, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat lauded the role of the media saying, “It was heartening to see that no wrong news or misinformation was spread. Let me be clear, we are trying our best to save people. Besides choppers of the Army and the Air Force, the helicopters of private companies have been deployed and teams of ITBP, SDRF, and the Army have started the rescue operations. The water in rivers is clear from ahead of Rudraprayag,” said the CM. Political analyst Jay Singh Rawat said that the impact of social media is “immense”. Elaborating further, he said that the “videos of water level rising in rivers and alerting people was informative but at the same time, old and fake videos served a wrong message and led to panic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-alert-others-through-social-media-some-circulate-old-videos-of-kedarnath-tragedy/articleshow/80739361.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Spate of rearview mirror thefts in Greater Kailash, cops increase patrolling||NEW DELHI: Theft of rearview mirrors of high-end cars has been plaguing the residents of upscale Greater Kailash. In the past one month, at least 15 such thefts have been reported by locals. The spate of thefts started on January 9 when thieves stripped six cars of mirrors. The vehicles were parked in S, C and R blocks. After this, three high-priced cars were targeted on February 1 at S block and finally, on Sunday, thieves stole the mirrors of six cars in E block, including Audis, BMWs and Mercedes, said residents. “Each mirror costs upwards of Rs 40,000. Despite reporting matters to police, there has been no respite,” said MK Gupta, president of S block RWA. “Though police have increased patrolling and engaged staff in night and morning hours, incidents continue in the area. It seems these people come early in the morning on three wheelers and complete their task in a few minutes.” A Delhi Police officer said that they were seriously looking into the matter and had even increased patrolling. “We are tracking the cases and will soon resolve them,” said a police officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spate-of-rearview-mirror-thefts-in-gk-cops-increase-patrolling/articleshow/80740366.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Poll aspirants in Bicholim unhappy||Bicholim: Aspirants for the Bicholim municipal council (BMC) seats for the upcoming polls have been left in a fix after the delimitation and reservation of wards was announced recently. Out of the total 14 wards, three are reserved for OBC and four for women, while the remaining seats are general. Wards two, four, six and eight will be reserved for women, while wards three, six and ten are reserved for OBC. The remaining seven wards have been kept open for general category. Some councillors felt that this has been done deliberately to ensure their defeat at the upcoming polls. However, the fate of most candidates is still not clear, as it will depend on how the wards are restructured. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-aspirants-in-bicholim-unhappy/articleshow/80740360.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Suspended cop robs passenger on train, held||MUMBAI: A suspended railway protection force (RPF) cop was arrested for allegedly robbing railway commuters on LTT-Gorakhpur Express when it reached Thane station around 11.35 pm on Friday. The cop, Satish Shendge (36), flashed his identity card and slapped Tarababu Qureshi (49) for “not wearing a mask”. He snatched Rs 700 from Qureshi. Hearing screams from the compartment, RPF officials who were on duty on the platform at Thane entered to check. Qureshi pointed to Shendge who had covered his face with a handkerchief. He was made to alight. Railway police senior inspector Smita Dhakne said Shendge was suspended four months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/suspended-cop-robs-passenger-on-train-held/articleshow/80740359.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||Two-year-old dies, six others hurt in road accident||Uttarkashi: A two-and-a-half year old girl child died and six others sustained injuries after the vehicle they were traveling in fell into a gorge in Uttarkashi on Sunday. The accident took place in the Radi Top area. According to TOI sources, a pick-up vehicle, carrying seven people, was heading towards Barkot from Uttarkashi town when the accident took place. Soon after the accident, rescue forces rushed to the spot and recovered the body of victim Anupriya, daughter of Bhankoli village-resident Anod Singh. The injured passengers were sent to the community health centre in Barkot for treatment. Meanwhile, Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “All the injured persons are now out of danger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-year-old-dies-six-others-hurt-in-road-accident/articleshow/80739397.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand’s Reshma Patel breaks national record in U-18 5000 m race||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s Reshma Patel has broken the national record for the second time within two weeks. The state’s race walker clinched gold at the U-18 girl’s 5000 m race walk event at the ongoing 36th National Junior Athletics Championship being held in Guwahati on Sunday. By clocking at 23 minute and 38.57 sec, Patel broke KT Neena’s record set in 2014 in Goa. Last month, she had created a new record at the U20 girl’s 10,000 m race walk event at the Junior Federation Cup held in Bhopal. On Sunday, Dehradun’s Suraj Panwar also clinched gold in the U-20 boy’s 10000 metre race walk event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-reshma-patel-breaks-national-record-in-u-18-5000-m-race/articleshow/80739404.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||17 PAC flood cos, SDRF put on high alert after Uttarakhand avalanche||LUCKNOW: The UP government has sounded a high alert in the state in the wake of avalanche in Dhauliganga river after part of Nandadevi glacier in Uttarakhand exploded on Sunday. As the news trickled in, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed the officials to extend all possible help to the Uttarakhand government. Yogi said that the districts along the Ganga needed to be on high alert and official should conduct regular monitoring of water level round the clock. If required people need to be evacuated and taken to safe places, he said. The CM also urged the people to keep away from rumour-mongering. “People need to remain cautious and should not go near the river. In case of any distress like situation people need to cooperate with the respective district administration,” he said. In a tweet in Hindi, the CM Yogi said, “To tackle the natural disaster in Uttarakhand, the Uttar Pradesh government will extend all possible help.” In another tweet, he said, “Feel sad by the news that many people are feared dead in the disaster which took place after breaking of a glacier. I pray to Lord Ram to give peace to the souls who have passed away, strength to the aggrieved family members to bear the loss and speedy recovery to the injured.” Later, in a statement, the chief minister said in case of rise in the water level, people residing on the banks of river Ganga should be shifted elsewhere if needed. The state government said that 17 flood companies of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and nine units of State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) have been put on alert. Additional dfirector general of police, Provincial Armed Constabulory/SDRF, Binod Singh told TOI that forces required to carry out relief operations are on alert and readiness will be dispatched as and when required by the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand.  Additional chief secretary, revenue, Renuka Kumar, in an order dashed off to 11 divisional commissioners and DMs of 27 districts said that the officials from the administration and irrigation department be deployed to ensure that people living nearby the rivers be alerted and evacuated in time of crisis. In a disaster alert issued to all district magistrates, the relief commissioner said, “Report of breaking of a part of the Nanda Devi Glacier in Uttarakhand has been received. The districts on the (banks of the) Ganga river need to be on a high alert and the monitoring of water level needs to be done 24×7. “If required, people need to be evacuated. The NDRF, SDRF and PAC Flood Company have been instructed to be on the highest alert,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/17-pac-flood-cos-sdrf-put-on-high-alert-after-avalanche/articleshow/80740434.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||‘Unsung African woman warrior fought the British in 1857 revolt’||Lucknow: The First War of Independence saw Indian soldiers fighting a doughty battle against the British, but not many know that an African woman also fought fiercely and killed many British soldiers in the clash at Sikandar Bagh, said historian and author Rosie Llewellyn-Jones on Sunday. Jones, who has extensively written on historical aspects and people of Lucknow, was addressing audience virtually during the ongoing Sanatkada Festival and talked about her upcoming book on the events of 1857 in Awadh and Lucknow. “Apart from Residency, Sikandar Bagh was another stronghold which witnessed a heavy battle between Indian soldiers and British troops. Since Sikandar Bagh was surrounded by heavy cluster of trees, a hand-to-hand combat was going on the ground, one soldier kept shooting at the British while being strategically positioned on a tree. The soldier was ultimately by the British who were astonished to see an African woman dressed as a male soldier fall down from the tree,” said Jones. “It is believed she was a bodyguard of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah who was fighting against the British with other Indians. Though we still don’t know her name nor do we have her single picture, she was the real heroine of the battle,” she added. Discussing the reasons why the Indian forces lost the war, Jones said the British had big canons and other arms, equipment which they used skilfully in the battle. “In 1857, several soldiers from Delhi had come to Awadh, we had Indian sepoys, then we had the soldiers led by Begum Hazrat Mahal. As a result, there was a huge army of soldiers, which led to confusion among the people. Besides, shortage of arms and ammunition was also one of the reasons why we lost the battle,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unsung-african-woman-warrior-fought-the-british-in-1857-revolt/articleshow/80740395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Climate change has led to rise in natural disasters’ frequency...||By: Dhruv Sen SinghThe flash flood caused by the explosion in Nanda Devi glacier has brought devastation in Chamoli districts of Uttarakhand. However, as the water reached the plains at Haridwar and further downstream by the evening, its energy was low due to low velocity because of the gentle slope gradient. The impact of this flash flood on the plain region of Uttarakhand and UP therefore would be almost negligible. However, the precaution is required to minimize the loss, mitigate the hazard, and for safety of life and property. We are in the transitional stage of climate change, which adversely affects the human being . While working on the Glaciers of Himalaya and Arctic, and Rivers of Ganga Plain, I have explained that the climate change has increased the frequency of natural disasters in terms of flash floods in the Himalaya and flooding in the Ganga Plain (Gangotri Glacier flash flood in 2000, Kedarnath flash flood in 2013, Rapti River flooding in 1998 etc.). The Nanda Devi group of glaciers consists of seven glaciers. Among these, Nanda Devi North and Nanda Devi South each about 19 km in length originates fromNanda Devi peak at an elevation of 7,108 metres above sea level. Streams originating from these glaciers, join to form the Rishiganga River. The Rishiganga River drains into Dhauliganga River, which finally joins the Alaknanada River at Vishunprayag. The Alaknanda River and Bhagirathi River joins at Devprayag to form the holy river Ganga. The glaciers are characterized by natural openings/big cracks on their surface known as crevasses. The Himalaya is tectonically active which results even in earthquakes and forms the cracks/faults/lineaments on the glaciers. Due to warming and active tectonics, these cracks/faults increase in size. This is the reason for cracking, breaking, and avalanche of the glaciers in general and Nanda Devi Glacier in particular. The broken part of the Nanda Devi glaciers blocked the river. Blocking of the river formed the ephemeral lake. Water level rose in the short lived lake which finally burst due to overloading of water. Bursting of the lake led to rise of the water level in the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga river and created the flash flood. This flash flood, because of having very high energy washed out everything that came on the way. On June 6, 2000 near Bhujbas, in Gangotri Glacier area a similar event took place when a landslide from the tributary glacier dammed the Bhagirathi River to form a short-lived extensive lake. Bursting of this lake caused the flash floods in which the entire area was affected. It was described by the author in the form of a research paper in Current Science in 2002. On 16 and 17 June, 2013, heavy incessant rains overfilled the Gandhi Sarovar and induced the landslides which blocked the Mandakini River system in the Kedarnath area and formed the ephemeral lakes. Bursting of Gandhi Sarovar and the temporary lakes caused the flash floods. This high-energy flow of water, laden with debris, increased the bank erosion, caused deepening of the valley and washed out almost everything that came its way. This was again described by the author in Current Science in 2014. These events are natural but become disasters when they cause loss of life and property. The flow of water becomes devastating and its impact increases due to blocking of the river. There would be no disaster if there is enough space for the flow of water through the river valley. We have encroached the river valley in such a way that there is not enough space left for the free flow of the river. The Sunday disaster was caused by glacier breaking in the upper reaches near Chamoli. Its devastating impact, however, will decrease in the downstream direction gradually. However, in the Kedarnath tragedy in 2013, the Mandakini river was blocked at many places even in the downstream direction so its impact was very high even in the downstream part. In our country, we have 17% of the world's population living in 2.4 % of the world’s total land. Therefore, we have started unplanned development and encroached the natural system. We are ignoring the laws of nature and scientific facts in the mad rush for development. The interference of man in the natural cycle of the river has resulted in natural disasters. Therefore, we should avoid any further encroachment in the river valley. The natural disasters are natural -- beyond humans' control. We can, however, minimize the damage by adopting scientific planning and management. (Writer is professor of geology, and Director, UGC-HRDC, LU and also the member of the first Indian expedition to the Arctic)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/climate-change-has-led-to-rise-in-natural-disasters-frequency-/articleshow/80740437.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Thieves cut open ATM, flee with Rs 8.5 lakh cash in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A gang of criminals well-equipped with the functionalities and structure of the cash dispensing machines in ATMs struck again in the trans-Gomti area on Sunday and took away Rs 8.5 lakh cash after using a gas cutter to pry it open. The gang targeted an ATM in Chinhat this time, but in a first of its kind modus operandi, the criminals sprayed some chemical on the CCTV camera inside and blinded it as well as on the glass door to obstruct view from outside. The robbers then used a gas cutter to open the machine and stole Rs 8.5 lakh cash stashed in it. Some shop owners at the Shiromani Square building at Matiyari crossing saw the ATM damaged in the morning and informed police. Police Commissioner DK Thakur and DCP East Zone also rushed to the spot. Additional deputy commissioner of police, East zone, Qasim Abidi said investigation has revealed three masked thieves stole Rs 8,5 lakh cash from the ATM of a public sector bank. “The thieves sprayed some chemical on the glass door to make it opaque. They sprayed the same chemical on CCTV to blind it. Forensic experts have collected the samples for examination,” he added. “The theft took place at around 2am. A CCTV installed at some distance captured three thieves alighting from a tempo and going inside the ATM, said the ADCP. “We have constituted teams and will nab the criminals very soon,” he added. A case was registered on the complaint of the bank manager. The bank officials said cash above Rs 8 lakh was stolen in the incident. An officer privy to the probe said the ease with which the gang cuts open the ATM machine shows its members are well-versed with the functioning of ATM machines. Police said no security guard was present at the ATM. Four days ago, an ATM was opened struck in a similar manner in posh Vibhutikhand area on February 3, when two criminals had used gas cutter to open the ATM and escaped with the teller machine cassette, which had Rs 5,600 cash in Vibhutikhand area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/thieves-cut-open-atmflee-with-rs-8-5l-cash/articleshow/80740370.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||GFP: CM, Cabral misleading people on power project||Panaji: While former chief minister Manohar Parrikar used to say that Goa has surplus power, present chief minister Pramod Sawant has created an impression that Goa faces an acute power shortage, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) working president Kiran Kandolkar. Stating that the BJP-led government is lying about Goa’s power requirements, Kandolkar said that Sawant and power minister Nilesh Cabral are fooling the people regarding the need for the Goa Tamnar power project. Kandolkar also said that GFP would continue to “strongly oppose” the project because it would not only destroy Mollem, but also villages of Aldona and Tivim constituencies. “Sawant and Cabral are fooling the people with regards to the Goa-Tamnar power project. They are hiding a lot of details, which would impact the environment of the state,” said Kandolkar. The GFP working president said that Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo and Tivim MLA Nilkant Halankar have make their stand clear regarding the power lines that will pass through the village. The former BJP legislator said that Goa cannot trust the BJP state government as Sawant listens to his “bosses in Delhi” to set up projects in Goa. “People from the villages of Aldona, Corjuem, Tivim and Colvale rely heavily on farming activities, and if these lines pass through these areas, it will not only destroy the fields but also the livelihood of our Goenkar farmers,” said Kandolkar. “When we saw the plan, we were shocked that half of Colvale village will be affected with the 400kV power supply lines passing through.” Kandolkar also said that BJP is paying lip service to farmers. “The BJP speaks a lot about doubling farmer’s income, but here we have an individual as a chief minister who is all set to finish the farmers,” said Kandolkar. People from the villages of Aldona, Corjuem, Tivim and Colvale rely heavily on farming activities, and if these lines pass through these areas, it will not only destroy the fields but also the livelihood of our Goenkar farmers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-cm-cabral-misleading-people-on-power-project/articleshow/80740367.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Hunar Haat gives a push to ODOP plan||LUCKNOW: Hunar Haat, which concluded on Sunday, saw sale of products and handicraft worth Rs 3 crore, the state government said on Sunday. The mega event, which got underway at the Awadh Shilp Gram on January 23, aimed at giving a platform to 500 artisans from UP and other parts of the country to showcase their local products. Themed on `Vocal for local’, artisans received an order of Rs 70 lakh at the Hunar Haat, a state government said. The event organised by the ministry of minority affairs, saw an overwhelming response from the people amid a receding novel coronavirus pandemic, he said. The event aimed at lending a push to the state government flagship one-district-one-product (ODOP) scheme under which local products of various districts have been registered. “The scheme has brought positive changes in the people’s life,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hunar-haatgives-a-pushto-odop-plan/articleshow/80740428.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Goa||Margao ward schedule brings cheer to BJP, upsets Congress||Margao: The reservation of wards for the civic polls in Margao has brought some cheer to the BJP camp, while a sense of disenchantment is clearly discernible in that of Congress. The reason, political observers say, lies in the fact that the schedule for reservation of wards seems to have been carefully crafted to ensure that the exercise favours the outgoing BJP councillors seeking another term, while creating hurdles for Congress-affiliated councillors in the outgoing council. Sources said that the reservation schedule has cleared the decks for certain influential newcomers into BJP, including Prabhav Naik, son of Pandurang ‘Bhai’ Naik and grandson of former Margao MLA late Anant Narcinv Naik. Significantly, it has dealt a blow to Margao MLA Digambar Kamat’s plans of launching his son Yogiraj into politics with a debut contest in the Margao municipality elections. Ward 18 from where Yogiraj had planned to contest is now reserved for OBC. As Kamat has a vice-like grip on these voters, sources say, whoever is fielded by him is sure to have a smooth sailing in the elections. The reservation schedule is likely to affect the prospects of at least 9-10 outgoing councillors, none of whom are affiliated to BJP. Lyndon Pereira, Babita Prabhudessai, Kutubuddin Bagewadi, Jose Fernandes, Angelis Pereira, Jafer Budani, Avinash Shirodkar, Raju Shirodkar and Manoj Masurkar, are among those won’t be able to contest from the same ward this time on account of the reservation schedule. Outgoing BJP-affiliated councillors—Rupesh Mahatme, Ketan Kurtarkar, Suchita Malkarnekar and Sugandha Bandekar—are among those who have been left unscathed from the reservation schedule. Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Council for Margao voiced his disapproval over the reservation schedule. “Reservation of municipal wards has always been a game of chess, irrespective of the government in power. Just as in the game of chess, the elephant are at liberty to move in any direction, trampling those in their way, heavyweight politicians do likewise in politics,” he said. Coutinho said that the Shadow Council will support young and capable candidates who would fearlessly raise public issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-ward-schedule-brings-cheer-to-bjp-upsets-congress/articleshow/80740362.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||UP: CBI launches probe into recruitment scam in defence department||LUCKNOW: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which took over the case of irregularities in appointments to department of defence production by recruitment board in Kanpur, has summoned a nazir who churned out fake documents of examinees. Appointment of six lower-division clerks are under scanner and local administrative officials, including the deputy exam controller will be grilled for anomalies in exam procedure. Around 517 candidates had appeared for the test in 2016. While zeroing in on role of locals in peddling fake documents for candidates, CBI chalked out a list of officials, including a ‘nazir’. In August 2018, the department of defence production told CBI that its vigilance cell detected irregularities in appointment of six clerks by Kanpur recruitment board. The anti-corruption wing of CBI in Lucknow launched a probe and lodged an FIR against deputy controller of recruitment board, Santosh Tiwari, and five candidates, Ravi Kant Pandey, Utkarsh Srivastava, Arti Gupta, Pratibha Mishra, Arpit Singh and others. They were booked under Prevention of Corruption Act, dishonesty, criminal misconduct on December 22, 2020. The CBI probe revealed gross anomalies in examination procedure. Unsealed answer sheets were kept in the room of the exam deputy controller Santosh Tiwari, said a CBI source. Also, answer sheets were evaluated under Tiwari’s supervision in presence of an external member without permission. Manipulations and overwriting were rampant during checking of scripts. While a qualified candidate under the physically handicapped category, Arpit Singh, did not have a requisite disability certificate, another candidate, Vivek Chandra, scored 52 marks which were changed to 61. Marks of Arpit were also arbitrarily raised from 58 to 69. At several places in answer sheet of candidates, Pratibha Mishra option ‘C’ was changed to ‘B’. A similar pattern of overwriting was visible in answer sheets of candidate, Utkarsh Srivastava. CBI also said, qualified candidates, Ravi Kant Pandey, Pratibha Mishra and Utkarsh Srivastava all had relatives in different departments of the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-launches-probe-into-recruitment-scam-in-defence-department/articleshow/80740451.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||PM uses ‘toolkit’ to claim global plot, says India will respond with all might||GUWAHATI/ HALDIA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched a scathing attack on "international conspirators" who were out to discredit India - without directly taking the names of Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg who shared a "toolkit" in support of the ongoing farm protests and other global celebrities backing the agitation - and said the country will "respond to these conspiracies with all its might". At election rallies in Assam's tea belt of Dhekiajuli and Bengal's Haldia, the PM did not talk about the ongoing farmers' agitation or name any of the international supporters but referred to the 'toolkit', which had "disrupting 'yoga' and 'chai' image of India in general among the tasks. He also trained his guns at opposition parties who had remained silent on the "international conspiracy". In Dhekiajuli, Modi said: "You must have heard in the news, these conspirators are saying that the image of tea of India has to be maligned. Systematically. The image of India's tea is to be discredited worldwide. Some documents have come up revealing that some foreign powers are planning to attack India's identity associated with tea." "I want to tell these conspirators from the land of Assam, no matter how hard they try, the country will not let their nefarious plans to succeed. My tea workers will win this battle. These attacks against our tea are not strong enough to compete against the hard work of our tea garden workers," he added. Training his guns on opposition parties, Modi asked the crowd, majority of whom were from tea gardens: "Do you accept this conspiracy? Do you accept those who have preferred to remain silent after this attack? Do you accept those who are praising this attack?" The response: A thunderous "no". Modi said everyone who is “party to this conspiracy” will be made answerable. The setting was perfect for Modi to launch the counter attack from Assam where BJP is seeking a second term and will be banking heavily on votes of tea garden workers, who decide electoral fortunes for parties in 35 of 126 assembly seats. A day after Union minister Niramala Sitharaman distributed Rs 3,000 each to over seven lakh tea garden workers, Modi said tea gardens of Assam were major centres of progress and prosperity of the state. Modi said, “The red tea of Sonitpur is known for its very different flavour. Who would know better than me how special the taste of tea from Sonitpur and Assam is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-uses-toolkit-to-claim-global-plot-says-india-will-respond-with-all-might/articleshow/80740728.cms||Prabin Kalita
February 8, 2021||Pune||Increase in fuel prices hurts small business and families||PUNE: Bajrang Ram, a grocer in Kondhwa, has started charging his customers Rs10 for doorstep delivery. Ram claims he has a good reason for his demand despite the opposition he faces. “I started charging the amount around five days ago. Our transportation costs have increased by almost 15% since last week. The transportation charges of the goods vehicles that deliver products have increased due to the rise in fuel prices. Under such circumstances, I have no choice but to impose a home delivery fee. Most of my customers are from the neighbourhood and we deliver products to their homes. There is resentment among many and customers have also threatened to stop giving me business. However, they should understand the situation,” Ram shared. Bhola Kaura, a vegetable vendor in the same area, has also imposed a delivery fee. “The prices of vegetables will go up in the coming week, if fuel prices don’t reduce. I used to pay Rs300 for delivery of vegetables to my shop from Marketyard. Since the last three days, I’m paying an additional Rs50. I charge just Rs5 to deliver vegetables,” Kaura said. Koregaon Park resident Satish Bhosle, who works with a private company based in Shivajinagar, said that he now takes the PMPML bus to work. “The hassle has increased since I have to leave home at least an hour earlier than I used to while using my two-wheeler. My salary was cut drastically and we need to save money. However, the price of fuel had started to take a toll on our revised budget. Hence, I was forced to travel by bus,” Bhosle said. Kalyaninagar resident Subhankar Dixit, who is acquainted with Bhosle, said that he had proposed the two carpool on alternate weeks. “Both of us are serious about the plan and will give it a go from next week. I can bring my vehicle, pick him up and go to work for one week and he can do the same in the next week. There is no relief since we have also faced drastic pay cuts. Daily travel in autorickshaws is also very costly for us,” said Dixit. On Sunday, the price of a litre of petrol in Pune city was Rs93.14. Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson for the All India Petrol Dealers Association told TOI that while the fuel price is stable, there has been no information on another change in fuel cost. “Presently, there is no information and nothing can be commented,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/increase-in-fuel-prices-hurts-small-business-and-families/articleshow/80739405.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Auto & manufacturing sectors drove power demand during peak Covid months||MUMBAI: A source from Mahagenco, the state power generator, said that thermal power generation has gone up from 5,000MW a few months back to over 7,000MW now. The demand for power fell to as low as 15,000MW in April and May last year, but has now retuned to normal levels. Sources said that the demand for power across the state, including Mumbai, was an average 15,000MW in March-end and in April and May last year. This increased to 18,000MW in June, and later averaged between 20,000MW and 21,000MW between July and December. In January, the demand peaked to 22,000MW and has now touched 23,000MW in February, sources stated. Power expert Ashok Pendse said as compared to the first two quarters of 2020 (April-June and July-September), there was not much of an expectation in the third quarter (October-December) during the pandemic. “But surprisingly, the push from the automobile and other manufacturing sectors was phenomenally large and the production resumed in a big way, thereby also resulting in huge consumption of electricity. Consumption also went up as shops, malls and other establishments opened up,” Pendse said, adding that now the situation was almost back to normal in the power sector. Worried about rising demand for electricity across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, energy minister Nitin Raut last year visited Tata Power thermal plants in Trombay and the Adani Electricity office to evaluate the existing power generation and the future demand. Sources said Mumbai's demand could rise to 3,500MW, and MMR’s to 5,000MW. Mumbai’s power demand during summer season touch-es 3,400-3,600MW and drops to 2,400MW during winters. Since 1981, the city has been protected by a system called ‘islanding’ for which citizens pay Rs 450-500 crore each year through power bills. This is to ensure that Mumbai gets constant supply even if there is power outage in the MMR or elsewhere in the state. While Tata Power generates 1,337MW, Adani Electricity generates 500MW in Dahanu. Experts said it’s insufficient to meet the demand. “Tata Power has the capacity to generate 2,300MW for which they can add another 1,000MW. There is a need to augment generation capacity,” experts said. Metro Rail projects are also coming up in the city and this could consume 280MW of additional electricity when they begin full-scale operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/auto-mfg-sectors-drove-power-demand-during-peak-covid-mths/articleshow/80740373.cms||Somit Sen
February 8, 2021||Goa||‘Will move court over reservation’||Vasco: Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) vice-president Sankalp Amonkar on Sunday said that he would approach the high court against the reservation criteria followed in Mormugao for the upcoming municipal polls. He claimed that injustice was done to women as not a single ward of the 25 wards was reserved for them. All 25 wards fall in Mormugao assembly constituency area. Wards 10-21, which fall under Vasco constituency, have four wards reserved for women. Wards 22-25 under Dabolim constituency have two wards reserved for women. Amonkar alleged that urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik was responsible for “this injustice against women of Mormugao constituency”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-move-court-over-reservation/articleshow/80740369.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kochi||‘It’s a protest by middlemen from Punjab & Western UP’||Kochi: The ongoing protest in the national capital against the three farm laws passed by the central government is not “a farmers’ protest but a mere movement” by the middlemen who is afraid of losing the profits they would make if the laws are implemented, said R K Singh, Union minister of state (independent charge) for power, new and renewable energy.  While addressing a news conference in Kochi, Singh said that there is nothing “anit-kisan” in the farm laws. “What we are seeing in Delhi in not a ‘Kisan andolan’ but a protest by middlemen in the farm sector. It is a movement by the middlemen from only one-and-a-half states Punjab and Western Uttar Pradesh. They have been making huge profits as middlemen and there is no need to let it continue. The bills let farmers to sell their products in a wider market without middlemen’s help. Neither the opposition parties nor farmers could specifically say what provisions in the farm bills are anti-kisan in nature. Moreover, the protest is regional and it is not happening across India,” Singh said. Singh was meeting the media as part of highlighting the features of the Union budget 2021-22, which is seen as part of the NDA campaign, ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in the state. He said that he was “totally happy with the budget” as it announced so many proposals for the development of power sector in the country. “The power consumption in the country has increased by 13% (1.86 lakh GW) compared to last year as per October 2020 reports. And it further increased to 1.89 lakh GW in January 2021. It points out the growth of our economic sector. India now has power surplus and is exporting power to neighbouring countries. The government is taking several measures to strengthen the energy sector and India’s rate of achievements in the renewable energy sector is the world’s highest. India became an investment hub and received 64 billion USD worth investments in the last five years,” he said Singh also said that India will have 60% of its power production from renewable energy sector by 2030. He said the power distribution sectors in most states are not effective and the government will start de-licensing in the sector to boost competition among the distribution companies. “The competition will be focused on offering most effective service at lowest cost,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/its-a-protest-by-middlemen-from-punjab-western-up/articleshow/80738656.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Dead cable clear-up may hit congestion roadblock||KOLKATA: The snapping of dead cable TV, broadband and telephone wires along the final stretch of Rashbehari Avenue-EM Bypass connector is set to hit a roadblock at BB Chatterjee Street, around a kilometre from the Gariahat crossing. Clogged pavements, encroachments and parking areas along the southern flank of the road may make it difficult to pull down the dead wires — a job that was started in early-January by All Bengal Cable TV and Broadband Operators’ United Forum. The move followed a push from the state government urging cable operators to get rid of defunct cables that were creating an eyesore and were a safety hazard across the city. So far, more than 2.5km of dead wires have been dislodged from lampposts between the Ruby Hospital crossing and Bijan Setu in Ballygunge. It could now be difficult to proceed further and complete the job, which is in its final stretch, according to the forum’s joint convenor Tapash Das. “The southern flank of the road is very congested and there’s hardly any room for us to do the job. Due to hawker stalls and parked cars, it will be difficult to use the payloader to pull down wires. We have informed the KMC about it and sought suggestions,” said Das. Since early 2020, dead cable and broadband wires are being snapped by the KMC in several areas, including Bhowanipore, Alipore, Harish Mukherjee Road, Chetla and New Alipore. The civic authorities then urged cable operators to rope in all stake-holders and get rid of dead wires. In December, the newly formed forum took an initiative to clean up the dead wires between Ruby crossing and Gariahat — a 3.5km stretch. Civic authorities advised the forum to do the job on a Sunday when traffic will not be heavy. But cars parked by those visiting the Gariahat market on Sundays make it even more difficult to reach the lampposts, pointed out Das. “The work is set to come to a halt now. We shall pull down all the dead wires till the market. After that, however, we shall have to discuss with the civic body to find a way to push ahead,” Das said. The KMC has asked the forum to remove dead wires along Park Street, Camac Street, Alipore Road and Hazra Road. But the forum claims to lack resources and manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dead-cable-clear-up-may-hit-congestion-roadblock/articleshow/80740376.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 8, 2021||Goa||‘BJP won’t do injustice to Goa or K’taka on Mhadei’||Panaji: Goa BJP desk in-charge and Karnataka MLA C T Ravi on Sunday reiterated that Karnataka and Goa will abide by the decision of the Supreme Court on the Mhadei issue. Ravi also said that the people of the state will once again repose faith in BJP in the 2022 assembly polls. Stating that there is no opposition for BJP in Goa, Ravi said that the party will fight the 2022 elections under the leadership of chief minister Pramod Sawant and BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. Speaking to reporters after attending the state executive committee meeting, Ravi said, “BJP is a national party which works in the interest of the country. Goa and Karnataka mean the same to the party. The Mhadei issue is in court and we will abide by the court’s decision. The party will not do injustice to either states.” Ravi said that the BJP government is doing good work in the state and that he expects the same type of support at the municipal election as the party received at the recent zilla panchayat polls. Further, he said that over the last six years, the BJP government at the centre has taken up numerous development projects in the state, something that has never been done by any other government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-wont-do-injustice-to-goa-or-ktaka-on-mhadei/articleshow/80740379.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 5 crore penalty collected from 1.6 lakh ticketless CR travellers in 8 months||MUMBAI: During intensive ticket checking drives conducted in the Mumbai division of Central Railway (CR) from June 15, 2020 to January 31, 2021, 1.58 lakh cases were detected. From these, CR collected Rs 4.95 crore in penalties, said CR spokesperson Shivaji Sutar on Sunday. Passengers were checked on both suburban and non-suburban trains. Irregularities included travelling without a ticket, misuse of the senior citizen quota, altered tickets, coloured photocopies of tickets, fake ID cards, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-5cr-penalty-collected-from-1-6-lakh-ticketless-cr-travellers-in-8-months/articleshow/80740389.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nashik||661 lakh tonne sugar cane crushed till Jan 15 in state||Kolhapur: Good rainfall and extensive cultivation of sugar cane has led to massive cane crushing this season. According to a fortnight report released by the office of the sugar commissioner, 182 sugar factories in the state have crushed 661 lakh tonne cane manufacturing 661 lakh quintal of sugar. Experts in the sugar sector feel 2020-21 crushing season may have witnessed maximum cane crushing in the last 10 years.The lowest crushing was recorded in 2016-17 when only 373 lakh metric tonne of sugarcane was crushed. The cane production had also come down considerably mainly due to drought condition. Before the 2020-21 crushing season, maximum cane (953 lakh metric tonne) was crushed in 2018-19. Sources in the sugar sector said the cane cultivation in the state has gone up by 3 lakh hectares from 8 lakh hectare last crushing season to 11 lakh hectare this season. The sugar commissioner’s office has estimated 8.7 lakh metric tonne sugarcane available for crushing but it is expected to cross 10 lakh metric tonneAs per the data available with the sugar commissioner’s office, 422 lakh metric tonne of sugar cane has been crushed till January 15 this year compared to 173 lakh metric tonne crushed during the same period last year. The payment, based on fair and remunerative price, that sugar mills owe to farmers from the onset of this crushing season till January 15 is Rs 9,148 crore, which is a massive amount compared to the payment of Rs 3,928 crore that sugar mills owed to farmers in the last crushing season till January 15. Sources in sugar industry point said this crushing season, 46 more sugar factories had obtained the licence for crushing as more land was under sugar cane cultivation. Last year, there were only 136 factories. Of the total payment, 67 factories have cleared payments to the tune of Rs 7,115 crore while 115 factories are yet to make payments to the farmers. So far, the sugar commissioner office has not issued notices to any factory under the Revenue Recovery Code. According to Sugarcane Control Act, it is mandatory for the factories to clear the payment of the farmers within 15 days after the cane is cut and taken for the crushing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/661-lakh-tonne-sugar-cane-crushed-till-jan-15-in-state/articleshow/80738658.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||Glacier burst in U’khand wreaks havoc, 170 missing||Dehradun: At least 170 people have been reported missing after a glacier broke off near Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli district in the Garhwal Himalayas on Sunday morning, triggering massive damage in its wake that was reminiscent of the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. By evening, bodies of seven men were recovered, but no one could say how many have died in the catastrophe that has once again shaken Uttarakhand. The 13.2 MW Rishiganga hydropower project near Raini village was completely washed away; the 520MW NTPC hydro project on the Dhauliganga river was partially damaged and at least five bridges were impacted by the surge of water that was unleashed, cutting access to a number of villages in the area. "The maximum water level at the Tapovan barrage is 1803 meters, but it seems, as per preliminary reports, the water level crossed 1808 meters, causing the breakage,” said Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of the state’s disaster mitigation and management centre (DMMC). According to the State Emergency Operation Centre, of the 170 persons missing, 148 were in the NTPC hydropower site whereas 22 were at Rishiganga. Most of them are believed to be workers involved in the hydropower projects. Chief minister Trivendra Rawat, who conducted an aerial survey and also went to the areas near the disaster site, announced Rs 4 lakh relief to the next of kin of those who had died. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the families of the deceased. At a press conference later in the evening in Dehradun, Rawat said that a team of 100 personnel of Indian Army, including those from the engineering task force, and about 250 personnel from ITBP's 1st battalion are actively engaged in rescue operations. Officials monitoring the situation said that water flow in the Alaknanda river gradually stabilised ahead of Nandprayag in Chamoli district though a high alert has been issued and people living along the Alaknanda and Ganga river banks on all the districts -- from Chamoli to Haridwar -- have been asked to evacuate. Earlier, as a precautionary measure, flow of the Bhagirathi river was stopped and reservoirs of GVK dam in Srinagar and Veer Bhadra dam in Rishikesh were emptied in order to manage flow of the surging Alaknanda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/glacier-burst-in-ukhand-wreaks-havoc-170-missing/articleshow/80739414.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Rs 1.53 crore received for SNCU revamp, work to start after cops lift curbs||NAGPUR: The Bhandara District General Hospital has received Rs1.1.53 crore for restoration of its Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) which was completely destroyed in the fire on January 9. Currently, the SNCU is a no go place as police had imposed restriction on movement after the fire which killed 10 premature babies. The government has released Rs13 lakh for infrastructure, Rs44 lakh for electrical and fire safety and Rs96 lakh under National Health Mission for instruments and other equipment like radiant warmers, photo-therapy machine, etc. The work on repairs and renovation would kick off only after the Bhandara police withdraw the restrictions. Acting civil surgeon Dr Piyush Jakkal told TOI that they are expecting the police would remove the security tapes and permit hospital administration to carry out rejuvenation works. “Once we get the possession of the SNCU, it will take around six weeks to restart the facility,” he said and confirmed that the funds have been received. The hospital has made makeshift arrangement for treating preterm babies in its Maternal and Child Health wing. The facility is behind the ill-fated SNCU in a separate building and reportedly has sufficient space for treating premature babies. The funds allocated for SNCU are in addition to the Rs1.45 crore proposal moved last year for revamping fire and safety infrastructure. Dr Jakkal said the earlier proposal for entire hospital is likely to be cleared along with those for all government hospitals in the state. Following the fire, the government had ordered fire audit of all its hospitals. It’s learnt, the police department is yet to get the reports of the expert committee and that of the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL). “The reports are expected soon after which decision to lodge FIR would be taken soon,” said a senior police officer. Bhandara police are also likely to withdraw the restrictions after the reports are received. “Though photographs and videos have been collected, the crime scene may require to be examined yet again after the crucial reports are received,” said an officer. As per the divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar-led 8-member panel, the fire had broken out between 1am and 1.30am following a spark in the controller panel of radiant warmers. Inflammable material such as insulation, plastic material, cotton beds, wires present between two baby warmers made matters worse. Room temperature also rose. Some babies were on oxygen which fuelled the fire. The room was also closed. The fire died down but the smoke spread in huge quantity in the SNCU. Forensic report stated three babies died of shock due to burns while seven of them succumbed due to suffocation from smoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs1-53cr-received-for-sncu-revamp-work-to-start-after-cops-lift-curbs/articleshow/80738661.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 8, 2021||Goa||Despite opposition, we will complete Mollem projects, Sawant tells Shah||Panaji: While there is strong opposition to the three linear projects passing through biodiversity-rich Mollem, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday told Union home minister Amit Shah that the state would complete the projects “in the interest of Goa’s development”. Sawant urged Shah to restart mining activities in the state, when the Union minister had a stopover at Goa airport while on his way to Sindhudurg, in Maharashtra, to inaugurate a hospital. The chief minister apprised Shah about the stiff opposition to the expansion of the highway, laying of the Tamnar power transmission line, double-tracking of South Western Railway line and coal handling. Sawant has also been facing criticism for not putting his foot down or asking the Centre to revisit the projects that are facing huge opposition. His predecessor Manohar Parrikar had opposed the double tracking project. The chief minister said that he has briefed Shah on the Mhadei issue. “As of now, I have not asked Shah for central mediation to resolve the Mhadei issue, and we will wait for the Supreme Court to decide on it,” he said. As Shah was in a hurry to rush to New Delhi due to the Uttarakhand development, he couldn’t visit Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who is undergoing treatment at Goa Medical College and hospital following an accident in Karnataka, last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-opposition-we-will-complete-mollem-projects-sawant-tells-shah/articleshow/80740386.cms||Murari Shetye
February 8, 2021||Goa||Will win 2022 polls with absolute majority: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that BJP would win the 2022 assembly election with absolute majority. He also said that if karyakartas forget all differences, BJP would win both municipal and assembly elections. He assured Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh that the party would win again in 2022. Sawant said that after the zilla panchayat results, the opposition is disturbed looking at government work and BJP’s organisational strength. “The opposition is making baseless allegations against the government,” he said. “Now we will face municipal elections, and then the assembly election in 2022. We have just started election preparations.” Sawant said that for the municipal election, things will be done as per government rules. “Karyakartas should work with dedication,” he said. “If we forget all our differences and reach out to the people with government schemes, we will win all 12 municipalities on the strength of our karyakartas. We have to start preparations for the assembly election from the municipal election itself.” The CM said that karyakartas should tell the people of the state about the work done by the government. On the farmers’ movement, Sawant said, “Some people are trying to do agitations in the name of farmers”. He said that all three agriculture laws are in the interest of farmers, and they have been welcomed by the state government as well as farmers. “Some people are trying to do politics over the issue,” he said. “I condemn that and support PM Narendra Modi on the agriculture laws.” Addressing the BJP state executive committee meeting, Sawant said that while other countries are depending on lockdowns to fight Covid, India is moving ahead with the vaccination programme. “Many countries are waiting to receive Covid vaccines from India,” he said. Sawant said that he will take an oath that not a single Goan would be left without basic amenities from December 19, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-will-win-2022-polls-with-absolute-majority/articleshow/80740380.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nashik||IG praised for helping farmers in getting their dues back||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday praised inspector general (special) Pratap Dighavkar for his efforts in helping hundreds of farmers, who had been duped of crores of rupees by traders, in getting their money back. Bhujbal was speaking at the inauguration of the new building of the Yeola police station on Sunday. The new building of the Yeola police station has been constructed over 4,250 sq.ft at a cost of Rs 1.33 crore.After taking charge of the Nashik range police in September last year, Dighavkar had launched a special campaign against traders who took agricultural produce from farmers but failed to clear their payments. Police have recovered approximately Rs 7 crore from traders. Scores of farmers across Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts, which come under the jurisdiction of Nashik Range police, were duped by traders.The new police station building is constructed in the administrative complex in Yeola. Bhujbal said various works were yet to be completed in the administrative complex, which would turn out to be a model administrative complex in the country.The new police station building has a cell for an investigating officer, a cell for lady constables, a cell for the station house officer, arms room, lock-ups for men and women, computer room, record room and a ramp for people with disabilities among other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ig-praised-for-helping-farmers-in-getting-their-dues-back/articleshow/80738669.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Walkathons and campaigns mark Road Safety Month||MUMBAI: With 10 more days for the Road Safety Month to conclude, the city will continue to host a plethora of activities to create awareness on how to prevent crashes and minimise fatalities. Last week, the traffic police, along with Sumanvilas Foundation and Bosco Boys Home & Technical Training Institute at Borivli, held an awareness drive with various activities, including a walkathon where youths carried messages on preventing mishaps and a painting competition. Traffic police inspector Sampat Londhe said such campaigns should be ‘round-the-year’ and citizen participation is necessary. Vinayak Joshi, founder of Sumanvilas Foundation, said: “Follow traffic rules for your own safety, not just to avoid fines.” The participants, including Fr Corlis Gonsalves of Bosco Boys Home, pledged to adhere to traffic rules. On Tuesday, activist Sumaira Abdulali will convene an online event on ‘Anti-Honking and Road Safety’ and later this week, the transport department will hold seminars on ‘Road Safety for Women in Public Transport’ and ‘Accessible India for disabled population’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/walkathons-and-campaigns-mark-road-safety-mth/articleshow/80740397.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||We should win civic polls to silence oppn: Tanavade||Panaji: Stating that despite some NGOs and political parties trying to defame the state government on various issues, BJP’s win in the zilla panchayat elections was a tight slap on their face, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Sunday. BJP should win the municipal elections to silence the opposition, he said. “The result of the ZP elections made the opposition silent for almost a month. Today, once again we have municipal elections as a medium to work together and win. I have full faith that you will work hard to make BJP candidates victorious in the elections,” Tanavade said during the BJP state executive meeting. “We cannot satisfy everyone and the reservation of wards takes place as per government rules, and we have to accept it,” Tanavade said. He said that “there is a good atmosphere for BJP to win the municipal elections and like ZP elections we have to get success in municipal elections”. Tanavade said that municipal elections will not be fought on party lines, but “we have to support BJP candidates and work hard to get them to win”. The BJP mahila morcha has decided to hold meetings in all constituencies in the coming days, he said. The state BJP president said that when the chief minister held a function to celebrate the 60th Liberation Day at Panaji, the opposition criticised the CM for hosting the function during the pandemic when there is no money. “The CM had announced that the state will get Rs 100 crore from the Centre for the year-long celebrations, but instead the Union government sanctioned Rs 300 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-should-win-civic-polls-to-silence-oppn-tanavade/articleshow/80740400.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Goan tech student shortlisted for global business award||PANAJI: Taleigao-resident Saidutt Jaideep Kamat Redkar has been shortlisted for the Global Student Entrepreneur Award (GSEA) instituted by the Entrepreneur’s Organisation (EO). Redkar, who runs a startup to predict and bridge the demand-supply gap, now hopes to represent the nation at the global level. Redkar, 25, was shortlisted by EO’s Goa chapter based on an interview where he outlined the potential that his startup offers. EO-Goa president Anirudh Agrawal and GSEA chair Sunaina Gera were on the jury that selected Redkar. “My startup Sygence Pvt Ltd has designed a business forecasting model to bridge the gap between demand and supply,” said Redkar, who is currently pursuing his postgraduation in computer science (MS) at the University of Massachusetts. Entrepreneurs’ Organisation is a global business network for business leaders with a presence across 61 countries. Redkar’s startup took flight in May in the midst of the Covid lockdown in partnership with his mother. With an 11-member team, he is working on fine tuning the tech platform to go live from April 1. “We are also in advanced stages of discussions with a US-based company with specialisation in quantum computing, to collaborate and partner in development and marketing of their AI driven Super Forecasting Model in India. We have already earned $6,000 revenues through e-invoicing for two clients in India,” said Redkar. The global student entrepreneur award is open to students enrolled in a university or college while being an owner, founder or controlling stakeholder of a company. The second round of the competition will be held in the coming week at the India level and the global finals will be held in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-tech-student-shortlisted-for-global-biz-award/articleshow/80740411.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Hawkers told to stop work, seek rehabilitation policy||Kolhapur: The hawkers in Kolhapur city will stop work on Monday as the civic administration kickstarts it’s drive to evict illegal hawkers, vendors and encroachments in 100m radius of temples and hospitals. The eviction drive of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will mostly be concentrated near Mahalaxmi temple as most of the illegal hawkers operate in the small periphery of the temple. There is traffic congestion near the temple throughout the day mainly due to the illegal vendors. Several illegal cabin shops have come up in the surrounding of major hospitals across the city. The patients arriving in the hospital have to struggle to find space to park their vehicles. Even the ambulances do not get space to park mainly because of the space encroached upon by the cabin shops. R K Powar, convenor of the hawkers associations, said, “We have given a call to stop work for Monday. We will gather at Shivaji Chowk and protest against the KMC’s decision to evict hawkers without giving them an alternate space to do business. The KMC wants to evict poor vendors from some places and shift them to locations where they will hardly have any business. We want a clear- cut rehabilitation policy before the KMC takes any such step (eviction drive.” The hawkers have decided to meet MLA Chandrakant Jadhav and if required, they will also meet minister Hasan Mushrif. District guardian minister Satej Patil is not available currently. The hawkers will request the MLA and the minister to hold a meeting with civic authorities and convince them to stop the action. Around 10 days ago, the KMC had appealed to the hawkers and vendors to remove their goods and other belongings. The KMC is planning to confiscate the goods suring the eviction drive and not return them back to the respective hawkers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hawkers-told-to-stop-work-seek-rehabilitation-policy/articleshow/80738692.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: One Metro hurdle goes as RITES shoots down Avishikta flyover plan||KOLKATA: The Avishikta impasse of New Garia-Airport Metro is set to end as consultancy firm RITES has found the modified Ruby flyover design untenable. The design change has become the last-minute hurdle for the Metro at Avishikta crossing at a time when Kolkata Police is making traffic diversion plans to hand over the site on EM Bypass to facilitate construction. Railway consultancy firm RITES, which has been hired by KMDA to prepare the flyover’s detailed project report (DPR), has written to the latter, saying the amended design is not feasible. KMDA’s infrastructure committee, as TOI reported on Tuesday, recently proposed splitting the overpass into two structures, one over Ruby crossing and another at Avishikta. The draft DPR shows a continuous six-lane elevated corridor over the Ruby crossing, starting at Kalikapur and ending at VIP Bazar. The north-south flyover on either side of the New Garia-Airport Metro viaduct would be running 2m higher than the Metro stations. By January 31, KMDA was supposed to share the flyover’s alignment with RVNL, implementing agency of the 32km Metro corridor, most of which passes through Bypass. KMDA is the custodian of Bypass and implementing agency of the Rs 600-crore Ruby flyover. The flyover alignment would have been part of the “no-objection” to RVNL on retaining the contentious Metro Pier 112. While designing the overpass, RITES had found the arm that was turning right to Anwar Shah Road clashing with the pillar (112) in the middle of Avishikta crossing. Even as KMDA had initially insisted the pier be razed, it later agreed to RVNL’s proposal of reducing the length of Kavi Sukanta station. RVNL will pull down two smaller pillars that are part of the station. After several meetings, the earlier imbroglio ended. The amended flyover design then threw a spanner on the link’s priority section (Ruby crossing or Hemanta Mukherjee station and terminal Kavi Subhas station). RITES has told KMDA that Kalikapur flyover’s gradient would require much more space since the structure must be higher than Metro station entry/exit. “EM Bypass has already shrunk to make way for Metro. Two flyovers won’t leave space on main thoroughfare,” an official said. RVNL has again asked KMDA for the NOC and the flyover’s alignment so it could start bridging the 30m gap between Pier 112 and station. Kolkata Police recently held traffic trials to hand over a part of the stretch to RVNL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-metro-hurdle-goes-as-rites-shoots-down-avishikta-flyover-plan/articleshow/80740415.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 27 truant govt doctors get the sack||HYDERABAD: The director of medical education, Telangana, terminated the services of 27 doctors working at government hospitals and medical colleges across the state on charges of unauthorized absence from duty. “While most of those terminated have been absent from work for months, some have even been missing for years without leaving any word about their whereabouts,” a top health department official said, adding that more heads could roll for dereliction of duty. Many of the ones pulling the vanishing act had in fact gone to foreign destinations, including Dubai, and are currently working there. After waiting for nearly two years, the government has finally issued the termination orders, following due protocol, the official said.These doctors held important posts like that of assistant professor surgery, obstetrics, and gynaecology, assistant professor anaesthesia, associate professor neurology, associate professor paediatric surgery, associate professor anatomy, associate professor gastroenterology, among others. “Their absence not only affected the day to day functioning of our institution, it blocked seats and we could not recruit staff for these posts. Blocking of crucial seats like that of anaesthesia, anatomy, etc, has a huge impact on medical services as well as medical education,” the superintendent of one of the hospitals with missing doctors said. “However, it is essential to wait for the mandatory period (of unauthorized absence from duty) in government services, as these doctors can go to court. So, they could not be terminated immediately,” he said. Among the ones terminated are doctors and assistant professors from Osmania Medical College, Gandhi Hospital, Osmania General Hospital, Institute of Mental Health Hyderabad, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, and Niloufer hospital, among others. Listing the 27 names, an order issued by the director of medical education said: “It was brought to the notice of the director of medical education that the following doctors are on unauthorized absence in various institutions and for the doctors whose services have not been regularized are liable for termination under Rule 10 (e) of Telangana state and subordinate service rules, 1996. Hence, the service of the doctors mentioned are herewith terminated with immediate effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/27-truant-govt-doctors-get-the-sack/articleshow/80740424.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Piling complete for TBM retrieval shaft||KOLKATA: The East-West Metro’s TBM retrieval shaft, coming up at Durga Pithuri Lane, off Bowbazar, achieved a milestone on Saturday as the piling work ended. Engineers of ITD ITD-Cementation, contracted to build the last leg of the Metro project, had a small celebration, posing for photographs with the rig used for the piling work. In August last year, the machines were brought from Austria as Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency, started constructing the shaft for retrieving the two giant tunnel borers for the East-West Metro corridor at Durga Pithuri Lane. The machines were used to build piles for the 22m deep retrieval shaft, 40m in length and 15m wide. “Now that the most important part of the shaft construction is over, the rig will be sent back to Austria,” an ITD official said. The first tunnel boring machine (TBM), Chundi, which was digging the west-bound tunnel, hit an aquifer on August 31 last year under Durga Pithuri Lane, resulting in large-scale subsidence. The subsidence zone, strengthened with elaborate grouting, has now become an open space since 27 houses either fell or were razedThe shaft is being built in this open space to pull out both the machines that were moving from Esplanade to Sealdah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/piling-complete-for-tbm-retrieval-shaft/articleshow/80740416.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||NGOs, cops & school join hands to provide relief to Karaya fire victims||KOLKATA: Two prominent NGOs, police, schoolteachers and others have come forward to help 20 families rendered homeless in a fire in Karaya on January 26. The fire that was reported around 5am at a Gurusaday Dutta Road vehicle spare parts godown spread rapidly and engulfed the homes in the adjoining slum. Hundreds had to flee to save their lives and were left shivering out in the cold. Karaya Police then reached out to IHA Foundation and HIVE India for help. “We tried to help first by serving them food and other essentials till the time their homes were rebuilt,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of IHA Foundation, adding, “Once the crisis subsided, each of the families were provided with a complete set of utensils along with a month’s ration to help bring their lives back on track.” Nitaidas Mukherjee, who leads HIVE India efforts, said, “With so many people out in the open, including women and children, it was a challenge to help and rehabilitate them. Many people came forward to help. We got help from police and local MLA Subrata Mukherjee. That helped mitigate the crisis at hand as the state helped shift the victims, to a shelter. Now, several of these homeless people are rebuilding their homes.” Sri Sri Academy principal Suvina Shunglu said, “We received a call for help. The teachers and staffers stepped in immediately to arrange whatever they could, including food and clothes. All this was done within a day. Our students work throughout the year to help in such crises.” “We are trying the best we can with the resources available to us, we are thankful to the authorities for allowing us to serve during this hour of need,” said Raghav Kapur, restaurateur and member of IHA Foundation. Mukherjee, incidentally, is back to work after battling Covid. He spent several days in a ventilator. “It was on the morning of Republic Day that we received a call to help these people. We reached out immediately, like we do in case of other incidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngos-cops-school-join-hands-to-provide-relief-to-karaya-fire-victims/articleshow/80740418.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Temple run: How day-to-day activities will (not) be altered||NEW DELHI: The diminishing fear of Covid-19 is clearly in evidence at Kalkaji Mandir in south Delhi, where the number of daily devotees is rising to the pre-pandemic levels. On Monday, the queue waiting to enter Goddess Kali’s temple was several hundred metres long. Within however, an important change has come. After Delhi High Court’s intervention in a dispute over one of the Bhardwaj families — the custodian Brahmin priests of the temple —conducting rituals and sharing the donations, the 38 donation boxes placed across the shrine have been marked with digital numerical stickers and fresh steel locks. The priests themselves are not happy at the dispute over whether the female Bhardwaj heirs can have a share in the donations, but the devotees seem open minded about it all. Preeti Chauhan, 36, who came from Badarpur with her family, said that a temple of matarani should not be a site of dispute. “Anyone can worship the devi. It is absurd to think that only males can carry out the priest’s work,” she remarked. Another devotee, Aneesh Bisht, dismissed the controversy as one merely related to the sharing of wealth. At the centuries-old temple, the priestly duties, such as doing the aarti, changing the idol’s clothes and other such rituals, are undertaken in turn by representatives of five original groups — one of Avdhoot jogis and four of Gaur Bhardwaj Brahmins — who are accepted to have been given the responsibility by the mandir founders. After the jogis serve a one-month turn, the four Brahmin groups — Rambaksh, Bahadur, Tansukh and Jasram — get their equal month-long turns in succession according to a traditional rota. During a family’s turn, all income from donations and other sources accrues to that family. Mahant Surender Nath, head of Kalkaji Peeth, maintained that puja and property were two separate issues. “The court has asked the wrangling parties to appoint a male representative who will carry out the puja. Tradition has been maintained, so we don’t have any objection in this regard,” Nath said. He, however, alleged that sustained efforts were being made by motivated groups to destroy Hindu traditions in many shrines across India. “Brothers and sisters are fighting. Relations are getting destroyed. Isn’t it better if they sit down and sort out the issues? While following property laws, the norms and traditions of temples cannot be damaged,” the mahant said. The day-to-day management of the temple is done by Shri Kalkaji Mandir Prabandhak Sudhar Committee. Lokesh Bhardwaj, general secretary of the committee, disclosed the plan to appeal against the high court order. “Married daughters don’t have the right in the sewa bari (work turn) because the gotra changes upon marriage,” he maintained. “Even mothers and sisters don’t have this right in the religious place. “The court has not granted them sewa-puja rights, only a share in offerings. All major temples have the same tradition. Will we go down the same path and destroy festivals like Raksha Bandhan and Bhaiya dooj?” With so many families lined up for their turn at getting to manage the monthly collections, a family group gets its next turn only after several years. For the time being, as per the court’s interim order, Kamlesh Sharma, the female petitioner, has been allowed to appoint Rakesh Bhardwaj as the priest during her family’s turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/temple-run-how-day-to-day-activities-will-not-be-altered/articleshow/80756327.cms||Paras Singh
February 8, 2021||Goa||65 new cases, 56 recoveries||Panaji: A total of 65 new Covid-19 infections and 56 recoveries were reported over the past 24 hours. With 1,509 samples tested, the infection rate is a little over 4%. No Covid-19 related deaths were reported. Twenty-seven people were hospitalised and 50 opted for home isolation. There are presently 769 active cases under the health centres of Margao, Panaji, Ponda, Quepem, Curchorem and Porvorim reporting higher active cases than other health centres with 95, 63, 55, 49, 45 and 41 respectively. The state’s recovery rate stands at 97.1%. Cumulative deaths stand at 770. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/65-new-cases-56-recoveries/articleshow/80728324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||‘Woman killed son at home in Pune’||Probing the suicide of a 30-year-old woman who jumped in front of a local on Thursday, after beheading her one-year-old son, Vashi GRP concluded that the woman killed her son at her maternal home in Pune. The woman, who was a Chembur resident, jumped in front of the train at Vashi Creek Bridge, with a bag in which she was carrying her dead son. In camera footage from Pune, the woman is seen leaving the house alone with a bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-killed-son-at-home-in-pune/articleshow/80740427.cms||George Mendonca
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Sinologist & Abanindranath Tagore kin dies at 98||KOLKATA: Bengal school of art founder Abanindranath Tagore’s grandson Amitendranath, one of India’s finest Sinologists, died at his Salt Lake residence on Sunday. He was 98. Amitendranath had joined Cheena Bhawan in Santiniketan in 1943 when his grandfather was vice-chancellor of Visva-Bharati. He was selected by the Nehru government to travel to China for a study trip in 1947. He studied at Peking University. On his return, he started teaching at Cheena Bhavan where he also completed his PhD. He taught at University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia and Oakland University in Michigan, USA. He served as a lecturer at National Defence Academy in Dehradun and Pune as a Chinese expert. ‘Literary Debates in Modern China (1918-1937)’ and ‘Moments Of Rising Mist: a collection of Sung landscape poetry’ are two books written by him that were published from Japan. He also wrote several books in Bengali like Amitkatha and Cheena Mati. Amitendranath is survived by his wife and son. Ayanendranath, his son, said he died due to cardio respiratory failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sinologist-aban-tagore-kin-dies-at-98/articleshow/80740425.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Lucknow||Unicode to give identity to every land in UP||LUCKNOW: Every piece of land in UP will have its own identity. The state government has introduced a 16-digit Unicode to demarcate land, in yet another step to end disputes and save people from falling into the trap of fraudsters. The revenue department will issue this Unicode for marking all kinds of agricultural, residential and commercial land. A person can know the details of the land at a click of a mouse. Of the 16 digits, the first six will be based on the population of the land, while the next four will determine its unique identity. The digits from 11 to 14 will be the number of the division of the land. The last two digits will have the details of the category, through which, the agricultural, residential and commercial land will be identified. A state government spokesperson said this will put an end to the fake registries of disputed lands. While the Unicode assessment for plots has started in all the revenue villages, the work of marking the disputed plots in the computerised management system is being done by the revenue courts. This come close on the heels of another unique scheme of ‘Varasat’, envisaging succession of land and property to put an end to disputes related to land and property. It will also put a check on land mafias, who generally target disputed lands in has been launched to settle ownership issues of houses in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/16-digit-unicode-to-give-identity-to-every-land-in-up/articleshow/80740431.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||BJP, AIADMK will split seats amicably, says Annamalai||Trichy: BJP state vice president K Annamalai in Pudukottai on Sunday said that the BJP and AIADMK will share seats amicably for the upcoming assembly poll to ensure a second term for Edappadi K Palaniswami led AIADMK government in the state. He was responding to a question on BJP pressuring AIADMK for more seats, he was attending a party event in Ponnamaravathi of Pudukottai district. “Both BJP and AIADMK know the strengths of each other. This is unlike in the opposition where former president of Congress party Rahul Gandhi was compelled to tour Tamil Nadu to show his presence after apprehension over possible removal of Congress from the DMK alliance,” he said. When asked about the possibility of creating a third front by forming alliance with like-minded parties, he recalled the words of party president J P Nadda saying that DMK is the biggest enemy of Tamils and Tamil tradition and they should not return to powerin the state. On the other side, ruling AIADMK has ensured good governance by effectively implementing centre’s scheme, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-aiadmk-will-split-seats-amicably-says-annamalai/articleshow/80740432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Smallsat made by AMC school students launched||Aurangabad: As many as 100 Femto satellites, also known as miniaturized satellites or smallsats, including one made by 10 students from an Aurangabad Municipal Corporation-run schools, were launched from Rameswaram, the birthplace of former president APJ Abdul Kalam in Tamil Nadu on Sunday morning. The 10 students, who had worked hard in developing the satellite, watched the launch live along with others. The initiative was part of the Dr APJ Adbul Kalam Space Research Payload Cubes Challenge–2021 and is scheduled to enter into the record books. Suraj Jadhav, one of the team members, said it was a great learning experience. “Science was always my favourite subject but now I have developed more interest in it. The participation in the project has further fuelled my aspirations to pursue higher studies in the field of science,” said the Class X student. Sonali Yadav, Vishal Wahul, Gulnaz Sayed, Rani Chopade, Nandini Mothe, Pratima Mhaske, Sahil Kedare, Irshad Samsher Khan and Rupali Gaikwad were also part of the team. AMC cultural officer Sanjeev Sonar said the team of 10 students was engaged in making smallsat for the last two month. “Ours was the only school from Marathwada to participate in the APJ Adbul Kalam Space Research Payload Cubes Challenge. Students from humble family background mostly study in civic schools and the whole experience of our students taking part in the national level event will motivate all students,” he said. The selected students underwent special training in presence of experts, followed by a workshop in Pune on January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/smallsat-made-by-amc-school-students-launched/articleshow/80738706.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nashik||Work on escalator on platform 4 to finish soon||Nashik: The construction work of escalator connecting platform number 4 with the new foot over bridge (FOB) constructed during the Kumbh Mela is nearing completion, while the escalator is likely to start functioning in around a month’s time. “The Nashik Road railway station is classified as non-suburban grade-2 station in Bhusawal division. We are giving a face-lift to the station with various passenger amenities being developed for the commuters. The latest thing that will be added to the passenger amenities at the station is the escalator (second one at the railway station) on platform number 4,” divisional railway manager Vivek Kumar Gupta. The railway station already has one escalator that allows people to access the FOB from platform number 1. The escalator has been connected to the FOB constructed during Kumbh Mela at Mumbai-end. Using this escalator the passenger can gain access to the FOB and get down at platform number 2 or 3 by using the stairs and even at platform number 4 by using the stairs or ramp. “In addition to the existing ramp and staircase at platform number 4, an escalator and an elevator is being constructed to ensure safe mobility for the passengers travelling by various trains in both directions (Mumbai and Bhusawal),” Gupta said. The officer further pointed out that the FOB near parcel office, which earlier connected only platform number 1 with 2 or 3, was now being extended till platform number 4 and was also to be equipped with another elevator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/work-on-escalator-on-platform-4-to-finish-soon/articleshow/80738712.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to set up expert committee on fee hike issue||MUMBAI: The state education department has said it is setting up a committee of experts after complaints about fee collection in private schools found no redressal in government bodies. Various parents’ associations have staged protests over the past week accusing the education department of inaction. The education department had on May 8, 2020, issued a circular asking schools not to hike fees for the ongoing academic year, provide easy payment options and not force parents to pay fees. However, the circular was challenged in Bombay HC and eventually stayed. In a press note, the education department has clarified they are unable to issue directions to reduce fees as the matter is pending in court since June 2020. The department said the committee of expert officers at the government level will look into legal issues and submit a report on how to reduce fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-govt-to-set-up-expert-committee-on-fee-hike-issue/articleshow/80740439.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Protests not against govt: Church||Kochi: Jacobite Syrian Church has stated that the ongoing protests of the Church is not against the present government and demanded not to politicize the issue. The protests by the Church in front of the secretariat demanding an ordinance to prevent takeover of their churches by the rival faction has entered sixth week. The Church has been conducting day and night protests for the past three days at the protest site. In a statement issued from the Patriarchal Centre Metropolitan Trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios said that the Church welcomes the interference from the side of the government in the past to resolve the dispute. “The Church hopes that a solution to this crisis would happen in the tenure of this government itself. The Church looks at the intervention and discussions by other Church heads and the government with optimism. The Church thinks of the positive approach of the government and the chief minister, including that of the passing of the Cemetery Bill, with gratitude,” Gregorios said. “The Church has no political aim and the protests are for getting the justice that was denied. Statements and actions in conflict with this stand are not that of the Church. The Church has not entrusted anyone to make such statements,” the metropolitan trustee said in the statement. Earlier, JSC News, the official media of the Jacobite Church, had come out with a statement that rival factions are spreading fake news using their logo and name to create confusions among the laity. Meanwhile, prayer protests were held at all churches that have been taken over from the faction on Sunday. A minor clash was reported at Piravom and police have registered a case after members of the Orthodox faction complained that a priest entered the church cemetery without permission, along with other faithful, and offered prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protests-not-against-govt-church/articleshow/80738718.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||Chamoli village struck by glacier burst was cradle of Chipko movement in 70s||Dehradun: Raini, the village in Chamoli where the disaster struck on Sunday, is the cradle of the Chipko movement initiated by villagers in the Uttarakhand hills in the 1970s to save trees. Residents of this ecologically-conscious village say, “We have been crying hoarse over major devastation that was being caused by the hydropower project in our area, but no one paid heed.” Trying to come to terms with the scale of the tragedy that swept away the region leaving behind a massive trail of devastation on Sunday, the villagers told TOI that they had approached almost all the officials of the district administration as well as forest department pointing out that the Rishiganga hydropower plant set up in 2005 was “being built in contravention of all environmental norms”. “We also approached the NGT to protect our biosphere and all the nearby villages, but nothing happened and the power project company continued its work unabated. We have pictures of them using bombs to break rocks. There are scores of carcasses of wild animals which died after falling into the dam due to bomb explosions caused by the hydropower company. Raini was being killed every day, but the authorities remained blindfolded and deaf,” said SS Rawat, former sarpanch of van panchayat Raini, who played an active role in filing a petition against the Rishiganga hydropower project. Incidentally, the hydropower plant is constructed in the buffer zone of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, which is a UN recognized world heritage site. The villagers had even written to the district administration about the threat to the world heritage site and its precious wildlife. In their letter to the SDM of Joshimath in May 2019, a copy of which is with TOI, the villagers wrote, “Since the stone crusher works are going on right in the middle of river, many wild animals, like deer, leopards, black bears etc. are entering our village, which increases risk to the wildlife. Despite the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve being a world heritage site, the stone crusher has not been set even aerially 10 metres away.” When contacted, Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve DFO NB Sharma said, “The hydropower plant is not in the core zone, but in the buffer area. And some of the activities in the buffer zones are allowed if the company concerned meets all the relevant clauses set by the ministry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-village-struck-by-glacier-burst-was-cradle-of-chipko-movement-in-70s/articleshow/80739550.cms||Shivani Azad
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Govt fixes pay fornew Sprinklr panel||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has decided to spend from the state exchequer for the services of the new committee formed to examine the recommendations by the Madhavan Nambiar-led committee on engaging the US-based firm Sprinklr for Covid-19 related data collection. The general administration department has last week issued an order sanctioning a monthly remuneration of Rs 75,000 for the chairman of the new committee K Sasidharan Nair. Another committee member Sumesh Divakaran, who is also a professor at College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, would get Rs 3,000 per sitting. The remuneration of the third member of the committee Vinay Babu, a retired professor from JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad, will be fixed later, the order stated. The committee can also use the services of a data entry operator and an office attendant who have been posted in the Kerala Law Reforms Commission (of which K Sasidharan Nair is the chairman too) for whom an honorarium of Rs 7,500 and Rs 5,000, respectively, will be additionally provided for their extra duty for the committee. However, the Nambiar committee had worked without accepting any remuneration for the task. Interestingly, the terms of reference (ToR) framed for the new committee were almost the same as in the earlier one. ToR for the new committee says that the committee should examine whether the procedures laid down in the rules of business have been followed with respect to the Sprinklr deal, and whether there were any lapses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-fixes-pay-fornew-sprinklr-panel/articleshow/80738725.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||17 GATE subject exams conclude, last 10 to be conducted this week||MUMBAI: Sunday marked the end of the first week of the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) and the four sessions, spread over the weekend, were taken by 4.95 lakh candidates across the country. A total of 17 subject exams were conducted and the average attendance was 78.1%, in line with the percentage that this test records each year. Next week, the remaining 10 subjects will be taken by approximately 4.2 lakh candidates registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/17-gate-subject-exams-conclude-last-10-to-be-conducted-this-week/articleshow/80740446.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Kerala labourer cuts open dead cat to rescue 4 kittens||THRISSUR: In a remarkably humane and rather curious incident, a 39-year-old man, with no formal training in veterinary science or in any other discipline for that matter performed a ‘caesarean’ on a dead pregnant cat and rescued all the four kittens it was carrying. Vakkattveettil Haridas, of Mathilakam Thrippekkulam near Kodungallur, noticed the carcass of a cat, which had been knocked down by a speeding vehicle, lying in the middle of the road at Anchamparathi on Friday night. Haridas parked his motorbike by the road to shift the carcass to the side of the road and possibly bury it there itself. However, when he lifted the carcass he realized it was pregnant and he could feel several heartbeats against his palm. He then decided to perform a ‘caesarean’ to try and rescue the kittens. He purchased a blade from a roadside shop and performed the ‘surgery’ to rescue all the four kittens from the uterus of the cat. Without a device to remove the amniotic fluid from the noses of the kittens he physically sucked it out. After giving some first aid, he placed the kittens in a box with a sponge for comfort. He has been feeding them with baby-food solution orally, using syringes, every half an hour. Haridas, who is from a poor family and currently works as a casual labourer, is now stuck at home looking after the kittens he helped ‘deliver’. “I dropped out of school after 5th standard and have not training in surgery. But I worked as a snake catcher for the last 20 years and also moonlighted as a helper in ambulances. This provided me valuable lessons in dealing with medical emergencies. I have also been a temporary employee with the forest department and during that period l was lucky to receive insights into the help to be provided during postmortem of animals like deer and wild boar which die in accidents,” he said. “I know formal education is important, but the education we gain from day-to-day life experiences and social interactions is equally important,” he said. Kaipamangalam MLA E T Taison Master said all support will be provided to Haridas for rearing the kittens. Veterinarians will be sent to examine their health. Haridas will also be subjected to a medical check-up to ensure that he did not contract any infection from sucking out the amniotic fluid. Haridas will also be honoured at an event to be held in Mathilakam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/labourer-cuts-open-dead-cat-to-save-litter/articleshow/80738732.cms||T Ramavarman
February 8, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Culling of birds begins in Nandurbar, Dhule districts||NASHIK: Nandurbar and Dhule became the third and fourth districts in Nashik division respectively to be affected by the outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu). While in Ahmednagar and Nashik districts wild birds or the backyard poultry were found positive for the flu, in Nawapur taluka of Nandurbar chicken from organized broiler poultry farm tested positive for H5N8 — a strain of the avian influenza virus. District collector of Nandurbar Rajendra Bharud, taking cognizance of the death of around 31,000 poultry birds in Nandurbar district and samples testing positive for the avian flu, has ordered culling zone within 1-km radius and surveillance zone of around 10-km radius from the site of the incident. Around 31,400 birds were culled till Sunday evening in Nandurbar and as many as 12 teams carried out the exercise, while 44 teams have reached the taluka and another 40 are expected to reach the site by Monday morning. “While the birds in the zone will be culled in scientific manner, all poultry feed will also be destroyed in the same manner ensuring containing of the spread of the disease to birds in other parts of the taluka and the district. The birds in backyard poultry will also be culled. At this point in time no poultry birds or equipment will be allowed to be moved from the zone.” Bharud said. Similarly in Dhule, district collector Sanjay Yadav has announced the culling zone in Mehergaon village where the poultry birds had died and the samples were tested positive for the infection and surveillance zone in the radius of 10-km. Bhimraj Darade, sub-divisional officer for Dhule, said, “The transport of poultry and related goods from the surveillance zone has also been banned.” There is at least one more poultry in the region and the animal husbandry department is keeping a close look on the development in the poultry. As of now about 26,000 bird in the poultry in the village along with about 500-odd birds in the houses of the locals will be culled. Animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh, who rushed to Nandurbar, has asked the officials to immediately collect samples from the poultry farms in the area and send them for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-dhule-begin-culling-as-poultry-birds-test-ve-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80738731.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Prove your claims: Expert to Rajesh||Kochi: A day after CPM leader M B Rajesh alleged that a conspiracy was plotted by subject experts of interview selection board to prevent his wife Ninitha Kanicherry’s appointment as an assistant professor at Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Umer Tharamel, one of the subject experts, denied the allegations and challenged him to prove the claims. In a Facebook post that was addressed to the CPM leader on Sunday, Tharammel said Rajesh’s allegation that the subject experts through a middleman has requested Kanicherry to back out from the interview to the post of assistant professor (Muslim reservation) in Malayalam department is not true and no such person has been entrusted by them to do that. He said by sending a letter to the vice-chancellor marking their protest, they did their duty of pointing out a mistake in the appointment process and they are not interested in creating political controversies. Referring to the allegations that in the interview he tried to give prominence to one of the candidates who received a conduct certificate from him, Tharammel said the subject experts did not have any vested interests and had not tried to secure the vacant seat for a candidate of their interest. Tharammel also said he did not “infiltrate” into the selection committee and was present there at the invitation of the vice-chancellor. “The notification regarding the vacancies and interview came out on October 31, 2019. Students can obtain conduct certificates from any of the teachers under Calicut University and such certificates are not given to them foreseeing that later we would be there in the interview selection committee. We can go to any other university as subject experts and we don’t understand the reason behind projecting these are attempts of nepotism. We have not opposed the PhD secured by Ninitha or her skills. Please don’t try to blame us for the allegations circulated in the public domain,” the post said. Tharammel said they are not interested in being a part of the controversies and they have other jobs to do. “That’s why we are not appearing before the media. By raising our concerns and pointing out the mistake we completed our duty. A problem that should have been resolved through academic discussions was turned into a political controversy by us and it happened because of the present political situation in Kerala,” Tharammel said in the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/prove-your-claims-expert-to-rajesh/articleshow/80738752.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Cong blows whistle on CPM leader’s ideological ‘self-goal’||Kozhikode: CPM central committee member M V Govindan’s remarks on the feasibility of dialectical materialism in the Indian context has ignited a debate with Congress claiming the statement has vindicated the party’s stand on communism. Speaking at the district conference of the Kerala School Teachers Association (KSTC) in Kannur, on Saturday, Govindan said it is impractical to implement dialectical materialism in India, which has not been completely freed from the clutches of feudalism. “Indian society has not grown to the stage of bourgeois democracy formed after the French Revolution of 1789. The minds of the majority of people are feudalistic. It is impractical to implement dialectical materialism in a society which is not ready even to accept materialism,” he said. CPM said the vast majority of Indian masses still holds on to different types of beliefs. It is not possible to go ahead unmindful of the reality in the Indian context and think of implementing the ideology of dialectical materialism. So, we can only work within the framework of democracy that encompasses believers and irreligious people, he said. Reacting to the remarks, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the realization that dialectical materialism is not practical was asserted by democratic and secular forces long ago. The decline of the global communist movement attests to the impracticality of Marxist theory, he said. The CPM leader’s admission that feudalism still prevails is best applicable to the party. “The lifestyle and words of some CPM leaders smack of feudalist mentality,” Mullappally said in a Facebook post. KPCC working president K Sudhakaran said Govindan should tender an apology to the working class in the light of his new realization. “His statement is an open admission that all that the party has been saying was wrong. It is important that the realization has dawned upon a person who is handling party classes,” Sudhakaran said. Govindan, meanwhile, came out with an explanation on Sunday, saying he never meant to say that dialectical materialism is outdated. Talking to reporters in Kozhikode, he said what is important is determining how to implement dialectical materialism in the current context. The crucial question in Indian society, which refused to imbibe the ideas of even the French Revolution, is how to use dialectical materialism. The idea is to unite people who believe in different faiths and irreligious people in the fight for the protection of democratic rights, he said, adding that the dichotomy between believers and non-believers is immaterial. Govindan said the state government will hold discussions with all sections of people after the larger bench of the Supreme Court pronounces the verdict on the Sabarimala issue. Asked whether this marks a change in CPM’s stand, he said this is a response to the concrete situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cong-blows-whistle-on-cpm-leaders-ideological-self-goal/articleshow/80738749.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Man strangles wife to death in Mumbai||MUMBAI: An unemployed man strangled his wife at their Borivli home on Saturday around 1.15 pm. A fight broke out between Suraj Babar (32) and his wife Naina (31) at Laxmi Chawl after he suspected her character. Babar strangled his wife with a towel and later rushed her to the hospital where she was declared dead. “Hospital called the police and Babar was arrested. He suspected his wife was in an illicit relationship which drove him to commit the offence,” said Borivli police senior inspector Sudhir Kalekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-strangles-wife-to-death/articleshow/80740456.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao to overhaul party, will tour state to boost network||HYDERABAD: To resolve pending issues in several districts, chief minister and TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao will tour the state and address public meetings after organisational overhaul. He said some issues, including podu land row, can be resolved only at the field level with MLAs and officials. Meanwhile, the TRS president late on Sunday night announced candidature of Palla Rajeshwar Reddy for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates constituency. However, no decision has been taken regarding the nominee for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency. Earlier in the day, the TRS chief, during the party extended executive meeting, said party would hold membership drive from February 12 till February 28. Every assembly constituency should have minimum 50,000 members. From March 1 onwards, election of party committees from village, mandal and district committees would be completed. In April, formation of state committee along with party president election would be completed. KCR also said party would hold its plenary in April, generally around party foundation day on April 27, and a public meeting with about six lakh people. He, however, did not finalise the venue for the party plenary. The party also appointed district in-charges for coordinating membership drive. “In some assembly constituencies, MLAs are dominating and have differences with party leaders and cadre. If you want to win, local party leaders and workers have to work for you. During the last assembly elections, you won the elections as I took up the responsibility. This time, your performance matters for winning the elections,” he reportedly informed the MLAs. Stressing on better coordination between the party leaders at constituency and district level, KCR said district leaders have to meet frequently. “Important leaders can meet in zilla parishad chairperson’s house or minister’s house discuss on strengthening the party and taking the government’s schemes to the people,” he said. The TRS chief also asked the party to be active on social media and counter the false propaganda on the party and government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-overhaul-party-will-tour-state-to-boost-network/articleshow/80739583.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 8, 2021||Nashik||Obeying traffic rules is sign of a good citizen: Pratap Dighavkar||NASHIK: IG (special) Pratap Dighavkar, in a message at a bike rally organised on Sunday by the Nashik regional transport office (RTO), said following traffic rules is a sign of a good citizen. He added that following traffic rules was also a service to the nation. The bike and car rally organized by the Nashik RTO was part of different programmes organized for the 32nd road safety campaign from January 18 to February 17. Among others present at the inauguration were district collector Suraj Mandhare, RTO Bharat Kalaskar, deputy RTO Vinay Ahire and other officers of the RTO and directors of motor driving schools. Mandharesaid though the roads were getting better and vehicles with better technology were hitting the roads, the rate of road accidents had also gone up. He blamed the bad habits of a section of motorists and their mentality for this. He said changing the mentality of motorists was important. Kalaskar said the maximum number of people involved in accidents were those riding two-wheelers. Therefore, to spread awareness, four bike rallies on different routes would cover a total of 1,000 km. D R Khan, Royal Hearted Riders’ Group, Mahindra A R K Auto-Wheels Group, The Riders of Nashik Group, Cruising Gods Group and various other groups participated in the rally. NMC chief inaugurates health camp NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav, meanwhile, inaugurated a free health checkup camp organised by the Maharashtra Natural Gas Ltd (MGNL) for autorickshaw drivers. Also present at the inauguration were MP Hemant Godse, mayor Satish Kulkarni, MD of MGNL Supriyo Haldar, commercial director Sanjay Sharma, director Rajesh Pandey and others. Lauding the health camp, Jadhav appealed to citizens at large to make use of CNG and PNG instead of petrol and diesel to reduce pollution. He added that the income of autorickshaw drivers increases three-fold by the use of CNG. Haldar said soon there would be 40 CNG stations in Nashik and residents would be provided gas pipeline at their doorsteps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/obeying-traffic-rules-is-sign-of-a-good-citizen-dighavkar/articleshow/80738755.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Thanks to Madras HC, girl makes it in phase II of MBBS counselling||MADURAI: The state government has informed the high court that a medical aspirant who missed her first phase of counselling due to internet connectivity issues has been allotted a seat under 7.5% quota at Erode government medical college in the second phase of counselling. It was on the court’s direction that petitioner S Gowsalya was allowed to attend the second phase of counselling since she was not able to view the communication sent because of poor network connectivity. She had completed Class XII in a government higher secondary school at Pazhayanur village in Sivaganga district in 2017. Though she appeared for NEET, she was not able to secure sufficient marks then. She appeared for the test again in 2020 and secured 252 marks out of 720. Though she had a bright chance of securing a medical seat under the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students, she missed the first phase of counselling. The government informed that the petitioner was allotted a seat in Erode government medical college and hospital but the same was withheld for the outcome of this petition. Taking cognizance of the submissions, Justice V Parthiban observed that once the petitioner has earned the seat on the basis of her performance and ranking, she must be allowed to enjoy the fruits of the outcome in the selection. The judge observed that such benefit ought not be denied to a deserving student like the petitioner who hails from a remote rural area. “In the realm of a beneficial public policy of this nature, a liberal and equitable dispositions are to be preferred than adopting a pedantic and inflexible approach, in the larger interest of the recipients of the policy benefits, in order to subserve the ends of justice,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thanks-to-hc-girl-makes-it-in-phase-ii-of-mbbs-counselling/articleshow/80740457.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Why is 24x7 water still a pipedream in Ahmedabad?||Ahmedabad: That decade-old promise now sounds all too familiar, ‘Metered 24 x 7 water supply soon’. But strangely, not a fraction of that ambitious project has materialized. Firstly, the AMC is yet to formulate a policy for metered water supply! “In fact, for a decade there was complete absence of political will to even formulate a metered water policy, without which a 24 x 7 supply is not possible. Individual residents may be forced to pay as they consume water,” said a senior AMC official. Though the AMC claims that an average Amdavadi gets 183 litres a day. In reality, an Amdavadi consumes more, it is 242 litres a day consumed by an individual household, indicating large wastage. “The AMC has committed to introducing water audits prior to taking the Rs 3,000 crore soft loan from the World Bank in December. Water meter is a reality,” says a senior AMC official who did not wish to be quoted. Also, there are areas and residential and industrial clusters that consume more water than less fortunate counterparts in the city. Today, while AMC spends Rs 380 crore to pump water to individual 15.56 lakh households and establishments in the city, Amdavadis pay just Rs 119 crore towards this effort. Of this, residential areas pay just Rs 36 crore. The cost of water production is Rs 3.50 per 1,000 litres for Narmada water. In the last three years, municipal councillors have mobilized households to regularize 28,000 water connections with a Rs 500 fee. “AMC spends around 10.5% of its annual budget for drinking water on supply and augmentation of drinking to almost 6.8 million citizens. To prevent wastage, it is critical to charge fees on overutilization and wastage of water for equitable distribution,” says Patheya budget centre expert Mahender Jethmalani. He adds how a major impediment in optimizing water distribution has been lack of investment in water metering and lack of water audits. “The budget analysis for capital expenditure for last six years indicates that only in year 2015-16, the capital expenditure on water was 91% but in the subsequent years, the capital expenditure was drastically reduced by Rs177.68 crore (2016-17), Rs 243.21 crore (2017-18) and Rs 202.48 crore in 2018. The revised estimate of 2019-20 indicates reduction of Rs.57.53 crore for water development,” says Jethmalani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-is-24x7-water-still-a-pipedream-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/80739561.cms||Paul John
February 8, 2021||Erode||Thanks to Madras HC, girl makes it in phase II of MBBS counselling||MADURAI: The state government has informed the high court that a medical aspirant who missed her first phase of counselling due to internet connectivity issues has been allotted a seat under 7.5% quota at Erode government medical college in the second phase of counselling. It was on the court’s direction that petitioner S Gowsalya was allowed to attend the second phase of counselling since she was not able to view the communication sent because of poor network connectivity. She had completed Class XII in a government higher secondary school at Pazhayanur village in Sivaganga district in 2017. Though she appeared for NEET, she was not able to secure sufficient marks then. She appeared for the test again in 2020 and secured 252 marks out of 720. Though she had a bright chance of securing a medical seat under the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students, she missed the first phase of counselling. The government informed that the petitioner was allotted a seat in Erode government medical college and hospital but the same was withheld for the outcome of this petition. Taking cognizance of the submissions, Justice V Parthiban observed that once the petitioner has earned the seat on the basis of her performance and ranking, she must be allowed to enjoy the fruits of the outcome in the selection. The judge observed that such benefit ought not be denied to a deserving student like the petitioner who hails from a remote rural area. “In the realm of a beneficial public policy of this nature, a liberal and equitable dispositions are to be preferred than adopting a pedantic and inflexible approach, in the larger interest of the recipients of the policy benefits, in order to subserve the ends of justice,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/thanks-to-hc-girl-makes-it-in-phase-ii-of-mbbs-counselling/articleshow/80745400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo remains shut amid bird flu scare||NEW DELHI: Delhi Zoo has remained closed for nearly a year now, earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic and now because of the recent scare of bird flu cases. Asked about the arrival of new species of birds and animals in the zoo, director of National Zoological Park, Delhi, Ramesh Kumar Pandey, said, “We have got a tigress from Kanpur and five species, including wild pigs, from Chandigarh zoo.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-zoo-remains-shut-amid-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80756402.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Another boy dies of suspected dengue||Madurai: Weeks after a seven-year-old boy from S Alangulam in Madurai district died of suspected dengue fever, Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Sunday reported the death of a 6-year-old boy from the same locality due to suspected dengue fever. However, the state government is yet to officially report even a single dengue death in 2020-2021 and the case count has also been much less this year. According to district health officials, the boy was suffering from fever and was brought to a private clinic where he tested positive for dengue in the dengue NS1 antigen rapid test, which is not a confirmatory test. He was taken home after his fever subsided. However, later he started vomiting and his condition deteriorated and he was taken to GRH in a critical condition on Friday. But, he died of haemorrhagic fever on Sunday not responding to treatment. Health officials said that he had symptoms of dengue and his platelet count was low. Two suspected dengue deaths within a few weeks in the same locality in the corporation limits has left the residents in a scare. As many as 67 dengue cases were reported in the district in January, which is the highest monthly count this season. But, health officials said that there is no reason to panic. “S Alangulam locality has more than 6,000 houses with a population of 26,000. There have been hardly one or two dengue cases in the area recently. On priority, we are deploying 50 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) in the locality to carry out preventive measures. They will be supervised by entomologists and health inspectors. After the first suspected dengue death, chlorination, fogging and fever surveillance was also carried out in the area,” said Dr P Kumaragurubaran, city health officer. The health officials urged the public to approach any hospital without delay if someone has symptoms of dengue such as high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain. “We urge the public to avoid staying at home or indulge in self-medication if someone has fever or other dengue symptoms. The patient must seek proper medical help immediately to avoid complications. We have also ordered all PHCs to take samples for testing for dengue from fever patients,” said Dr Kumaragurubaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/another-boy-dies-of-suspected-dengue/articleshow/80740453.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Money lured docs to pvt hosps: Official||Hyderabad: While most doctors who went missing from government hospital duties have engaged in private sector services, there are a few who also kept coming back and joining services occasionally. However, the doctors who have been terminated were not being paid for the period of unauthorized absence. “More than half of them joined private hospitals for the lure of money. Few of them doing private service also came to the hospitals occasionally, in an attempt to keep both jobs,” said an official from the state health department speaking about the issue. “It has been a demotivating factor for others who dutifully did their job,” said an assistant professor from Niloufer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/money-lured-docs-to-pvt-hosps-official/articleshow/80739555.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Pickpockets show aptitude at AAP rally||At least five persons lost their wallets and other valuables at a rally held by the AAP at Purpidit Nagar in Vadaj which was attended by AAP leader and Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia, on Saturday. The loss from the pickpocket hits is estimated to be Rs 54,000. The rally was the AAP’s campaign outreach for the upcoming local body polls. In his FIR filed with Vadaj police, Raju Parmar, a resident of Ambedkarnagar in Vadaj, stated that he and his daughter Hetvi had participated in the rally. “When we went to greet Sisodia, my daughter was stuck in a huge crowd,” Parmar said in his FIR. “In the melee, someone snatched my gold chain and pendant worth Rs 41,000.” Later, he came to know that others had also been targeted by pickpockets. Another resident of Vadaj, Himmatlal Pandya, lost his wallet. His niece Priyanshi lost Rs 1,200 cash to pickpockets. A Sabarmati resident, Natrajan Aadidravid, lost his wallet as well. It contained government identity cards and Rs 5,000. Paresh Parmar, a resident of Vadaj, lost his wallet, which had Rs 7,000. The wallet of another Vadaj resident, Dinesh Thakur, was stolen too. Vadaj police have begun an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pickpockets-show-aptitude-at-aap-rally/articleshow/80739612.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Car driver booked for injuring cop||Madurai: Madurai city police registered a case against the driver of a car registered in Chennai for rash driving causing injuries to a traffic police inspector on Saturday. Nandakumar, inspector at Teppakulam, suffered head injuries when he fell down after the car’s tyre ran over his foot. Police said that a hatchback car was approaching Teppakulam junction from Kamarajar Salai. As a police team led by the inspector tried to stop it, the car sped into the newly-laid road on the Vaigai River bank, which has not opened for public use. Police knew that it was closed at the other end at Viraganoor. The police inspector stationed his vehicle on the road expecting the vehicle to return. The vehicle, which returned at high speed sneaked through a small space available and in the process ran over the officer’s foot. A case was registered under various sections including 353 and 337 . The driver has been traced using the vehicle number and has been summoned to appear for an inquiry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/car-driver-booked-for-injuring-cop/articleshow/80740464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Make quota roster public, says UGC||Kozhikode: Amid the row in Calicut University over non-publication of reservation roster governing ongoing appointments to teaching posts, UGC has issued a circular asking all the universities to make public the reservation rosters by displaying it in their websites. The circular issued by the UGC to registrars of all the universities and grants-in aid institutions in the country also insist that the reservation rosters should be updated at regular intervals. While the syndicate meeting of Calicut University had on January 30 approved the reservation roster governing the ongoing faculty appointments, the copy of the roster was not given even to syndicate members, giving rise to allegations that the roster was being kept secret to make undue interventions in the selection process. UDF-affiliated syndicate member P Rasheed Ahammed had approached governor and chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan to issue direction to the vice-chancellor to make the roster public. Ahammed said the UGC circular directing the varsities to make public the reservation roster has validated the demand they have been raising to immediately publish the reservation roaster, especially when the Calicut University is making the biggest appointment of teachers in history to fill up vacancies in 116 faculty posts. “The varsity is desisting from publishing the reservation roster, which is a crucial document specifying the reservation status of the particular vacancy in a department. Also, the university is not forthcoming even to reveal the date of occurrence of the vacancies in departments on the basis of which rotation of reservation is calculated. What is at stake is the transparency in the selection,” he said. Meanwhile, varsity authorities have been maintaining that the reservation roaster has not been made public as the appointment process was still continuing and that the high court had in its order said the reservation norms are to be applied at the time of appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/make-quota-roster-public-says-ugc/articleshow/80738761.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Iconic double-deckers set to make comeback in Hyderabad after two decades, tender released for 25 buses||HYDERABAD: The iconic double-decker buses, which were a common sight in Hyderabad since the Nizam’s generation and were phased out in the late 1990’s, are set to make a comeback in the city soon. After contemplating a re-launch over the last few months, Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has invited tenders to bring back the services on a few routes across the city. Tenders have been called for 25 such fully built non-AC intra-city buses. The buses will be propelled by diesel conforming to BS-VI emission standards, Central Motor Vehicle Rules and Telangana state motor vehicle rules. “The tenderer shall be well established and must have manufacturing and supply facilities of fully built buses in India. The manufacturer shall have type approvals as per CMV Rules and AIS,” an excerpt from the tender reads. A committee appointed to study the routes has suggested Secunderabad- Patancheru via Balanagar, Secunderabad-Medchal via Suchitra, Koti-Patancheru, CBS-Jeedimetla and Afzal Gunj-Mehdipatnam as potential routes. “We have invited tenders from all reputed manufacturers. Once tenders are finalised, all 25 buses will be operated within Greater Hyderabad limits,” said TSRTC chief mechanical engineer Raghunath Rao. Interested companies have been instructed to send sealed tenders to chief mechanical engineer. The idea to re-introduce the buses came after IT minister KT Rama Rao responded to a tweet from a youngster going on a nostalgic trip about travelling on double-deckers in his school days. Addressing transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar in his tweet, Rao said, “Not sure why they were taken off the roads. Any chance we can bring them back Transport Minister @puvvada_ajay Garu? (sic)”. TSRTC is scheduled to convene a pre-bidding meeting on February 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iconic-double-deckers-set-to-make-comeback-after-two-decades-tender-released-for-25-buses/articleshow/80739654.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro inches towards 400km club, set to climb to 8th on world ladder||NEW DELHI: Next year, Delhi Metro will complete 20 years of operations. But that’s not the only milestone it will reach in 2022. It will also become the eighth largest Metro network in the world by joining the coveted 400km club, which includes the transit systems of Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenzhen, Moscow and London. The corridor that will take Delhi Metro to new heights is a rather diminutive one — the 12.5km Maujpur to Majlis Park corridor of Phase IV. When Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) first started construction work on the Phase IV project in December 2019, it was the 29km Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor, which is an extension of Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West). However, DMRC has now shifted its focus to the Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor, which will turn Pink Line (Shiv Vihar-Majlis Park) into a complete circle as it will be the first section of Phase IV to be opened to the public. By that time, the 1.5km missing link at Trilokpuri is also expected to be bridged and Pink Line would function with complete circular services. Times ViewThe Metro has long replaced the DTC as the city’s top public transport. It is emblematic of a modern city on the move. Over the years, the Metro has performed its task with efficiency, for which it must be congratulated. Last year, the outbreak forced the Metro to curtail its services. Now with the virus In retreat, full service must be resumed with health precautions.DMRC managing director Mangu Singh told TOI the corporation is putting more effort in completing the Maujpur-Majlis Park corridor first. “It will be the first section to open and our intention is to complete it by the end of next year. By doing so, the Delhi-NCR network will cross 400km. That is why this line is very important,” he added. Since the Delhi Metro network is already 389km long, the moment this section of Pink Line is opened, it will cross the prestigious 400km mark that only seven other Metro networks in the world can boast of. Though DMRC started construction on the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor much earlier, issues related to permission for cutting of trees caused delays. “Magenta Line still faces many problems. Though there are some issues on the Majlis Park-Maujpur section too, DMRC is putting a lot of effort behind this corridor. This is now our top priority,” Singh said. Delhi Metro’s network is already larger than most older systems like Paris or New York and would be touching the distance of Moscow Metro (410km) and London Underground (402km), but the top five longest networks are all in China. The metro system in Shanghai (743km) is at the top, followed by Beijing (697km), Guangzhou (541km), Chengdu (519km) and Shenzhen (411km). Delhi Metro’s network will reach 401.5km by 2022-end. The construction of Delhi Metro’s first corridor — Red Line — started in 1998 and the first section between Shahdara and Tis Hazari was opened to the public on December 25, 2002. December next year would see Delhi Metro complete 20 years of operations. The operational Maujpur station has been designed to meet the Phase-IV requirement as an interchange station with four platforms. Even now, passengers who travel to Shiv Vihar have to change trains at Maujpur as a separate Maujpur-Shiv Vihar section functions as an independent line. The interchange at Maujpur, however, is seamless as passengers can directly change trains from the platform level itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-inches-towards-400km-club-set-to-climb-to-8th-on-world-ladder/articleshow/80739634.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Permission lapsed, NHAI contractor fells over 100 century-old trees s||Nagpur: A contractor with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has felled over 100 century-old trees near Akola without permission. These trees were lost as felling continued even after the permission for it had lapsed. Akola deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Arjun Kumar said, “We have sought an explanation from Akola range forest officer (RFO). Till then no extension for tree felling will be granted. It is true the permission for tree felling had lapsed on February 4.” The NHAI is upgrading 100km highway NH-161 from Akola to Washim-Hingoli border from existing two-lane to four-lane. To pave way for widening the road between Akola-Nandkhed (20.20km) falling under his jurisdiction, Akola RFO Rajsingh Ove on January 6, 2021, had granted permission to fell 1,766 trees. The time limit to cut these trees was 30 days, which ended on February 4. Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul aka Munna, founder of Sarpamitra Nisarga Samvardhan Bahuuddeshiya Sanstha, Akola, had lodged a complaint with the chief minister and top authorities about more trees being felled than allowed between Medshi-Akola (47km). Munna said, “In the controversial 20.200km stretch where trees were felled without permission, 5km falls in the municipal limit, where RFO is not the authority to grant felling permission under the Maharashtra Urban Tree Felling Act, 1975. There are 275 trees in the 5km urban limit.” According to him, apart from the permission to fell 1,766 trees, 177 trees were marked red for ‘not to be felled’ “ostensibly to show the NHAI was keen on saving trees but many of these were also felled”. RFO Ove said, “I have issued notice to NHAI for illegal tree felling on February 5 when permission had already lapsed.” The RFO was unaware about powers for granting tree felling permission in urban jurisdiction. Green activist Shrikant Deshpande, who had filed a PIL in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against NHAI for poor plantations on highways, demanded an FIR. “The forest department should seek fresh evaluation of trees in the advent of Supreme Court committee highlighting the value of trees during its lifetime,” said environmentalist Jaydeep Das. Akola NHAI project director Rakesh Jawade said, “The contractor had permission to fell trees.” However, even as tree felling permission lapsed on February 4, Jawade dashed a letter to Akola RFO the same day itself seeking an extension for permission to fell remaining trees. That permission has not been granted yet. Das said the NHAI defied its own policy decision of May 10, 2018, on acquiring land on one side and saving trees on the other. “Had this policy been followed then at least 50% of the trees could have been saved. The authority has felled over 8,000 trees on NH-161 in three sections between Akola-Medshi (48km), Medshi-Washim (45km) and Washim-Pangare (42km),” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/permission-lapsed-nhai-contractor-fells-over-100-century-old-trees-s/articleshow/80739626.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 8, 2021||Pune||Two realtors, lawyer among four held for duping Delhi investor||PUNE: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Pune police on Saturday evening arrested two partners in a city-based construction firm, a lawyer and his brother on the charge of duping an investor from Delhi to the tune of Rs3.40 crore. On Sunday, an EOW team produced Amit Nagpal (48) and Ashish Nagpal (43), both partners in Nagpal Associates and residents of Wanowrie, their lawyer Prakash Kamthe (59) and his brother Ramdas Kamthe (56) before a magisterial court to seek their custodial remand. The court, however, ordered their remand in magisterial custody following which the four immediately moved their bail plea. After a hearing, the court ordered lawyer Prakash Kamthe’s release on bail and sent Amit and Ashish Nagpal as well as Ramdas Kamthe to the Yerawada Central Prison under magisterial custody till February 20. The Kamthes reside in Chandannagar. Sahil Mohan (35), a director of Delhi-based realty company Tej Buildcon, alleged in his FIR lodged with the Bund Garden police station that the Nagpals in collusion with the Kamthe brothers cheated him of Rs3.40 crore after approaching him in 2007 for investment in a realty project at Kharadi. Mohan alleged that the Nagpals promised to give him 16 flats in the project, besides returning Rs3.40 crore (advance taken from him to purchase 1,000 sq m land in Kharadi and construction cost) once the project was completed. This did not happen, Mohan has claimed. He further stated in the FIR that in 2017 he became aware that the documents relating to the project land were bogus and the PMC had demolished a part of the project as the Nagpals had no proper building permission. Also, there was no access route to the project from the main road, as was assured and when he started asking for a refund of his money, the Nagpals gave him evasive replies, he stated. The FIR was later transferred to the EOW for further investigation. According to the police, lawyer Prakash Kamthe did the search and title report for the project while his brother Ramdas did the documentation work and handed over the documents to the complainant when the alleged cheating took place. Lawyer Suchit Mundada, who represented all four accused in the bail matter, said, “The magistrate granted bail to Prakash Kamthe holding that he had no direct involvement apart from simply giving a search and title report. However, in case of the other three, the court held that the police investigation is underway and their involvement is alleged in an economic offence of serious nature. As such, the bail relief cannot be granted to them.” Deputy commissioner of police (EOW) Bhagyashree Navatake told TOI, “We made the arrests after verification of all documents submitted by the complainant and on the basis of the contents of the FIR lodged by him.” Offences punishable under Sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged documents as genuine) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code have been registered in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-realtors-lawyer-among-four-held-for-duping-delhi-investor/articleshow/80739640.cms||Gitesh Shelke
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lens on loan sharks as police learn sailor dabbled in shares||MUMBAI: The 26-year-old navy sailor from Jharkhand who was abducted from Chennai and set ablaze in the jungles of Palghar on Friday might have been killed for money. Investigation have revealed that Surajkumar Dubey, who worked as a leading seaman at INS Agrani in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore, dabbled in shares and had taken loans of over Rs 13 lakh from moneylenders and colleagues, said Palghar district superintendent of police Dattatray Shinde. Around Rs 8 lakh of it was in the form of personal loans. The police said they were studying if Dubey had fallen victim to the loan app scam. Another Rs 5 lakh to Rs 6 lakh was taken from colleagues and moneylenders. A mobile number traced to Dubey showed his share transactions. He had put his money in the share market during his posting in the city in 2019. He had availed himself of the services of two share-broking firms here. His family was unaware of the alternative mobile number and his stock market investments. He had two other mobiles and these had been switched off after he spoke to his family from Hyderabad airport on January 30. Dubey, who died of 90% burns, had in his dying declaration said that three men had abducted him from outside the Chennai airport on January 30. They were demanding Rs 10 lakh, which is believed to have been lent to him. After keeping him in captivity for three days, the unidentified men drove him to Vaiji-Veljipada jungle in Gholvad, on Friday morning. They set him on fire using petrol. Dubey managed to climb down the mountain with the burns and was spotted by locals, who informed the police. His statement was recorded and he succumbed to burn injuries on Friday night. Ten teams and over 100 police personnel have been assigned the investigation. Dubey had received 13 calls from a number the day he left for Chennai. The police are tracking down the caller. Dubey had withdrawn Rs 5,000 from an ATM inside the Chennai airport. In his statement Dubey had said that the men abducted him at gunpoint outside the airport. While the family did not receive any ransom call, it had filed a missing complaint with the Chainpur police station in Palamu district of Jharkhand. The family has now learnt that he had borrowed Rs 9 lakh loan from his fiancee’s parents. Dubey had gone to his village where he got engaged last month. His father, Mithilesh, came to Palghar for the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lens-on-loan-sharks-as-police-learn-sailor-dabbled-in-shares/articleshow/80739668.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||200 Kolkata cops set to take the jab today||KOLKATA: Two hundred city cops — led by commissioner of police Anuj Sharma and other senior Kolkata Police officers — along with a host of other cops from multiple police stations will take the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine at Kolkata Police Hospital on Monday. Though vaccination of cops and other frontline workers had begun in the state from last Thursday, in Kolkata, the drive will begin on Monday. Times ViewCops have been at the forefront of the city’s struggle against Covid. They were forced to handle entirely avoidable street agitations when the city was passing through its worst Covid caseload; simultaneously, they also donated plasma for other Covid victims. We hope that this phase of the vaccination process gets done seamlessly.“Ten vaccination sites will be selected in the city where we have a target of vaccinating 2,000 cops every day. However, on Monday, we will start with only one site at Kolkata Police Hospital. The number of sites will slowly be raised over this week,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. Outgoing city police commissioner Anuj Sharma, who is set to take the first jab, said: “I will be taking the vaccine, along with hundreds of my colleagues, to make it a point that it’s safe to take the vaccine and all of us should take it when our turn comes. Kolkata Police has worked very hard against Covid from the forefront and on the eve of my departure from Kolkata Police I wish the members of the force all the best. But remember despite taking the vaccine we have to take due care and follow precautions of wearing masks, maintaining social distance and using sanitizer all the time.” At the 116-year-old hospital in Bhowanipore, giving multispecialty health services to Kolkata Police, Bengal Police and other allied forces such as CRPF, EFR and fire services department, the buzz was unmistakable on the eve of drive as hospital officials conducted last-minute checks. On Sunday, meetings were held with monitoring teams and emergency medical teams to ensure prompt action in case of any emergency. A separate team looked into internet connectivity and power back-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-city-cops-set-to-take-the-jab-today/articleshow/80739682.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 8, 2021||Kochi||BJP promises ‘love jihad’ law, axing of devaswom boards||Kozhikode: If voted to power NDA will enact a law against ‘love jihad’ — along the lines of the one passed in Uttar Pradesh — and disband all devaswom boards in the state, BJP state president K Surendran said, on Sunday, unveiling the issues that figure prominently in his party’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly election. “These are also concerns of the majority community, not just Sabarimala.” The situation in Kerala is such that no one can ignore the issues raised by the Sangh Parivar, he said. Surendran said UDF’s promise of legislation on Sabarimala is mere eyewash. “We all know what Rahul Gandhi said after the Supreme Court verdict. There is no case against a single UDF worker for participating in the Sabarimala agitation,” he said. The BJP leader said Oommen Chandy’s attitude to the agitation was cruel. “He didn’t utter a single word when BJP workers were being hunted down by the LDF government. He maintained that it was an issue concerning only Hindus,” he said. Surendran said if LDF has really changed its stand on Sabarimala, the government should withdraw cases against all those who participated in the agitation. He said only by disbanding devaswom boards can temples be freed from the clutches of politicians. Leaving temples to believers will end all issues, including protection of the faith in Sabarimala. “The first thing we do if voted to power will be the dissolution of devaswom boards,” he said. He added that ‘love jihad’ is another serious issue. “Christian churches have raised the issue with the Prime Minister. If NDA comes to power, we will enact a law similar to the one passed in Uttar Pradesh to check ‘love jihad,” he said. He also alleged discrimination in the distribution of welfare measures to minorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bjp-promises-love-jihad-law-axing-of-devaswom-boards/articleshow/80738782.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Madurai||China under pressure: Min V K Singh||Madurai: China knows that India will give a fitting reply, if something goes wrong on the border. Today China is under pressure and the BJP government at the centre will make sure that China has not transgressed its permitted limit, said Union minister of state for road transport and highways V K Singh. Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Sunday, he said that his visit was to ensure that the salient features of the Union budget were taken to the people through the media. The budget aims at reviving the economy through various means. Covid-19 has affected the economy in many ways and emphasis is on the revival, he said Regarding China’s aggression on the border, he said that there were different perceptions between the two countries on the border line. India has transgressed more times than China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). People’s refusal to buy Chinese goods has already impacted them, he said. Answering a question on the BJP’s position in Tamil Nadu, he said that the party had developed in the state in the last four to five years and is in a good position. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/china-under-pressure-min-v-k-singh/articleshow/80740471.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||From the house of IIT-Delhi, cleaner and cheaper hydrogen fuel||NEW DELHI: Researchers at IIT Delhi have generated clean hydrogen fuel from water at low cost. A steep rise in global energy demand and the necessity to curb greenhouse gas emissions have driven the researchers to look for cleaner and greener energy sources as alternatives. The study, which was funded by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Energy Centre, saw the researchers successfully split water by a process known as Sulphur-Iodine thermochemical hydrogen cycle to generate low-cost, clean hydrogen fuel for industrial consumption. “Hydrogen gas, a viable choice as a renewable substitute for fossil fuels, can help mitigate emissions,” professor Sreedevi Upadhyayula of Department of Chemical Engineering said. Upadhyayula added that “there is an imminent need to switch over to renewable energy sources, such as water. The thermo-chemical hydrogen cycle for splitting water offers a practical means of generating hydrogen as a fuel and also oxygen as a byproduct. Hence, it can be considered favorably for the commercial production of hydrogen on a large scale in near future.” IIT stated that one of the challenges in the low-cost conversion was to design a suitable catalyst for the energy intensive, corrosive step of sulphuric acid conversion to sulphur-dioxide and oxygen. But the in-house catalyst developed by them, which is now patented, met these criteria. “The modified iron oxide catalyst dispersed on silica surface on a silicon-carbide support catalyst is not only cost-effective but also functional under the high temperature and corrosive conditions of the reaction,” the institute explained in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-the-house-of-iit-d-cleaner-and-cheaper-hydro-fuel/articleshow/80739706.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Will counter Hindu nationalism with Indian nationalism: Asaduddin Owaisi||AHMEDABAD/BHARUCH/SURAT: The All I ndia Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) made a foray into Gujarat’s politics with party chief Asaduddin Owaisi launching an all-out offensive against both the BJP and the Congress. Tearing into the BJP and Congress alike, Owaisi on Sunday said that AIMIM will counter Hindu nationalism with Indian nationalism.  “There is no intellectual honesty left in the Congress party, it wants to counter Hindu nationalism with Hindu nationalism. With the Constitution of India as its guiding book, AIMIM will counter Hindu nationalism with Indian nationalism,” Owaisi said at a public rally at Sabarmati riverfront. Attacking the Narendra Modi-led Union government over the Chinese incursion into Indian territory, Owaisi said, “The Chinese took over Indian territory recently because they know that the Indian government is preoccupied in spreading hate in the country instead of guarding the country’s borders.” Addressing the PM, he said that if the barricades used to stop farmers were put up in Ladakh, Indian territory would not have been taken over. “The PM has not even named China in his speeches,” Owaisi said. Earlier, in Bharuch, Asaduddin Owaisi, with tribal strongman and founder of Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) Chhotu Vasava by his side, called upon all minority communities and deprived class, to unite against the ruling BJP in the state. Owaisi, who has forged alliance for the upcoming civic body polls with the BTP, said that BJP and Congress were like an uncle (mama) and nephew (bhanja). “Congress and BJP are like mama and bhanja. That is the reason why BJP has been ruling in Gujarat for the last 25 years. Both these parties are the same and that is the reason why marginalized people need a strong alternative,” Owaisi said. While addressing the gathering, MLA from Jhagadia Chhotu Vasava asked people to vote out this government that has violated the Constitution of the country and denied tribals their rights. “Recent declaration of Kevadia Development Authority near the Statue of Unity (in Narmada district), is one example of how the land rights of tribals were snatched by the government. In Gujarat, only Muslims, tribals and OBCs together can bring a political change,” said Vasava. The AIMIM is to contest local body polls of Godhra and Modasa in Gujarat. It has decided to field 21 candidates in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation elections. Host farmers like you treated Obama: Owaisi to PMBharuch: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers to his residence like he had hosted then US President Barack Obama, and repeal the new farm laws. Addressing a rally for upcoming polls to local bodies in Gujarat, the Hyderabad MP also asked the PM to be “large-hearted” and “understand pains” of the farmers who have been protesting at borders of Delhi over the last two months demanding to scrap the agri marketing legislations. “The way the farmers are being treated is not right. It is wrong. The PM should invite the farmers to his residence like he had offered tea to (then US President) Barack Obama with his own hand (in 2015), which is fine as he was our guest. We expect the PM to invite the farmers, offer them tea and biscuits and tell them the (agri marketing) laws are being repealed, and that they should be happy,” Owaisi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/will-counter-hindu-nationalism-with-indian-nationalism/articleshow/80739676.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||‘RecycleU’ to delete e-waste||Chandrapur: The Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) has launched ‘RecycleU’, through which the sanitation department will collect e-waste at your doorstep and give manure in exchange. Despite many measures undertaken at different levels for environmental conservation, e-waste still remains a cause for concern. ASPM, a Chandrapur-based NGO, developed this app for the corporation. Citizens can now hand over e-waste like defunct radios, depleted batteries, computer monitors, mouse, mobile, defunct electronic equipment, bad watches, etc to the sanitation department and get wet manure in exchange. Mayor Rakhi Kancharlwar has urged citizens to download app on their mobile. “They have to just upload a photo of the e-waste at their home. According to the location obtained through the app, sanitation workers will come to their house and collect the e-waste. They will be compensated with green manure in exchange of e-waste” she said. Citizens will also get some points as soon as they post a photo of e-waste on the app. Prizes will be given to those who get more points. The app will be helpful in creating awareness regarding e-waste management. It will also provide a platform for advertisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recycleu-to-delete-e-waste/articleshow/80739689.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||3.13 lakh frontline workers to be inoculated at 650 booths across MP from today||BHOPAL: Vaccination of 3.13 lakh frontline workers will start from Monday at around 650 vaccination booths across the state. Messages will be sent to around 78,000 workers in the state. Of these, around 65,000 will be asked to come for vaccination, others will be asked to remain alert and they could be called. These workers include police personnel, civic workers, revenue workers, even fire-brigade and other such emergency service personnel are included in it. All other norms, including precautionary norms and vaccination booth norms will remain unchanged, added sources. Sources said that the move is aimed at increasing turnout on a particular day, and at the same time, further minimising the already low vaccine wastage. It was seen during the previous vaccination days that though only 60-70 of the 100 people, who were called for vaccination, came, other people who were eager to get vaccinated, could not do so as their turn had not come, added sources. The data regarding these frontline workers has been collected from the concerning departments by the health department, said sources. The administering of the first dose of vaccine to the health workers is already over and the second doses will also be completed before March 7. For frontline workers, the second dose of vaccines will be administered to from the first week of March. Both these vaccination processes is likely to be over by the middle of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-13l-frontline-workers-to-be-innoculated-at-650-booths-across-state-from-today/articleshow/80738795.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 8, 2021||Delhi||10-month low: Two Covid deaths in Delhi for 3rd time in week||NEW DELHI: For the third time this week, Delhi reported two Covid-19 casualties in the past 24 hours on Sunday. The first week of February has, in fact, seen the lowest average death count since April 2020. The capital reported 119 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, while the number of patients who recovered from the disease was 179, taking the number of active cases down to 1,112. A total of 54,247 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, including 34,102 RT-PCR tests with a positivity rate of 0.2%. While the city witnessed around one lakh fresh Covid-19 cases in both September and October, the figure touched 1.8 lakh in November. The numbers started dropping from December, which saw 54,995 fresh cases. Cases plummeted to 9,727 in January, the lowest since April last year, when a total of 3,395 cases were recorded. While the number of fresh cases and positivity rate has been dropping drastically, the death rate has been a cause of concern. January saw 10.2 deaths on average each day with 317 deaths, the lowest for a month since April 2020. Delhi had witnessed 414 Covid-19 fatalities in the month of May, at an average of 13.3 deaths every day. In the first seven days of February, Delhi has recorded a total of 26 deaths, or 3.7 deaths per day on average. On Monday, February 1, the capital had recorded three Covid-19 fatalities, while two deaths were reported on Tuesday (February 2), making it the lowest figures in the past 10 months. On Wednesday and Thursday, the figures were six and seven, respectively, and dropped to two again on Friday. The cumulative Covid-19 death toll in Delhi currently stands at 10,873. The total number of Covid positive cases reached 6,36,035 on Sunday, while the number of those who have recovered stood at 6,24,044 — a recovery rate of 98.1%. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Sunday came down to 969 from 977 on Saturday. Out of the total 1,112 active cases, most patients (511) are admitted in hospitals, while 465 are recuperating in home isolation, apart from 15 in Covid Care Centres and two in Covid Health Centres. Out of the 6,135 Covid beds reserved in hospitals, 5,624 lie vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-month-low-two-covid-deaths-for-3rd-time-in-wk/articleshow/80739661.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 8, 2021||Delhi||CSE’s warning on emission leeway for thermal plants||New Delhi: Days after Uttarakhand glacier burst, which could be an indicator of climate change, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has written to the Union environment ministry, forest and climate change, cautioning them to not extend the deadline of meeting emission norms for coal-based thermal power plants in the country. While the deadline is 2022, the ministry was apparently mulling over a proposal to extend it to 2024. CSE stated coal-fired power plants were some of the most polluting industries in the country, accounting for over 60% of the total particulate matter emissions from all industries, as well as 45% of the SO2, 30% of oxides of nitrogen and over 80% of the mercury emissions. “Extending the deadline will have grave repercussions for the fight against air pollution. It will also mean a complete mockery of the Supreme Court and Indian regulators’ efforts to control pollution from the coal-based thermal power sector over the last five years,” said Sunita Narain, director general, CSE. In January 2021, the power ministry had sent a request to extend the deadlines allotted to 448 operational power generating units. The proposed extension is up to two years from their existing deadlines. The extension was sought on the account of uncertainties and delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic and other issues. A week before this, the power ministry had argued for a dilution of the sulphur dioxide norms as well. “The power ministry’s move seems to have been influenced by the industry’s consistent efforts to dilute and delay the norms. The industry is obviously not bothered about the health risks posed by these coal-based power plants,” Narain adds. Nivit Kumar Yadav, programme director, industrial pollution unit, CSE, says the power ministry’s request is in a way rewarding all those plants, which have not yet acted on the 2015 notification of switching to cleaner technology. “We request the ministry to consider our first run policy and incentivise plants that are meeting the norms,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cses-warning-on-emission-leeway-for-thermal-plants/articleshow/80756445.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Criminal who killed Delhi cop arrested||NEW DELHI: Five months after a Delhi Police constable was murdered in Uttar Pradesh during a robbery bid, a notorious inter-state criminal involved in the crime was arrested from near Signature Bridge. The accused, Mohammed Hasan, is the Man Friday of slain UP-based gangster Javed, the mastermind of the cop’s killing. Javed was shot dead last week by Special Cell. “Hasan who has 15 cases against him was arrested by a team led by inspector Shiv Kumar, SI Rajesh and others,” a senior officer from the Special Cell said. Hasan, Javed and two others had waylaid constable Manish Yadav in Singhawali area of Baghpat in September last year. The accused asked him to hand over his belongings. When Yadav resisted, the goons fired at him and looted his pistol, ID card and Rs 20,000 he was carrying. Hasan was cornered recently near the pontoon bridge but he tried to fire at the cops and flee. He was overpowered and disarmed. His pistol, cartridges and bike were seized. After the cops’ murder, Hasan had been changing his hideouts in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka before coming to Delhi last month. Two of his associates were arrested while Javed was gunned down last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/criminal-who-killed-delhi-cop-arrested/articleshow/80739731.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||NMC not providing assessment sheets with property tax demand||Nagpur: A delegation of Nagpur Municipal Corporation House Tax Grievance Redressal Society (NMCHTGRS) met municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and pointed out that the civic body’s property tax department was not following rules leading to loot of citizens. The commissioner assured to look into the matter. Society secretary Shankar Gulani told TOI that as per Section 8 (d) of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, the NMC must send a notice under Section 8 to the property owner before assessing his property tax. “The property owner should be present when NMC staffers do the survey. However, NMC is not following this rule since 2015,” he said. Gulani charged that as NMC officials were not following this rule, many people had received property tax demands for a house on a vacant plot. “Those living in single-storied buildings have been sent demands for multistoried buildings and vice versa,” he added.Former municipal commissioners Shyam Wardhane and Aseem Gupta had directed property tax officials to provide assessment sheets and sketch of the property along with the demand. However, this directive was followed only for a few months. “NMC later said that a person can see the assessment sheet online. However, the fact is that the link does not open on its website for months. In the absence of assessment sheets, we don’t know whether the NMC has calculated our property tax properly or not,” said Gulani. The activist further said that as per the MMC Act, if a person files an objection to the assessment of his property tax then the NMC must decide on it within nine days. “However, no decisions on objections is taken for years and NMC continues to issue demand for its assessed amount,” he added. Amar Ramani, an advocate, said that filing of objections should be made online by NMC. “If the property tax officer does not take a decision within the stipulated time then the case should automatically move to a higher official. If this official also does not take a decision within a reasonable period then the case should automatically reach the municipal commissioner. If this system is adopted, property tax officers will start deciding on the objections within nine days, instead of years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-not-providing-assessment-sheets-with-property-tax-demand/articleshow/80739717.cms||Ashish Roy
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||80% health workers already vaccinated||Bhopal: Around 3.41 lakh of the total 4.17 lakh health workers—both government and private sectors—have been vaccinated in the state. This is close to 80% vaccination, which as per the information available till 6 pm on February 6, on the Union government’s portal, was highest in the country. Vaccination of the health workers in MP started on January 16 and continued for around two weeks—four days a week— and a total of 2.98 lakh health workers were vaccinated in those two weeks. Later, a catch-up round for including the health workers who were left out was held between Febraury 4 and February 6. During this round, more than 40,000 health workers were vaccinated in the state. Thus, overall, around 3.41 lakh health workers were vaccinated in the state. Officials took several measures to motivate people for vaccination, including fact that senior officials like chief medical and health officers of the districts, deans of medical colleges and others got vaccinated first so that others could also be motivated, as initially there were several apprehensions, sources said. During the entire vaccination drive, no serious adverse event was reported in the state, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/80-health-workers-already-vaccinated/articleshow/80738801.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Bombs hurled at T’lveli police stn||Madurai: Unidentified people hurled country-made bombs at Thachanallur police station in Tirunelveli on Sunday, while a community leader was inside. There were no casualties in the incident. Police said that Devendrakula Ezhuchi Iyakkam president Kannabiraan had come to the station to put his signature in the police register as per his bail condition for criminal cases pending against him. The bombs were thrown in the station compound at around 10:30 am while he was inside the station. The accused who came on three bikes, escaped from the spot after hurling the bombs. Out of the three bombs thrown, two went off while one was diffused by the police. Police suspect that the attackers could have targeted Kannabiraan as he has been visiting the station around the same time for past few days to put his signature. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Tirunelveli city, A Saravanan, said that the bombs were low intensity ones akin to crude bombs. “We have collected CCTV footages, which show the faces of the suspects. Four special teams have been formed to find them. They will be arrested soon,” he said. Police officials said that while escaping the accused also dropped a bomb on the road, which went off later when a vehicle ran over it. A case has been registered against the suspects.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bombs-hurled-at-tlveli-police-stn/articleshow/80740473.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Cop advisory on hiring guards||KOLKATA: The arrest of a security guard in connection with the brutal murder of a nine-year-old girl inside a four-storey building at Jorabagan on Thursday night has brought back memories of another school student’s rape and murder in the city almost three decades ago. That the city faced a similar incident after 31 years turns the lens on the recruitment of private security guards or durwans, even though private agencies appoint them after multiple screenings and also monitor their work round the clock. The officers of Kolkata police said that though they are aware of the rising costs to engage private security agencies, there are “a few basic things that should not be compromised.” “While recruiting a security guard, it is always good to choose someone local, so that the person can be traced along with his family. The recruitment should not be done on the basis of mere word of mouth, rather a thorough background check is needed. It is also important to ensure that the person has a genuine ID,” said a police officer. Cops have listed nearly 200 agencies, from where security guards are recruited. Satnam Ahuluwalia, general secretary of Central Association of Private Security Industry (CAPSI), said, “The incident at Jorabagan is shameful and we condemn it. Some individuals are damaging the image of our industry by offering cheap services. Being licensed units, we have a stringent verification process, by which important documents are collected. Even after recruitment, our area managers visit the clusters, where the guards are employed, at night and they get in touch with the clients.” Last year, the MHA has brought several changes, including training for private security guards. All private security guards will, henceforth, have to undergo at least 20 days of physical training for crowd control, fire fighting and identification of IEDs while the owners of private security agencies will have to go through six-day training on subjects like internal security and disaster management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-advisory-on-hiring-guards/articleshow/80739729.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cops establish ID of murdered man||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Sunday established the identity of the young man who was found murdered at an isolated spot near old Katraj tunnel the previous day. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI, “The deceased, Ajitsingh Gorakh Singh (23) of Uttar Pradesh, used to work as a painter at different construction sites in the city. He was staying alone at a rented house in Khed–Shivapur. On Sunday, we managed to establish contact with the contractors who had employed Singh. We are also questioning two men in the case.” Singh’s body was found with a deep cut wound. Police said he had died of head injuries. “The deceased was assaulted with sharp weapons, as well as heavy blunt weapons,” Kalaskar said. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police station on Saturday evening registered a case of murder against the unidentified persons for killing Singh for unknown reasons. The suspects, after murdering Singh, disposed of his body in the Katraj ghat section during the wee hours of Saturday, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-establish-id-of-murdered-man/articleshow/80739730.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS mayor’s name to come in ‘sealed cover’||Hyderabad: With great demand for mayor post in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), chief minister and TRS supremo K Chandrasekhar Rao has said the party will pick the candidate and inform corporators and ex-officio members (MLAs, MLCs and MPs) just before the election. Mayor election will be held on February 11 after corporators take oath. The State Election Commission (SEC) has already issued a notification for the election. “All the corporators and ex-officio members who have voting rights in the mayor election have to come to Telangana Bhavan on February 11 at 9am and take the brief. The party will hand over a sealed cover with the name of mayor. The cover will be opened just before the election. They have to leave in a bus to the GHMC headquarters,” KCR informed the leaders during the party’s executive meeting on Sunday. About half-a-dozen candidates (corporators) were eyeing the mayor post.  Though the seat is reserved for woman (general), party sources said the party might consider a BC woman candidate also. Party sources said the party got confidential reports on the possible candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mayors-name-to-come-in-sealed-cover/articleshow/80739722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Delhi||BJP names candidates for Delhi municipal bypolls||NEW DELHI: Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday announced its candidates for the upcoming bypolls in five municipal wards of Delhi. Both Aam Aadmi Party and Congress had announced their candidates on Saturday. Although the bypolls to be held on February 28 are only for five wards, the three political parties have started campaigning already as these are being seen as the precursor to municipal elections slated for April 2022. BJP has fielded Surbhi Jaju, daughter-in-law of deceased councillor Renu Jaju from the Shalimar Bagh ward. Jaju, who is a homemaker and also active in local politics, will be contesting against AAP’s Sunita Mishra and Congress candidate Mamta. The Rohini C ward would see BJP’s Rakesh Goel pitted against AAP’s Ramchandra, who is a former MLA from Bawana, and Mewati Barwala of Congress. Goel is a resident of Shahbad Dairy and is Mandal Rohini C BJP president. He had fought the 2017 municipal election too. BJP has fielded Mohd Nazir Ansari, who is former president of Minority Morcha of North East District BJP, from the Chauhan Bangar ward. Ansari, who has been a BJP worker for over two decades, will be contesting against AAP’s Mohammad Isharaq Khan and Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad of Congress. From Trilokpuri East ward, BJP has fielded Om Prakash Gugarwal, who is former Mandal President of Trilokpuri East and is settled in the area. Gugarwal is pitted against AAP’s Vijay Kumar and Congress’s Bal Kishan. BJP has fielded its party worker Siya Ram Kanojia from the Kalyanpuri ward and he is pitted against Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) of AAP and Dharampal Maurya of Congress. In a statement, BJP said that “Kanojia is from the Dhobi Samaj, is economically backward and lives in a jhuggi in the Kalyanpuri area.” The state EC has announced bypolls to fill vacancies for two municipal councillor seats in north and east corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-names-candidates-for-municipal-bypolls/articleshow/80739741.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Bird flu scare sends mutton prices soaring||NAGPUR: The bird flu scare has brought some good times for goat farmers. Like the poultry industry, goat rearing for meat is not an organized sector. Small farmers, mainly from villages in neighbouring districts of Madhya Pradesh, rear goats as a backyard allied agricultural activity and sell the animals at the markets in Nagpur. Bird flu has brought down the demand for poultry meat in turn increasing that for red meat from goats. On an average, local mutton shops are selling meat at Rs700 to Rs720 a kg. This is an increase of over Rs100 since the bird flu scare began last month. Meat traders say bird flu led to a quick increase in the demand for meat. “Traders of live animals too have increased prices,” said Mohammed Ziauddin Ansari, a broker in the goat market at Nagpur. Sohel Qureshi, who heads the brokers’ association, said butchers earn a margin of around Rs50 a kg. They had no choice to but to increase the rates after farmers hiked prices. “Earlier, a farmer sold a live animal for Rs550 to 600 a kg, the prices have been increased by Rs100, which has been passed on to the consumer by butchers,” he said. Saddam Ansari, a farmer from Seoni district in Madhya Pradesh, said the demand for meat due to bird flu scare has also hit the availability of animals in rural areas. “Earlier, animals could be easily brought from villages for even 580 a kg. The rates have increased now and it’s not easy to get enough animals for the market in Nagpur either,” he said. Poultry rates on the other hand have begun to improve slowly. Raja Dubdhade, president of Vidarbha Poultry Association, said rates of live birds have now touched Rs60 a kg. On Saturday, it was Rs55, and had touched even Rs35 to 40 earlier. “It is still below the break-even point. Poultry farmers need to get at least Rs80 a kg to recover expenses. There is enough demand in the hotel industry but not from households,” said Dubdhade. The awareness drive by the government that eating properly cooked meat and eggs is safe has also helped in bringing back the demand for poultry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bird-flu-scare-sends-mutton-prices-soaring/articleshow/80739739.cms||Shishir Arya
February 8, 2021||Madurai||This DSP lets govt job aspirants dream big||Dindigul: A DSP in the district has been providing free coaching to thousands of aspirants to realise their dream of joining government services. DSP (trainee) CMR Manimozhiyan, a native of Kanalapadi village Thiruvannamalai district, who has fought many odds to get into the job of his choice, had his life turn around after joining the Ayakudi coaching centre in Palani. He had completed schooling with decent marks and got a seat in engineering, but due to financial constraints he had to look for other options. He studied diploma in nursing at the Madurai medical college since it was free and he would get a modest stipend. Upon completion, he got a job in Dindigul government hospital with a paltry consolidated pay of Rs 3,500 a month. With some money in hand, he decided to spend a part of it to pursue graduation and took up a correspondence course. In conversion with a random person at the hospital, he learnt about the Ayakudi coaching centre and visited it, which was an eye opener. He came to know he too can try for government exams as correspondence was adequate. “First, I cracked a central government job in the intelligence bureau, but somehow could not join. But, it instilled a lot of confidence in me. I went on to crack various central government jobs in railway,insurance and banking sector,” Manimozhiyan said. He resigned a well-paying bank manager job and took up a lesser paying revenue inspector post as it would give him an opportunity to serve people more closely. In 2017, he cracked the group-I exam and got the post of assistant commissioner at the commercial taxes department. He cracked the exam again with better marks and got a DSP posting in 2019. Taking cue from Ayakudi coaching centre, he started Dr APJ Free Coaching Centre at his house in his native village four years back and later shifted it to a government school in headquarters,where he could accommodate more. After Covid-19 broke out, he has been reaching out to aspirants online. “Around 14,000 people are in contact through various social media groups. Online tests are conducted on weekends for around 1,500 aspirants. All the hard work has started bearing fruit as 37 have got into various departments and cadres. With results for a few more exams yet to be released, many more would land in jobs in another few months,” he said. N Sasireksha, an inspector from dairy development department, said, “He brought his batchmates to coaching classes and gave motivational speeches inspiring many aspirants. He also brought faculties from various places and engaged classes.” Muniraj, a teacher from Tiruvannamalai, who got selected for district education officer posting, said, “847 people cleared the exams and 47 were called for the final interview for 20 vacancies. Many went to paid coaching centres, but I managed to get the job with the help of free coaching. I am proud that I was the only one who got in the entire district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/this-dsp-lets-govt-job-aspirants-dream-big/articleshow/80740474.cms||V Devanathan
February 8, 2021||Pune||Paid parking may begin in PCMC limits from March||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The paid parking policy will most likely be implemented from March in six zones of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits in the first phase. The policy was approved in the last week’s standing committee meeting of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).  The parking charges would be Rs5 per hour for two and three-wheelers, Rs10 for cars and tempos, Rs25 for trucks and minibuses and Rs100 for private buses and heavy vehicles. . The six zones in the municipal limits include Nigdi-Walhekarwadi Spine Road, Chinchwad to Walhekarwadi Road, KSB Chowk to Chinchwad station, Thergaon Gaothan Road, Telco Road and Nashik Phata to Moshi Road and Nigdi’s Bhakti-Shakti Chowk. Rajan Patil, city engineer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “We are sure the paid parking policy will be the beginning of disciplined traffic on the roads. The results will not be visible right away, but we are sure this will bring a new sense of responsible driving among citizens.” The city engineer added that with the final formalities pending in the contractor agreement, they were hoping to get it started latest by March. Patil added that the general body of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had approved the making of the parking policy in 2018. However, the initial tenders did not garner any response and few of the conditions had to be tweaked. Another civic body official said that at present, there was a lot of haphazard parking across many areas in Pimpri Chinchwad. The busy market areas were the most affected ones, which is why the areas chosen in the first phase were the ones that had frequent parking issues. Patil said that additional areas would be added in a phase-wise manner. Maruti Bhapkar, an activist, said that the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had to make sure the system of paid parking remained transparent as contractors would be roped in for the management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/paid-parking-may-begin-in-pcmc-limits-from-march/articleshow/80739758.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||BJP councillors & mayors took foreign trips on corporation funds: AAP||NEW DELHI: AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak on Sunday alleged that several BJP councillors, including Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, mayors and officials undertook several trips inside and outside India using corporation funds even as civic staff were not getting their salaries. BJP rubbished it, saying that “AAP is exaggerating a small issue, which is a normal protocol affair.” “Former mayor Preeti Agarwal and Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta have gone for such trips using the corporation money. Former mayor Avtar ji went to Kathmandu, former councillor Garima Gupta went to Aurangabad and Adesh Gupta went to Mumbai. Avtar ji also went to Gujarat,” Pathak claimed, adding that unpaid corporation employees, on the other hand, were protesting for several months. Pathak on Sunday demanded that in the next 48 hours, the BJP-run corporation should make public the information about all such trips and tours. “These should be investigated,” he said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP functionaries were in a habit of exaggerating things. Kapoor said trips by Delhi government ministers or mayors to other cities were a normal protocol affair and claimed that Delhi government was bearing expenses of many political tours of AAP ministers, including Manish Sisodia, to several states “under the garb” of study tours of schools. “Corporations are in a deep financial crunch due to the Arvind Kejriwal government withholding funds since 2020 while the two official trips of erstwhile mayors under dispute are of 2018 and 2019. Durgesh Pathak has tried to portray as if it is not a matter of two trips, but of 20 unpaid trips,” Kapoor said, adding that “ in 2018-19, the then mayor got permission and financial clearance to attend a mayors’ conference at London, but he himself cancelled it in view of the hefty expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-councillors-mayors-took-foreign-trips-on-corpn-funds-aap/articleshow/80739774.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Summons through social media lead to highest conviction rate in Amravati||Nagpur: Amravati city police chief Aarti Singh’s decision to send summons to persons concerned through messages or social media on their respective mobile phones apart from the traditional means has led to a sharp increase in conviction rate of the district. The new initiative has put Amravati on top of the state conviction rate list for the month of December 2020 with 90.4% followed by Navi Mumbai with 90.26% among the commissionerates. But among the district police units, Wardha’s conviction rate of 97.56% was highest in the state with Nandurbar’s 97.37% as the close second. Chandrapur too had touched 91.93% but remained behind Nasik rural with 94.77% and Thane with 93.75%. In the month of December last year, there were around 7,565 cases registered in the state. Out of this, around 5,448 cases ended in conviction which was learnt to be 7% less than the performance in November 2020. On the basis of the monthly statistics of convictions, the state police have started a review of the performance of all units. Amravati CP Singh said she has strengthened the role of ‘Pairavi adhikaris’ or cops deployed as coordinators in each court which is a unique system in Maharashtra police. “We started a regular practice of scrutinizing court orders and judgments to understand the best practices and also locate the flaws. Based on the performance of convictions and acquittals, we also started a system of rewarding and pulling up any slack approach,” Singh said. She further said the ‘Pairavi Adhikaris’ or court coordinators have regularly been updated, reviewed and appraised at meetings, seminars and workshops ever since she stepped in. “The court coordinators ensured witnesses turn up on dates and also investigation officers concerned were present during trials,” she said. Wardha SP Prashant Holkar, buoyed by the last year December’s success in conviction rate in the district, said he ensured the cases of traffic violations and gambling along with prohibitions too were probed in such manners that they ended in convictions. “Chargesheets in cases of assaults and women atrocities were filed within a short time frame to ensure witnesses supported prosecution and did not get time to change their minds to turn hostile. Focus was also kept on the serious cases but the strategy was to ensure equal weightage to other matters also,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/summons-through-social-media-lead-to-highest-conviction-rate-in-amravati/articleshow/80739812.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||For 1st time, expenditure observers for local body polls||AHMEDABAD: The State Election Commission has for the first time appointed expenditure observers for the local body polls. Senior officials in the commission said that such observers will monitor expenses incurred by candidates fighting corporation, taluka panchayat, and district panchayat elections. The officials said that the observers will keep a day-to-day account of the expenses of each candidate. The officials said that in Ahmedabad, the treasury officer is being given the responsibility of checking the candidates’ accounts. The officials said that expenditure observers have been deployed for Lok Sabha and assembly elections. Meanwhile, an RTI activist, Santoshsinh Rathod, has written to the State Election Commission urging it to press all political parties to declare their poll expenses. He said that no party, including the BJP and the Congress, has given its account of expenditure since the 2012 local body polls. He said that according to election rules, all parties are supposed to declare their expenditure. The Election Commission of India has uploaded the parties’ expenditure for the 2017 state elections. The BJP declared expenditure of Rs 115.02 crore while the Congress declared that it spent Rs 48.97 crore. Rathod said that he and several other members of the Jagruti Yuva Sewa Samiti met the state election commissioner and requested him to implement the rules on the lines of assembly and Lok Sabha elections. He said that the samiti made a representation on February 1 after which the State Election Commission declared an expenditure limit for candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/for-1st-time-expenditure-observers-for-local-body-polls/articleshow/80739825.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Normal academic calendar unlikely next year too, say experts||HYDERABAD: Delay in completing classes for the academic year 2020-21 is set to have a cascading effect on the next academic year as well, including admissions and classes. Even as admissions for the 2020-21 academic year concluded recently, officials have already started planning the academic calendar for 2021-22 in order to fill the gap that crept in due to Covid-19 last year. Due to the pandemic, classes in colleges and universities commenced only in September instead of July. With the Telangana Intermediate exams scheduled to be held between May 1 and May 20, the government anticipates to conduct the common entrance tests only by June. ALSO READ: 19 Useful products for students preparing for upcoming board exams“We expect a delay of nearly three months in the academic calendar. It is going to take long before we actually go on to the normal academic calendar that existed in pre-Covid-19 times,” Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) chairman Papi Reddy said. Colleges admit that it is indeed a race against time as they have to grapple with the delay even this year. “This year, most universities have decided to give only four to seven days of summer holidays as against 30-45 days every year. All efforts are on to ensure the gap is filled this year so that the next academic year can commence on a much smoother note,” Telangana Pharmacy Colleges Association president Dr K Ramdass said. Teachers might have to work throughout the year to make up for the loss of working days, Dr Ramdass added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/normal-academic-calendar-unlikely-next-year-too-experts/articleshow/80743182.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||School trustees to go on 4-day relay hunger strike||NAGPUR: School trustees under the banner of ‘RTE Foundation’ have decided to sit on a four-day relay hunger strike starting Tuesday, to protest against education department’s delay in clearing their dues. The organization’s president Sachin Kalbande told TOI the education department was ignoring their demands. Kalbande said, “Right to Education (RTE) Act quota admissions are done diligently by all eligible schools. But there are many schools which have not received reimbursements for the admissions done by us.” To make a bigger impact, Kalbande and other members of RTE Foundation will hold their relay hunger strike in front of the education office. From 10am till 7pm, they will sit outside the education office to draw attention to their demands. Kalbande said their were other issues too about which they were unhappy. “The education department has not been proactive in cracking down on unauthorized schools. There are small schools operating without any permission from the government or whose recognition has not been renewed. We do not want parents to be defrauded, hence want the education department to do something about this,” he said. RTE Foundation has also raised objection to schools changing the category under which they were given recognition. “There are schools which got permission under ‘permanently unaided’ category and now they have been moved to ‘self financed’ category. This may make them eligible for financial aid later, and that’s not right,” said Kalbande. He added that if education department did not clear their dues, then admissions for 2021-22 under RTE quota won’t be carried out. RTE admission process is completely online and handled by the education department. But the final step has to be completed at the school itself and that’s where RTE Foundation plans to put its foot down. RTE admissions are done only in nursery/KG/Std I. Since these have not reopened yet, the admission face-off has not yet happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-trustees-to-go-on-4-day-relay-hunger-strike/articleshow/80739780.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||MP: New tourist circuit of ‘iconic’ Khajuraho to include Panna diamond mines, forts||BHOPAL: A new tourist circuit is being developed around Khajuraho — which will include Panna diamond mines, and the ancient forts in the adjoining region of this World Heritage Site. A master plan is being prepared for the town, after Khajurago was selected as one of the iconic tourist sites by the Centre. The Ministry of Tourism has identified 17 sites in 12 clusters of the country for development as ‘Iconic Tourism Sites’ including Taj Mahal and Fatehpur Sikri, Ajanta and Ellora, Humayun’s Tomb, Red Fort and Qutub Minar, Colva (Goa), Amer Fort, Somnath & Dholavira (Gujarat), Khajuraho, Hampi (Karnataka), Mahabalipuram (Tamil Nadu), Kaziranga in Assam, Kumarakom in Kerala and Mahabodhi Temple in Bihar. Talking to TOI, the principal secretary tourism Sheo Shekhar Shukla said that, “in an overall development of the area, a tourist circuit comprising culture, nature and heritage will be showcased.” The wildlife in Panna national park and Nauradehi sanctuary, the diamond mines of Panna will also be a part of the tourist circuit. “The grandeur of Dhubela fort, Kalinjir and Ajaygath forts would be added to attract the tourists. In between, Orchha is already attracting lakhs of national and international tourists,” he said. He said that the idea is to make the tourist stay in Khajuraho for more time by offering the whole circuit. He said, “we will begin some activities starting from the upcoming Khajuraho Dance Festival from February 20.” The State Tourism Development Corporation will be offering Orchha, Dhubela Khajuraho and Panna circuit for the tourists visiting for the dance festival. For the iconic tourism place project, Khajuraho will get more than Rs1200 crore in the coming four to five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-tourist-circuit-of-iconic-khajuraho-to-include-panna-diamond-mines-forts/articleshow/80738831.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Avoid false sense of security, we are not getting herd immunity, say experts||Nagpur: After a constant decline in number of Covid-19 cases and deaths in January, some districts of Vidarbha region have shown sudden increase in number of cases. Four districts from Vidarbha are included in the state’s watch list recently as the rate of increase in cases was high. Despite this, the response to vaccination is not that promising.Moreover, people have started participating in social gatherings without wearing masks and following social distancing norms. Doctors said this false sense of security or absence of fear may result in fresh surge of cases. Recently, the government authorities have also offered some relaxations in Covid-19 restrictions which ultimately added into this false sense of security of common people.“Herd immunity is not the solution at this level for us but the vaccine is,” said veteran pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat. “Just because cases have reduced, we can’t conclude we have acquired herd immunity. It’s a long-term process which may take years. We have vaccine option with us and we must go for it,” he added.However, vaccine is not available for every individual at this point of time. Till then, we must keep following the Covid-19 restrictions, said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde.“Herd immunity may be limited in some pockets of the city but it is not everywhere. Moreover, it may wane over the period of time. So, vaccine is must, masks are must. Further, early diagnosis is still a must because it just stops the chain of transmission,” he said.As reported by TOI on February 6, not a single sero-survey done in Vidarbha has shown more than 50% sero prevalence of the Covid-19 in any areas of the region. Nationally, the ICMR’s third sero-survey has shown only 20% sero prevalence, which means 80% population is still uninfected and at risk.Former president of state IMA Dr Avinash Bhondve said that localized herd immunity could be developed only in selected areas.“It took nearly 20 years to develop near total immunity against polio in India. But still we are conducting polio drives. As far as locally developed herd immunity is concerned, there might be areas like Dharavi in Mumbai and Satranjipura in Nagpur, but not the entire city or region,” Dr Bhondve said.DOs and DON’TsA Must | Vaccine (whenever turn comes), masks, hand hygiene and physical distancingCan stop | Sanitizing surfaces, being too conscious while performing outdoor activities, frequent use of sanitizersMust stop | Avoiding vaccination, Being casual about Covid, thinking that pandemic is over, and we have heard immunity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/avoid-false-sense-of-security-we-are-not-getting-herd-immunity-say-experts/articleshow/80738164.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metropolitan Region inches close to 7 lakh Covid cases||MUMBAI: The state saw a marginal drop in daily detections but a jump in deaths. On Sunday 2,673 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 20,44,071. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) inched closer to breaching the 7-lakh cases mark on Sunday. After reporting 25 deaths on Saturday, which was the lowest in 285 deaths, reported fatalities increased to 30 on Sunday. The state’s toll stood at 51,310. On Sunday, no district reported double digit deaths across the state. Of the total 30 deaths, 15 were in MMR of which 9, the highest, was recorded in Raigad district. Of the 30 deaths, 16 occurred in the last 48 hours and 2 in the last week and the remaining 12 reported older than a week. Mumbai registered a marginal rise in daily cases (448), taking the overall tally to 3,11,881. For the third day in a row, the city reported four deaths. Mumbai’s Covid-19 toll has reached 11,392. Active cases in the state rose by 1,000 compared to Saturday, but Mumbai saw a drop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmr-inches-close-to-7l-covid-cases/articleshow/80739862.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Spectator gored to death at jallikattu event in Tamil Nadu's Theni district||MADURAI: A spectator was gored to death by a bull at Ayyampatti Jallikattu near Chinnamanur in Theni district on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Murugesan, 35, of Jakkammal Street at Chinnamanur. Police said that after parking his two-wheeler next to the collection point of the jallikattu, he was walking towards the gallery when a bull attacked him. Murugesan died on the spot. His body was shifted to a government hospital for autopsy. Ayyampatti Jallikattu is conducted every year as part of the Ezhakathamman temple festival. The sport kicked off around 8 am in which around 600 bulls and 315 tamers took part. Earlier, a screening was conducted for bulls and tamers. Three tamers, who turned up under the influence of alcohol were denied participation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spectator-gored-to-death-at-jallikattu-in-theni-district/articleshow/80740475.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||150 Covid-19 cases, two deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 150 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the total number of cases so far in the state to 2,95,581 and the toll to 1,610. With an improved recovery rate in the state, the total number of patients in the state who have recovered from the coronavirus infection has touched 2,92,032. Telangana has 1,939 active cases of Covid-19 currently, of which 808 are under medical treatment. The recovery rate currently stands at 98.79%, better than the country average recovery rate of 97.2%. Also, the case fatality rate (CFR) is currently 0.54% against the country average CFR of 1.4%. On Sunday, a total of 34,805 samples were tested for the virus. Telangana has now completed testing 81 lakh samples and has reached 2.17 lakh sample testing per million population. GHMC recorded 25 new cases on Sunday, which was the highest among districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/150-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-t/articleshow/80739849.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Goon lynched in full public view||NAGPUR: A goon, identified as Vijay Waghdhare, was brutally murdered by a mob at Narayanpeth on Sunday over an ongoing dispute. Waghdhare, who had several offences against him, was pinned down by residents who stabbed and bludgeoned him to death even as the complaint of an earlier fight was being lodged at Shanti Nagar police station. It’s learnt Waghdhare had manhandled Himanshu, Uday and Sanju earlier in the day following a rivalry. Sources from the locality stated Waghdhare and his aides would harass the local residents and traders for extortion. The three victims had visited the police station to lodge a report against Waghdhare. The cops were busy in completing the formalities when Waghdhare is learnt to have landed up at Narayanpeth later in the evening. Waghdhare and his group were allegedly at loggerheads with the residents and traders. Zonal DCP Lohit Matani said the crime records of the assailants are now being checked. He said the murder was a fallout of an earlier fight in the day. Seeing that Waghdhare had returned and was issuing threats, Uday’s younger brother Sunil, Shekhar, Dhiru and their accomplices attacked the goon with sticks and sharp weapons. An offence of murder was registered at Shanti Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-lynched-in-full-public-view/articleshow/80739858.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||Union minister Gehlot backs Uma’s prohibition campaign||Indore: The Union minister for social justice and empowerment, Thawarchand Gehlot, who was in Indore on Sunday, said that the ongoing farm agitation is only because of misunderstanding among farmers of Punjab. “I can say that this ongoing protest is purely because of misunderstanding among some farmers. There are farmers in all the states of the country, but only those living in Punjab are protesting. There has not been any major protest or agitation by farmers in other states,” said Gehlot while speaking to the media here. Referring to recent road blockade held on AB Road here on Saturday, the minister said that it was only a demonstration held by a small section of farmers. “The ‘chakka jam’ was also partial, and there were no major protests around Indore,” Gehlot said. Gehlot, who is also a BJP Rajya Sabha MP, supported former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti’s proposed campaign against liquor in the state and said that attempts should be made to create alcohol-free environment and strict action should be taken against those involved in illicit liquor and drugs. Gehlot also mentioned about the recent incident of shifting of elderly citizens in Indore, which generated widespread condemnation and said that his ministry is keeping a close watch on the ongoing inquiry into the matter. “Inodre Municipal Corporation (IMC) has already taken action against a couple of officials,” he said. Gehlot also highlighted the provisions of the Union Budget 2021 that was passed last week. “This year’s Budget covers the requirements of all sections of the society and the Union government has made additional provisions for the healthcare sector amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The government has made a provision of Rs33,000 crore for vaccination alone,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/union-minister-gehlot-backs-umas-prohibition-campaign/articleshow/80738862.cms||Ashok Kumar
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Mom kills 17-year-old son in Andhra Pradesh over ganja addiction||VIJAYAWADA: A 43-year-old woman killed her 17-year-old son at A T Agraharam in Guntur town on Saturday evening. The deceased was identified as Vallepu Siddartha who was addicted to ganja and had been harassing his mother Sumalatha. According to Nagarampalem police, Sumalatha, a sweeper employed with the Guntur Municipal Corporation on a contract basis, had been living in a rented house at A T Agraharam for the past two months along with her son Siddartha. She was the sole breadwinner in her family since her husband’s death. Sumalatha’s son Siddartha had dropped out of school and was addicted to ganja and would frequently harass his mother for money for his addiction. On Saturday, there was a quarrel between mother and son, said neighbours who overheard the two. Later, they saw Sumalatha leaving the house, claiming she had “finally got rid of him”. Suspecting something to be amiss, neighbours went inside the house and noticed Siddartha lying dead on the floor. Police rushed to the spot upon receiving information from the locals and shifted the body to Government General Hospital (GGH) for postmortem. Based on the material evidence collected from the crime scene and circumstantial evidence, a case of murder under section 302 of IPC was booked against Sumalatha and a search operation launched to trace her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mom-kills-17-yr-old-son-over-ganja-addiction/articleshow/80738655.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Gunadala shrine ready for Mother Mary fest||Vijayawada: The Gunadala shrine in the city has been decked up for the three-day-long Mary Matha Festival from February 9 to 11. Devotees from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are expected to attend and authorities have completed arrangements following Covid-19 guidelines. The shrine has been decorated and illuminated with lamps welcoming devotees. Vijayawada Catholic Dioceses Bishop Telagathoti Joseph Raja Rao said, “Keeping aside caste, creed and religion, all worship Mother Mary at Gunadala shrine and offer special prayers during the fest.”.”City police, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), and health wing authorities have made elaborate arrangements for the fest. Cops have also arranged checkposts at Padavalarevu Junction and ESI Junction on Eluru Road and deployed special forces to regulate the traffic and crowd. APSRTC will operate special buses from various parts of the state to the Gunadala shrine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gunadala-shrine-ready-for-mother-mary-fest/articleshow/80738608.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||No headway yet in Ramateertham case||Visakhapatnam: A month after investigation into the desecration of the Lord Rama idol at the Ramateertham temple in Vizianagaram began, the police and Special Investigation Team (SIT) are yet to identify the accused. SIT chief DIG GV Ashok Kumar and Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari had inspected the site in January as part of investigation into the case. Senior officer with the SIT, L Srinivas, said several fingerprints have been collected from the crime scene. Nine sets did not help the investigation while three more, suspected to be the culprits’ but that did not match existing prints in the database, have to be verified, he added. “We have been investigating the case from multiple angles and are confident that we will crack it soon,” he added. While a few suspects have been questioned, concrete clues have been scant, except for a hacksaw blade found on the temple premises. Superintendent of police, Vizianagaram, B Raja Kumari said they suspect a larger conspiracy behind the beheading of the idol, adding that the culprits were aware that the spot had no CCTV cameras and took another route to evade camera surveillance at the main temple. Nor did the culprits rob silver ornaments from the temple, Raja Kumari said, adding that discarding the blade and the head of the idol in a pond near the temple indicates a carefully planned conspiracy. Meanwhile, officials of the SIT and Vizianagaram police are interacting with people associated with the probe in and around Ramateertham, Nellimerla and Vizianagaram. Following the desecration of the idol, the government decided to develop the Sri Kodanda Rama Swamy temple at a cost of Rs 3 crore. Recently, endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao said the temple will be reconstructed as per the advice of Vedic scholars and Agama pandits. The existing staircase to the temple will also be repaired. Another staircase will be constructed and the path leading to the temple will be illuminated and kept under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-headway-yet-in-ramateertham-case/articleshow/80738686.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Rare orthopedic op carried out at GGH||Guntur: A rare orthopedic surgery was carried out at the Government General Hospital, Guntur, to provide relief to a woman patient who fractured her leg twice. The steel rod inserted during the earlier surgery was broken. Orthopedic surgeons including head of department Dr G Varaprasad, senior professors Narayana Rao, Ramana SSV were part of the team that performed the surgery. Speaking to the media, GGH superintendent Dr N Prabhavathi said Sunkara Lakshmi (43) of Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district got her hip fractured when an auto hit her from behind about five years. Subsequently, she underwent treatment at a private hospital in Khammam where the doctors performed surgery to rejoin the fractured portion. Unfortunately, Lakshmi’s hip fractured again when she fell a few days ago. Lakshmi’s family had aprroached several hospitals in Vijayawada, including some top private hospitals for treatment. However, the doctors after conducting tests, reportedly refused to take up the case citing that it was a very complicated surgery. The family finally approached GGH, Guntur. “Our doctors took up the rare case and got the steel rod ready for the patient from Chennai which was not available in the state,” said Dr Prabhavati. She said GGH had performed several critical surgeries in the past but this was really a rare one to handle. Dr Varaprasad said that they have removed the hip bone during the surgery. He said that removal of broken steel rod turned critical but the surgeons completed the job. The surgery was performed with YSR Arogyasri funds without levying any financial burden on the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rare-orthopedic-op-carried-out-at-ggh/articleshow/80738703.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Prices of vegetables soar in Madurai’s retail market||Madurai: The vegetable prices are skyrocketing in the retail market even as the prices remain moderate in the wholesale market. However, traders have said that the prices would come down by next month.The retail traders are selling green peas for Rs 30 per kg and cabbage for Rs 10 per cabbage. “The traders are actually making much better profits than us because they are buying a whole cabbage for just Rs 4 from us and green peas for Rs 10/kg,’’ said Saravanan, a farmer in Dindigul.Meanwhile, president of the Mattuthavani wholesale vegetable market, P S Murugan, said that the prices were actually very moderate this season as the supply was gradually on the rise. “I agree that green peas are the cheapest, which is not bringing profit to the trader or farmer,’’ he said.Carrots, which are sold at Rs 30 to Rs 40 a kg are being sold at Rs 15 for 250 g in the retail market. The price of beans was also high at Rs 40 to Rs 50 in the wholesale market and Rs 80/kg in the retail market.Potatoes are being sold at Rs 50 to Rs 60 per kg based on quality in the retail market while the best quality is sold for Rs 30 a kg in the wholesale market.Tomatoes ranged between Rs 25 to Rs 30/kg in the wholesale market and the prices were expected to drop in the next two months as the production had increased in the farms. “The tomatoes that we are getting are slightly damaged as the crops were affected due to the rains last month, but we are expecting a good supply next month,’’ said Jeyakumar, a trader.As the marriage season has begun, butter beans and soya beans, which are used in wedding feasts were being sold at Rs 100/kg to Rs 110/kg respectively in the wholesale market as the supply was low. “Rains affected these crops, hence the short supply,’’ said T Kumaresan, a trader. Okra was another vegetable, which was high in demand but low in supply and was being sold at Rs 30 to Rs 40 per kg.Shallots continued to range between Rs 60 to Rs 70 and onions Rs 30 to Rs 40 per kg in the wholesale market. “It would take some time for onion prices to stabilize but the other vegetable prices would come down next month,’’ said Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/prices-of-vegetables-soar-in-madurais-retail-market/articleshow/80740476.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vadodara||Leopard attacks woman in Dahod||Vadodara: A 48-year-old woman was injured when a leopard attacked her at Dahod district’s Dhanpur taluka on Saturday late night. The woman, identified as Jamuna Pasaya, was sleeping outside her house at Dumka village when the leopard attacked her. Pasaya shouted for help hearing which her son who was studying inside the house, rushed out with a wooden stick. The woman’s son hurled the wooden stick at the leopard after which it escaped in the bushes nearby. Injured Pasaya was taken to a hospital in Dhanpur. She was later discharged from the hospital after treatment and forest officials were informed about the attack. Officials said that the animal may have confused the woman with an animal and attacked her. “The woman’s injuries are minor as the leopard had hit her with its paws,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-attacks-woman-in-dahod/articleshow/80737818.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Surviving preterm baby dies of milk aspiration at home||Nagpur: One of the seven babies, who survived the January 9 fire at Bhandara District General Hospital, passed away at his home in Koka village on Saturday.Seven newborn admitted in the in-born section of the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the hospital had a miraculous escape 9 while another 10 babies in the out-born section had died.Acting civil surgeon Dr Piyush Jakkal said the baby boy died of milk aspiration syndrome. “We had referred the baby to GMCH, Nagpur on January 16. The two-and-half month baby was low on blood and weight,” he said.GMCH officials said the baby was suffering from pneumonia infection when admitted to its NICU. “The baby was discharged getting recovered and after he gained weight. At the time of discharge, he weighed 2kg,” they said.GMCH doctors were shocked to know that the baby died as he was discharged in a good state of health. Both GMCH and district hospital doctors ruled out any relation to the January 9 incident with the boy’s death. He didn’t have any burns or smoke related complications when admitted, they said.Bhandara police sources said the death of the baby may not be associated with the fire accident. The baby was at GMCH and got discharged around February 1.GMCH officials said the baby was weighing just about 850gms last month besides having pneumonia. “The mother was given proper training to ensure she held the baby upright after feeding. Generally, preterm babies encounter these problems,” they said.The baby and mother had returned in an ambulance provided by the district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surviving-preterm-baby-dies-of-milk-aspiration-at-home/articleshow/80738170.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 8, 2021||Rajkot||Drug supplier from Anantnag arrested||Palanpur: A notorious criminal wanted for smuggling of narcotics was arrested from Jammu & Kashmir by the Banaskantha special operations group (SOG). The accused Arif Ahmed Abdul Lone was arrested on Saturday from Anantnag district of J&K. According to case details, during a joint operation by the state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) and Banaskantha police’s special operations group (SOG), two persons from Mumbai was arrested with 16.75kg of charas worth over Rs 1 crore from near Khimana check-post on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border in October 2020. The contraband was seized from a car with Maharashtra registration number. The driver of the car identified as Rahim Azim (31) and another person travelling with him, Samir Sahil, both residents of Mahim in Mumbai, were arrested. During investigation under the guidance of border range, IG JR Mothaliya and Banaskantha SP Tarun Duggal name of Lone cropped up. He had supplied the charas to the accused from Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drug-supplier-from-anantnag-arrested/articleshow/80738339.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana’s farm loan waiver may impact GDP growth: Finance panel||HYDERABAD: The farm loan waiver scheme, promised by TRS, may cause financial strain on Telangana’s budget and GDP growth, observed the Fifteenth Finance Commission in its report tabled recently in Parliament. The commission observed that like many states which implemented the scheme, GDP burden on Telangana will be around 3.4%, considering two cycles of implementation post formation of the state. The commission observed the scheme resulted in 4.6% burden on the state’s total GDP amounting to Rs 17,000 crore. In the second cycle of implementation of the scheme, though all loans were not waived, the earmarked amount would create a burden of 3.4% on the GDP. This is comparatively high when compared to states like Tamil Nadu, whose GDP burden was 0.5%. The highest GSDP burden was noticed in Uttar Pradesh, 27% of the GDP burden for the Rs 36,000 crore farm loan waiver. Maharashtra implemented the loan waiver scheme in 2017 as it was an election promise and it cost the exchequer Rs 34,000 crore and Punjab too had GDP burden of 2%. Though TRS promised loan waiver in the second term, till now farm loans up to Rs 25,000 have been considered. The state has promised loan waiver up to Rs one lakh and divided them into categories, depending on the amount for implementation. In the 2019- 20 budget , the state had allocated Rs 4,528 crore for the loan waiver scheme, but did not spend the entire amount. Sources in government said that due to the financial crunch, the government had not made big allocation this time in the upcoming budget. Though many other states promised the scheme, implementation was different, the commission observed. However between 2014- 2019, 13 states had promised loan waiver scheme, but many have submitted the details of implementation worth Rs 79,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/states-farm-loan-waiver-may-impact-gdp-growth-fin-panel/articleshow/80739869.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra revenue shortfall may touch Rs 1 lakh crore: Ajit Pawar||NAGPUR: Painting a grim picture of the state’s financial condition, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday said that the revenue shortfall in 2020-21 might go up to Rs one lakh crore. The size of the state budget for 2020-21 was about Rs4.5 lakh crore. Addressing a ‘Meet the Press’ at Nagpur Patrakar Club, Pawar, who is also state finance minister said, “The revenue shortfall at present is Rs75,000 crore. If we don’t get expected amount of revenue from state sources and if Centre does not give our full share of taxes, then the deficit may go up to Rs one lakh crore.” The finance minister claimed that Central government’s payment of the state’s share of taxes was short by Rs25,000 crore. “In spite of the poor financial condition, we have not reduced allocation to important departments like public health, home etc. The Central government has stopped MP fund for two or three years but we have increased MLA fund to Rs three crore,” said Pawar. The NCP leader slammed the Central government over handling of farmers’ agitation. “They put nails on roads to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. This has happened for the first time after Independence. The Central government did not allow MPs including Supriya Sule to meet the agitating farmers. Why can’t public representatives meet protesters in a democracy,” he said. Replying to a query regarding the speech delivered by Sharjeel Usmani at Elgar Parishad in Pune, Pawar said that in future the government may ask the organizers to not allow certain persons to express their views during the event if it feels their statements can create discord in society. Pawar indirectly chides RautWithout naming energy minister Nitin Raut, Ajit Pawar chided him for announcing populist decisions without asking others. Raut had announced that he would provide free power to all up to 100 units. Pawar had shot down the proposal. When asked whether Raut had behaved irresponsibly, Pawar said, “It is not the question of Raut. The principle applies to everybody. Don’t announce policies that burden the treasury without consulting others. Before announcing any sop you should know whether the treasury can bear the burden. This principle was followed during the Congress-NCP rule in the state.” When pointed out that by rejecting Raut’s proposal he had become the villain in the eyes of common people, Pawar said, “I don’t mind that. However, we paid Rs15,000 crore to MSEDCL for waiving off interest on farmers’ power bills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-revenue-shortfall-may-touch-rs-one-lakh-crore-ajit-pawar/articleshow/80739881.cms||Ashish Roy
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Former Akola DDHS named Bhandara CS||Nagpur: Former deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr Riyaz Farooqui has been appointed as the civil surgeon of Bhandara District General Hospital, officials said.Incumbent Dr Pramod Khandate was suspended and transferred to Wardha as a punishment for the January 9 fire at the SNCU. However, it remains to be seen if Dr Farooqui assumes charge on Monday, especially amid reluctance from several senior officers in Bhandara and rest of Nagpur division. Officials say the hospital has been going through a crucial phase after the tragedy and needed a sound administrator. Dr Farooqui has served as civil surgeon of Gadchiroli and medical superintendent at Regional Mental Hospital, Nagpur before taking up the top post as DDHS Akola from which he superannuated recently.Officials said he had sought time to take charge by February 8. As per GR, the age limit for DDHS is fixed at 60 while an officer can continue at CS-cadre till 62.Responding to TOI’s report published on Sunday, acting Bhandara civil surgeon Dr Piyush Jakkal said he was the senior among all the CS-cadre and DHO-cadre officers in Bhandara district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/former-akola-ddhs-named-bhandara-cs/articleshow/80738167.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||‘High mortality rate, case burden in Vidarbha a concern’||MUMBAI: A high Covid-19 mortality rate and case burden in some regions of the state, particularly districts in Vidarbha, is a cause for concern, Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), told TOI on Sunday. The NCDC team from Delhi has been visiting hospitals in the state to review treatment protocols and take a first-hand look at the practices in these facilities. “Nationally, we are witnessing a declining trend, but Kerala and pockets within Maharashtra are a cause for worry. Vidarbha region being one of th-em,” Dr Singh said. The team visited LTMG and SevenHills hospitals in Mumbai and a Thane hospital last week. On Sunday, the three-member team went to Amravati Civil Hospital. Their next stop is Nagpur. “We are analysing the death numbers and trying to understand what was responsible at these facilities. In the light of newer strains emerging globally, states need to prepare better this time and put all the right protocols in place,” Dr Singh said. Besides death rate, several districts have seen an increase in cases, and therefore testing must be increased, he added. On Friday, TOI had reported how nine districts—Nandurbar, Nanded, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara and Ratnagiri—were conducting less than 140 tests per million. “The state has to target areas where the positivity rate is high no doubt,” Dr Singh said, adding that the team would be making recommendations based on their findings in the next few days. In Amravati, the fresh detections increased to 150-200 in the past week, up from 50-60 cases seen in most days of January. Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola have recorded a weekly growth rate of 3%, 2.8% and 2.2%, respectively. Among districts with higher case fatality rates, Vidarbha, Bhandara (7.7%) and Gadchiroli (7.3%) have found mention. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said death rates in Pune, Jalna, Parbhani, and Sangli are being reviewed. “We have started generating a weekly review of deaths, positivity rates and testing. Based on these, numbers from top five districts are analysed.” Maharashtra’s cumulative Covid case fatality rate is 2.5%, higher than the national average of 1.43%. “We have even counted deaths among cancer patients or people suffering from chronic conditions if they have tested positive for Covid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/high-mortality-rate-case-burden-in-vid-a-concern/articleshow/80739884.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB to meet finance minister over sanction of TPT charges||SECUNDERABAD: With the term of the current Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) elected body set to end on February 10, the SCB is making efforts to get financial support from the state government and Centre for infrastructure works worth Rs 5 crore in all eight civilian wards. SCB members will meet finance minister T Harish Rao in a day or two to request sanction of Rs 40 crore pertaining to transfer property tax (TPT) charges to the SCB. “Of the Rs 80 crore TPT charges, the state government has sanctioned Rs 26 crore. The finance department has prepared a cheque of Rs 23 crore and we will get it in a day or two,” SCB vice-president J Maheshwar Reddy said. He said that for the first phase payment, infrastructure works in eight wards have been taken up. “Efforts are on to get the remaining amount cleared by the state government,” he said. Further, a delegation led by the SCB VP will visit Delhi in a day or two and submit a representation to the Directorate General Defence Estates (DGDE) under the Ministry of Defence (MoD) over sanction of pending service charges to the tune of Rs 612.75 crore. As per the Standard Table of Rents (STR), which was prepared by garrison engineer (north) and garrison engineer (south),the current demand of service charges for 2021 is Rs 66.13 crore. The total dues, which DGDE has to pay to SCB, is Rs 612.75 crore, said SCB sources. “The DGDE was supposed to release service charges to the SCB for setting up of defence establishments in Cantonment limits and defence estates office, Telangana Circle. Work orders will be released soon,” said Maheshwar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-meet-finance-min-over-sanction-of-tpt-charges/articleshow/80739874.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Going to the beach? Soon AI will help you surf to safety!||HYDERABAD: Headed for the beach but wondering if it’s the best time to surf or take a dip? What if you could have all the information about your preferred beach at the click of a button? Wouldn’t it be awesome if you could get real-time updates on how clean the beach is, what are the best spots or timings to hang out there or even the exact spot where those nasty rip currents could be lurking around hoping to drown you? Perhaps a couple of years from now, you may well be able to get all this information on your smartphone with the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) working on a new tech-enabled offering that will safeguard you and your loved ones on Indian beaches. INCOIS is developing this as part of its coastal monitoring and ocean state forecasting services. It will help tourists, surfers, beach-goers with real-time forecasts on rip currents, water pollution levels, perfect spots and timings to venture into the water for surfing. Currently, information related to sea state forecast is limited to waves, currents, winds and tides. Tourists even in hotspots like Goa, Mumbai and Visakhapatnam don’t have specific information on what the water quality is like at the beach or even the best time and spots to surf. “We will be deploying high resolution cameras to visualize wave direction and changes. Then, using an Artificial Neural Network (ANN), we will be able to predict the rip currents that are dangerous for swimmers,” said Balakrishnan Nair TM, scientist and head, ocean information and forecast services group, INCOIS. The reams of data captured by the cameras and sensor-quipped buoys will be processed by the ANN to make predictions and provide real-time updates, he said, adding that the more the data is fed into the ANN, it will make it smarter and more accurate. This, he said, will be in addition to the other oceanographic equipment that will be deployed to understand the sea surface temperature, currents and pollution levels, among others. To begin with, the team is targeting beaches in tourist hotspots like Goa and Visakhapatnam where rip currents are very active. “Once we collect the data, we will run models and be able to provide surfing forecasts, water quality forecasts and rip current channels information. Tourists would exactly know if the water is suitable for surfing and which time is suitable for surfing. Not just that, we will be able to give out information on E-Coli, bacteria and harmful algae content in water,” said Balakrishnan. Officials said the idea is to eventually come up with ocean forecasting products that are useful for day-to-day tourists and specific users. “Modelling of observational data using emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Data Sciences will help us have higher resolution of forecast that will help us develop specialized products for specific users. Today, most ocean products are either meant for mariners, Navy officials, fishermen and coastal communities. The idea is to use technology to safeguard recreational activities on the coastline,” said INCOIS director T Srinivasa Kumar. The detailed forecast will not be disseminated only through mobile phones but also on huge digital boards installed on beaches. “In European countries, many beaches are `Blue Flag’ certified by the Foundation for Environmental Education. Once we develop the sea state forecast for rip currents and water quality, we will be able to work towards having more `Blue Flag’ beaches in India,” said Balakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/going-to-the-beach-soon-ai-will-help-you-surf-to-safety/articleshow/80739902.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Time to strengthen adult immunization, say experts||Nagpur: While most of us are keen to get the vaccine for Covid-19, which has killed 1.53 lakh people in the country in 11 months, we simply ignore many vaccines that are available for adults.For example, 300,000 new hepatitis B cases occur annually, and a lot more people die due to it than Covid-19. Similarly, pneumococcal infections kill 40,000 people every year in India. Interestingly, safe and effective vaccines are available for all these diseases, and the cost of vaccination is substantially less than the cost of treating the disease. But awareness about adult immunization is low in community.Infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade has been working on the adult immunization issue since more than a decade now. She believes Covid-19 pandemic had been an eye opener for all of us on importance of prevention and protection given by vaccines. “Each year, adults develop vaccine-preventable diseases because they have not received the recommended vaccines. Fortunately, we have vaccines to help prevent these diseases. But we do not deploy them effectively,” she said.Recent reports said the incidence of measles and mumps has increased among young adults. Ten to fifteen per cent of childbearing-aged women are not immune to rubella, and most people over 60 years of age lack adequate protection against tetanus and diphtheria.There is lack of awareness regarding adult immunization, with coverage less than 10% in India. The country does not have national policy on adult immunization. “We have done a terrific job of protecting our children from vaccine-preventable diseases. But, millions of adults are not protected and not even aware about adult vaccination,” Dr Tayade added. No government hospital in Nagpur has an adult immunization clinic so far. In private set-up, one such clinic is starting at Kingsway Hospital. Only a few doctors in city provide adult immunization facilities in their clinics. Apart from these limited facilities, adult immunization is unknown subject for Nagpur, despite the city being Central India’s medical hub. “Like pulse polio, we should initiate a campaign on the need for adult vaccination at a greater level. People must know that vaccines are available not just for children but for adults as well,” said Dr Nitin Thatte, who specializes in community medicine. Few facts about adult immunization:• Immunization saves 3 million lives every year• Reduces mortality due to infectious diseases even better than antibiotics• Reduces direct and indirect medical costs• Flu vaccine has led to a 70% decline in hospitalizations• Hepatitis B vaccines have caused a drop in the incidence of liver cancer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/time-to-strengthen-adult-immunization-say-experts/articleshow/80738173.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Robber inspired by online videos||Hyderabad: A day after a man robbed a woman in Vanasthalipuram by snatching her chain at her residence, Rachakonda police on Saturday night nabbed him in Hayathnagar. During the investigation, police found out that he had committed the offence after getting inspired by seeing different chain snatching videos on YouTube. Rachakonda police said that based on the confession given by the prime accused G Naveen—a glass fitting worker—police also arrested K Naresh Chary, who is got the stolen property. On Saturday, the accused, Naveen, went to the victim’s residence seeing a ‘To-let’ board, pretending to need a house to rent. He went around the house and even bargained the rent. Later, he snatched the gold chain from her neck by using a blade he had been carrying. Police said that the victim tried to resist, causing her to suffer injuries that caused her to bleed. The accused threatened the victim of dire consequence if she alerted the police and later fled with 27 tolas of gold chain and her phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/robber-inspired-by-online-videos/articleshow/80739880.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||No family planning in lockdown: Nagpur district saw 65% fewer operations last year||NAGPUR: Nagpur division registered a sharp decline of 60% in family planning operations (both men and women) in 2020 as compared to 2019. Nagpur district saw a steep drop of 65%. As per the Foundation for Reproductive Health Services India (FRHS India) report, it was expected that Family Planning programme would take a 15-23% hit in 2020. But in Nagpur division, it has been three times more than the national estimate. Nagpur district, which had reported 10,041 sterilizations (family planning operations) in 2019, saw 3,530 operations taking place in 2020. Most of them were conducted in the first three months of the year. The last nine months of 2020 saw hardly any sterilization being done in Nagpur. Especially, the number of nonscalpel vasectomy (NSV), which is commonly known as male sterilization, saw a steep 97.2% decline in the 2020. As against 363 men in 2019, only 10 performed NSVs in the district in 2020. The picture was almost same in all other districts of Nagpur division. Doctors working in community medicine field said it was expected and they are also anticipating the outcome. “Not just family planning operations, but it became difficult for many couples to access other contraceptive measures too during lockdown. It was expected that family planning programme will suffer and the outcome will start showing in the form of baby boom in the first quarter of 2021,” said Dr Nilima Dave, a family physician. Hospitals were closed and elective surgeries were stopped for more than six months during Covid-19 period. As family planning operations are considered non-emergency surgeries, they were put on hold. Many women prefer to get the surgery done right after their second or third pregnancy, but this increases hospital stay. Neither patients nor hospitals were interested in increasing hospital stay during Covid peak period last year. So, as many as 65% operations were skipped in 2020. Interestingly, the FRHS has also stated that in 2021, as soon as the Covid-19 situation will improve, there will be a surge in demand for family planning and abortion services. “Once normalcy returns in the next few months, demand for sterilization could sharply increase. In light of the pandemic, clinical service delivery cannot be “business as usual”. With continued social distancing and additional precautions, delivery capacities for sterilization services may shrink or quality of care may get compromised,” reads the FRHS report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-family-planning-in-lockdown-nagpur-district-saw-65-fewer-operations-last-year/articleshow/80739891.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Schools for V-VIII students to reopen from today||Nagpur: Middle schools in city are all set to reopen from Monday as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allowed students of std V-VIII to return back on campus. With this, classes V-XII now have the permission to reopen for physical classes if both school management and parents consent. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said schools have been briefed and there is an increased awareness about the issue now. “Schools started reopening from December onwards in Nagpur, so already a lot of time has gone by. Thousands of students are attending school everyday which indicates the system is not only in place, but also that people have got into a rhythm. Everyone knows their responsibilities and due care is taken to ensure that safety of children is not compromised,” said Vanjari.Priti Mishrikotkar, education officer of the NMC, said all preparations are in place to ensure hassle free reopening of schools. “There are almost 600 schools which will start their Std V-VIII sections from Monday,” said Mishrikotkar.The key will be to watch out for attendance figures in Nagpur city on Monday, as their rural counterparts had showed a strong response on day one. Just over 32% of students (Std V-VIII) in rural Nagpur attended school on Day One itself.Education officials reiterated that attendance is not mandatory. Students still have the option of attending online class if parent are concerned about safety.There is no official word on when Std I-IV will, if at all, reopen. Sources say it is unlikely that primary section will be started this academic session. A senior official said, “A lot depends on the local situation but there is always a chance that government may start it for just 10 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-for-v-viii-students-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/80738175.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad sees drastic decline in registration of mask offences||AHMEDABAD: Till January 23, cases of mask violation in the city hovered around 2,000-odd cases. Today, it is down to 600. What changed, you ask? The state government announced local body elections. Since the polls were announced on January 23, the city police – which once showed great diligence in charging people found roaming without masks – suddenly developed a lackadaisical approach towards the violation. This is apparent in the drastic decline in registration of mask offences. Since the day the elections were announced, a drop of 73% in mask offence has been noticed. The city police registered 2,187 cases of mask offences on January 23. The very next day, it dropped to 1,367. On Saturday, the police registered just 600 cases. City police officers said they have received orders from their higher-ups to soften their approach towards mask offenders. “We have been told not to charge fine of Rs 1,000 or file FIR against those found roaming without masks as it may increase conflict, and this may reflect in elections. We have shifted to counselling people without masks,” said a police officer, refusing to be named. A senior police officer said, “People have cultivated the habit of wearing masks to avoid Covid-19 infection. Many are also getting vaccinated, which is visible in the drop in cases of infection.” City police commissioner Sanjay Srivastav said, “It all depends on the situation. With cses of coronavirus on the decline and zero deaths being reported from the city, fewer cases are being registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/theres-no-masking-this-drop-in-offender-numbers/articleshow/80739896.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||HC to govt: Apply for transfer of trial if cops are accused||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the home secretary to issue necessary instructions to file applications before the principal seat or high court Madurai bench for transfer of trial of cases in which police personnel are arrayed as accused to nearby district sessions court so that witnesses can depose without fear or influence of local people.The court was hearing the petition of R Senthilnathan in 2014, challenging the punishment of compulsory retirement meted out to him. When he was working as an SI in Tirunelveli city police limits, a team led by him went to Nagercoil in 2006 to nab a murder case accused. During the visit in a drunken brawl, constable Sivaraman was injured and died. Following the incident, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against Senthilnathan. Only the charge of failing to inform superiors about the death of his colleague was proved. Hence the compulsory retirement.A criminal case was registered against the petitioner and another head constable. The Tirunelveli additional sessions court acquitted all the accused including the petitioner as all private prosecution witnesses turned hostile. Justice R M T Teekaa Raman refusing the petitioner’s contention that he was acquitted in the criminal case, observed that the head of the unit should have taken steps to ensure that a fair trial is conducted in sessions case by requesting to transfer case to the neighbouring district sessions court. Had the head of the department taken out necessary application before the HC requesting the transfer of the case, the outcome could have been different. Observing the order of retirement does not have from any irregularity, the judge dismissed the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-to-govt-apply-for-transfer-of-trial-if-cops-are-accused/articleshow/80740479.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||‘CM’s Feb 10 meet shows desperation’||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s proposed public meeting at Haliya in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency on February 10 is an indication of how prestigious the ensuing bypoll is to the ruling TRS after its shock defeat in Dubbak to the BJP. While the TRS cannot afford to lose a third election in a row, the BJP and Congress are going all out to win and emerge as an alternative to the ruling TRS. Both the TRS and BJP are keeping under wraps the names of its candidates who would be entering the electoral fray from this segment. “BJP has rattled KCR so much that he has started his by-election campaign in Nagarujna Sagar two months ahead of the notification of the election. The fear of loss is visible to all,” said BJP chief spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cms-feb-10-meet-shows-desperation/articleshow/80739886.cms||Roushan Ali
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||TSRTC issues guidelines for staff||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has issued fresh guidelines for its employees by standardising the system of dealing with delinquencies committed by drivers and conductors during the course of their duties. These guidelines will be in addition to the existing rules to ensure transparency, uniformity, sense of job security and trust among employees. According to the circular issued by the corporation, instances have come to the notice of the head office that there was a vast difference in dealing with similar type of offences across various units of the corporation and punishments awarded in large number of cases are disproportionate to delinquencies resulting in growing unrest among employees. For example, suspension need not be resorted to in cases fare was not collected and tickets were not issued unless it is otherwise specified. The procedure will be admissible in city, ordinary, suburban, mofussil, metro express and deluxe, pallevelugu, mini pallevelugu, semi express and express services only. Releasing the job security policy document at Transport Bhavan on Sunday, transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said, “This is crucial decision taken by TSRTC managing director in the hour of crisis. I also requested the employees to work towards increasing the revenue.” Separate guidelines were issued in cases where fare is collected but ticket is not issued besides cases where fare is collected but at a lower value of ticket is issued. In case of death of a passenger, pedestrian and other road users, if driver is found responsible prima facie in the joint accident committee report, he would be suspended followed by a detailed probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-issues-guidelines-for-staff/articleshow/80739876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Congress will order probe against KCR if it comes to power: Manickam Tagore||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Sunday said it will order an inquiry by central investigation agencies and set up a special court to look into the charges of corruption against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his family if the party comes to power at the Centre and in Telangana. Addressing Congress members at a meeting organised by CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka in Khammam to launch ‘our polling booth-our pride’ strategy for the Khammam municipal polls, AICC in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore alleged that the BJP and TRS have entered into an unholy alliance. Referring to the allegations of corruption being levelled by BJP leaders against KCR, Tagore said that if the BJP was truly against the TRS, why is the Centre not ordering an inquiry by CBI, ED or IT against KCR and his family. “It is clear that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah will not punish KCR as he bows down to them every time he goes to Delhi. KCR bows to them out of fear of investigation being ordered against him by the BJP government,” said Tagore.  Each booth committee will have 15 members including a president, social media coordinator and booth level assistant to monitor additions and deletions in voters list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-will-order-probe-against-kcr-if-it-comes-to-power-tagore/articleshow/80739898.cms||Roushan Ali
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cop thrashed for ‘inauspicious’ sneeze||AHMEDABAD: A Lok Rakshak dal (LRD) jawan of Krishnanagar police was badly beaten by five men at the mamlatdar office in Naroda on Saturday after he sneezed and the accused took it to be inauspicious for their land-related work. LRD jawan Yuvrajsinh Jhala, 26, who has been working in the accounts section of Krishnanagar police, stated in his FIR with Naroda police that he had gone to the mamlatdar office in Naroda gam where the five accused were already present. “I had gone there to inquire about newly sanctioned land for a building of Krishnanagar police. When I was going downstairs at around 3pm on Saturday after completing my work, I suddenly had a sneeze,” Jhala stated in the FIR. “At that time, two persons standing on the stairs asked me how I had dared to sneeze when they had come there for some auspicious work.” Jhala told them that he is a cop and had come there for office work. Meanwhile, three other men rushed there and began arguing with Jhala. “They began telling me that they would not allow me to complete my official work as I had sneezed, which they considered inauspicious,” Jhala said. “Having said this, five of them began punching and kicking me and I began bleeding from my mouth and nose.” As the cop screamed for help, others at the mamlatdar office rushed in and rescued him. Jhala then called up inspector Amarsinh Chauhan of Krishnanagar police station. Another LRD jawan Vanrajsinh Darbar rushed to the mamlatdar office along with other cops and nabbed the five men. The accused were identified as Jagdish Bharwad, a resident of Naroda, Bharat Bharwad and Vipul Bharwad from Kubernagar and Sanjay Bharwad and Ravi Bharwad from Sardarnagar. All of them were arrested and taken to Naroda police station. Jhala was admitted to Civil Hospital in Asarwa where he is being treated. Sub-inspector D K Mori of Krishnanagar police, the investigating officer of the case, said that the accused persons were yet to be questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-thrashed-for-inauspicious-sneeze/articleshow/80739908.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||DCCs want Rahul Gandhi to be AICC prez||Hyderabad: The presidents of all 33 District Congress Committees (DCC) in the state on Sunday passed a unanimous resolution urging Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to take over as All India Congress Committee (AICC) president. The resolution was passed at a meeting attended by DCC presidents in the presence of AICC Telangana in-charge and MP Manickam Tagore, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and other party leaders in Khammam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dccs-want-rahul-gandhi-to-be-aicc-prez/articleshow/80739911.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Dehradun||‘We watched as surging waters swallowed our loved ones, could do nothing’||A roar, a haze, a split second of stunned silence. And then, chaos. It was an exceptionally bright Sunday morning when Mahatami Devi, 42, stepped out of her house in Uttarakhand’s Jugju village to fetch firewood and cattle fodder from the neighbouring Raini village. One of her three sons, 17-year-old Ankit, was home at the time. “I met her around 8am. I was going uphill with three men to carve a pagdandi (pathway) in Raini. She was headed downhill. She said a quick hello and moved ahead,” Sangram Singh Rawat, former gram panchayat member of Raini village, told TOI. “An hour later, there was a loud, thundering sound. When we looked up, the clear blue sky had turned grey. And then, we heard Ankit screaming, ‘Save my mother.’ A wall of water came surging through the hills, sweeping with it everything that came in its way — people, cattle, trees. We could do nothing.” Metres away, Anita Devi, 70, from Raini Chuksa village was grazing cattle when the debris-laden Dhauliganga raged through Raini. “She was with her grandson Golu and daughter-in-law Tanuja. The two of them ran for their lives when they heard the gushing sound." "Anita Devi was left behind. We saw the river swallow her as she stood there, helpless,” said Kundan Singh, 42, from Raini. While those in the higher reaches saw their loved ones swept away, those downhill darted in panic. "Bhaago (run)," people were screaming. But they could not keep going. “The air was thick, pungent. They could not breathe, could not run faster. They just buckled down and waited,” Sangram said.  After about half an hour, the village elders in Raini said they should go looking for those who were missing. “What we saw was horrifying. Where we had seen people working hours ago — cutting wood, grazing cattle — there was a swamp of debris. Not one of our people could be spotted.” Kundan’s nephew is among them. “He had taken around 150 goats for grazing. He has gone missing,” Kundan said. With villages in the area cut off because bridges have been swept away, many labourers and their families are stranded. Kundan is hosting about 20 of them at his house. Kundan and Sangram have been protesting against hydropower projects in the geologically fragile region for years. Their petition had taken the state and Centre to court for the Rishiganga project, whose workers are among 150 feared dead. Kundan said, “What happened today was nature’s way of telling us things are horribly wrong.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/we-watched-as-surging-waters-swallowed-our-loved-ones-could-do-nothing/articleshow/80739913.cms||Shivani Azad
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||Gold rate in negative since Dhanteras, short squeezing keeps silver afloat||Nagpur: Falling rates of gold have left the investors with negative returns if the yellow metal was brought a four months ago. Dhanteras, the festival during Diwali season, is seen as a benchmark for gold demand. Retail buying touches a high on the day as it is considered auspicious to buy gold on the occasion.If the rates since the Dhanteras of 2020 is considered, then a buyer stands to lose Rs2,600 a tola (per 10 grams) since then. Dhanteras fell on November 13 last year. The rates at that time where at Rs51,300 tola. It has come down to Rs48,700 tola as on Saturday’s trading session. On the other hand, those who may have preferred silver still stand to gain despite the volatilities. On November 13 2020, silver was at Rs63,500 a kg and on Saturday it was at Rs68,500. This gives a return of Rs5,000 on a kg of silver bought. If compared to a week ago, the rates of silver are down by over Rs4,500 a kg.The Indian retail consumer, however, prefers gold over silver, say sources in the business.The downfall has hit the retail demand for gold as consumers are only confident on buying it when the rates are high. “A small section of investors are bullish on silver, sensing investment opportunity,” said traders.Traders are closely watching the international scene, especially the movements in silver rates in line of short squeezing by the WallStreetBets. The short squeezing phenomenon has taken over the silver market following the gaming stocks.“The traders here are watching the situation closely. It’s interesting that WallStreetBets, which is a group of individuals that have taken on the big hedge funds, are moving the markets,” said Rajesh Thakker of M/s Dipti Jewellers, a bullion wholesale firm in AkolaThakker said the group has started buying the silver contracts that the funds were short selling. This has led to major surge in the silver rates. It happened in gaming company stocks too. A week ago, silver rates had touched Rs73,800 a kg, said Pankaj Bakhai of M/s Anantrai and Sons. Bakhai said he believes that it is not easy to move the silver price even by concerted short squeezing. This is because unlike the equity shares of a company there is huge underlying silver stock in the commodity exchanges,Gold is falling due to a stronger dollar and revival of economy. “Rates of dollar and gold are inversely proportionate,” said traders. Thakker said the demand is low which typically happens when the rates of precious metals are up.Rajesh Rokde of Nagpur Sarafa Oli Association said the retail demand of both gold and silver jewellery has gone up substantially in last three days. There are reports of sales doubling than the average too.Traders pointed out that even as the market rates were down, certain branded chains were selling gold nearly Rs8,000 more than the market. This is because the chains are leveraging their brand value. “The same gold would only fetch a lower rates in the open market,” said a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gold-rate-in-negative-since-dhanteras-short-squeezing-keeps-silver-afloat/articleshow/80738185.cms||Shishir Arya
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rs 1 lakh snatched after mask distraction||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Koba in Gandhinagar on Saturday filed a complaint with Infocity police stating that two men looted him of Rs 1 lakh after starting a dispute with him for not wearing a mask. Shailesh Rathod, 30, a resident of Samarth Heaven in Koba, said that the incident occurred on February 3 when he was going to deposit money in his employer’s bank account in Kudasan.  “My employer, Udesingh Lavar, had told me to disburse the salary of labourers,” Rathod said in his FIR. “I took the money from the contractor, Raunak Patel, and began walking towards SBI bank in Kudasan.” Rathod said that an unknown man approached him and asked why he was not wearing a mask. The man took Rathod to his ‘superior officer’, stationed on a scooter a few metres away. Later, the two men took Rathod to a secluded place on the scooter and asked for his identity proof. When Rathod was showing his documents, they snatched away the money from Rathod and sped away on their scooter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-1l-snatched-after-mask-distraction/articleshow/80739912.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Child commission will inspect schools to find out if SOPs followed||Jaipur: State’s child commission officials will visit private and government schools to inspect them in a bid to ensure that all Covid protocols are being followed and students are not at any risk. A report will later be submitted to the commission’s chairperson. Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal said, “I have issued an order in all districts that the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) members along with other officials will visit private and government schools to ensure that SOPs are being followed. A report of the same will be later submitted to the commission.” The commission had carried out a similar inspection when schools had reopened for higher classes last month. “If we find instances that schools are not following the protocol, then action will be taken against them and we will also write to the state government regarding negligence. However, last month when schools reopened from classes 9 to 12, we found that in most cases, the SOP was being followed and minor glitches that came to light were resolved,” said the chairperson. This decision to reopen schools for junior classes was taken as the state has reported steady decrease in the number of daily Covid cases with two dozen districts reporting zero cases. According to the guidelines issued by the department, permission of parents is mandatory for allowing any student to attend school. If any parent is not interested in sending his ward, no pressure should be exerted on them by the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-commission-will-inspect-schools-to-find-out-if-sops-followed/articleshow/80738885.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 6k ghost customers in Rs 111 crore demonetisation fraud, says ED||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigation into the Rs 111 crore demonetisation fraud, involving city jewellers, found 6,000 ghost customers were created to structurally layer and pump in demonetised currency into the system. The black money belongs to the jewellers and no such customers existed, the investigation found. ED has already attached the properties worth Rs 130.5 crore of the accused Musaddilal Jewellers and others. Hyderabad police’s Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths had first registered a case against Musaddilal Gems and Jewels Private limited, Vaishnavi Bullion Private Limited and Musaddilal Jewellers Private Limited. The allegation is that the accused deposited demonetised notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 worth Rs 111 crore in the bank accounts of three companies after November 8. ED investigations found the accused had created bogus cash receipts and invoices showing that 6,000 customers had visited their showroom to purchase gold jewellery between 8 pm and midnight after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the demonetisation move. The accused raised invoices below Rs 2 lakh so that there would be no requirement of KYC proof or PAN of customers. Investigators found that after depositing Rs 111 crore cash into their bank accounts, the money was transferred to gold bullion dealers to buy bullion and the same was delivered to jewellers, individuals and firms. “Majority of jewellers had admitted that they had contributed cash. They claimed that the demonetised notes were sourced from unknown customers. But they could neither provide the list of customers nor explain the reason for depositing it in the accounts of Mussadilal Jewellers instead of their own,” an ED official said. ED said the family of Kailash Gupta had derived further profits to the tune of Rs 28 crore. “Proceeds of crime worked out to be Rs 139 crore. The ghost customers are not traced. This shows that this is a well-planned conspiracy,” an ED official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6k-ghost-customers-in-rs-111cr-demonetisation-fraud-ed/articleshow/80739905.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Southern dists have 449 active cases, central region 21 less||Madurai: After recording 62 fresh cases on Saturday, 49 cases were reported in the 10 southern districts on Sunday. The central region saw 57 new coronavirus cases, up by 17 from 40, on Sunday, a day after recording a dip in fresh cases. No deaths were recorded in both the regions. The Covid-19 tally in south Tamil Nadu stands at 1,36,452 cases, including 449 active cases (down from 540 a week back), 1,33,874 recoveries and 2,129 deaths. The tally in the central region stands at 76,282 with 428 active cases, but a week back it was only 378. The most number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday were reported in Dindigul with 11 cases, closely followed by Madurai (10). All other districts reported new cases in single digits. Though Madurai suddenly saw a marginal rise to 18 cases on Saturday, the number has come down again on Sunday and the active cases also fell below 100. With 97 active cases, Madurai has the most in the southern region, followed by Kanyakumari (85). Except for Dindigul (67) and Tirunelveli (62), all other districts have less than 50 active cases, with Ramanathapuram (9) having just less than 10 active cases. Tenkasi (9), Kanyakumari (8), Tirunelveli (5) and Theni (3) reported new cases in single digits on Sunday while Sivaganga, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar, all reported only one fresh case each. Ramanathapuram recorded no new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Though more than 60 Covid-19 cases were reported in the southern region on Saturday, steady decline is continuing to be seen in February as well just like in January. In the central region, Thanjavur (29) reported the most number of new cases recorded on Sunday. Total number of positive cases so far recorded in the district was 17,805. Next to Thanjavur, Trichy district reported 18 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-dists-have-449-active-cases-central-region-21-less/articleshow/80740482.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||AIMIM will counter Hindu nationalism with Indian nationalism, says Asaduddin Owaisi||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) made a foray into Gujarat’s politics with party chief Asaduddin Owaisi launching an all-out offensive against both the BJP and Congress. Tearing into the BJP and Congress alike, Owaisi on Sunday said that AIMIM will counter Hindu nationalism with Indian nationalism. “There is no intellectual honesty left in the Congress party, it wants to counter Hindu nationalism with Hindu nationalism. With the constitution of India as its guiding book, AIMIM will counter Hindu nationalism with Indian nationalism,” Owaisi said in a public rally at Sabarmati riverfront on Sunday evening. Attacking the Narendra Modi-led union government over the Chinese incursion into Indian territory, Owaisi said, “The Chinese took over Indian territory recently because they know that the Indian government is preoccupied in spreading hate in the country instead of guarding the country’s borders.” Addressing the PM, he said that if the barricades used to stop farmers were put up in Ladakh, Indian territory would not have been taken over. “The PM has not even named China in his speeches,” Owaisi said. Earlier, in Bharuch, Asaduddin Owaisi, with tribal strongman and founder of Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) Chhotu Vasava by his side, called upon all minority communities and deprived class, to unite against the ruling BJP in the state. Owaisi, who has forged alliance for the upcoming civic body polls with the BTP, said that BJP and Congress were like an uncle (mama) and nephew (bhanja). “Congress and BJP are like mama (uncle) and bhanja (nephew). That is the reason why BJP has been ruling in Gujarat for the last 25 years. Both these parties are same and that’s is the reason why the marginalised people need a strong alternative,” Owaisi said. Invoking B R Ambedkar, Owaisi said that if people wanted liberty, freedom, equality and justice then they will have become a political power, and they can do so by choosing their own leaders, who will go to the Assembly without fearing PM Narendra Modi or the Congress. While addressing the gathering, MLA from Jhagadia Chhotu Vasava asked people to vote out this government that has violated the Constitution of the country and denied tribals their rights. “Recent declaration of Kevadia Development Authority near the Statue of Unity (in Narmada district), is one example of how the land rights of tribals was snatched by the government. In Gujarat, only Muslims, tribals and OBCs together can bring a political change in Gujarat,” said Vasava. The AIMIM is reported to contest local bpody polls of Godhra and Modasa in Gujarat apart from fielding 21 candidates in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-will-counter-hindu-nationalism-with-indian-nationalism-owaisi/articleshow/80739939.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Quaran-teen: Minds in Covid crisis||Ahmedabad: Sonali (name changed), 15, was brought to a city-based psychiatrist as she could not concentrate on her online classes. The problem was not simple, of course. After counselling, the experts determined that it was ‘withdrawal symptom.’ A smartphone given to her for online classes was taken back by her parents as she was spending hours on it, browsing social media sites and video platforms. While the Covid-19 pandemic affected a large section of the population physically and mentally, the teens were also hit hard, said experts. Dr Ajay Chauhan, medical superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Health, said that the rise they have noted in cases is about 20% compared to 2019. “It could well be the tip of the iceberg, as parents generally bring their wards to us only when the cases get extreme,” he said. “The majority of the cases were related to screen addiction, spending excessive time online, extreme mood swings, anger without any apparent trigger, and eating disorders.” Dr Jalnidhi Nanavati, a child and adolescent psychiatrist, said that children and teens missed the interaction with their peers the most. “As many spent such a prolonged time with their parents — who were also holed up at home — for the first time, interpersonal issues cropped up,” she said. “Those who witnessed death or illness of their loved ones reported a rise in obsessive compulsive disorders (OCDs).” The online mode of education affected the attention span of children, said Dr Minakshi Parikh, head of psychiatry department at BJ Medical College. “Many just logged into class, without actually attending it,” Dr Parikh said. “The impact of prolonged screen time has been well-documented even before the pandemic, but it has been more pronounced over the past few months.” While the experts are hopeful of a drop in cases with the opening of schools and colleges in a phased manner, they suggested streamlining of the daily routine as the first step towards maintaining psychological well-being. Several schools made wearing uniform compulsory for online classes due to this reason, they pointed out. The stay at home blurred the boundaries between personal and professional space, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/quaran-teen-minds-in-covid-crisis/articleshow/80739948.cms||Parth Shastri
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra defends its record against Economic Survey finding||MUMBAI: The state’s public health department on Sunday contested the criticism of the Economic Survey, saying Maharashtra being a major transit point for international passengers took the brunt of the epidemic and that efforts taken by the state government should have been appreciated. The Economic Survey has observed that compared to Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Bihar, Maharashtra has underperformed in restricting spread of cases and in saving lives. Principal Secretary (public health) Pradeep Vyas, who did not respond earlier on the Survey’s findings, sent a statement to defend the state 's record on Sunday. “The disease based on its nature is likely to be more present in the settings where population density is high and there is more urban population. This particular fact that Maharashtra has largest proportion of total population living in urban areas seems to have been ignored in this survey,’’ he said. Vyas said the best indicator would be total Covid cases, fatalities and active cases in terms of numbers per million population. Maharashtra leads in absolute number. However, in cases per million, Maharashtra is sixth after Delhi, Goa, Pondicherry, Kerala, Chandigarh. Vyas said unlike states where many deaths of positive patients were attributed to co-morbidities like diabetes, Maharashtra showed every death as Covid-related if the patient was detected positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-defends-its-record-against-eco-survey-finding/articleshow/80740001.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Pandemic push: Online lessons is the way forward||JAIPUR: The pandemic has pushed the world ahead by a few years. Due to closure of schools, the online mode of education got a major boost and now with the situation getting normal, school authorities are planning to continue with the virtual mode in a limited extent. School authorities said although classroom teaching will be the prime mode of learning, online mode will continue. Cambridge Court International School principal Lata Rawat said this will become a part of our lives soon. “The pandemic has pushed us to future which should be seen as a positive sign. Classroom teaching cannot be replaced as students learn to socialise, make friends and learn to live in a society. But we will be using the good Wifi installed in school, cameras we purchased for online teaching further to hold classes whether to complete the remaining syllabus or extra classes before board exams,” said Rawat. Initially parents, teachers and students faced immense difficulties in getting used to this mode of education. However, as times went by, online teaching became the prime mode of education and now school authorities are looking forward to taking this forward. Edward Olivera, director of Education of Gyandeep Education Society (an organisation of Catholic Schools of Jaipur iocese) said he recently held a meeting with all principals to decide ways to include virtual mode in education. Calling this method a revolution, Olivera said, “This was supposed to happen in the world, the pandemic acted as a catalyst. We have started to plan how to carry forward with the virtual mode while keeping classroom teaching as primary mode. We can teach all difficult/important chapters in schools and keep some parts of syllabus for online classes. At present, everything is informal, but with time it will be more systematic with new innovations.” CEO of Tagore Public School, Ruchira Solanki, said their school teachers are planning to take extra classes in the evening through online mode for a few exceptional students who can be get merit in the board exams or to prepare some students better for a competition. “Earlier, this wasn’t possible but now virtual mode has made it very convenient for everyone,” said Solanki. Ashok Vaid, secretary of Jaipur Shodaya Schools Organization, said online mode has given school authorities an alternative to keep education on track without any need of being present in class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-push-onlinelessons-is-the-way-forward/articleshow/80738893.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Revanth turns deeksha into padayatra||Hyderabad: State Congress working president A Revanth Reddy on Sunday converted his deeksha into padayatra from Atchampet in Nagarkurnool district to Hyderabad, covering a distance of 140 km, on the demand of farmers and party leaders. He started his padayatra from Atchampet along with Mulugu MLA D Anasuya, Atchampet party leader Ch Vamshi Krishna and other party leaders and farmers. Revanth was in Atchampet to participate in Rajiv Rythu Bharosa Deeksha. “How can I go back to my residence when so many farmers wanted a padayatra. I have the courage to fight for the people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-turns-deeksha-into-padayatra/articleshow/80739914.cms||Roushan Ali
February 8, 2021||India||Never promised Uddhav rotation of CM post: Shah||MUMBAI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday denied that he had promised Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray that the chief-ministership would be kept rotational between the BJP and Shiv Sena after the 2019 Maharashtra assembly election. "No such promise was ever made to them. I make promises not in a closed-door room, but in public meetings-out in the open, in a loud and clear voice," he said at a gathering in Malwan . It was Shah's first visit to the Konkan, the coastal region that the Shiv Sena covets as its bastion, after the 2019 state election. Shah was there to inaugurate a 150-seat medical college constructed by former chief minister Narayan Rane, an MP and NDA ally. He accused the Sena of gaining power in the state by giving short shrift to the late Balasaheb Thackeray's principles. Shah said the very existence of the Shiv Sena as a political party would have been in jeopardy had the BJP taken the route which Thackeray's party took to remain glued to power. MP Sanjay Raut, the chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, tweeted a response within a few hours: "In 1975 Rajni Patel and in the 90's similarly (I guess Murli Deora said) that Shiv Sena will be wiped off. Again in 2012 Prithviraj Chavan said the same thing and on both the occasions Shiv Sena came up even more stronger than earlier, Jai Maharashtra." Another Shiv Sena MP, Arvind Sawant, said Thackeray would never lie to anyone. "It took Amit Shah more than a year to speak on the closed-door meeting. This explains everything," Sawant said. Shah's address to the meeting in Malwan was a clear indication that the BJP was in no mood to revive its friendship with Matoshree, the Thackeray residence in Bandra (east) that is the power centre of the Shiv Sena, and that he wanted his party to go hammer and tongs against its former ally during the 2022 BMC election. "They [the Shiv Sena] insulted the sacred mandate given by the people of Maharashtra during the assembly election," he said. "The mandate was in favour of the BJP-Sena alliance with Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister. However, they set aside the principles and values of the late Balasaheb Thackeray and joined the Maha Vikas Aghadi." Shah said the MVA government was like a three-wheeled autorickshaw where all the wheels moved in different directions. "The Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi regime was born out of a lust for power," he said. "The Sena has become 'laachaar' for power." Stating that the BJP has always honoured promises made to its allies, Shah refuted Uddhav Thackeray's oft-repeated claim that he, the BJP national president at the time, had promised him that the BJP and Shiv Sena would share the CM post for two and a half years each after the 2019 election. "Although the BJP bagged more assembly seats than the JD(U) in the Bihar assembly elections last year, we offered the Bihar chief ministership to Nitish Kumar," Shah said. "We don't renege on our promise. However, we had made no promise to the Sena on sharing the CM-ship in Maharashtra." He said the Shiv Sena had jointly campaigned with the BJP before the state assembly polls under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Devendra Fadnavis and knew all the time who the CM candidate was in the alliance. "Never did the Sena once bring up the CM-ship issue during the poll campaign. We had projected Fadnavis as our CM candidate," Shah said. Shah assured Rane, a former Shiv Sena man and now its bitter foe, that the BJP would treat him with "respect and dignity". "The Sena has compromised on its ideology for power. However, the BJP gives precedence to ideology over power and politics," he said. Shah accused Thackeray of not having toured the Konkan belt in the wake of the hailstorm last year, which destroyed the mango and cashew crop. "The CM didn't bother to tour Konkan. On the other hand, Devendra Fadnavis thrice visited the ravaged villages," he said. The Union home minister paid glowing tributes to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, who he said fought the Mughal regime with exemplary courage and understood the strategic importance of a robust naval force. Shah said the battle against Covid-19 was a big success as PM Modi had inspired the entire nation to join hands with doctors, the para-medical staff and Covid-19 warriors to take on the pandemic with full strength. "Soon, the nation will supply Covid-19 vaccine to other countries," he said. "Today, many countries are accepting India's line of medication to combat the dreaded disease. India has registered the highest rate of recovery because of the Modi government's concerted efforts to upgrade health infrastructure and streamline resources to improve medicare facilities to the poor and the underprivileged." Citing the latest figures, Shah said nearly 55 lakh citizens had been vaccinated in 21 days. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis accused the state government of failing to draw a comprehensive plan to combat Covid-19. Citing the latest Economic Survey, he said the performance of the state on the Covid-19 front had been very poor. "However, the BJP went out of its way to lend a helping hand to the state government during the Covid-19 crisis," Fadnavis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/never-promised-uddhav-rotation-of-cm-post-shah/articleshow/80740800.cms||Ambarish Mishra
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||One dead in road accident||Hyderabad: One person travelling in a car at Gandimaisamma in Dundigal died in a road accident on Saturday night. The car was travelling from Outer Ring Road (ORR) to Gandimaisamma. The car hit the railing and flew, before falling in a open land. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-dead-in-road-accident/articleshow/80740004.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||School reopening phase-2: 66k institutes to accommodate another 40L students||Jaipur: State schools are struggling on how to welcome junior students from Classes 6 to 8 for in-person classes from February 8 under the second phase of school reopening. Every school is busy altering seating arrangements, counselling staff to handle younger students, deploying temperature check points and revamping entry and exits and regulations on facilities. Over 66,961 schools have to accommodate another 40 lakh students in the age group of 10-12 in full adherence of Covid safety protocols. Private schools have expressed doubts on students’ attendance while government-run institutes are expecting full house. Report says barely 10-20% of students attending in-person classes in private schools while the figure in government schools varies from 40% to 70%. The fresh guidelines for phase-II don’t seem to convince parents who are flooding schools with calls checking its preparedness to fight the spread of the virus. On the other hand, private schools are working overtime to prepare a decision-making toolkit for parents and guardians, while others are listing protective behaviour rules for students. From sending text messages to parents to daily checking the temperature of their wards and encouraging them to disclose the health condition of students in a bid to win over their confidence. For schools, reopening isn’t easy. Vivekanand Vidya Niketan at Jawahar Nagar here recorded a total strength of 110 students on Friday. “I have been calling 25 teachers to attend 120 students on an average in four senior secondary standards 9-12. On certain days the situation goes to a level that for one student, I have four teachers teaching different subjects,” said principal Bhavesh Mittal, who is expecting same situation in the second phase of school reopening for classes 6-8. Some schools are considering to run classes on rotational basis to meet the upper limit of 50% attendance. “Almost 50% of the classes have been engaged in the accommodating classes IX to XII. I can accommodate only 20 students in each class against the strength of 40-50. If the strength goes beyond 20, I am set to follow the rotational method,” said RS Chauhan, Tiny Blossom Senior Secondary School, Civil Lines, Jaipur. Every second call schools are receiving is about transport facility. It is the biggest reason, most schools say, behind the unimpressive footfall of students in the first phase. Almost 70-80% students use transport—city or school buses, autorickshaws and pool cars to reach schools. Schools say transport is a major deterrent for students to attend classes and it is going to drastically affect the attendance for class 6-8. Running a 50-seater school bus with less than 35-40 students means only the cost of fuel is recovered, say schools. “Running school bus under the prescribed norm which allows only 20 students is financially not feasible for any school. Also, no public transport will directly connect to the school to ferry limited number of students,” said HS Rajawat, a transport manager, Blue Heavens School, Jaipur. Even if the transport is manageable for some parents, uncertainty over the Covid contraction is keeping phase-I students away from schools. Schools fear similar fate is waiting to happen with the phase-2. “I would like to see first how reopening of classes is responding to the Covid cases. I agree that cases have gone down but until the government announces the end of the pandemic, how can I trust that it can’t be contracted. This is a reason that I have asked my daughters to continue their online classes,” said Poornima Babel, whose daughter, Jhanvi and Bani, study at Jayshree Periwal High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-reopening-phase-2-66k-institutes-to-accommodate-another-40l-students/articleshow/80738901.cms||Shoeb Khan
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Covid fear prevents kids from attending classes||Jaipur: Two students in a class of 50 attending physical class of commerce in Vivekananda Vidya School in Jawahar Nagar. Shubham and Vikas live close to the school, which is the main reason that they attend daily. Since the first phase (classes 9-12) of schools reopened from January 18, the school has seen the highest turnout of 20% of permitted students in the first week. The dismal strength has forced the school to run senior secondary classes in primary classes which are comparatively smaller. Expecting a huge turnout, the school removed 50% of tables and chairs from every class, sanitise the complex every day, installed sanitiser dispenser at every floor and every entry-exit point, thermal scanners, oxygen cylinders and one nursing staff to meet any emergency. The school claimed that it cost them dearly to make these arrangements prescribed in the SOPs. “I have to call all my staff — teaching and non-teaching — which has added to my financial woes. Almost 50% of parents have not paid complete fees till date and in-person classes of the first and second phase from February 8 is the cause of concern,” said principal Bhavesh Mittal. He finds the poor show by students disappointing but agrees that every student has one reason or the other not to attend classes. “The feedback from the majority of parents says they still fear contraction and absence of transport facility deterring them to send their wards to the school. The solution to both the issues is not with the school,” he said. Shubham, who is among two students of class XI attending the class, has a conditional reason coming to the school every day. “I am attending due to poor turnout in my class. I will discontinue if the number increases as Jaipur is still reporting Covid cases every day,” said Shubham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-fear-prevents-kids-from-attending-classes/articleshow/80738897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Mini flyovers on OMR delayed, to take 2 more years||CHENNAI: Two mini ‘U’ turn flyovers being constructed across the Rajiv Gandhi Expressway (Old Mamallapuram Road) are progressing at a snail’s pace. The projects were proposed in 2019 and work began in December 2020. While the structure proposed near the Thiruvanmiyur junction is facing troubles in land acquisition, the second one at the Indira Nagar junction is delayed by tree transplantation. The combine dproject cost of the flyovers is Rs 110 crore. A source from the Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC), one of the agencies in charge of the constructions, said the mini flyover proposed at the Thiruvanmiyur junction would start next to the MRTS track, barely 500m from the junction. The other end of the flyover would be across the road, close to the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) premises. A TNRDC official said the flyover’s landing requires 1,600sqm space that has to be chipped away from the NIFT premises. “The flyover would be close to the institute’s perimeter wall. We’ve requested NIFT to provide us the required space. But they want an equal share of land allocated to them before they allow us to take over their land,” the official said. The institute’s perimeter wall will have to be torn down for the project. Discussions were held with NIFT management about it, the official added. “We hope to get a positive response from the NIFT authorities very soon”. The second flyover, at the Indira Nagar junction, doesn’t have any land acquisition hurdles. TNRDC officials have removed 21 trees along its course and work to remove another 10 is on. Once done, the flyover work will have a clear course. State authorities chose to transplant the trees instead of knocking them down. At present, the 21 trees removed now were transplanted to the Central Polytechnic campus in Taramani. It is close to the original location and would increase chances of survival. The 21 trees are of Sterculia species. Explaining how they went about the process, the road development corporation official said the uprooted trees were covered with gunny bags from leaf to root and then water was poured over them. “The water-soaked bags acted as mulching agents and helped preserve plant moisture. All the 21 trees have survived and have grown fresh shoots since they were transplanted around two months ago,” said the TNRDC official. Work to transplant another 10 trees, of Samanea saman (monkey pod tree) variety, will begin soon. Construction of both the flyovers is expected to be completed in 24 months. This will help decongesting the stretch, that is often chock-a-block during peak hours. Once the flyovers are ready, the opening to make a U-tun near the Indira Nagar junction will be closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mini-flyovers-on-omr-delayed-to-take-2-more-years/articleshow/80738904.cms||P Oppili
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Host farmers like you treated Obama: Owaisi to PM||Bharuch: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers to his a residence like he had hosted then US president Barack Obama, and repeal the new farm laws. Addressing a rally for upcoming polls to local bodies in Gujarat, the Hyderabad MP also asked the PM to be “large-hearted” and “understand pains” of the farmers, who have been protesting at borders of Delhi over the last two months demanding to scrap the agri marketing legislations. “The way the farmers are being treated is not right. It is wrong. The PM should invite the farmers to his residence like he had offered tea to (then US President) Barack Obama with his own hand (in 2015), which is fine as he was our guest. We expect the PM to invite the farmers, offer them tea and biscuits and tell them the (agri marketing) laws are being repealed, and that they should be happy,” Owaisi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/host-farmers-like-you-treated-obama-owaisi-to-pm/articleshow/80739975.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Auto driver booked for over-crowding||Hyderabad: A case was registered against a goods autorickshaw driver by Bachupally police after he was found plying his vehicle with 10 persons in it. On seeing the auto, police questioned the driver. Police booked him since he was endangering others’ lives. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-booked-for-over-crowding/articleshow/80739982.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Special schools too want to reopen soon||Madurai: Even as regular schools are slowly returning to normal by reopening Class IX to XII in a full-fledged manner from this week, children with special needs have been left in the lurch as there was no announcement regarding plans for reopening their schools. “With schools shut for more than eight months, children with special needs have overturned their routine and they were deprived of getting the continuous support that they require for their development. We are trying to best support the parents with online classes, but it has not been easy or effective. Unfortunately, there is no act specially governing special schools,” said Jeyapal A, founding member, Bethshan Special School. He said that special schools need to be reopened soon for the sake of parents and children, adding that they may even have to hold medical and behavioural assessments for the students to formulate learning plans. For residential special schools as well, it has equally been a struggle for parents and children. “We had to have the orphans we take care of here at the school, but otherwise all other students were sent home. They missed out on therapy for months and even now we are able to provide therapy only for local students. Many parents have started going to work leaving behind children at home,” said Dayalan Barnabas, principal, CSI Elwin Centre. He said that there is no reason why special schools cannot be reopened when all other public places are fully functional and that students can get tested for Covid-19 and return to school. “Though we were worried about how students will adapt to the new normal of wearing masks, we found that now the children have learnt it. By repeatedly reinforcing the habit, especially for those with mild or moderate disabilities, it is not an issue,” said Jeyapal. J Shamila Doris, correspondent, YMCA Kamak Higher Secondary School, said that they have been trying their best to have at least 1-2 hours of teachers visiting students at their homes to teach them and counsel parents. “Teachers are at risk but so far no one tested Covid-19 positive. While regular schools have to deal with possible crowding and have up to 30 students in a classroom, in case of special children, the teacher-student ratio is much less and hence special schools can be considered for reopening,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/special-schools-too-want-to-reopen-soon/articleshow/80740487.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Glacier burst: Rupani calls U’khand CM||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government has requested the Uttarakhand administration to ensure the rescue of Gujarat pilgrims stranded in the Himalayan state after a glacier burst in Chamoli district on Sunday. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani contacted his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat to make sure that Gujarat tourists are safe. Rupani tasked chief secretary Anil Mukim with the responsibility of coordinating with the Uttarakhand administration. “Fortunately, all tourists from Gujarat are safe according to the information collected from various districts,” Mukim said. “The CM himself is also following up the matter at all levels. We are ready to provide every possible help to the Uttarakhand government.” Sources said that a group of 50 tourists from Rajkot was instructed to return to Dehradun from Haridwar in the wake of the calamity. They were going towards Srinagar and Tapovan from Haridwar. “We are safe. We received instruction from the authorities that we should go back towards Dehradun, where we are headed, leaving some of our baggage in Haridwar,” one of the tourists, Krishna Pancholi, told the local media over the phone. “There is high alert in Haridwar and Rishikesh.” A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river, which caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/glacier-burst-rupani-calls-ukhand-cm/articleshow/80740002.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Eye on BMC election, Shiv Sena tries to poach in BJP bastions||MUMBAI: With three BJP leaders switching over to Shiv Sena in a week, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party seems to have begun its campaign for the BMC elections scheduled early in 2022. Sena strategists said that by inducting BJP leaders ino the party, the Sena is looking to dent BJP bastions, especially in the suburbs. A senior Sena functionary said that the party had formed a team of leaders, including Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai and transport minister Anil Parab, to poach netas from BJP. In the next few weeks, the functionary said, close to half a dozen more BJP leaders from areas like Mulund, Ghatkopar, Dahisar, Kandivli and Colaba among others will join the Sena. Many leaders who have joined the Sena are eyeing the 2024 assembly elections for a berth, while offering it support for the 2022 BMC polls. Those who have already jumped ship to Sena are former BJP MLA Hemendra Mehta, who has represented Borivli assembly constituency for three consecutive terms from 1990 to 1999; Krishna Hegde, Mumbai BJP vice-president; Sameer Desai, former Mumbai BJP secretary and nephew of late Congress leader Gurudas Kamat; and Juilee Shende from MNS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eye-on-bmc-election-sena-tries-to-poach-in-bjp-bastions/articleshow/80740021.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Sultan Bazar fire: Shopkeepers allege arson||Hyderabad: Clothing stores located in Sultan Bazar, Koti caught fire in the wee hours of Saturday. No casualties were reported. Four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire. According to the police, five shops were burnt. The incident happened at 11:45 pm on Saturday and firefighters were able to douse the fire by 2:30 am Sunday. Vendors alleged that that the fire accident was pre-planned. “We have been doing business since decades, no fire accidents have been reported. Suddenly when the issues pertaining to the piece of land on which we are running the stores is in court and trials are underway, a fire mishap happens. Some people have planted the incident to vacate us,” said a shopkeeper. Ramchander Raju, an ex-corporator from Sultan Bazar ward, supported the vendor. “These vendors have been doing business for the past 50-60 years. These shops are the only source of income for them, and these people will be rendered homeless now. The vendors say that the incident was done intentionally (was planned),” said Raju. Ahmed Balala, the AIMIM MLA from Malakpet assembly segment, also met the vendors on Sunday afternoon and took stock of the situation. The site of the incident also had a notice board set up by the government which read: “This land belongs to the government, trespassers will be prosecuted.” All the shops gutted to fire were temporary structures stocked with clothes worth lakhs of rupees. According to police, the reason for fire is assumed to be a short circuit. “Initial investigation reveals that there was a short-circuit. Was it an accident or a planned event can be said only after investigation. Probe is underway. I request the shop owners to ensure they take all the precautions pertaining to fire safety,” said K Subbarami Reddy, circle inspector of Sultan Bazar police station. As on date several shops in that locality do not comply with fire safety norms. The lane where the fire accident occurred sees hundred of people throng there every day. “If the incident would have happened in day, there would have been injuries and casualties,” a TSDRFS official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sultan-bazar-fire-shopkeepers-allege-arson/articleshow/80740018.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Madurai||Crop loan waiver to benefit AIADMK men: Stalin||Madurai: DMK president M K Stalin has raised apprehensions about the beneficiaries of the crop loan waiver announced by the state government, saying it remains to be seen if the scheme reaches real farmers or AIADMK functionaries. He pointed out that the government incurred heavy losses due to fake farmers infiltrating the system for obtaining PM-Kisan fund. Speaking at Sankarankoil in Tenkasi district as part of the party’s “Ungal Thoguthiyil Naan’’ campaign, he alleged that AIADMK functionaries had already obtained the tenders for kudimaramathu works in the state through fake farmers associations. This corrupt act led to the tanks and ponds not being desilted properly and swindling of funds to the tune of crores of rupees. While late chief minister Karunanidhi had waived farmer loans as soon as he assumed charge, the ruling AIADMK was doing it at the fag end of its rule. ``Did the chief minister realise the problems of the farmers just now,’’ he asked. “In 2016, they staged a similar drama, where they said that crop loans obtained for less than five acres would be waived. But, farmers went to court seeking waiver of all crop loans. The high court directed that the government should give the benefit to all farmers. It should have done so in three months. But the Tamil Nadu government appealed against this in the Supreme Court,” he said. In 2006, the DMK waived all loans obtained through cooperative banks and nationalised banks including jewel loans, tractor loans and well-digging loans. What the chief minister has announced now applies only to crop loans, of small and marginal farmers. Since AIADMK functionaries were in the administration of cooperative societies, it would be their kith and kin who would benefit from this. Stalin said he had been questioned on using MGR’s names in campaigns, and that he had told the person who questioned him that he had known MGR personally, unlike many in the ruling party who had only seen him in cinema. He recalled MGR’s speech when he visited Gopalapuram to participate in Anna’s birth anniversary, where he had said he was envious of Stalin as he had organised the function so well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crop-loan-waiver-to-benefit-aiadmk-men-stalin/articleshow/80740491.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Many fall prey to lewd video calls, forced to pay huge sums||HYDERABAD: Many persons, especially men, are falling prey to strangers making a video call and engaging them in lewd talk, in the city. In some cases the callers even made the victims strip naked. Unwitting victims realise only later that that the women calling were blackmailers and extortionists. Reacting to this, Telangana police said that people should not accept video calls from strangers. In all three police commissionerates in the city, cyber crime police have registered many complaints where victims of this ordeal said that the female caller, after being friendly, made them strip naked after indulging with them in lewd talk. They said that they realised only later that the women had been recording the video call on their phone. “A victim will realise that their actions, on the request of the video caller, was actually recorded only after she shared it with him via a messaging app. The caller then threatens the victim that the would be uploaded on social media if he didn’t transfer money to her,” police said. Scared of being defamed or humiliated, the victims transfer thousands of rupees to the accused. In one case, a victim reportedly transferred Rs 1 lakh. “Avoid accepting any indecent requests made by a stranger or friend during a video call. Screen recording of such video session may be misused by cyber fraudsters for blackmail or threat purpose,” Telangana police said on Sunday, on their Twitter handle. During the investigation, police found that some of the gang members are stationed in Rajasthan. Many men are being deceived after the woman calls the victim pretends to be a friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-fall-prey-to-lewd-video-calls-forced-to-pay-huge-sums/articleshow/80740009.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||‘CM’s February 10 meet shows desperation’||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s proposed public meeting at Haliya in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency on February 10 is an indication of how prestigious the ensuing bypoll is to the ruling TRS after its shock defeat in Dubbak to the BJP. Neither KCR nor any of his council of ministers except finance minister T Harish Rao had campaigned in Dubbak. The TRS leadership paid the price for its overconfidence in Dubbak as it became difficult for the ruling party to stop the rise of BJP in the elections held to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation thereafter. While the TRS cannot afford to lose a third election in a row, the BJP and Congress are going all out to win and emerge as an alternative to the ruling TRS. While the Congress has deferred announcement of its state president to avoid any scope of infighting before bypolls to Sagar, both the TRS and BJP are keeping under wraps the names of its candidates who would be entering the electoral fray from this segment. As part of its strategy, the BJP is playing a waiting game for the TRS to announce its candidate. Backward Classes, especially Yadavas, comprise the largest chunk of voters in this constituency. If the ruling TRS fields a Reddy candidate, the BJP in all likelihood will field a BC candidate as the Congress has already announced seven-time former MLA J Jana Reddy as its candidate. Ahead of KCR’s public meeting, BJP and Congress are going to the voters that is the pressure from the two opposition parties which is forcing KCR to come out of Pragathi Bhavan. “BJP has successfully brought KCR out of Pragathi Bhavan. The TRS is facing the wrath from people. Successive electoral wins of BJP in Dubbak and GHMC elections have changed the political situation in Telangana. BJP has rattled KCR so much that he has started his by-election campaign in Nagarujna Sagar two months ahead of the notification of the election. The fear of loss is visible to all,” said BJP chief spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy called upon the people not to trust the promises that will be made by KCR at the public meeting on February 10. “KCR had promised Rs 100 crore sops to Huzurnagar constituency but nothing has been done. He is coming to make numerous empty promises to the voters of Nagarjuna Sagar constituency too,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-public-meet-on-feb-10-showsdesperation-of-trs-bjp-cong/articleshow/80740010.cms||Roushan Ali
February 8, 2021||Delhi||PWD told to save tree it ‘damaged’ in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: The forest department on Sunday asked Public Works Department (PWD) to take steps to save a tree at Meera Marg in Lodhi Colony after the agency allegedly damaged it while constructing a drain. Last year, nearly 30 trees were damaged for the same reason, while around 12 were damaged in January this year. Verhaen Khanna, founder, New Delhi Nature Society, who filed a police complaint, said, “When I was passing by Meera Marg on Sunday morning, I witnessed the area near a number of trees being dug within one metre of their trunks in violation of the orders of Delhi High Court and National Green Tribunal. The work done is also in violation of Delhi Preservation of Trees Act.” NGT had directed all public authorities in 2013 to deconcretise areas around trees and carry out no construction activity within a one-metre radius of the trunk. Deputy conservator of forests (South) Amit Anand said, “After receiving the complaint, we directed PWD to take steps to save the tree. Besides, an inspection was conducted in the evening and action under Delhi Preservation of Trees Act will be taken on Monday.” In 2020, New Delhi Nature Society had filed a contempt case in the high court through advocate Aditya N Prasad seeking action for damaging around 30 trees. The court recently observed, “Let due caution be exercised by PWD in all its ongoing civil work and all the future projects.” The court had also asked the SHO of the police station concerned to file an affidavit whether the beat staff had noticed any ongoing civil work and related damage to trees, and if any complaints were made during the construction period. Khanna had lodged another complaint on January 27 claiming that new concretisation work was being done within one-metre radius of several trees, while a new footpath was also being constructed around them. Chabutras had been built around trees within one metre from the trunk. The forest department, which conducted the inspection following this complaint, had found that nearly 12 trees were damaged. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, PWD officials were not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pwd-told-to-save-tree-it-damaged-in-s-delhi/articleshow/80740507.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||TSRTC bus mows down 3-year-old in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A three-year-old boy died after he came under the wheels of a TSRTC bus on Sunday at Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS). Afzalgunj police said that Mohammed Aahan, a resident of Kishangunj, got down a RTC bus along with his parents. When he and his parents were walking ahead of the parked bus, the driver started the bus but failed to notice Aahan. The boy got crushed under the wheels of the bus. Officials said the incident took place at 2pm. Aahan’s family went to Nizamabad district to attend a function. When they returned to city, they got down at MGBS. Police said the boy died on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rtc-bus-mows-down-3-yr-old/articleshow/80740019.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||No leopard found in airport area, state forest officials say||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Forest Department on Sunday issued a statement saying they didn’t find any signs of a leopard in the vicinity of Hyderabad international airport, at Shamshabad. Forest officials, who set up 10 trap cameras and two trap cages with baits after a CCTV footage captured the animal’s movement a few days ago, said that the cameras or the forest staff did not find any signs of a leopard in and around the airport premises. Forest department officials were kept on tenterhooks for more than 20 days after CCTV footage in the premises showed a big cat roaming inside the airport area. “After receiving complaints about leopards killing wild boars in the vicinity, we have also sent the carcasses of wild boars for analysis and found that they were killed by dogs. The footage from the camera traps also revealed only presence of wild boars and dogs,” said Shyam Kumar, forest range officer, Shamshabad. “We suspect that the animal which was captured in the CCTV footage could be a Civet or some other jungle cat. We request locals to not panic as there is no leopard in the area,” he added. The vast open land with shrubs and dense vegetation in and around the airport, however, is highly suitable for leopard habitat, with its rich prey base.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-leopard-found-in-airport-area-state-forest-officials-say/articleshow/80740029.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad: 11 caught driving drunk sent to jail||HYDERABAD: A total of 11 motorists, who were found driving under the influence of alcohol and without a driving license in Cyberabad police jurisdiction, were sentenced to undergo imprisonment. Out of the 11 persons who were sentenced to undergo imprisonment, 10 persons had a jail sentence of three days and one person for two days. The motorists sentenced to three days had the highest blood alcohol content (BAC) among the cases disposed of by the local court. The data provided by Cyberabad traffic police also revealed that four out of nine habitual offenders were behind bars in the last month. “Nowadays, the court does not just sentence drunk drivers to jail but has also started passing orders to permanently cancel their driving licence. Some of them, like cab and auto drivers, have lost their livelihood because of this mistake of drunk driving. We urge people to be responsible and avoid drunk driving,” said Shashikanth Reddy, sub-inspector of police. Apart from sending drunk drivers to jail, the court imposed a penalty of Rs 2,45,500 from the 11 accused, and the traffic police have sent their driving licenses to the concerned RTOs for suspension. Cyberabad police also found that maximum number of offenders caught in drunk driving checks in the recent months were of the age group 21-40 years. In the month of January, 100 accused were jailed and around a penalty was imposed on 1,000 others. Traffic police are also conducting counselling sessions and intimating family members about those being caught driving while drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-caught-driving-drunk-sent-to-jail/articleshow/80740033.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena holds garba to woo Gujaratis||Shiv Sena on Sunday held a ‘raas-garba’ event at Malad to woo Gujarati voters ahead of the BMC polls. Rastriya Sanghtak’s Hemraj Shah, who organised the event, said that 21 businessmen from the Gujarati community joined the Sena on Sunday. Last month, Shah had organised the first event for Gujaratis in Andheri with the slogan ‘Mumbai ma jalebi ne fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapada’ (Jalebi and fafda in Mumbai, Uddhav Thackeray is ours).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-holds-garba-to-woo-gujaratis/articleshow/80740043.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Govt to get 2.5L more doses of Covishield||Jaipur: Providing momentum to Covid-19 inoculation drive, the state will receive around 2.5 lakh more doses of Covishield for vaccination of frontline workers and healthcare workers. The state government had received 1,77,340 Covaxin doses and another 1,31,260 doses of Covishield last week for second phase of vaccination. Another 2.5 lakh doses will help the health department in getting the frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19. Also, the second dose of vaccination for healthcare workers will be administered from February 13. Also, there are a lot of healthcare workers who have not been vaccinated. The health department will organise vaccination sites for giving shots to left-out healthcare workers. “The left-out healthcare workers will get the first Covid-19 vaccine on February 11,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). In the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive, the health department is targeting to vaccinate 22,520 revenue department employees, 55,362 employees of local bodies, 1,61,236 personnel of police and armed forces. In this way, 2,39,118 frontline workers are registered in Co-Win App for vaccination in second phase. “On Monday, the frontline workers, including police department, local bodies and revenue department officials will continue to get the Covid-19 jab,” said a health department official. Since the health department will start giving second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers, who have already received the first dose. The second dose of the vaccine is scheduled to start from February 13 for people who were vaccinated on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-get-2-5l-more-doses-of-covishield/articleshow/80738920.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP cadre, police clash in Huzurnagar over tribal land||Hyderabad: Three policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police, suffered injuries after a BJP rally to protect land, reportedly belonging to tribals, ended in a showdown with police at Gurrampode tanda (tribal hamlet) in the Huzurnagar assembly constituency in Suryapet district on Sunday. Incidentally, this was the second time the area witnessed violent clashes in the recent past. BJP leaders, including state unit chief Sanjay Kumar, MLAs Raja Singh, M Raghunanandan Rao and Vijayashanti, began a rally from Hyderabad on Sunday morning. As the rally reached the tribal hamlet, a few protesters destroyed a shed built on a disputed land. The BJP meeting venue and the land in controversy were just a few yards away. The shed was allegedly built by Huzurnagar MLA Saidi Reddy against whom allegations were made that he played a crucial role in land parcels belonging to tribals went into the hands of private parties. Tension prevailed in the area as some protesters pelted stones at policemen. Following this, police had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd. Suryapet district superintendent of police R Bhaskaran told TOI that a DSP, an inspector and a sub-inspector suffered injuries and were rushed to hospital. “As of now, the situation is under control. As we were handling the mayhem, no accused has been taken into custody, but as per law cases will be registered and action will be taken against all the rioters,’’ the SP said. Police were mulling to register a case against Bandi Sanjay too. Learning about the incident, Sanjay appealed to the protesters not to resort to violence. He even announced that BJP would wage a war and free land, allegedly occupied by TRS leaders, across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-cadre-police-clash-in-huzurnagar-over-tribal-land/articleshow/80740037.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt confiscates 2 Chennai assets of V K Sasikala kin||CHENNAI: A day before V K Sasikala, expelled AIADMK leader and close aide of former CM J Jayalalitaa, is set to return to Chennai from Bengaluru after four years of incarceration in a disproportionate assets case, the AIADMK government late on Sunday ordered confiscation of a part of two properties owned by her relatives J Ilavarasi and V N Sudhagaran in the city. The Supreme Court while upholding the conviction of Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhagaran in 2017 in the case had also slapped a fine of Rs 10 crore each on them and ordered confiscation of their ill-gotten wealth. There are nearly 50 properties — including Kodanad tea estate, bungalows at Siruthavur and Paiyanur on OMR, companies and movable assets — which may be confiscated by the government. A government press release on Sunday, quoting Chennai district collector, said a small share of Ilavarasi and Sudhagaran in a six-ground and 1,081sqft land at Wallace Garden in Nungambakkam has been confiscated by the government. About 2,400sqft land and additional buildings on the property now belong to the government. The second property, measuring two grounds and 1,237sqft and owned jointly by the two, is located at Sriram Nagar on TTK Road. Former chief minister Jayalalithaa, who was the first accused in the case, was spared of imprisonment, fine and confiscation as she died about two months before the SC judgment. The statement said the name change, favouring the government, has been done and that all rent and rental arrears would belong to the state government. The confiscation order is in pursuance of the February 14, 2017 judgment holding the three, besides former chief minister and prime accused in the Rs 65.66 crore disproportionate assets case, Jayalalithaa, guilty of corruption and amassment of wealth. The government statement, however, was silent on big properties such as 900-acre Kodanad tea estate and sprawling bungalows at Siruthavur and Paiyanur on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), though they all figured in the list of ill-gotten wealth ordered to be confiscated. The September 27, 2014 judgment of the then Bengaluru special judge John Michael Cunha against Jayalalithaa and the three others had three components – one, jail term of four years each; two, a fine of Rs 100 crore for Jayalalithaa and Rs 10 crore each on the three others; and three, confiscation of the ill-gotten wealth listed in the judgment. While Sasikala has served her term and paid the fine too, none of the properties standing in her name has been confiscated by the Tamil Nadu government so far. Sudhagaran has completed his jail term but is still in jail as he is yet to pay Rs 10 crore fine. Ilavarasi is also slated for release soon and she is yet to pay her fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-confiscates-2-city-assets-of-sasi-kin/articleshow/80740034.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man who ‘incited’ mob at Red Fort held||NEW DELHI: Making an important breakthrough in the investigation of Republic Day violence in the city, Delhi Police on Sunday arrested a key figure who was allegedly leading and instigating the mob, which had assembled at Red Fort on January 26. The suspect, Sukhdev Singh (65), belongs to Karnal in Haryana and was nabbed from Chandigarh by a Crime Branch team on the basis of technical surveillance. Sources said one of Singh’s close associates, who is also part of the core group of protesters, turned him in and gave a tip-off to the police late on Saturday. Earlier, a reward of Rs 50,000 was declared by Delhi Police on information leading to Singh. Singh is a member of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Haryana and belongs to the “Chadhuni faction,” a senior officer said. “He was involved in leading and instigating the riotous mob at Lal Quila,” the officer added. During questioning, Singh, however, claimed innocence and denied having participated in the riots. “Singh’s role was confirmed and he was identified in multiple videos as one of the main instigators. He was also identified by the rioters arrested earlier by the police,” said officers. He was also identified through the facial recognition system, said a cop. After identification, police mounted surveillance and activated their informers amidst the protesters. The breakthrough came on Saturday night when the cops received a tip-off from their informer deployed at a key protest site and a team was rushed to Chandigarh. Singh was nabbed on Sunday noon from near Centra mall in Chandigarh amid high drama as Singh’s associates tried to stop the cops from arresting him. The team, however, whisked him away in a swift and clinical operation and brought him to Delhi. At least 20 police teams of 4-5 members each are conducting raids at several places in Haryana and Punjab to nab the absconding rioters. All teams on the ground are being assisted by the technical teams stationed in Delhi. A third covert team, which has been cultivating sources amidst the protesters since December, is gathering inputs and technical leads from their informers at the borders and passing on to the two teams for development of information. Police are trying to catch them unawares fearing resistance from accompanying protesters. Many of those who were involved in the riots have not returned to the protest sites, police have learnt. Two special teams of Crime Branch and Special Cell are dedicated to hunt down gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana and actor Deep Sidhu. Sidhana is apparently hiding amidst protesters at Tikri and Singhu borders. One of his videos surfaced on Saturday showing him at Tikri border. Sidhu may be hiding in Punjab, said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-incited-mob-on-jan-26-held/articleshow/80740517.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Affiliated colleges can reopen after consulting local administration: Mumbai University||Mumbai University directed that affiliated colleges can reopen campuses, after consulting local district collectors and disaster management. Colleges must follow UGC guidelines. “Colleges can only open for half the student population and will have to call them on rotation. Physical and online classes will have to be conducted,” said a principal of a Ratnagiri college. The Bombay University and College Teachers Association expressed shock over the shifting the burden of such crucial decisions to individual colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/affiliated-colleges-can-reopen-after-consulting-local-administration-mu/articleshow/80740117.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bareilly||No reason to worry, says Kheri DM as Nepal alerts ‘cracks in under repair lake’||Bareilly: Officials in Kanchanpur district of Nepal sent an alert to Kheri district on Saturday evening informing that one of its "under repair" lakes has developed cracks and may cause an increase in the water level in Sharda river, known as Mahakali in the neighbouring country. The concrete around the lake located near the river in Dharchula has "become weak and is under repair", the alert stated. Officials in UP's Kheri, however, said that, so far, the "lake crack'' has no direct link with Sunday's glacier burst in Uttarakhand, and there is no reason to worry. Residents of over 50 villages located near Sharda river in Kheri and Pilibhit have been alerted. District administration is also monitoring the water level and is in touch with Banbasa barrage staff. Villages may be evacuated, only if required, officials added. When contacted, Kheri DM Shailendra Singh said, “There is no need to panic. There were cracks on a dam and we were alerted. After verifying, we are constantly monitoring the water level in the river and are in regular touch with the officials at the barrage." "As of now, there is less possibility of any major leaks as the cracks are expected to be repaired. In case of any adverse situation, we've sufficient time to evacuate the villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/no-reason-to-worry-says-kheri-dm-as-nepal-alerts-cracks-in-under-repair-lake/articleshow/80738222.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Civic body fixes water pipeline breach||Aurangabad: The 1,400 mm diametre water pipeline on the Railway Station road developed a major breach during the wee hours of Sunday, causing wastage of gallons of water. The water, owing to the pressure, went up to around 50 feet for a few hours which led to water logging in many nearby areas. Civic authorities said the joint of a valve fitted on the pipeline developed a crack due to vibrations caused during digging of a road for carrying out works under the Smart City Mission. “We stopped the water supply on the affected stretch by operating another valve fitted on Paithan Road. The problem was fixed by carrying out necessary repair work on war-footing,” Kiran Dhande, in-charge of water supply department of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, said. As the road towards railway station houses several commercial establishments on both sides, a section of them was affected due to the excess flow of water. Meanwhile, civic authorities said the water supply schedule for Aurangabad is likely to have minimal impact due to breach in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-body-fixes-water-pipeline-breach/articleshow/80738226.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Bar exec to auto driver, pandemic-hit college faculty ready to do ‘any work’||MUMBAI: “Campus placement” for a manager at a bar counter, for a handler at a logistics firm, for a clerical role at a mall, for house chores at a startup. Faculty members from engineering colleges and unaided institutes are putting aside all that brought meaning to their lives—teaching—for odd jobs that can bring food to their table. And college placement heads are now looking for positions to fill, ironically, for themselves and their peers—professors who continue to work despite not getting paid, faculty who have been laid off and heads of departments who had to make the hard choice between suspension or becoming advisors for an uncertain compensation. The Covid-19 pandemic, closing down of classrooms, the private higher education system that buckled under the pressures of going online, all suggest that the view behind the study-from-home screen is bleak. The going was tough for faculty, from the junior-most to the top-most ranks as salary, if it came, was in bits, forcing faculty to look for ways to supplement their income. Take Ambarish Pradhan, for instance. He and his wife ran a tiffin service for bachelors during the pandemic. Santosh Jadhav worked in the examination department at Tasgaonkar Engineering College in Karjat. Today, he ferries people in an autorickshaw that his friend lends him on rent. “I have applied for a job at several colleges. When my family and I did not eat for three days, I decided to do whatever brings at least a little money home,” said Jadhav. He’s not alone. Giridhar Bhide (name changed) from Bharat College of Engineering, Badlapur, who taught industrial electronics, took up odd jobs as an electrician when there was a shortage of migrant labourers. “Now as people have returned, I don’t have any work. I am ready to take up any kind of work, anything at all,” he said helplessly. Another faculty member who taught BMS at a college in Panvel has set up a wada pav stall. A placement cell has now been set up under the Mumbai University and College Teachers Association (MUCTA) to help jobless members. Headed by Prashant Lokhande of Pillai College of Engineering, the recruitment drive has reached out to several industrial associations, manufacturers, startups and service groups. “These ‘sir people’ can teach. But it is not easy to run a bar. People who come to bars come in like cats and after a few drinks behave like they are tigers. How will a sir handle unruly behaviour?” said Mohan Shetty of Navi Mumbai Hotel Owners’ Association. “Courier companies wanted handlers who are younger. Manufacturing companies are asking for previous corporate experience. We have contacted several companies. While the success rate has been low, we are trying to reach out to more firms,” said Lokhande. MUCTA president Vaibhav Narawde said teachers from private colleges have faced the brunt of the pandemic. “With so many new roads that India has planned, we feel our teachers who have lost jobs can be employed in various departments as they have the technical knowhow. Many of our teachers are ready for any job,” he said. In a letter to Union minister for road transport Nitin Gadkari, MUCTA secretary Subhash Athawle asked: “Would you provide job opportunities to teachers in the huge dream projects for planning, execution, material testing, estimation, etc, for various infrastructural projects? Their education can be of some help to the nation building and teachers can earn some livelihood too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bar-exec-to-auto-driver-pandemic-hit-college-faculty-ready-to-do-any-work/articleshow/80740602.cms||Hemali Chhapia
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Awareness about epilepsy still need of the hour’||Ahmedabad: The first thing the neuro-physicians face while attending to the patient with epilepsy is apprehensions about their married life. Will they be able to get married, can parent a child or lead a normal life are on top of the relatives’ minds when they start understanding the periodic convulsions. “But as this year’s theme suggests, epilepsy is more than seizures,” said city-based senior neuro-physician and Padma Shri awardee Dr Sudhir Shah. “In my book with my daughter Dr Heli, a neurologist, we tried to dispel several myths around the phenomenon. With medical advances, our understanding of the condition has improved, and intervention can surely help.” How did the pandemic affect the patients? Dr Malav Gadani, a city-based neuro-physician, said that some of the medical conditions of Covid-19 and even its after effects caused convulsions in some of the patients. “Fortunately, none of the patients were affected due to lack of medicines during the peak of the pandemic. But surely, awareness plays a major role when it comes to dispelling myths and providing emotional support to the patients,” he said. Dr Mukesh Sharma, a city-based neurologist, said that in very general parlance, it can be understood as ‘short-circuit’ of brain where the neurons cannot communicate properly. “Of course, the phenomenon is more complex, but the takeaway is, it is not something to feel stigmatized about or worried about when it comes to daily activities. It is not hereditary and it can also have high or low rates of occurrences for an individual,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/awareness-about-epilepsy-still-need-of-the-hour/articleshow/80740136.cms||Parth Shastri
February 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Marathwada sweet lime growers hit as trees fail to flower this season||AURANGABAD: Babasaheb Jawale, a farmer from the Adgaon village in Paithan taluka of Aurangabad district, is a worried man as he is not going to have any income from his sweet lime farm this season. “I own 184 sweet lime trees, but most of them have failed to flower this season. I usually grow around 10-12 tonne of sweet lime every season. My produce is likely to be negligible this time,” he said. Like Jawale, many other growers from the large sweet lime cultivation belt in Marathwada have taken a hit as the trees of the citrus fruit have failed to flower. Sanjay Patil, the head of sweet lime research centre of the Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University said sweet lime cultivated on hard soil of Marathwada has reached the vegetative stage by skipping flowering at many places. “Marathwada had witnessed a good rainy season last year. At many places, it extended beyond September. Such bounty of rain increased the moisture-holding capacity of the hard soil for a considerable period of time. Sweet lime trees need to feel some strain from the soil to flower. But excess water in the soil resulted in profuse vegetative growth,” he said. Marathwada is believed to have around 39,000 hectares under sweet lime cultivation. The producers send the fruits to different parts of the country, including Delhi, Gujarat and Punjab. Farmer activist Jayaji Suryawanshi said sweet lime production would be reduced by more than 90% in Marathwada. “Just like western Maharashtra is synonymous with the production of sugar cane, Marathwada is known for sweet lime. It is a double whammy for the producers as Covid had already affected their lives last year,” he said, seeking relief measures from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-sweet-lime-growers-hit-as-trees-fail-to-flower-this-season/articleshow/80738238.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Major temples allow devotees for aarti||AHMEDABAD: The reverberation of drums, bells and percussion in the sanctum sanctorum along with the sacred chants during aarti at revered temples such as Somnath Temple in Gir Somnath or Ambaji in Banaskantha are enough to send devotees into a trance. This experience, which was sorely missed by the devotees for the past eight months, has finally resumed in major temples. On Saturday-Sunday, Somnath temple, considered first among the twelve jyotirlingas in India, saw some 1,500 devotees take part in the morning and evening aarti each. Devotees were still not allowed to crowd inside the temple but had to walk through the temple. Vijaysinh Chavda, general manager of Somnath temple said that ever since the temple opened from June 8, devotees were permitted darshan but doors were shut during the aarti. “After Covid-19 cases considerably declined in Gujarat, people were allowed aarti rituals,” said Chavda. Gujarat has recorded 2.6 lakh Covid-19 positive cases and nearly 4,300 deaths ever since the virus outbreak in March. Currently, Covid-19 infection is at the lowest with only one percent active cases. Temple authorities say devotee footfall has recovered to 60-70 per cent of pre-Covid-19 levels. S J Chavda, deputy collector and administrator of Shri Arasuri Ambaji Mata Devasthan Trust (SAAMDT) said that Ambaji temple has also recently opened doors for devotees wishing to offer aarti. “Footfall of devotees has recovered to nearly 80 per cent of the pre-Covid crowds of 15,000 devotees daily. Devotees are not allowed to stand but remain mobile so as not to crowd the sanctum sanctorum,” said Chavda. Ravindra Upadhyay, manager of Dakor temple, said that there were massive requests from devotees to allow them participate in the aarti. “We have opened doors of the temple during aarti for the past fortnight. As Covid-19 is under control, the temple decided to honour the wishes of people who come from far flung areas,” said Upadhyay. In Dwarkadheesh temple, devotees are allowed to stand maintaining social distance while the priests perform aarti. “Devotees come from all parts of India and many considered their pilgrimage incomplete if they did not attend the aarti,” said a local priest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/major-temples-allow-devotees-for-aarti/articleshow/80740141.cms||Bharat Yagnik
February 8, 2021||Chennai||No number of Sasikalas can harm AIADMK, says min||Chennai: State fisheries minister D Jayakumar on Sunday put up a brave front, dismissing suggestions that he and his colleagues had been nervous about talking to reporters about V K Sasikala. “Let any number of Sasikalas come, they cannot harm AIADMK,” he told reporters on Sunday. On Saturday, a video, where three AIADMK ministers appeared to be reluctant to talk to reporters and were seen goading the other, was widely circulated on social media. The AIADMK delegation had met the press on Saturday after a meeting with the state director general of police (DGP), where they lodged a second complaint against Sasikala and her nephew and AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran. “We should not go by social media trends. It may not reflect the reality of what exactly happened,” Jayakumar told reporters on Sunday. “With the party having decided against the re-entry of Sasikala, there is no room for any hesitation on our part,” Jayakumar said. “When the law minister was present, it was only appropriate for him to address the media. It was the case earlier too, when deputy coordinator K P Munusamy was present and he spoke to the media. If they were not there, I would have addressed the media,” Jayakumar said. According to him, Sasikala and Dhinakaran are functioning as the ‘B-Team’ of the DMK. They have nothing to do with the AIADMK. If she continues to use the AIADMK flag, the police and the law will take its course, he said. “We want the AIADMK to come back to power once again in Tamil Nadu without the interference of Sasikala’s family and we are all working hard towards achieving that,” Jayakumar said. On deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam running a separate campaign in the media and promoting himself, Jayakumar said he will remain with the party forever and there need not be any doubt about that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-number-of-sasikalas-can-harm-aiadmk-says-min/articleshow/80738989.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Millennials go desi during Covid, find superfoods in ghee & turmeric||At the height of the pandemic, 30-year-old Varun Patel found himself exploring food in a completely different way. He stopped ordering in, ditched packaged foods and, for the first time, started paying attention to things like ghee and raw turmeric. He started procuring products from sustainable sources and soon found like-minded friends who wanted to buy the forest honey and raw turmeric pickle from village cooperatives that he had discovered with the help of his aunt. “Every single person I know has either dramatically improved their eating habits or gone in the other direction and then slowly realised that they don’t have a choice but to eat more healthy,” says Patel, an actor. “Crisis expedites the inevitable and a move towards healthy living had to happen.” Thanks to the confounding nature of the pandemic as well as having time on hand, many young people have rediscovered old-fashioned Indian superfoods that were once routine sources of nourishment, but got side-lined over the years. Many like Patel are now extolling the power of ghee and giloy in place of protein supplements and immunity booster pills. “We have such great ingredients in our backyard,” says 28 year-old Rohit Mehra, a theatre trainer. “I recently picked up on the fact that you don’t need fancy and expensive probiotics because we have our good old kaanji and neera for ten rupees.” Nutrition experts say that they have long been advocating traditional kitchen remedies and now people -- especially younger folk -- are paying attention, partly because these are so inexpensive. Gut health coach Payal Kothari says this is a no-brainer for young people who have been out of jobs and work. “Post pandemic, people have become conscious of over-spending and if a teenager says I want a nutritionist, her parents may think twice,” says Kothari, who helps people reboot their gut using traditional home remedies with simple basics like garlic, ginger, fermented rice and herbal teas. “People are much more open to understanding that home remedies work the best and that the results are not just temporary, but rather, get to the root of the problem.” Holistic lifestyle coach Luke Coutinho, who regularly advocates the long-forgotten basics, says, “We have complicated nutrition and healthy eating, way too much today. We equate healthy eating with expensive, out of budget and difficult. However, it doesn’t have to be that way. Eating clean doesn’t have to mean adding more and more exotic foods to the plate. Some of the most powerful foods are available in our own country and probably are already lying in our kitchen,” citing simple things like haldi doodh or moringa. Sellers, from the local kirana shop to online brands have changed their stocks to meet these new demands. Near Store, an online marketplace which connects local corner stores with customers, found people searching for items like amla, ginger, neem and turmeric from their local suppliers more than ever before. Ghee has become a buzzword and someone even launched a strawberry-flavoured ghee spread to replace butter, says Ashish Kumar of Near Store. There were palpable shifts in buying patterns. For example, he found that organic rice gave way to brown rice, then red rice, and even black rice. In dairy, everyone started looking for A2 certification (which means that the milk source is the humble Gir cow). Packaged kadha mix and Chyawanprash toffee are among the hot selling items for a branded ayurvedic company that sells across India. “Our products are mostly available online, which suggests that there is a growing young population open to this, as the bulk of online consumers are of the ages of 24 to 40,” says Arjun Vaidya who runs an ayurvedic brand. “We found an uptake in ayurvedic consumption over the last few months and recently launched a range of ayurvedic juices.” With people realising that just from eating home food, and relying on childhood kitchen remedies, they are looking fresher and younger and healthier. “I think this is going to be the new new thing,” says Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/millennials-go-desi-during-covid-find-superfoods-in-ghee-turmeric/articleshow/80740171.cms||Namita Devidayal
February 8, 2021||Rajkot||Kathi darbars allege their community being targeted||Rajkot: Leaders of kathi darbars community held a huge convention in Surajdeval village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar district on Sunday demanding to withdrawal of charges against the sister of notorious criminal Ashok Boricha, a key aide of gangster Sonu Dangar. According to reports, some of the speakers used abusive language against Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai from the dias who is supervising the case.Boricha was arrested on January 26 from his farm in Savarkundla taluka of Amreli. He had allegedly fired upon police team that had come arrest him. Boricha is accused in 32 cases including for murder, attempt to murder, GCTOC, Arms Act and others. According to Amreli police, when they went to arrest Boricha, his sister Hemu Khachar tried to create obstruction. She was booked under IPC section 186 and arrested. The Kathi Darbar community to which Boricha belongs demanded the immediate release of Hemu and withdrawal of charges against her. While the community leaders alleged that Hemu was booked for attempt to murder, the police clarified that she was arrested for obstructing public servant from discharging his duties which is a bailable offence.Haresh Kamaliya, spokesperson of Survya Sena of kathi darbar community said “There are 21 FIRs registered against our community members by Amreli police. We are being targeted.” When contacted Amreli SP Nirlpit Rai said, “We told the leaders that she (Hemu) was booked for a bailable offence. They want to play up the law and order issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kathi-darbars-allege-their-community-being-targeted/articleshow/80738333.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Air quality in Delhi worse than Noida, Gurugram||NOIDA: The average air quality slipped to “poor” category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram, according to data issued by a government agency on Sunday. At 316, the AQI in Delhi dipped to “very poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Sunday was 251 in Ghaziabad, 238 in Noida, 224 in Greater Noida, 218 in Faridabad and 209 in Gurugram, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. Track the pollution level in your cityOf the 39 pollution monitoring stations in Delhi, the air quality index was the highest in Jahangirpuri in northwest district, followed by 276 at Bawana. It was the least at IGI Airport at 68 micrograms per cubic meter. The air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate and remain in the poor to “very poor” category from February 7 to 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/air-quality-in-city-worse-thannoida-gurgaon/articleshow/80742206.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: No polls in Kurnool’s abandoned villages||AMARAVATI: Can there be a village or town without people, and if so, what would it look like? Can there be an election where there is no voter? Officials in Kurnool district recently came across such a situation while making arrangements for the gram panchayat elections. In some villages without inhabitants, no notification was issued for gram panchayat elections as these are treated only as revenue villages and not panchayats. Such villages, officials discovered, have been kept in revenue records for several decades but with no human population, there was no need to make any arrangements for elections. Vajragiri village of Owk mandal, Channakapalli of Gadivemula, Gurraladoddi, Donthanahall, Katedoddi, Eachalahall of Kauthalam mandal, Sardarapuram of Yemmiganur and Timmapuram of Pattikonda were alive only in the record books. They are treated as revenue villages without human population. Residents of these villages are said to have migrated to safer locations during cyclones, natural calamities and epidemics, such as the outbreak of cholera in the past. The locals then settled down in nearby habitations and constructed new houses. Surprisingly, many of them continue to be known as residents of their older, abandoned villages as they own some agricultural land in their ancestral village. “The entire population from Sardarapuram village migrated to Venkatapuram village near Pattikonda. Now, no one resides in Sardarapuram,” said Seshaiah of Venkatapuram. Panchayat elections, however, are being held for Venkatapuram village while there are no voters in Sardarapuram. Six other villages in the district share the same fate. In fact, the district administration held a detailed discussion about removing places without any population from the village records list but desisted due to technical issues involved in the process. The presence of vast extents of agricultural lands with existing survey numbers in the revenue records is also another reason for continuing with villages without any inhabitants as revenue villages. “It will be a Herculean task to assign new survey numbers in land records since the records are more than 100 years old. The process can be initiated when the next phase of land survey is taken up,” said a senior official of the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-polls-in-kurnools-abandoned-villages/articleshow/80738266.cms||Samdani MN
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Air quality in Delhi worse than Noida, Gurugram||NOIDA: The average air quality slipped to “poor” category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram, according to data issued by a government agency on Sunday. At 316, the AQI in Delhi dipped to “very poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Sunday was 251 in Ghaziabad, 238 in Noida, 224 in Greater Noida, 218 in Faridabad and 209 in Gurugram, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. Track the pollution level in your cityOf the 39 pollution monitoring stations in Delhi, the air quality index was the highest in Jahangirpuri in northwest district, followed by 276 at Bawana. It was the least at IGI Airport at 68 micrograms per cubic meter. The air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate and remain in the poor to “very poor” category from February 7 to 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-in-city-worse-thannoida-gurgaon/articleshow/80740522.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||BJP never promised Uddhav Thackeray CM’s post by rotation: Amit Shah in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday denied that he had promised Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray that the chief-ministership would be kept rotational between the BJP and Shiv Sena after the 2019 assembly election. “No such promise was ever made to them. I make promises not in a closed-door room, but in public meetings—out in the open, in a loud and clear voice,” he said at a gathering in Malwan . It was Shah’s first visit to the Konkan, the coastal region that the Shiv Sena covets as its bastion, after the 2019 state election. Shah was there to inaugurate a 150-seat medical college constructed by former chief minister Narayan Rane, an MP and NDA ally. He accused the Sena of gaining power in the state by giving short shrift to the late Balasaheb Thackeray’s principles. Shah said the very existence of the Shiv Sena as a political party would have been in jeopardy had the BJP taken the route which Thackeray’s party took to remain glued to power. MP Sanjay Raut, the chief spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, tweeted a response within a few hours: “In 1975 Rajni Patel and in the 90’s similarly (I guess Murli Deora said) that Shiv Sena will be wiped off. Again in 2012 Prithviraj Chavan said the same thing and on both the occasions Shiv Sena came up even more stronger than earlier, Jai Maharashtra.” Another Shiv Sena MP, Arvind Sawant, said Thackeray would never lie to anyone. “It took Amit Shah more than a year to speak on the closed-door meeting. This explains everything,“ Sawant said. Shah’s address to the meeting in Malwan was a clear indication that the BJP was in no mood to revive its friendship with Matoshree, the Thackeray residence in Bandra (east) that is the power centre of the Shiv Sena, and that he wanted his party to go hammer and tongs against its former ally during the 2022 BMC election. “They [the Shiv Sena] insulted the sacred mandate given by the people of Maharashtra during the assembly election,” he said. “The mandate was in favour of the BJP-Sena alliance with Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister. However, they set aside the principles and values of the late Balasaheb Thackeray and joined the Maha Vikas Aghadi.” Shah said the MVA government was like a three-wheeled autorickshaw where all the wheels moved in different directions. “The Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi regime was born out of a lust for power,” he said. “The Sena has become ‘laachaar’ for power.” Stating that the BJP has always honoured promises made to its allies, Shah refuted Uddhav Thackeray’s oft-repeated claim that he, the BJP national president at the time, had promised him that the BJP and Shiv Sena would share the CM post for two and a half years each after the 2019 election. “Although the BJP bagged more assembly seats than the JD(U) in the Bihar assembly elections last year, we offered the Bihar chief ministership to Nitish Kumar,” Shah said. “We don’t renege on our promise. However, we had made no promise to the Sena on sharing the CM-ship in Maharashtra.” He said the Shiv Sena had jointly campaigned with the BJP before the state assembly polls under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Devendra Fadnavis and knew all the time who the CM candidate was in the alliance. “Never did the Sena once bring up the CM-ship issue during the poll campaign. We had projected Fadnavis as our CM candidate," Shah said. Shah assured Rane, a former Shiv Sena man and now its bitter foe, that the BJP would treat him with “respect and dignity”. “The Sena has compromised on its ideology for power. However, the BJP gives precedence to ideology over power and politics,” he said. Shah accused Thackeray of not having toured the Konkan belt in the wake of the hailstorm last year, which destroyed the mango and cashew crop. “The CM didn’t bother to tour Konkan. On the other hand, Devendra Fadnavis thrice visited the ravaged villages,” he said. The Union home minister paid glowing tributes to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, who he said fought the Mughal regime with exemplary courage and understood the strategic importance of a robust naval force. Shah said the battle against Covid-19 was a big success as PM Modi had inspired the entire nation to join hands with doctors, the para-medical staff and Covid-19 warriors to take on the pandemic with full strength. “Soon, the nation will supply Covid-19 vaccine to other countries,” he said. “Today, many countries are accepting India’s line of medication to combat the dreaded disease. India has registered the highest rate of recovery because of the Modi government’s concerted efforts to upgrade health infrastructure and streamline resources to improve medicare facilities to the poor and the underprivileged.” Citing the latest figures, Shah said nearly 55 lakh citizens had been vaccinated in 21 days. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis accused the state government of failing to draw a comprehensive plan to combat Covid-19. Citing the latest Economic Survey, he said the performance of the state on the Covid-19 front had been very poor. “However, the BJP went out of its way to lend a helping hand to the state government during the Covid-19 crisis,” Fadnavis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-never-promised-uddhav-cms-post-by-rotation-shah-in-maha/articleshow/80740628.cms||Ambarish Mishra
February 8, 2021||Noida||Air quality in Delhi worse than Noida, Gurugram||NOIDA: The average air quality slipped to “poor” category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram, according to data issued by a government agency on Sunday. At 316, the AQI in Delhi dipped to “very poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Sunday was 251 in Ghaziabad, 238 in Noida, 224 in Greater Noida, 218 in Faridabad and 209 in Gurugram, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. Track the pollution level in your cityOf the 39 pollution monitoring stations in Delhi, the air quality index was the highest in Jahangirpuri in northwest district, followed by 276 at Bawana. It was the least at IGI Airport at 68 micrograms per cubic meter. The air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate and remain in the poor to “very poor” category from February 7 to 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/air-quality-in-city-worse-thannoida-gurgaon/articleshow/80742207.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chennai||MNM’s election manifesto to be out on February 21||CHENNAI: Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) is planning to hold its state-level conference in Chennai on February 21. The conference, which is being organized to mark the completion of three years for the party, will also be used to gear up for the assembly election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the party president Haasan said on Sunday. The party will also unveil its manifesto for the assembly election during the conference. “We faced the Lok Sabha election within 20 days of receiving the party symbol and the vote share we received left people amazed. With a wider party infrastructure and a larger base, we are now fully geared up to face our first assembly election,” Kamal said in a statement. According to him, the response to his first round of campaign showed that people yearn for change and that only MNM can offer a corruption-free government. Only that can help pitchfork TN on growth path while ensuring social justice to all, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mnms-election-manifesto-to-be-out-on-feb-21/articleshow/80739001.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Puducherry||MNM’s election manifesto to be out on February 21||CHENNAI: Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) is planning to hold its state-level conference in Chennai on February 21. The conference, which is being organized to mark the completion of three years for the party, will also be used to gear up for the assembly election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the party president Haasan said on Sunday. The party will also unveil its manifesto for the assembly election during the conference. “We faced the Lok Sabha election within 20 days of receiving the party symbol and the vote share we received left people amazed. With a wider party infrastructure and a larger base, we are now fully geared up to face our first assembly election,” Kamal said in a statement. According to him, the response to his first round of campaign showed that people yearn for change and that only MNM can offer a corruption-free government. Only that can help pitchfork TN on growth path while ensuring social justice to all, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/mnms-election-manifesto-to-be-out-on-feb-21/articleshow/80747365.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Avalanche rings in unending calls for travel agents in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Anas Khan’s phone didn’t stop ringing on Sunday when news of a glacier burst at Chamoli in Uttarakhand broke out. The 25-year-old runs a travel agency and often takes trekking trips to the northern hill state. However, on Sunday, Khan was 290km away from Chamoli on a trip to Dhanaulti with a group of 13 people. “Though we were very far and had plans to explore further, the panic created after the avalanche forced us to cut short the trip. I was getting frantic calls from parents who were seeking safety of the boys. We decided to return to Delhi at night,” he said. Many people from Delhi-NCR took the decision of returning from Uttarakhand after seeing the news or videos on social media. “People suddenly started talking about the 2013 incident at Kedarnath when a major flood wiped out the entire area after a cloud burst. We then decided to return from Rishikesh,” said Ayush Rai, who cut short his trip. The phones of tour and travel agencies kept ringing incessantly on Sunday. Anxious families of tourists who were not even remotely close to the actual site kept making the calls to ensure their well-being. Pragya Chandra of Uttarakhand Tour Packages in Delhi said a group of 11 tourists had gone to Risihikesh two days ago. “We received multiple calls from their relatives, but we ensured no panic was created among the tourists. We contacted our agents in various districts of Uttarakhand to know the status on the ground. We then asked the tourists to stay in Rishikesh till things got better,” he added. Pankaj Doval of Uttarakhand Tourism said since the roads were good, floodwater didn’t enter high altitude areas and tourists didn’t get stuck. “We were in touch with tourists as well as their relatives in Delhi. We were told that they would reach their destination safety. We still kept calling the locals to remain updated,” he added. Currently, the prominent religious places are closed and inaccessible due to snowfall, so there are fewer tourists in the highlands. Laxman Bisht of Mountain Trekkers said, “Besides darshan, not many people prefer to trek at this time in high altitude areas. We expect the situation to become normal by Monday evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/avalanche-rings-in-unending-calls-for-travel-agents/articleshow/80740533.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Use spear on rogue jumbo, not jackals, TTV cites Anna||Chennai: A day ahead of V K Sasikala’s return to Chennai, her nephew and AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran urged party cadres and his aunt’s followers to remain calm and not be provoked by remarks of ministers belonging to the AIADMK. Sasikala, a close aide of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, is expected to reach Chennai on Monday evening. Taking to Twitter, Dhinakaran quoted former chief minister and DMK founder C N Annadurai to restrain cadres from reacting to “insinuations” of AIADMK ministers. “One should use the spear only against a rogue elephant and not on jackals,” TTV tweeted citing Anna. Dhinakaran’s advice on Sunday was in reaction to state law minister C Ve Shanmugham making “a derogatory slur” on Sasikala’s caste and saying she had amassed huge wealth and had undergone imprisonment. A section took to social media to hit back at Shanmugham for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/use-spear-on-rogue-jumbo-not-jackals-ttv-cites-anna/articleshow/80739037.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||Only 1% of 44,535 have had post-jab symptoms in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: Post-vaccine symptoms have been reported in only 481 people (1%), out of 44,535 healthcare and frontline workers who received Covid-19 vaccines between January 16 and February 6 in the Pune Metropolitan Region. Their symptoms were minor — mainly headaches, body pain and slight fever. Doctors said most of the complaints were from the below-40 age group. The highest number of complaints (302) were registered on day one of the Covid vaccination drive, January 16. Subsequent days saw substantial drops in such reports. “It’s mostly the young who get the symptoms,” said vaccine scientist Prasad Kulkarni. “Also, it’s often the first dose that brings in the symptoms. Incidence dips with the second shot.” Sharad Agarkhedkar, head of the department of paediatrics at D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital, said, “Cross-immunity with older strains of coronavirus and weakened immune systems could be why those above 40 did not develop any symptoms after the shots. Symptoms such as a fever after vaccination suggest the body is building immunity against the virus. But Agarkhedkar said the absence of symptoms doesn’t mean the body is not doing the work. “Even in cases of natural Covid infection, we have seen that about 80% people remain asymptomatic. Another 15% have mild infection and remaining 5% are hit with severe symptoms and may need hospitalisation. Many may not develop any symptoms after vaccination, but they will develop virus-specific antibodies,” he said. Also, different types of vaccines work in different ways to offer protection. But with all the shots, the body is left with a supply of “memory” T-lymphocytes as well as B-lymphocytes that’ll remember how to fight that specific virus in the event of a future encounter. It also typically takes a few weeks for the body to produce T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes after vaccination. “So a person can be infected with the virus just before or after vaccination. She or he could then get sick because the vaccine did not have enough time to provide protection. It is then vital to keep wearing masks and maintain social distancing even after vaccination,” said infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-1-of-44535-have-had-post-jab-symptoms-in-pmr/articleshow/80740180.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drugs meant for ‘swish’ clients seized, 2 nabbed||MUMBAI: Two people were arrested on Saturday with 100 gm of mephedrone, or MD, which one of them had, said officials of the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB). A Mercedes in which the contraband was being carried to be delivered to “high-profile” customershas also been confiscated. The police first seized drugs from a “notorious” MD trafficker, Ibrahim Mujawar alias Ibrahim Kaskar from Jogeshwari. He told the police that he had got the drugs from a Dongri resident, Asif Rajkotwala, who was arrested later. A small quantity of charas was seized from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drugs-meant-for-swish-clients-seized-2-nabbed/articleshow/80740188.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||53% rise in power use in Maharashtra since end of May||MUMBAI: There has been a 53% increase in electricity consumption in Maharashtra compared to the initial months of the Covid-19 lockdown, and power demand has touched 23,000MW this month, sources said. This is chiefly due to Mission Begin Again from June onwards—with many industries, manufacturing units and private sector companies reopening in phases and the consumption demand increasing gradually, experts said. Many offices resumed with 30-50% staff while industrial power consumption too went up by at least 20% over the past few months. The latest relaxations, which allow more offices, shops, malls, multiplexes and restaurants to reopen, have led to more consumption. Auto & mfg sectors drove power demand during peak Covid mthsA source from Mahagenco, the state power generator, said that thermal power generation has also gone up from 5,000MW a few months back to over 7,000MW now. The demand for power fell to as low as 15,000MW in April and May last year, but has now retuned to normal levels. Sources said that the demand for power across the state (including Mumbai) was an average 15,000MW in March-end and in April and May last year. This gradually increased to 18,000MW in June, and later averaged between 20,000MW and 21,000MW between July and December. In January, the demand peaked to 22,000MW and has now touched 23,000MW in February, the sources stated. Power expert Ashok Pendse said that as compared to the first two quarters of 2020 (April to June and July to September), there was not much of an expectation in the third quarter (October to December) during Covid pandemic. “But surprisingly, the push from the automobile and other manufacturing sectors was phenomenally large and the production resumed in a big way, thereby also resulting in huge consumption of electricity. Consumption also went up as shops, malls and other establishments opened up,” Pendse said, adding that now the situation was almost back to normal in the power sector. Worried about the rising demand for electricity across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Raut had last year visited Tata Power thermal plants in Trombay and the Adani Electricity office to evaluate the existing power generation and the future demand. Sources said that Mumbai's demand could rise to 3,500MW, and MMR’s to 5,000MW. Mumbai’s power demand during summer season touches 3,400-3,600MW and drops to 2,400MW during winters. Since 1981, the city has been protected by a system called ‘islanding’ for which citizens pay around Rs 450-500 crore each year through electricity bills. This is to ensure that Mumbai gets constant supply even if there is power outage in the MMR or elsewhere in the state. While Tata Power generates 1,337MW, Adani Electricity generates 500MW in Dahanu. Experts said it’s insufficient to meet the demand. “Tata Power has the capacity to generate 2,300MW for which they can add another 1,000MW. There is a need to augment generation capacity,” experts added. The Metro Rail projects are also coming up in the city and this could consume 280MW of additional electricity when it begins full-scale operations. The MMRDA is constructing 12 metro rail lines in Mumbai and the MMR. The only underground Metro-3 is being built by the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation. Covering 336km, these lines will expectedly consume more energy when ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/53-rise-in-power-use-in-state-since-end-of-may/articleshow/80740630.cms||Somit Sen
February 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Around 43,000 vaccinated in district till Saturday||PUNE: As many as 43,489 healthcare workers (HCWs) have received vaccines against Covid-19 in the district, records till February 6 have shown. A report by the district health department said 18,373 people have received their shots in Pune rural limits. In Pune city, 16,565 got their jabs while Pimpri Chinchwad, with the lowest number of registered beneficiaries (around 17,695), recorded 8,551 vaccinations. So far, the Covid-19 vaccine drive in the region has covered 38% of its target number of HCWs. All states have been asked to finish vaccinating this priority group by February 20.. “We will hit the target by February 20, or by February 25,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune circle. He added, “Response towards the vaccination drive has been fluctuating. We will be shifting sites that have had a low response to locations with better turnout. We have also observed that many Class III and Class IV staff are still hesitant. We will be conducting counselling sessions at important sites. We will also inoculate senior staffers to boost confidence among the juniors.” As for the PMC’s low numbers, Deshmukh said this was because the civic body has a higher number of beneficiaries and the drive within its limits did not involve private hospitals early on. He said more private hospitals would be added to the list of sites soon. Deshmukh said the PMC’s health department could even conduct vaccinations at police hospitals to cover frontline workers. “We have to involve more such ideas,” he said. The PMC is yet to start vaccinating frontline workers, including members of police units, disaster response teams and municipal staff. Deshmukh said inoculations for this category will start from this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/around-43k-vaccinated-in-district-till-saturday/articleshow/80740183.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 8, 2021||Bareilly||At least 70 ‘missing’ from UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri alone; kin incessantly dialing switched off numbers||Bareilly: A bit upset after being told to fetch a cylinder on a lazy Sunday morning, Mujeeb Khan, 24, somehow dragged himself uphill, a task which saved his life. Others weren’t that lucky. About 90 people from Mujeeb’s district, UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, were working at Tapovan Vishnugad hydropower project. Just 13 have contacted their families so far. “I was heading towards the office to bring the cylinder when the flood hit the project. Everything got washed away in less than a minute. I couldn’t do anything to save people working down there. We all were very scared and only moved higher and higher and even,” Mujeeb, a resident of Manjha village of Lakhimpur Kheri said.“We were over 500 people working in the company. And over 70 were from Lakhimpur Kheri only. Now I can only see a handful of people surviving with no food and other support. All of us are scared and don’t know what will happen to us without any support,” he added.TOI contacted heads (pradhans) of a few villages and they confirmed the numbers. At least 20 people were at the site from Manjha village, 11 from Bharampur village, 27 from Ichchanagar village and five from Bholanpur village. All of them had gone to work in December. Barring 13, no one has contacted their families so far. Mobile numbers of the rest of the workers are switched off.Village head of Manjha, Santosh Raj, told TOI, “20 people from my village were working there. Just 10 of them are safe. We are praying for everyone’s safety.”Dhruv Verma, village head of Bholanpur, told TOI, “Five persons from my village and two from neighbouring villages had gone to work there. Only one person, Arun son of Damar Bahadur, has contacted the family. He was extremely scared and was barely able to speak.”District magistrate of Lakhimpur Kheri, Shailendra Singh, told TOI, “Our officials are trying to collect the information about the people of our district working in Chamoli district. Official information will be shared soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/at-least-70-missing-from-ups-lakhimpur-kheri-alone-kin-incessantly-dialing-switched-off-numbers/articleshow/80739050.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Uttarakhand natives in Delhi burst in emotion after flash floods wreak havoc||NEW DELHI: Laxmi Prasad Dobhal, a 75-year-old native of Tapovan in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, got disturbed after hearing the news of the glacier burst and flash floods in the area. Dobhal, who came to Delhi about 10 days ago to spend time with his children, wants to cut short his trip and longs to go home. His brother’s grandson, Amit, who works at an under-construction hydropower project, has been missing since Sunday morning. “The situation is bad at Tapovan. I don’t feel like staying in Delhi anymore. I want to return home to be with my people,” said the retired vice-principal of a school. Shashi Bhushan Bahuguna, Dobhal’s son-in-law, said, “We have called Amit repeatedly since morning, but his phone is out of network coverage. Four other people known to us are missing. We have advised my father-in-law to only return home after assessing the situation for a day.” “Seeing the videos of flash floods in the area where we used to hang out is very emotional and disturbing. We fear our property has got damaged. We are praying and hoping for the best,” said Bahuguna, who lives in Dilshad Garden and had visited Tapovan nearly two months ago. Another family remained anxious for hours as they could not contact a relative. Pawan Kumar Maithani, general secretary, Garhwal Hiteshini Sabha, Garhwal Bhawan, said, “My nephew, Jeetendra Maithani (24), who lives in Rishikesh, had gone to an ashram in Joshimath four days ago. After repeatedly trying his number for over seven hours, we managed to contact him in the evening. He told us he was safe in an ashram.” Maithani said he was flooded with calls in the morning. “Many families living in Delhi have relatives in Uttarakhand and were concerned about them. There was no clarity on the actual situation in the morning. The videos on social media were scary. The news created panic as many people connected it with the Kedarnath floods,” he added. Vineet Rawat, a native of Gairsan in Chamoli district, was anxious after hearing the news of the flash flood. “I was worried about the well-being of my parents and younger brother. However, after I spoke to them, I learnt that the site of the flash flood was quite far from my home,” said the 23-year-old who works at a restaurant in Dwarka. Pritam Pandey, founder of Devbhoomi Uttarakhand Samagra Vikas Sangathan, said, “I run an NGO in Uttarakhand. After the news broke, I contacted many people. We are relieved that they are safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ukhand-natives-burst-in-emotion-after-flash-floods-wreak-havoc/articleshow/80740540.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu focuses on bridging skill gap to attract investments||CHENNAI: Amid the Covid pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government went about signing a slew of investments deals and is now set to bag new industrial investments, for which the state cabinet cleared the incentive packages a few days ago. Tamil Nadu will soon become the hub for making Apple products joining the elite club of Foxconn and Salcomp that have established a base in the state. New units are also coming up in manufacturing, a thrust area for the state. All of these require a steady supply of skilled manpower, the foundation to transform plans into success stories. To find out the gaps and training requirements, the state in partnership with PriceWaterhouseCoopers commissioned a first-of-its-kind study on skill gap assessment through Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC). It estimated that Tamil Nadu will have an incremental skilled labour demand of around 5.34 lakh during 2019-21 and 7.99 lakh during 2022-25 in priority sectors. To meet the labour requirement, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami released the skill gap assessment and action plan for Tamil Nadu, and district skill development plans at the Investment and Skill Development Conclave 2019. Subsequently, he announced setting up of apex skill development centres (ASDCs) in healthcare, logistics, auto, construction and infrastructure sectors. Realising the need for market-driven knowledge experts, the state collaborated with companies with expertise in their sector to train the youth. These centers will be developed with the support of Japan International Co-Operation Agency (JICA) and various corporate leaders for imparting industry-specific training to more than 2 lakh youth every year. A couple of months ago, Hyundai Motor India signed an MoU to establish a Hyundai Academy for Technical Skills (HATS) near Chennai at an investment of Rs150 crore. It has also been running a successful apprenticeship programme that trains youngsters every year. While some of them are retained by the company, others are free to build their career by joining firms of their choice. "Hyundai is known for its apprenticeship and traineeship programme. A three-year long programme for candidates completing their ITI/diploma courses, this offers both classroom-based and on-the-job training, equipping trainees to skilled workers in the auto industry," said Stephen Sudhakar J, senior vice-president, people strategy and business support, Hyundai Motor India. With an aim to train well-rounded professionals, the company also imparts gives lessons on communication skills and overall personality development. "HATS will pave the way for sustained professional growth sparking an all-round personal and economic development for beneficiaries," said Sudhakar. A few other corporates including TVS Logistics have also joined hands with the state government to focus on offering skill development training for youngsters of Tamil Nadu. "TVS Supply Chain Solutions through its recognition of prior learning (RPL) programme provides training to around 3,000 unskilled employees on an annual basis and deploy them in warehouse activities and forklift operations. These employees undergo training at our Skill Development Centre at Oragadam for a couple of weeks," said R Dinesh, managing director, TVS Supply Chain Solutions. The company is also working with Logistics Sector Council and Association of Multimodal Transport Operators of India as a consortium along with TNSDC to set up apex skill development centres for logistics in Chennai. "TN has become an attractive destination for industrial investments and supply chain sector plays a crucial role in enabling the growth. More industry led partnerships for training centres, on the job learning and working with universities and schools can help meet the demand for skilled manpower. The state is proactively working to support the growth of supply chain and logistics sector," said Dinesh, who feels that TN can take the lead in announcing a logistics outsourcing policy which will encourage private and public sectors to help use the infrastructure more productively. The government is working towards realising Vision 2023, said ‘Aspire’ K Swaminathan, secretary, AIADMK IT wing Chennai zone. "When ‘Amma’ (Jayalalithaa) unveiled Vision 2023 document for Tamil Nadu in 2012, she had wanted skill development to be one of the thrust areas. In line with her vision, this government has given priority to skill development," he said. Thinking ahead has helped Tamil Nadu emerge the forerunner, said ICT Academy CEO M Sivakumar. "By opening up the sector 25 years ago to private players, it has ensured a steady supply of technical graduates. It is also the only state to opt for the public private partnership model in skill development through ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu," he said. "Over the past 11 years, besides equipping engineering students with more skills, we also focused on teachers through our faculty development programme, which in turns helps nurture talented students," said Sivakumar. While promising initiatives are in place, industry experts feel the need for a body to measure the effectiveness of government spending on incubation and skill development centres. There is also the question whether engineering colleges build required skills in students to make them industry-ready, feels Confederation of Indian Industry’s Mentor of the Year 2020 M V Subramanian. "When the IT services grew, all the colleges adopted the syllabus changes with the help of ICT Academy. It can look at extending its support to other domains like mechanical and electrical too. There is a need for another academy to take care of such changes in polytechnics and ITIs too and strengthen the process with participation from industries," Subramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-focuses-on-bridging-skill-gap-to-attract-investments/articleshow/80739046.cms||D Govardan
February 8, 2021||Surat||‘Free medical services at mohalla clinics’||Surat: The political atmosphere charged up in the diamond and textile city, as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) organised a rally in Udhna, Limbayat and Pandesara for the upcoming civic polls, on Sunday. Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) Sanjay Singh along with its state president Gopal Italiya were present during the campaign. . AAP convener and Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s photos were seen during the roadshow. AAP leader, Sanjay Singh, who had held a press briefing on Saturday, promised the Delhi model to the people of the city and assured that if elected it would provide free water supply, free ride in city and BRTS buses for women, students and differently abled persons. It also promised to provide free medical services at each mohallas. He had also claimed that AAP would change the face of primary education system just like in Delhi. Surat civic polls will witness a triangular contest with AAP’s entry into the civic polls besides traditional parties BJP and the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/free-medical-services-at-mohalla-clinics/articleshow/80738304.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Ahead of phase 2, rural areas to get 21 more session sites||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has now decided to add 21 vaccination sites to its current list of 19 to increase the pace of Covid vaccinations in the rural areas. The decision, officials said, was made to accommodate more frontline workers who are part of the second phase of the drive that began on February 5. Ayush Prasad, the CEO of the ZP, said on Sunday that many who who helped carry out the massive “My Family, My Responsibility” survey have been registered as beneficiaries in the second phase. The list includes police personnel, members of gram panchayats and schoolteachers. As per the ZP’s records, 24,691 beneficiaries have received their shots so far, out of the target number of 39,967. “Those who did not turn up for vaccinations during the first phase will be included in the second drive. Our endeavour is to vaccinate all our registered beneficiaries,” Prasad said. Officials said the 21 new sites will be spread out to include more locations. “Currently, most sites are at district or rural hospitals. We will now be setting up centres at primary health centres too,” said Abhay Tidke, the villa parishad's vaccine coordination officer. Tidke said the second round could involve as many as 80,000 beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ahead-of-phase-2-rural-areas-to-get-21-more-session-sites/articleshow/80740186.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 8, 2021||Bareilly||Moradabad schoolteacher, a single mother, commits suicide||Bareilly: A lady teacher at a private school allegedly committed suicide at her home in Civil Lines area of Moradabad late in the evening on Saturday. Police said the 30-year-old woman was alone at her house at the time. The Civil Lines circle officer rushed to the spot with police and forensic teams after being alerted of the incident. No suicide note was found, but sleeping pills were recovered from her room, police said. The deceased has been identified as Suchi Bharadwaj. According to police, she was found hanging from the ceiling in her room in Akash Green Society, where she lived with her six-year-old daughter. A probe has been ordered in the case. The family of the deceased told police that Suchi had visited her parents in Naveen Nagar locality of Moradabad on Friday to leave her daughter Pihu with her parents, saying she had an interview for a teaching job in Gajraula, for which she would have to leave early morning on Saturday. The family claimed they had repeatedly tried to contact Suchi over the phone, and when their calls were not answered, they rushed to her rented house in Akash Green Society of Civil Lines, which they found locked from inside. After the door was broken open, Suchi was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her room, the family told police. Darvesh Kumar, the SHO of Civil Lines police station in Moradabad, said, “The family said the woman was living along with her daughter on rent in an apartment in Civil Lines, and worked as a teacher at some private school. Prima facie, it appears she took the extreme step in a state of depression, though the family has denied it, claiming their daughter wasn’t undergoing any mental stress.” The body has been sent for postmortem and an investigation in the case has been ordered, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-schoolteacher-a-single-mother-commits-suicide/articleshow/80737798.cms||Maria Khan
February 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Jolt for industries in Marathwada, Vidarbha & parts of north Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: Industries in Marathwada, along with those in Vidarbha and parts of north Maharashtra, now have to pay more for electricity consumption as the power subsidy of Rs 1,200 crore provided by the state government for the year 2020-21 has been exhausted. Stating that every industrial unit used to get concession in the range of 5% to 7% in power bills due to the subsidy, the industry captains said they have been shelling out more money towards the power consumption since January. Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) secretary Satish Lonikar on Sunday said the government should pump in more funds towards subsidy for industries that have already taken a hit due to Covid. “The industries did not ask for any monetary benefits while recovering from the pandemic, but non-availability of power subsidy now is another major blow to the industries coping with the crisis arising out of Covid-19 outbreak. Aurangabad alone has around 5,000 industries that benefited from the power subsidy,” he said. In 2016, the Maharashtra government had decided to subsidize power tariff for industries from areas classified as ‘industrially least developed’ by offering a 50 paise to 75 paise respite on per unit of power tariff. Marathwada chairman of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) Mukund Kulkarni said continuous encouragement to industries from the backward regions was important for balanced growth of Maharashtra. “The sustainable growth of industrial sector is important in order to ensure employment generation in the backward regions. The government is also benefited from such industries as they pay considerable amount of GST and other taxes,” he said. BJP MLA Atul Save accused the state government of implementing a single point agenda of discontinuing all welfare schemes and programmes of the previous government. “Instead of supporting industries during the current crisis, the government is on the contrary acting in a detrimental manner. It is bound to create an irrevocable damage to the growth of Maharashtra,” he said. When contacted, state energy minister Nitin Raut said he has sought Rs 300 crore from the government to continue the power subsidy for the industries. “The necessary request has been made to the finance department. We expect the industries department also to follow the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jolt-for-industries-in-mwada-vidarbha-parts-of-n-maha/articleshow/80738341.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bareilly||Ex-BSP member who flagged graft in UP's Budaun ‘kills self’||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) functionary and local farmer, who had accused officials of corruption, allegedly consumed poison and succumbed in UP’s Budaun on Saturday. He had left behind a suicide note levelling harassment and corruption charges against the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) and revenue official (kanungo). Harveer, who belonged to Dalit community and a father of five, was a resident of Rasoolpur village. He had been visiting the Sahaswan tehsil and meeting officials regularly. On Saturday, he went to the tehsil twice before taking poison on its campus. Later, he returned home and told his family that he had taken celphos tablets. He was referred to a higher medical facility and died on the way. In his suicide note, he alleged that kanungo officer Omkar had demanded Rs 50,000 for an extension of farm plot allotted to him and he was "abused and threatened" by SDM Kishore Gupta when he made a complaint earlier. He had named both in the purported note. Taking cognizance, Budaun district magistrate (DM) Kumar Prashant has suspended the kanungo and has handed over the probe to an additional district magistrate (ADM). No action has been taken against the SDM yet. Harveer was appointed as BSP's constituency in-charge in the last assembly poll. His brother Jaiveer Singh told TOI, "A strip of land was allotted to Harveer [for farming] in 2006. The allotment was to be renewed after every four years, but the officials were dragging their feet. Harveer had to visit frequently for renewal, and then the SDM and kanungo demanded a bribe of Rs 50,000. We gave a written complaint to the police.” When contacted, SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “According to law, FIR in this case cannot be directly registered against the government official. The kanungo has been suspended by the DM. He was found guilty. The ADM is probing the complaint. The family has been promised compensation under a government beneficiary scheme.” In an earlier case of negligence, Brijpal Shakya, 40, who was lodged in revenue jail in Budaun district for 11 days for his pending power bill of over Rs 80,000 had died during treatment after he fell ill under custody in October 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ex-bsp-member-who-flagged-graft-in-ups-budaun-kills-self/articleshow/80739054.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Ex-Army men walk for clean Ganga||KOLKATA: The ex-Army men, who embarked on a walkathon from Prayagraj in November last year along the east bank of the Ganga, reached the west bank at Geonkhali from Sagar on Friday. It was on the same day that they started their west bank walk to Prayagraj. Before reaching Geonkhali by boat, they did a symbolic pouring of clean and pristine water that they brought with them from Prayagraj to reiterate the idea of making the Ganga clean and “Abiral” (unfettered). On the way, the ex-Army men have mapped pollution, geo-tagged each drain, from where untreated sewage was spotted flowing into the Ganga. They have also planted numerous trees and inspired locals, especially students to adopt them. “A tree on the bank prevents erosion and maintains the ecology of the place,” said Colonel Manoj Keshwar (retired), one of the members leading the walkathon. Their mission — Atulya Ganga project — was conceived during the early phase of lockdown and the participants underwent rigorous training under Lt Gen SA Cruze, VSM ( Retd), a leading international expert on sports training and medicines. The clean Ganga mission, according to the members of the walkathon, will fail unless it becomes a people’s movement. “On our way, we saw how the cities and industrial towns are polluting the river. Fettered by numerous barrages and dams, the Ganga has lost its vigorous self-cleaning ability,” said Keshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-army-men-walk-for-clean-ganga/articleshow/80740194.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 8, 2021||Pune||492 discharges in Pune Metropolitan Region; two people succumb||PUNE: Two people succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday. In the 24-hour period till 8pm on Sunday, Pune Municipal Corporation and the municipal council areas in the district reported one fatality each. This took the death toll for the region to 9,096. During the same period, 492 people recovered from the infection. This took the total number of recoveries in the region to 3,75,649. PMC reported the highest number of recoveries at 219, while 163 people were discharged in Pimpri Chinchwad. Eighty-six people recovered in the rural parts of the district, and municipal councils (21) and cantonments (3) accounted for the rest. The region added 457 patients till 8pm on Sunday. PMC had 196 fresh cases, while rural areas reported 119 positive tests. Pimpri Chinchwad had 108 new patients, and municipal council areas added 32 patients. The three cantonments together reported two new cases. With this, the progressive case tally for the region stood at 3,89,174. As of Sunday, there were 4,600 active cases in the region — 1,731 patients were being treated in hospitals, while 2,869 people were under home quarantine. As per data released by PMC, the areas under its jurisdiction had 212 patients being treated with oxygen support, and 110 patients whose condition was critical. As many as 5,014 samples were tested in the region on Sunday, taking the number of samples tested so far to nearly 21.5 lakh. PMC led the pack with 2,906 daily tests, with Pimpri Chinchwad (688), municipal councils (170), rural areas (1,222) and cantonments (28) making up the rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/492-discharges-in-region-two-people-succumb/articleshow/80740197.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bareilly||Inmate found hanging inside Sambhal jail toilet||BAREILLY: A prisoner allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself inside a toilet of a jail in Sambhal on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Jogendra (40), resident of Hitchkheda village under Hayatnagar police station, Sambhal. The deceased was a repeated offender and was booked in several cases of loot and theft among other cases, in various police stations of Sambhal district. He was also booked under the Gangsters Act. Sambhal police had arrested Jogendra on February 3 from Rajheda village and lodged him at a temporary facility within Sarangpur jail in Hayatnagar. At around 10am on Sunday, he went to a prison toilet and hanged himself with a scarf. His body was recovered from the toilet in the afternoon, following which jail administration and police were informed. Arun Kumar, the circle officer of Hayatnagar police station in Sambhal, said Yogendra was facing several charges, including those under the Gangster Act. The Hitchkheda resident had continued his life in crime even after he relocated to Rajheda village. Hayatnagar SHO Vidyut Goyal told TOI, “He was recently arrested and lodged in Sarangpur jail. No suicide note has been recovered. It appears he took the extreme step as he was undergoing mental stress. The body has been sent for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inmate-found-hanging-inside-sambhal-jail-toilet/articleshow/80737813.cms||Maria Khan
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Documentary on journey of Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay||KOLKATA: Renowned littérateur Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay’s life and times have been portrayed in a documentary, ‘Shadows of Ambiguity’. Directed by national award winning filmmaker Ashoke Viswanathan, the documentary traces the journey of the littérateur, both corporeal and spiritual, giving a fascinating peak into the man behind literary masterpieces like ‘Manabjamin’, ‘Durbin’, ‘Patalghar’, ‘Bikeler Mrityu’ embracing various genres like ghost stories, children’s fiction, spiritual odysseys, social satires, fantasies and political thrillers, many of which made their way on to the silver screen. A host of critics and colleagues like Samaresh Majumdar, Abul Bashar, Samik Banerjee, Buddhadeb Dasgupta and Nabaneeta Dev Sen hold forth on Mukhopadhyay even as he himself dwells on his own doubts and fears, identity crisis, his depression and then being swept away by a wave of spirituality, finding solace in nature and becomes a wanderer, a fakir. “I have perhaps done a first of its kind experiment in this documentary by not having any background commentary at all. My film speaks to the audience through the voice of Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay himself,” said Viswanathan who has scripted and produced the film. A special screening was held recently at Nandan III. Presented by Sahitya Akademi, ‘Shadows of Ambiguity’ is part of a series of 156 documentaries being made on Indian writers, 16 of which are from Bengal that include Annada Shankar Ray, Sunil Gangopadhyay, Alok Ranjan Dasgupta, Sankha Ghosh and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docu-on-journey-of-shirshendu/articleshow/80740198.cms||Althea Phillips
February 8, 2021||Surat||Owaisi calls upon minorities, tirbals to unite against BJP||Bharuch/Surat: Marking his party’s foray into Gujarat politics, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi, with tribal strongman and founder of Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) Chhotu Vasava by his side, called upon all minority communities and deprived class, to unite against the ruling BJP in the state. Owaisi, who has forged alliance for the upcoming civic body polls with the BTP, said that BJP and Congress were like an uncle (mama) and nephew (bhanja). He project the AIMIM-BTP alliance as an alternative to the two parties. “People from the scheduled tribe, scheduled caste, OBC and other minorities communities of Gujarat are looking for a trustworthy political alliance that will fight for their rights. Chottu Vasava and his candidates are winning against all odds which proves their credentials,” the Hyderabad MP said while addressing a gathering in Bharuch. Hundreds of people, especially those from the minority community and tribals attend the gathering, which is billed as an important political development ahead of the civic body polls. “Congress and BJP are like mama (uncle) and bhanja (nephew). That is the reason why BJP has been ruling in Gujarat for the last 25 years. Both these parties are same and that’s is the reason why the marginalised people need a strong alternative,” Owaisi said. “I appeal to all minorities and voters from deprived sections of the society to choose vote for the AIMIM-BTP alliance who will raise their voice and protect their Constitutional rights,” he added. Invoking B R Ambedkar, Owaisi said that if people wanted liberty, freedom, equality and justice then they will have become a political power, and they can do so by choosing their own leaders, who will go to the Assembly without fearing PM Narendra Modi or the Congress. While addressing the gathering, MLA from Jhagadia Chhotu Vasava asked people to vote out this government that has violated the Constitution of the country and denied tribals their rights. “Recent declaration of Kevadia Development Authority near the Statue of Unity (in Narmada district), is one example of how the land rights of tribals was snatched by the government. In Gujarat, only Muslims, tribals and OBCs together can bring a political change in Gujarat,” said Vasava. BTP has a strong presence in Narmada and Bharuch districts. It had formed an alliance with Congress during the previous elections. BTP is also ruling party in taluka panchayats in Valia, Jhagadia and Netrang. Box: Host farmers like you treated Obama: Owaisi to PM Bharuch: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers to his a residence like he had hosted then US president Barack Obama, and repeal the new farm laws. Addressing a rally for upcoming polls to local bodies in Gujarat, the Hyderabad MP also asked the PM to be “large-hearted” and “understand pains” of the farmers, who have been protesting at borders of Delhi over the last two months demanding to scrap the agri marketing legislations. “The way the farmers are being treated is not right. It is wrong. The PM should invite the farmers to his residence like he had offered tea to (then US President) Barack Obama with his own hand (in 2015), which is fine as he was our guest. We expect the PM to invite the farmers, offer them tea and biscuits and tell them the (agri marketing) laws are being repealed, and that they should be happy,” Owaisi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/owaisi-calls-upon-minorities-tirbals-to-unite-against-bjp/articleshow/80738317.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Blaze leaves around 100 living in southeast Delhi shanties homeless||NEW DELHI: A fire outside CISF campus near Harikesh Nagar Metro Station in southeast Delhi’s Okhla (II) in the early hours of Sunday left around 100 people, including women and children, living out of 20 odd shanties homeless. No injuries were reported, a fire official said, adding that the cause of fire was yet to be ascertained. The blaze started from “katran” (waste cloth cuttings) strewn around, and quickly spread to the shanties. A truck parked at the spot was also set ablaze, a senior police officer said. According to Delhi Fire Services, a call about the fire was received at 2.23am, following which seven fire tenders were rushed. However, it took 26 fire tenders and an hour to douse the flames, the official said. Firefighters worked in tandem with personnel from Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), whose barracks were located nearby. The fire, a CISF official said, started around 2.15am in the area adjacent to the CISF Unit, DMRC Okhla barracks. The spot was around 70m from its boundary wall.  “It spread to nearby slum and scrapyard, the flames of which also reached the CISF campus. CISF night sentry raised an alarm, while DFS and CISF officers were informed. As a precautionary measure, Okhla barrack quarter guard and dog kennel were also evacuated,” a spokesperson from CISF said. DFS team with fire tenders along with PCR and ambulance reached the spot and started dousing the fire. In the meantime, CISF personnel residing in the barracks made use of Okhla Metro station fire point and assisted fire teams by sprinkling water from inside. Expressing concerns over the tragedy, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he was taking stock of the situation and coordinating help by the government. “Concerned about the news of fire incident at Okhla. I am constantly in touch with the fire department and the district administration, people are being provided with all possible help,” he tweeted. The administration said it was making all efforts for those affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/blaze-leaves-around-100-living-in-se-delhi-shanties-homeless/articleshow/80740547.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||Firm uses AI, maps to measure pollution||PUNE: Air-quality monitoring firm Ambee has said its clients were using its data to figure out cause and effect analyses, as well as giving access to the general public about air quality in their areas. The firm has been in operation for around five years and uses its data models to provide real-time PM 2.5 and PM 10 data for multiple major cities in India, including Pune. Unlike data obtained from state pollution control boards, which largely place sensors at a select strategic locations in a city, the hyper-local model, according to Ambee, uses live traffic data, satellite imagery, sensors using the internet of things (IoT) model, besides artificial intelligence. “We provide 15-minute updates on our app and website on the PM 2.5 and PM 10 data in users’ neighbourhood. It helps people in making choices regarding housing,” said Akshay Joshi, the co-founder of Ambee. Clients of Ambee’s services include civic governments overseas as well as players in the health, insurance and fitness sectors. Joshi said they were also working with aviation and mobility firms to provide them with live emissions information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firm-uses-ai-maps-to-measure-pollution/articleshow/80740199.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Sanitise luggage at Mumbai Central||Western Railway (WR) started a facility to sanitise and wrap luggage at Mumbai Central station. It was inaugurated by divisional railway manager GVL Satya Kumar, who said this will be started at Bandra and Surat station soon. As an inaugural offer, sanitisation rate will be Rs 10 per bag, and sanitisation and wrapping will cost Rs 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sanitise-luggage-at-mum-central/articleshow/80740201.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Surat||Graft-tainted ASI is worth over a billion: ACB||Surat: Graft-tainted Mahadev Kishan Sevaikar, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who had a monthly salary of around Rs 35,000 is a billionaire. Investigation by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in the Rs 4.5 lakh case of bribe in Pipodara GIDC has revealed that the arrested cop of the now-dissolved range operation group (ROG) has wealth worth over Rs 5 crore! The fresh ‘wealth of information’ has obviously led the ACB to initiate disproportionate assets case inquiry against Sevaikar. ACB will now carry out in-depth inquiry into Sevaikar’s riches and a separate offence will be registered after the inquiry is over. During investigation, ACB found that the multistorey bungalow the cop owns in Pandesara is worth over Rs 1.5 crore while its furniture alone is worth more than Rs 50 lakh. The corruption watchdog also found seven airconditioners fitted in the bungalow, of which two were of two tonnes each. Besides there were four TVs, four computers, two home theatre systems and 12 high-end wristwatches. ACB also found fitness and exercising equipment on the premises. Besides the ACB has also found that the cop’s wife and children own four plots in an industrial society in Bamroli area of the city, where the family members have constructed textile weaving units with 100 machines. These units are currently given on rent. Sevaikar also owns land and other properties that he purchased in the name of a farmer and some other persons known to him. These details are likely to come out during further investigation. While Sevaikar graduated in commerce, his wife has studied up to Class VII. Of his three children, one son and a daughter are in college, while another son has studied up to Class XII. A migrant from Madhya Pradesh’s Burhanpur, Sevaikar (55) joined police service around 28 years ago as a constable in Surat district. He gradually became a close confidante of some powerful cops in the district and managed to get posted in key police teams. An ACB team from Ahmedabad had caught Sevaikar and his aide Vipul Ashok Balar, a chemical trader, on Thursday redhanded with the bribe amount. The third accused Dipesh Hasmukh Maisuriya, head constable (HC) in local crime branch (LCB) of Surat district police is, however, still on the run. BOX Family left home soon after ACB trap Sevaikar’s family left the bungalow soon after his arrest and when ACB reached there after two hours they found the bungalow locked. ACB officials suspect that the family must have been tipped off about the trap. Sources in police informed that some people were seen leaving Sevaikar’s residence carrying bags. ACB will recover the CCTV footages from Sevaikar’s home and nearby areas for investigation. ACB could undertake search at Sevaikar’s home only after 15 hours of the trap when family members surfaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/graft-tainted-asi-is-worth-over-a-billion-acb/articleshow/80738369.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||We are people’s servants, not masters: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday urged everyone cutting across party lines to serve people and work for a better Bihar. He was speaking at a function to celebrate the glorious past of Bihar legislative assembly on the completion of 100 years of its building. Inaugurating the yearlong centenary celebrations at the assembly, Nitish stressed on healthy debate and discussions in the House to serve people in a better way. It was on this day when the first session of the Bihar and Odisha provincial legislative council was formally inaugurated by Lord Satyendra Prasanna Sinha, the then governor of the erstwhile province. Though the building was ready by 1920, the inaugural session was held on February 7, 1921. Nitish said the President and Prime Minister will also attend the celebrations and suggested Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to invite all former legislators any day to get benefitted from their views and experiences. It will also help the new and young legislators, he said. Nitish said Bihar has a glorious past and recalled the contributions of first CM Shrikrishna Singh, Anugrah Narayan Singh and Jannayak Karpoori Thakur. “Bihar lagged behind others for some time, but the state has again been marching ahead on the progress path. We may be different on political lines, but we have to work together to serve the people and develop Bihar further more so that the country could move forward,” Nitish said. He told the legislators, particularly of ruling parties, not to consider themselves as the “masters” because people are the “maalik and we are sevaks (servants) in a democracy”. The CM also agreed to suggestions of holding sessions of the state legislature for a longer period so that every member gets time to ask questions and raise issues of their respective constituencies. “Normally we have a longer Budget session. But monsoon and winter sessions run for 7 to 10 days. “If you wish, we will extend it further so that members get a fair amount of time to express their views and opinion on various matters and raise issues in their areas,” he said. The CM, however, said it has to be collectively decided by the assembly Speaker and the council Chairman. Stating that the number of coronavirus cases has been quite low in Bihar and the government has done its best to overcome it, Nitish said the virus appears to be some kind of mischief or hinted at China where different types of “artificial works take place”. Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, legislative council acting Chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh, deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and a host of ministers, legislators and other dignitaries attended the inaugural function. Others who spoke on the occasion included RJD’s Awadh Bihari Choudhary, Congress’s Vijay Shankar Dubey and Ajit Sharma, CPI(ML)’s Mahboob Alam, AIMIM’s Akhtarul Iman, CPI's Ram Ratan Singh and CPI(M)'s Ajay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-we-are-peoples-servants-not-masters/articleshow/80740206.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 9-month-old Iraqi boy gets new lease of life after liver transplant||NEW DELHI: A nine-month-old boy from Iraq got a new lease of life after undergoing liver transplant at a hospital in Delhi. Such a transplant is considered risky among those aged less than a year. However, doctors of Manipal Hospitals in New Delhi took up the challenge and performed the nine-hour-long surgery on Ali Hamad on January 3. Hamad’s mother donated a part of her liver to save her son’s life who was born after three kids who died perhaps of a similar disease that could not be diagnosed and treated on time, the hospital said. Hamad was discharged from the hospital on January 26, it said. According to Dr Sailendra Lalwani, head of the liver transplant and hepato-pancreatic-biliary surgery department, no supply of blood to the liver is a big challenge to any liver transplant team as vascular complications are high in paediatric transplant patients. “The reconstruction of the portal vein with graft is always difficult as it increases the risk of thrombotic complications. To overcome this challenge, we planned to use an iliac vein graft procured during cadaveric liver transplant,” said Dr Lalwani, who performed the surgery with a multi-disciplinary team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/9-month-old-iraqi-boy-gets-new-lease-of-life-after-liver-transplant/articleshow/80740212.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||South Delhi corporation rushes to open Bharat Darshan by April||NEW DELHI: The work on Bharat Darshan project is in full swing as South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) targets to open the site for public in the first week of April. Bharat Darshan, a mega park in the city spread over six acres, will have replicas of various monuments built from scrap material. The eco-friendly project is self-sustainable and estimated to cost around Rs 12-14 crore. With the theme “Unity in Diversity”, the park will display 17 iconic monuments from 14 states, including Charminar, Gateway of India, Konark Temple, Nalanda ruins, Mysore Palace, Golden Temple, Meenakshi Temple, Hawa Mahal, Hampi ruins, Victoria Memorial, Sanchi Stupa, Gol Gumbaz, Ajanta Ellora Caves and Junagarh Fort. “We had plans to add 18 more replicas from the remaining states, but due to issues in getting permissions and funds, the project was withdrawn,” said an SDMC official. Currently, 80% work has been completed on replicas, except for Charminar and Swarn Mandir, which will take another 40 days. “Due to some changes in their look, we need to rework them. We are targeting March 31 to complete all the remaining work and open up from April first week,” said the official, adding that the delay in the project was due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, following which many workers left for their hometown. To give an aesthetic look to the place, SDMC has decided to illuminate all the monument replicas with colourful smart lights and add other features, including a walking track of 1.5km, children play area, amphitheatres for cultural events and a food court offering major Indian cuisines. “Tenders have been received for greenery, lighting and other beautification project, the work on which is expected to start soon,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-rushes-to-open-bharat-darshan-by-april/articleshow/80740550.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 8, 2021||Nashik||Covid-19 recovery rate in Nashik city crosses 97.9%||NASHIK: The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Nashik city has already crossed 97.9%, which is the highest recovery rate so far during the last nine months. As many as 75,072 of the total 76,645 Covid patients in the city have recovered so far, while 1,021 have succumbed to the infection. “There has been a continuous drop in the number of new cases for the past few days. Moreover, the number of patients recovering has also increased due to the early detection of the patients and timely treatment. This has overall led to a rise in the recovery rate of the city,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). “Tthe number of patients in serious condition has also reduced significantly, which has also led to the drop in the number of Covid deaths,” he said. The city had recorded the first patient on April 6, last year and the city had 12 patients and three of them had recovered by April 30. Then, the recovery rate was 25%. The city had a total of 234 patients by May 31 and the recovery rate in the city was 34.61%. By June-end, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients was 42.60%. But the recovery rate increased from July last year after various measures taken by the civic body, which launched Nashik zero mission with the help of an NGO that had provided 10 mobile clinics to conduct a health check-up of the city residents to find the Covid suspects. Moreover, the civic body had also started conducting antigen tests for early detection of the patients. This overall had yielded good results. As a result, the recovery rate of the city started increased from July. The recovery rate of the city was 77.39% by July 31, which later rose to 81.61% by August-end and 91.73% by September-end last year. The recovery rate continued to improve further. Now, the recovery rate of the city is highest so far since its outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-nashik-city-crosses-97-9/articleshow/80738371.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 8, 2021||Salem||3 held for raising slogans against govt 2 yrs ago||Salem: Three people belonging to the banned outfit Tamil Desiya Makkal Munnani were arrested on Sunday morning for raising slogans against the state government during the final rites of a Maoist two years ago. The Salem city police identified the accused as Balan, 45, of Karuppur; K Srinivasan, 58, of Ayothiyapattinam; and Selvaraj, 44, of Anuppur village. An investigation officer said Manivasagam, 55, of Ramamurthi Nagar village near Omalur in the district, was among the four Maoists who were shot dead by the Thunderbolt anti-naxal squad of Kerala on October 29, 2019. “His body was brought to the village on November 15 and the trio participated in the final rites. They raised slogans against the state government,” said the officer with Deevattipatti police station. While police had registered a case against the three then, they went into hiding, fearing arrest. District superintendent of police Deepa S Ganiger had subsequently formed three special teams to nab the trio. The special team arrested the trio from a hideout on Sunday morning. “We have brought them to Deevattipatti police station for further inquiry. They will be produced before the judicial magistrate of the Salem district combined court and will be lodged in the Salem Central Prison after the formalities,” Deepa said. Meanwhile, ‘Q’ branch sleuths have reached the Deevattipatti police station for inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-held-for-raising-slogans-against-govt-2-yrs-ago/articleshow/80740204.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Salem||Textiles worth Rs 3cr gutted as truck goes up in flames||Krishnagiri: A container truck that was heading to New Delhi from Tirupur with clothing materials worth Rs3 crore caught fire near Burgur here in the early hours of Sunday. The entire load was gutted in the incident.According to the Kandhikuppam police, M Chukin, 27, from Bihar, was at the wheel.“The truck caught fire when it neared Kuppam near the Andhra Pradesh border. The truck driver came to know about the fire only when other motorists on the stretch alerted him. Chukin immediately stopped the vehicle on road side,” a police officer said.Local villagers, meanwhile, informed the fire and rescue services personnel, who rushed to the spot with three fire tenders from Krishnagiri and Burgur fire service stations. It took them nearly two hours to put out the fire.Kandhikuppam police sub-inspector Siranjeevi Kumar said the reason for the fire was yet to be ascertained.The Kandhikuppam police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/textiles-worth-rs-3cr-gutted-as-truck-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/80740209.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 15,000 applications in so far for 1,350 DDA flats||NEW DELHI: With less than 10 days remaining for home aspirants to apply for Delhi Development Authority’s Housing Scheme 2021, the land-owning agency has received 15,361 applications till date for the 1,354 mostly two-bedroom and three-bedroom flats on offer. The draw of lots to select successful applicants for the housing scheme is slated for March 5. The scheme, which was launched on January 2, saw DDA’s website getting nearly 10 lakh hits on the first day itself. The housing scheme offers 254 higher income group (HIG) flats, with prices ranging between Rs 69.6 lakh and Rs 2.1 crore, and 757 two-bedroom middle income group (MIG) flats priced between Rs 40.6 lakh and Rs 1.4 crore. The number of one-bedroom flats is on the lower side with just 52 lower income group (LIG) flats on the plate, with price ranging between Rs 17.7 and Rs 35.5 lakh. Apart from this, 291 flats for people from economically weaker sections are also there. Aspirants have time till February 16 to apply for the scheme. The draw of lots, scheduled for March 5, will be webcast. A DDA official said that while a total of 15,361 applications have been received so far, 6,488 applicants have already made the final payment of the application fee. The land-development agency has received payment for 4,147 HIG and MIG flats, 872 LIG flats and 1,469 EWS flats. The application fee is Rs 2 lakh for HIG and MIG flats, Rs 1 lakh for LIG flats and Rs 25,000 for EWS flats. Applicants who are unsuccessful in landing a flat at the draw of lots, are refunded the entire amount. For its 2019 housing scheme, DDA had received around 45,000 applications for the nearly 18,000 flats on offer. However, a huge number of these flats were in the LIG category with the majority located in Narela. With many of these flats not finding any takers, DDA finally carried out a draw of lots for around 10,000 flats. Keeping its previous experience in mind, the authority had decided to keep one-bedroom flats to a minimum and only around 140 flats of various categories in the scheme this time are old, unsold flats. “We have kept mostly two-bedroom and three-bedroom flats, as most people are applying for the HIG and MIG categories,” an official said. “The total number of applications might not seem too high at the moment when compared to our previous schemes but we know through experience that the rush of applications suddenly peaks a few days before the closing date,” he added. The official claimed that the reason more applications have been received for HIG and MIG flats is because they are at prime locations, including those in Jasola, Dwarka, Vasant Kunj, etc, and are in close proximity to Delhi Metro corridors. “What has made this scheme more attractive for applicants is the construction quality, which is at par with the best private developers,” he said. Of the total inventory of 1,354 units, 757 MIG category flats are located in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Jahangirpuri and Madipur, while the 252 HIG units on offer are in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Dwarka, Nasirpur, and Rohini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15k-applications-in-so-far-for-1350-dda-flats/articleshow/80740220.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Hope for Mumbai couple jailed in drug case, Qatar court orders review||MUMBAI: Offering a ray of hope to Mumbai couple Oniba and Sharique Qureshi who have been sentenced to a 10-year jail term in Qatar and fined over Rs1 crore, the highest court there recently accepted their appeal and withheld the sentence. The court also found the appeal court’s verdict defective and called for a review of the case under a new bench in the appeal court. The couple was arrested at Hamad International Airport in July 2019 after Qatari authorities recovered 4.1 kg hashish from their bag. Unknown to them, Sharique’s paternal aunt, Tabassum Qureshi, had used them to transport the drugs. Oniba and Sharique, both 30 years old, were ‘forced’ to go on their second honeymoon by Tabassum who sponsored the trip. “Tabassum gave a packet saying it contained tobacco for a friend in Qatar. They took it in good faith and ended up in the worst nightmare of their lives,” said Oniba’s mother, Parveen Kausar. Tabassum and her aide, Nizam Kara, were later arrested by Nagpada police based on a complaint by the couple’s relatives. A subsequent probe by the NCB also found Tabassum had deceived the couple. “The NCB officials have been of great help. We are thankful to them for taking up our case,” said Kausar. At the time of going to Qatar, Sharique was working with a Japanese company, while Oniba had just discovered she was pregnant. She delivered a baby girl, Aayat, in jail in February 2020. Following their arrest and conviction in 2019, Sharique’s father, Shareef Qureshi, flew down to Qatar and hired a lawyer. They produced audio evidence of phone conversations between Sharique and Tabassum, where she is heard pressing them to visit Qatar and also telling Sharique the packet contained tobacco. However, the appeal court on January 27, 2020 rejected the couple’s plea and confirmed the trial court’s verdict. In January this year, the Court of Cassation (criminal department) conducted a hearing and reviewed documents submitted by the couple’s lawyer. Ruling that the appeal court verdict was ‘defective’, the Court of Cassation stated the appellants did not have criminal intent and they were unaware the seized material was narcotics. “However, the verdict of appeal has been issued confirming the verdict of the first-grade court, which has convicted the appellants...without discussing the defense stated in the memo of their defense. This defense is considered important as it creates criminal responsibility. As such, the court had to review the same independently… and scrutinize its factors in order to find out how much of it is true. The court had to reply as per its opinion but it has kept silent about that defense. This makes the verdict in question defective in respect of reasoning in addition to the violation to the right of defense.(sic).” The Cassation Court returned the case directing a new judgment under a different bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hope-for-couple-jailed-in-drug-case-qatar-court-orders-review/articleshow/80740217.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 8, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Fresh angle on land dispute between sarpanch and deceased arises||RAJKOT: Following the death of a second person allegedly tortured in the lock-up while in the custody of Mundra police, tension is brewing among the Gadhvi community members in Kutch who are demanding swift action in arresting the accused in the case. While Harjog Gadhvi (22) succumbed during treatment in Ahmedabad civil hospital on Saturday evening, the first victim, Arjan Gadhvi (28) had died on January 19 inside the police lock up. Both deceased were labourers and belonged to Samaghogha village near Mundra. Miffed member of the community have given a call for Mundra bandh on Monday and have also threatened to boycott the upcoming local body elections. Harjog was allegedly picked up by police on January 16, four days after Ajran was arrested. He was first admitted to a local hospital where his condition deteriorated and had to be sent to Ahmedabad civil hospital, where he succumbed. Meanwhile, in a fresh twist to the case, the president of the Gadhvi community, Vijay Gadhvi, has alleged that former sarpanch of the village, Jayvirsinh Jadeja is involved in the death case. “Jadeja wanted possession of the village land on which the Gadvis are cultivating crops. The police acted on behalf of the former sarpanch and he too tortured these two victims in the police lock up,” alleged Gadhvi. According to the locals, around 45 to 50 years ago, Jadeja’s family had sold off this plot of land to the fathers of the deceased. However, they did not complete the documentation work. “The dispute on ownership of land arose when the Narmada canal passed through this land and the government announced compensation for the loss of land. The Darbars then claimed that the land parcel is theirs on revenue record. The compensation too could not be released because of ownership dispute,” Gadhvi explained. He accused the police of not only allowing the former sarpanch to beat up the accused in custody, but also forcing the victims to end the land dispute in favour of Jadeja. “The victims were wrongly farmed in a theft case. There is nothing recovered of what was allegedly missing in the theft,” Gadhvi added. The police have already lodged an FIR after the death of Arjan and arrested inspector J A Pahdiyar and Viral Joshi a GRD constable. The other five cops including Ashok Kannad, Shaktisinh Gohil, Jaidevsinh Zala are still on the run. Even the accused former sarpanch Jayvirsinh Jadeja is still at large. Saurabh Singh, SP Kutch (west) told TOI, “This fresh information about a land dispute between the former sarpanch and the Gadhvi youths, surfaced two days ago. This wasn’t mentioned in the FIR. We are investigating this angle now and will hopefully nab the accused soon.” 45,000 Gadhvis to gather in Samaghoga todayNearly 45,000 population of Gadhvis in Kutch, living in all the taluks in Mundra, Mandvi and Abdasa taluka, will gather in Samaghogha village on Monday to protest the custodial deaths. The community along with members of other communities including the Rajput, Maheshwari, Rabari and Muslim community have given the call for Mundra bandh on Monday. MLA Abdasa, Pradhyumansinh Jadeja, too has shot off a letter to the chief minister and home minister requesting the immediate arrest of all the accused. Heavy police bandobustThe police department too has geared up to meet any exigencies during the bandh call in Mundra on Monday. The members of the Gadhvi community has asked all other communities to support them and protest the alleged police tourture. Meanwhile, body of Harjog is expected to arrive the village on Monday for last rites which may further fuel the simmering tempers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fresh-angle-on-land-dispute-between-sarpanch-and-deceased-arises/articleshow/80738419.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Corpn, police work to end begging in public places||Coimbatore: People seeking alms and trying to force you buy small items at traffic signal points, places of worship, bus stands and railway stations might become a thing of the past in the near future, with the city corporation and police planning to conduct rescue operations regularly to prevent such menace in the city. City health officer S Raja said the civic body would conduct joint operations with the anti-human trafficking wing of police department to rescue homeless and abandoned people, who were found in the city limits. “We will open night shelters at Puliyakulam and Valakaimandi in a week with a combined capacity to accommodate 80 people. After that, we will commence the rescue operations,” he said. Presently, the city corporation runs four night shelters – two at RS Puram and one each at KNG Pudur and Kempatty Colony – with more than 200 inmates. An official with the anti-human trafficking wing said the drive would be launched after consulting the district collector and doctors of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Meanwhile, based on the city corporation’s request, the anti-human trafficking wing had rescued 20 people, four of them women, from Town Hall, government arts college road and near CMCH on Saturday. They have been put up at the night shelter at RS Puram. “Earlier this week, we had rescued two children - one selling books on the road and another working with a juice shop – from near VOC Park and handed them over to the child welfare committee. Yesterday (Saturday), we rescued 20 homeless people, who were seeking alms on the road,” the official with the anti-human trafficking wing said. K Gangadharan, caretaker of a night shelter, said most of the rescued people were from southern districts and they had come to the city in search of work. “Some of them were working as securities and sleeping on the road, with no place to rest. We have altered relatives of some of the rescued people. Only the homeless and abandoned will be accommodated at the shelters. Others will be sent back to their houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-police-work-to-end-begging-in-public-places/articleshow/80740213.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 8, 2021||Patna||Nepal girl raped, killed & cremated in Bihar, SHO suspended||MOTIHARI/PATNA: A 12-year-old Nepal girl was gang-raped, murdered and cremated by the accused after keeping her parents hostage in East Champaran district. The matter came to light after an audio clip of the SHO concerned directing the accused to cremate the body immediately went viral. East Champaran SP Navin Chandra Jha, who constituted an special investigation team (SIT) on Sunday, said Kundwa Chainpur police station SHO Sanjiv Kumar Ranjan has been suspended on the charges of dereliction of duty and helping the accused in suppressing the crime. Houseowner Siyaram Sah and his son Vinay Sah, the prime accused in the case, have been arrested. The SP said the audio was being examined. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Sunday said it was the viral suspected audio of Ranjan which drew the attention of senior police officers. “Her body was cremated without conducting postmortem. POCSO Act was also not invoked in the FIR,” he said and added that legal action would be taken against the officer as per evidence against him. The incident took place on January 21 at Kundwa Chainpur Bazar, hardly 2km from the Indo-Nepal border. The FIR was lodged on February 3 only after the victim’s father Bahadur managed to escape from the clutches of the accused. Bahadur said he along with his wife fled to Nepal on February 2 night. He with four other family members from Nepal returned to Kundwa Chainpur the next day and met Sikrahna SDPO Shivendra Kumar Anubhawi at Dhaka and narrated the incident. Then only an FIR was lodged on the SDPO’s order against 11 persons and the SP was informed about the case. Bahadur, who worked as a guard at Chainpur market and belongs to a village in Barbadiya district of Nepal, was residing with his wife and daughter in a rented room at the house of Siyaram Sah for the last 7 years. On January 21, Bahadur and his wife had gone to the market and their daughter was alone in the room. Vinay, with three of his associates, allegedly gang-raped the minor and killed her. Bahadur, in his FIR, alleged that when he returned home, his daughter was lying in pool of blood. He took her to the local primary health centre where the doctor declared her dead. He alleged that houseowner Siyaram and his supporters took him and his wife hostage and cremated the body the same night. Bahadur said they threatened him with dire consequences if he tried to escape and report the case to the police. SHO Ranjan is heard instructing the accused to ensure that the victim’s parents don’t mention ‘those’ things in the complaint else it would create problem. TOI doesn’t verify the authenticity of the audio. The SP said there is prima facie evidence against Ranjan to make him accused in the case for his connivance with the culprits. He said the locked room was opened up for investigation. He said forensic experts would visit the spot and the cremation site, which is an open field, on Monday. The SP said the SHO had information about the heinous crime, but he neither lodged an FIR nor informed his superior officers and, rather, allowed the accused to dispose of the victim’s body. He said the SIT will also investigate the action of SHO and an FIR would be lodged against him if he is found guilty. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepal-girl-raped-killed-cremated-sho-suspended/articleshow/80740214.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
February 8, 2021||Shimla||Locals oppose mega hydel projects in Himachal's Lahaul||MANALI: Residents of Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul and Spiti district - which is highly vulnerable to floods, avalanches and landslides - are a worried lot on hearing of the glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday. The glacial burst caused a flash flood in which at least 150 people are feared dead. The Himachal government recently signed MoUs for five mega projects in Lahaul - home to over 100 glaciers, including Himachal's largest glacier Bada Shigri - with SJVNL and NTPC. Nearly 16 mega-hydel projects are proposed for the Chenab basin, which has a highly sensitive and fragile ecosystem, in Lahaul and Pangi valley with combined power generation of over 5,000MW. Warning about the devastation caused by these projects in Himachal's Kinnaur district and in Uttarakhand, Lahaul residents have been opposing these projects and have threatened that they will not allow companies to start work. They are worried that construction activities, including building reservoirs, will not only destroy huge glaciers but also will put human lives at risk. They have warned they will not let a single tree be cut and will not let land to be submerged into water. Advocate Virender Thakur, joint secretary of NGO Grameen Yuva Sangathan, which has been opposing hydel projects in Lahaul for nearly a decade, said "Limitless quarrying, deforestation, stopping the flow of rivers, and mushrooming of hydropower projects have made the Himalayas unstable. This will not stop until humans stop. We hope that the government will reconsider building these projects in Lahaul valley." Social organisations, NGOs and residents of Lahaul valley are worried that the Atal tunnel will become a reason for the valley's destruction as it has provided easy access to promoters of mega-hydroelectric projects and their heavy machinery. Many mega hydel projects have already been sanctioned on the Chenga and its tributaries in Lahaul valley and many more have been proposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/locals-oppose-mega-hydel-projects-in-himachals-lahaul/articleshow/80740816.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 8, 2021||Agra||Agra doctor, 77, dies a week after Covid-19 vaccination||AGRA: A senior doctor who owns a private hospital in Agra district died seven days after he was administered the Covid-19 vaccine. Dr Kishan Nathani (77), MD (internal medicine), who was also suffering from Parkinson’s and diabetes, died in the early hours of February 4. Agra district Covid-19 vaccination in-charge Dr Sanjeev Burman said Nathani passed away due to old age and comorbidities. His death had nothing to do with the vaccination, he added. The deceased’s son, Dr Puneet Nathani, who is a doctor himself, told TOI that he had alerted the district health department about his father suffering from an adverse event after being administered the Covid vaccine but no action was taken. “My father was vaccinated on January 28. Hours later, he complained of a loss of appetite. On January 30, he had a severely low heart rate and blood pressure. He was put on temporary pacemaker and shifted to a private hospital in Ghaziabad, where he slipped into coma. Though he had no history of kidney or heart disease, he suffered a renal shutdown with signs of pre-renal failure, suggesting kidney failure due to secondary causes and not primary kidney disease. I had informed local authorities about his death, but no post-mortem examination was conducted.” Dr Puneet claimed that his father was living a normal life before vaccination. “He was suffering from Parkison’s disease and diabetes for the past several years. The two diseases cannot result in death within a period of one week. I have previous lab reports to show that he was not suffering any cardiac or kidney-related ailment,” he asserted. He added, “I am not blaming my father’s death on Covid-19 vaccine. But this happened immediately after vaccination. I think this should not be ignored in the larger public interest. Lives of people having prevalent comorbidities like diabetes and Parkinson's disease are at stake and that warrants thorough investigation.” Dr Sanjay Chaturvedi, IMA secretary of Agra district, said, “There is a serious lapse of standard operating procedure in case of adverse events following immunization. The local authorities should have ensured a post-mortem examination to investigate the matter in detail.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “The death of a senior doctor after Covid-19 vaccination has been reported to the health ministry. Vaccination is not the cause of death. I was told by the health department officials that the deceased was suffering from comorbidity. The required investigation will be conducted in the entire matter.” India has reported 22 deaths so far following vaccination, though none of these are attributed to the Covid-19 vaccine itself, the health ministry said in a briefing on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-doc-77-dies-a-week-after-covid-19-vaccination/articleshow/80738405.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Codissia’s defence hub signs MoU with IAF||Coimbatore: Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Air Force (IAF) to indigenize defence products. The memorandum was signed in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat and secretary (defence production) Raj Kumar in Bengaluru on Friday. The memorandum was signed with an objective to find solutions for repair and indigenization of parts, sub-assemblies, assemblies and aggregates among others for IAF aircrafts and to provide mentoring to startup companies incubated at CDIIC, a statement from Codissia said. President of Codissia said MV Ramesh Babu, “In October 2020, we signed a deal with the Navy Ship Repair Yard (NSRY) in Kochi to design and manufacture required products. In the past few months, 10 companies had registered to work for NSRY and found solutions for two to three products. We will be working with the IAF in a similar manner.” Pointing out that MSMEs in India had exported Rs 9,000 crore defence products last year, he said they are working towards their long-term goal of reducing the import of defence products by 20% to 25% in another four to five years. The defence ministry is planning to encourage MSMEs to take up indigenization projects under Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan and to pump in Rs 1,000 crore under iDEX initiatives, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/codissias-defence-hub-signs-mou-with-iaf/articleshow/80740215.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Corporation to kick-start biomining project today||Coimbatore: The city corporation is all set to commence the biomining project, which aims to scientifically dispose of the accumulated solid waste at the Vellalore dump yard, on Monday. In the first phase, the civic body plans to process 21,000 cubic metre legacy waste. Two years after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed it to scientifically dispose of 9.5 lakh cubic metre waste accumulated on the 69-acre land, the corporation inaugurated the Rs 60.11 crore project last June. For over a decade, it has been dumping mixed waste – both degradable and non-degradable – at the dump yard, leading to water pollution and fire accidents. “After contractors installed machinery, the civic body conducted trial run recently to ensure that they were functioning properly,” a source privy to the project said. Experts from the Anna University inspected the dump yard and identified a piece of land to start the biomining process. “They measured about 21,000 cubic metre legacy waste dumped near an overhead tank for the first phase of the project. The civic body will process that waste from Monday. Once the first phase is completed, the team will visit the yard again and mark the second set of waste to be processed,” the source added. It will take about 15 minutes to turn a batch of waste into compost. The machine can process up to 2,000 cubic metres of waste in eight hours. During the process, dry waste including plastic and construction debris will be segregated and wet waste will be dried and shredded. However, K S Mohan, secretary of the Kurichi-Vellore pollution prevention action committee, said the biomining project cannot be effective unless the civic body stops disposing of fresh waste in the yard. “Steps should be taken to operate more micro composting centres across the city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corporation-to-kick-start-biomining-project-today/articleshow/80740225.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 8, 2021||Nashik||2,487 frontline workers got jabs in Nashik divn||Nashik: As many as 2,487 frontline workers (FLW) from various departments of the government have been vaccinated since February 4 across Nashik division. The drive to vaccinate the frontline workers began from February 4 in Jalgaon and Dhule districts while it started from February 5 in Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts and in Nashik, it started from February 6, said P B Gandal, the deputy director of health, Nashik. The vaccination for healthcare workers (HCW) had started from January 16. Till Saturday, 64,178 HCWs of the listed 1.09 lakh HCWs were vaccinated across the division comprising Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule, Nandurbarand Nashik districts. There are only seven days left before the first phase of vaccination comes to an end on February 14 and 59% have been vaccinated. A section of HCWs is still wary of taking the jab while there are others who may not get vaccinated because of various reasons including pregnancy or lactating mothers, health issues and personal choice. Since the division has received overall 2.37 lakh doses of vaccine, it is important to carry out the vaccination of 1.1 lakh people before the vaccination period comes to an end. The FLWs from revenue department, police department, sanitation departments and health department, those who are not in direct contact with the Covid patients, are now being given THE doses. Across Nashik district, 334 frontline workers have been administered the vaccines while in Jalgaon 387 received the vaccine. In Nandurbar, 323 frontline workers took the jab while 683 workers took the vaccine in Dhule and 760 workers took it in Ahmednagar. The health department is taking all the measures to ensure timely vaccination of all the people so that the system is in a better-placed to fight the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2487-frontline-workers-got-jabs-in-nashik-divn/articleshow/80738402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Crooks pose as auto firm HR staff to dupe job aspirants, 4 held||NEW DELHI: Police have busted yet another illegal call centre in Delhi. Crooks were duping job aspirants by posing as human resource department staff of major automobile firms. According to DCP (northwest), Usha Rangnani, four people have been arrested and 14 mobile handsets, 14 sim cards, three ATM cards, two laptops and data have been recovered. The accused have been identified as Raja Rajput, Indernath, Ramesh Yadav and Saajan. “A complaint was received at the cyber cell of North-West district through online cyber crime portal wherein a victim alleged that he received a call on his mobile and the caller introduced himself as a representative of a car company and offered a job to him,” the DCP said. The caller subsequently asked him to deposit a small amount of Rs 275 for registration through PhonePe wallet. Online interviews were conducted and the victim was asked to deposit more money. The crooks took Rs 2,200 on some pretext and gave him a fake offer letter only to charge Rs 5,500 more as security deposit. After the money was paid, the accused started avoiding the victim’s calls and messages. Realising he had been duped, the victim lodged an FIR. “An inquiry was conducted into the matter and accused were arrested after analysis of call detail records and verification of online transactions,” the DCP added. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they opened the call centre about eight months ago. They posed as employers and posted advertisements on job portals after which candidates looking for jobs used to call them. The accused then trapped them. They started off by charging small sums to win trust and then took Rs 10,000-30,000 from them on different pretexts. The accused are Class XII pass-outs and took to crime to earn quick money, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crooks-pose-as-auto-firm-hr-staff-to-dupe-job-aspirants-4-held/articleshow/80740231.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Covid count in Kolhapur district crosses 50,000-mark||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 13 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 50,008. The Covid cases in Kolhapur district have crossed the 50,000-mark.  No patient was discharged on Sunday. The number of active cases in the district has increased to 115. So far, 1,729 have died due to the infection while 48,164 have recovered from the contagion. Sangli adds 11 casesSangli district reported 11 fresh cases of Covid on Sunday. The district has 126 active cases. Sangli has reported 48,189 patients, of them, 1,752 have succumbed to the infection while 46,311 have recovered from the contagion. Satara reports 127 cases Satara district registered 127 fresh cases of Covid and one death on Sunday. Currently, the district has 863 active patients and 1,828 patients have died due to infection. The district has reported 56,920 cases of Covid . 24 cases in Solapur ruralSolapur city reported 21 cases and two deaths while the rural parts of the district recorded 24 cases and one death on Sunday. The active cases in the city have declined to 288 while in rural district active cases have reduced to 303. The total number of cases in the city has reached 11,870 while in Solapur rural it rose to 39,792. As many as 641 patients from the city have succumbed to infection while the rural parts have registered 1,165 deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-count-in-kolhapur-dist-crosses-50000-mark/articleshow/80738433.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Expert team to review GIB breeding||Jaisalmer: A special team of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) will be visiting Jaisalmer from February 8 to 10 to review the ongoing Great Indian Bustard conservation breeding programme and to again identify the bird’s habitat area along with to check the possibility to put the electricity wires that are passing from breeding area underground on the guidelines of the government of India. The team includes senior officer of ministry of environment and wildlife, WII and GIB experts and officers of Rajasthan’s forest and electricity departments. The team will visit the many areas of the bord’s habitat and along with area rationalisation, it will look into the possibility of putting bird diverters.A WII officer said better results were emerging in the activities being carried out for GIB conservation by the Centre, state government and WII. The hatchery centre made for GIB breeding in DNP in Sam area of Jaisalmer is doing a good job and population of GIB has increased. Sources said the committee during its three-day stay will take part in a high-level meeting regarding GIB conservation and will review the GIB breeding programme. The expert team comprises WII expert scientist Yaduvendra Jhala, Dr Suthirtho Dutta, Bombay Natural Society expert scientist Dr Assad Rahmani among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/expert-team-to-review-gib-breeding/articleshow/80739143.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra revenue shortfall may hit Rs lakh crore: Ajit Pawar||NAGPUR: Painting a grim picture of the state’s financial condition, deputy CM and finance minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday said the revenue shortfall in 2020-21 may go up to Rs1 lakh crore. Addressing a ‘Meet the Press’ at Nagpur Patrakar Club, he said, “The revenue shortfall at present is Rs75,000 crore. If we don’t get expected amount of revenue from state sources and if the Centre does not give our full share of taxes, then the deficit may go up to Rs 1 lakh crore.” He said that the Centre’s payment of the state’s share of taxes was short by Rs 25,000 crore. “In spite of the financial condition, we have not reduced allocation to departments like public health, home etc,” said Pawar. The NCP leader slammed the Central government over the handling of the farmers’ agitation. “They put nails on roads to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi. This has happened for the first time after Independence,” he said. On the speech delivered by Sharjeel Usmani at Elgar Parishad in Pune, Pawar said that in future the state government may ask the organizers to not allow certain persons to express their views during the event if it can create discord in society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-revenue-shortfall-may-hit-rs-1l-cr-ajit/articleshow/80740230.cms||Ashish Roy
February 8, 2021||Patna||Issues resolved, Bihar CM may expand cabinet within 10 days||PATNA: Controversial issues seem to have been resolved between BJP and JD(U) regarding the state cabinet expansion, which is likely to take place in the next 10 days and certainly before the Bihar Budget session beginning on February 19. While JD(U) state president Umesh Singh Kushwaha said the cabinet expansion is likely in the next 10 days, BJP state chief Dr Sanjay Jaiswal confirmed that it will materialise before the start of the state Budget session. “Things have been sorted out by the top leaders of the four NDA allies and the cabinet expansion may take place within the next 10 days,” Kushwaha told TOI over the phone while returning from Begusarai after attending a programme. When asked about the nomination of 12 MLCs from the governor’s quota, Jaiswal told TOI that he had no information regarding it and the process may take time. No decision on the MLCs issue will hang the fate of many aspirants in the balance, including education minister Ashok Choudhary, who is not a member of either House. The delay in cabinet expansion since the formation of new government on November 16 last year has not only put several things on hold, but also given the ammo to the opposition to target CM Nitish Kumar, saying that he was under tremendous pressure from BJP on many counts after the state assembly election results, which put his saffron ally in a big brother role with 74 seats compared to 43 of JD(U). Since many ministers are holding four-five portfolios, the bureaucracy is hesitating from taking any major decision in anticipation of a new boss in their respective departments anytime soon. There are seven ministers from BJP, four from JD(U), one each from HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party besides CM Nitish with the scope of maximum 22 more ministers in the state cabinet. BJP is likely to have 12 more ministers, leaving 10 to JD(U). Though the formality of cabinet expansion may be completed in the next few days, there is many a slip twixt cup and lip in Bihar NDA, particularly after the incident of Arunachal Pradesh where six of the seven JD(U) MLAs joined BJP. A JD(U) neta, preferring anonymity, said there were several issues involved, including the number of ministerial berths for JD(U) in the Narendra Modi cabinet expansion at the Centre, likely only after the West Bengal assembly elections, and some of the faces BJP was projecting for ministerial berths in the state. He said since JD(U) was the largest partner of NDA after BJP at the Centre, it wanted firm assurances from them on the number of ministerial berths as any notional representation was unacceptable to Nitish. A BJP insider also said JD(U) had problems with a few BJP names like Nitish Mishra and Samrat Chaudhary, who had been with Nitish earlier. Since the CM may like to accommodate Sanjay Jha, another Maithil Brahmin, in his cabinet, Mishra does not fit in the caste arithmetic. JD(U) will also not be happy if BJP proposes former Union minister and now MLC Sanjay Paswan, who has been vocal against CM Nitish over many issues in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/issues-resolved-cm-may-expand-cabinet-within-10-days/articleshow/80740234.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 8, 2021||Nashik||177 new cases, 3 deaths reported across Nashik district||NASHIK: As many as 177 cases of Covid-19, including 129 from Nashik city, were reported in the district between Saturday and Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,16,828. Three people also succumbed to infection in Nashik district, out of which two were reported from Nashik city. The death toll currently stands at 1,021 in the city, while in the district it has increased to 2,059. A total of 162 patients also got discharged across the district on Sunday, including 110 recoveries from Nashik city. Now, the district has 1,175 active cases, including 552 in Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/177-new-cases-3-deaths-reported-across-nashik-district/articleshow/80738437.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Congress wins Kuchaman municipality using controversial hybrid formula||JAIPUR: The Congress won the Kuchaman municipality using the controversial hybrid formula which allows a non-elected person to run for the post of a chairperson in a municipal body. The hybrid formula for local body polls was opposed by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Congress has used it to its advantage for the first time. Congress candidate Asif Khan got indirectly elected as chairperson on Sunday. Sources said that election incharge Harimohan Sharma took the decision under pressure since Congress didn’t have the majority in the 45-seat Kuchaman municipality. “Congress got 20 seats and was falling short of three seats to form its board. Sharma was offered four votes by two-time Congress councillor Arif Khan in lieu of his younger brother Asif Khan to be declared as Congress candidate under the hybrid system,” said a source, explaining that hybrid formula was not desired at first place. PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra also didn’t seem fully convinced with the formula. He said the formula was introduced by the state government to be exercised in exceptional conditions. “Every formula has its merits. It was used only in Kuchaman as the ground conditions were favourable for it,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-wins-kuchaman-municipality-using-controversial-hybrid-formula/articleshow/80739177.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: More kids to return to school; split classes, shifts new norm||CHENNAI: School corridors may get buzzier from today. After those appearing for board exams, around 19 lakh Class IX and Class XI students are expected to return to schools across Tamil Nadu. According to Covid-19 protocols, schools can accommodate only 25 students in a classroom with six feet distance between students. To do so, schools have planned shift systems and classes on alternate days. Though colleges have been allowed to reopen for all UG and PG students, city colleges will do so in a phased manner and not exceed 50% strength. MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet will follow a shift system for Class IX and Class XI students. “We will teach students of classes X and XII from 8.15am to 12.40pm and students of classes IX and XI will attend lessons from 1pm to 4.30pm,” said principal G J Manohar. Government schools with a bigger student strength are opting to conduct classes on alternate days. “To follow protocols, we need 30 additional classrooms. Teachers may have to take classes for six periods in a day which will be difficult. So we will conduct physical classes for classes X, XII and IX, XI on alternate days,” said P Shanthi, headmistress of Jaigopal Garodia Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Virugambakkam. Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram is planning to teach students of classes IX and XI in auditoriums, halls and open spaces. “If we split the classes, our teachers need to take classes in all seven periods. By following this method, they may have to take one extra class a day,” said N Vijayan, senior principal. Schools in Namakkal said 90% of Class XI hostel students have returned by Sunday. “Of 108 hostel students in Class XI, 90 have returned. We expect more than 100 hostel students to attend classes on Monday,” said P Swaminathan, secretary, SRV Schools in Trichy and Namakkal. Colleges and universities will admit students to campuses in a staggered manner to maintain social distancing. Colleges had reopened for final year students on December 7. Loyola College is planning to reopen its campus in a phased manner and will invite first year PG and first and second year UG students for lab courses. In a survey conducted by the college, only first year students expressed willingness to come for physical classes. “Around 60% of first year students want to attend physical classes while a majority of second year students wanted to continue with online classes,” said Thomas Amirtham, principal of the college. Women’s Christian College has prepared a separate schedule for arts and science students. “We have asked all science students to come for practical classes. At any given day, we hope to have around 2,000 students on campus,” said Lilian Jasper, principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-kids-to-return-to-school-split-classes-shifts-new-norm/articleshow/80739185.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Hotel industry hails excise policy, traders unhappy||JAIPUR: Unhappy with the new excise policy, the liquor traders in the state have accused the government of imposing extra charges which will be an additional burden and deterrent for them to survive in the business. The traders alleged that the government’s announcement to abolish basic licence fee is a disguise as it has introduced composite fee which is much higher than the previous charge. Before the new policy was implemented, the excise department was imposing Rs 26 lakh as basic fee per shop. Now, as per the latest formula, the composite fee is more than double and triple of the previous basic fee in many cases. As per the new formula, the excise department will calculate composite fee on the liquor sales of financial year 2019- 2020. After adding 20% vend fee on one-year (2019- 2020) sales amount, the department will charge 7% as composite fee on the total amount. For instance, if the liquor sales were Rs 10 crore in 2019-2020, the department will add Rs 2 crore (20% of sales of Rs 10 crore). The composite fee will be Rs 84 lakh which is 7% of the Rs 12 crore. Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society, said, “The policy is not trader friendly and will be not a viable model for business. In Jaipur, there will be 403 composite shops. Sales of maximum shops were more than Rs 5 crore in one year. In such situation, the shop owners will have to pay heavy composite fee,” he added. The liquor traders have also criticised the move for allowing to participate government agencies including Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Ltd. (RSBCL), Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation and Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills Ltd. (RSGSM) in the e-auction without depositing application fee. The society is apprehensive as the practice would lead to unhealthy competition. These participants of the government agencies will force the businessman to bid at higher prices. “As the representative officials will have free-hand, they will raise the bid of shops having low reserve price. It will either discourage the private bidder not to take the shop or buy it at higher price. In both the case, it will be the loss of a businessman.” Meanwhile, the state government’s decision to retain the basic fee for hotel, restaurants and club bars with a 10% deduction in license fees for the financial year 2021-22 has been welcomed by the hotel industry in Rajasthan. The industry has appreciated the relaxation given in procuring bar licenses. Moreover, the industry has also appreciated the move to allow bars to operate micro-breweries which will add value to the culinary scene of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotel-industry-hails-excise-policy-traders-unhappy/articleshow/80739145.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolhapur||‘Pay fine if you fail to pick up your pet’s poop’||KOLHAPUR: Citizens will now have to be extra careful when they take their pets out for walk as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will impose a fine of Rs 150 if the animals defecate in the open and it is not picked up. Several citizens have complained to the civic body about the poop menace caused by the pets on the sides of the roads, making morning and evening walks a nightmare. Ashok Pol, chief health officer of KMC, said, “The pet owners are responsible for cleaning the poop of their pets. They should carry a scoop and container to pick up the poop and dump it at a safe place. The citizens are requested to share the photos or videos of the pet owners who are not following the norms so that we can fine them. Also, the owners should not throw the poop in the regular domestic waste as it is going to be handled at some stages of processing and the microbes can cause harm to the processing staff.” The issue is serious in residential societies where the dogs and cats excrete in balconies and common spaces. The KMC has appealed to the society members that a fine will be imposed on the owners if the pet excretes in the common spaces inside the residential societies. Meanwhile, the KMC has also decided to impose fine those not segregating the domestic waste into dry and wet before handing it over to the garbage collection vans. The fine will be Rs 100 per violation and will be charged by the attendant of the tipper vehicle. The dry and wet waste has to stored and packaged separately before handing over to the vehicle. “On several occasions, the attendants insist on segregating the waste, however had no option but to receive the waste. Now, they can reject the waste from anyone if the waste is not segregated,” said Pol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pay-fine-if-you-fail-to-pick-up-your-pets-poop/articleshow/80738439.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Board exam for X, XII must be held at school level: Principals||A group of principals has demanded that board exams for classes X and XII be held at the school-level and all students be promoted to the next class. Mumbai Principals Association, in its letter to school education minister. Varsha Gaikwad and chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, said, “Schools have been shut for most of the year... Even as classes X and XII were allowed to resume physical sessions, it hasn’t happened throughout the state yet... The education department has announced dates for SSC and HSC exams, giving students very little time to prepare.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/board-exam-for-x-xii-must-be-held-at-school-level-principals/articleshow/80737835.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||With 90% attendance, students of govt school in Bagru relieved to be back||Jaipur: Ajeet Kathanuria, son of a factory worker, had to wait for the return of his father in the evening to be able to use an android phone for online study materials. With reopening of schools, Ajeet, a student of Mahatma Gandhi Government School, Bagru, is now relived to be back to school after almost a year. “We have one android phone at home, which belongs to my father who is a labourer in a factory and works from morning to evening. With two more siblings, it was often difficult to use the mobile phone. In classroom teaching, I am happier that at least I am utilising my time properly,” said Ajeet. Just like Ajeet, majority of the students in his school expressed pleasure in school reopening. Nidhi Lather, another student of the school, said with the reopening of school, her parents are relived that she will be able to get full focus of her teachers. The school education department had launched e-Kaksha where educational videos were uploaded on YouTube and WhatsApp groups were created under Smile programme where educational content was uploaded, but internet re-charge amidst pandemic when people were already lost their jobs was challenging. Some students say they have to wait for days to get their internet pack recharged by their parents. According to the government guidelines, 50% students from classes IX to XII are allowed to come to school. Principal of the Mahatma Gandhi Government School, Bagru, Vinita Singh said the 50% strength, they are getting 80% to 90% attendance. “When the parent-teacher meet was held before reopening of the school, we got more than 90% parent’s permission letter to send their children to school. Most of the students belong to lower economic background where parents do not have resources or time to focus on their children every day. Parents are happier to send their children to school,” said Singh. Another issue that parents fear is the security of children as most of them work as labourer or farmers in the village. So, looking after their children behind their back was worrisome for parents. At least in school, students are in a secure environment for most of the day. With class VI to VIII reopening, school teachers have started to receive queries from students and parents as they are ready to be back while maintaining precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-90-attendance-students-of-govt-school-in-bagru-relieved-to-be-back/articleshow/80739195.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: 430 squatters escape action due to Covid||CHENNAI: The Public Works Department (PWD) has identified 430 encroachments in Tambaram Lake area but has told National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it has not been able to issue notices because of the Covid-19 lockdown. In its inspection report submitted to the tribunal, PWD has blamed Tambaram municipality for dumping garbage and releasing sewage water into the lake. NGT Southern Zone had taken suo moto cognizance of the issue reported in the media last year and had constituted a joint committee. Tambaram Periya Eri, the lake, originally spread over 107 acres has now shrunk to less than 10 acres with raw sewage flowing into it. During the 2015 floods, a large area surrounding the lake got submerged and could not be restored. After repeated requests from locals to restore the waterbody, the PWD had initiated efforts. Reports in the media have said the PWD was unable to proceed with the work as there was stiff resistance from the encroachers who did not remove unauthorised construction with some demanding compensation. The reports said due to the political influence, pattas were given to some encroachers. PWD has told the tribunal that during a survey, their officials identified 436 encroachments in the water spread area. It issued notices under Form I (statement of area encroached) and Form II (notice showing the index map of tank and boundaries) but Form III (notice to order for removal of encroachment) could not be issued due to the lockdown. Also, during an inspection on January 21, PWD found that the Tambaram municipality had been polluting the lake. Officials collected water samples to analyse the bio-chemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, total coliform and metals. Test reports from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board are awaited. Recording this, the NGT scheduled the next hearing of the case on March 4. It has directed the Tambaram Municipality to take action on the shortcomings identified and submit its final report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/430-squatters-escape-action-due-to-covid/articleshow/80739197.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 8, 2021||Agra||Mathura police register FIR against 3 for selling Govardhan Shila as product||Agra: The Mathura police on Sunday registered an FIR against three people, including the founder and CEO of an Indian e-commerce company, IndiaMART, for allegedly selling sacred Govardhan ‘shila’ (stone) as a product on their website. Confirming this, circle officer, Govardhan, Ravikant Parashar told TOI that the FIR has been registered under IPC sections 295 (destruction, damage, or defiling any place of worship held sacred by any class of persons with the intention of thereby insulting the religion of any class of persons) and provision of the IT Act against three people -- CEO of the web portal Dinesh Agarwal, his brother, Brijesh, and a local supplier, Ankur Agarwal. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by a resident, Keshav Mukhia. Earlier in the day, a large number of agitated residents and saints reached the police station and filed a complaint against officials of the web portal. They also demanded their arrest for hurting the sentiments of the Giriraj’s devotees. According to residents, Giriraj ji is the matter of faith. “A company cannot put it for sale as a product and they should stop this practice,” said mahant Siyaram Das. On Indiamart website, Govardhan Shila (stone) is available for Rs 5,175 a piece. Other saints have also shown disappointment with the online website’s act of selling Giriraj ji. “The company personnel have hurt our sentiments. Police should take action against them,” said mahant Deenbhandu Das. TOI could not get the company’s response despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-police-register-fir-against-3-for-selling-govardhan-shila-as-product/articleshow/80738441.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Surat||Surat: 3 armed robbers loot jewellery showroom, shoot a staffer||SURAT: Three gun-totting unidentified robbers targetted a jewellery showroom on Bhaiya Nagar Main Road in Puna area on Sunday morning and fled with a bag containing a laptop and a few pen drives. However, in their mistaken adventure, one of the robbers even took a potshot with his pistol at an employee in the showroom of Bhagya Lakshmi Jewellers opposite Ambika Shopping Centre and injured him. The looted bag is worth Rs 12,000, said cops, who suspect that the thieves had mistakenly considered it to be containing cash and jewellery. Police have recovered CCTV footage of the incident and began hunting for the accused. In the incident, employee Aadarsh Pathak (17), suffered a bullet injury on his right thigh and had to be operated upon to remove the bullet. Cops recovered an empty case of the bullet from the spot. The robbers who attacked the showroom at around 11.18 am on Sunday, minutes after the showroom had opened. They had reached the spot on a motorcycle. While two persons entered the showroom pretending to customers, one stood on guard outside. Owner Dikshit Sonar (34) was present inside the showroom when the incident happened. The robbers first asked him to show them anklets. As soon as Sonar took out a few samples, one of the robbers pushed Pathak into a corner while another took out a pistol and started to issue threats. The robber then jumped over the showcase counter and took the bag. In order to prevent Pathak from giving them a chase while fleeing, they shot at him. Despite his bullet injury, Pathak chased them till outside the showroom but failed to catch them or even get help from neighbours. The robbers did not cover their faces during the loot which was executed within two minutes only. “Police are examining the CCTV footage to identify the robbers. Cops will also check the route through which the accused have escaped,” said a police officer. Sonar informed the police that as a precautionary measure, he only keeps imitation jewellery samples in the showroom and arranges for real gold jewellery only as per customer demands. He also told the police that he noticed suspicious movement of unknown people around the showroom on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3-armed-robbers-loot-jewellery-showroom-shoot-a-staffer/articleshow/80738445.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Agra||Mathura businessman, his wife & son found dead at home||AGRA: Three members of a family including an 11-year-old boy were found dead inside their house in Mathura’s Farah area on Sunday afternoon. After the initial probe, local police suspected that Neeraj Goyal (35) may have poisoned his wife Reema (30) and their son Anmol before hanging himself. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination to know the exact cause of the deaths, a senior police officer said. A forensic team also reached the spot and collected evidence. Mathura’s superintendent of police (SP) MP Singh told TOI, “Neeraj was found hanging. His wife and son were found dead in the bed. Prima facie the woman and boy had been given some poisonous substance as they were frothing from their mouths. It appears to be a case of murder-cum-suicide.” Preliminary investigation revealed that Neeraj -- who owned a shop -- got married to Reema three years ago. “But they were not on good terms,” the SP said. It was Neeraj’s first marriage, Reema had married twice earlier and Anmol was her son from an earlier marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-bizman-his-wife-son-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/80738447.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Forest department to probe video of dead crocodile being dragged||TRICHY: The forest department has initiated an inquiry after a video showing a five-foot-long crocodile dragged by its tail and abused by a group of four people went viral on social media on Sunday. A few youths are seen dragging a lifeless crocodile in shallow waters and another person shooting the video using a mobile phone. Two more people from behind the camera were asking the person in the video to let go of the tail out of fear. Crocodiles are protected under Schedule – I (Part - II) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and hurting and poaching would invite imprisonment and fine. Trichy forest range R Gunasekaran said he has sent a team to Mukkombu for investigation and inquire with the people in the video. “The video shows Mukkombu dam in the backdrop where the group appears to have come to take bath and stumbled upon the crocodile. While the crocodile appears to be lifeless in the video, it is not sure if it was killed by those shown in the video,” he said. Forest officials say that crocodiles could be spotted in the city near Kudamurutti bridge and Uyyakondan canal. While there are no crocodiles in Mukkombu, Gunasekaran said it could have come with the flow of water in the Cauvery and stayed in the Mukkombu dam area. District forest officer D Sujatha said appropriate action will be initiated against those found to have abused the reptile after thorough investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-dept-to-probe-video-of-dead-crocodile-being-dragged/articleshow/80740240.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Budget is people centric, says Irani||Jaipur: Union minister Smriti Irani has called the Union Budget the ‘People’s Budget’ that fulfilled the aspirations of the aam aadmi. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters on Sunday, she said, “At a time when Covid has changed the way the world functions, PM Narendra Modi has done exemplary work by reaching out to the last man standing during lockdown and ensured no one slept hungry.” During the day, she held an interactive session with the intelligentsia on MNIT campus here. During the session, she spoke on how the Budget will help people recover completely from the financial impact of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/budget-is-people-centric-says-irani/articleshow/80739196.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||BJP, AIADMK will split seats amicably, says Annamalai||Trichy: BJP state vice president K Annamalai in Pudukottai on Sunday said that the BJP and AIADMK will share seats amicably for the upcoming assembly poll to ensure a second term for Edappadi K Palaniswami led AIADMK government in the state. He was responding to a question on BJP pressuring AIADMK for more seats, he was attending a party event in Ponnamaravathi of Pudukottai district. “Both BJP and AIADMK know the strengths of each other. This is unlike in the opposition where former president of Congress party Rahul Gandhi was compelled to tour Tamil Nadu to show his presence after apprehension over possible removal of Congress from the DMK alliance,” he said. When asked about the possibility of creating a third front by forming alliance with like-minded parties, he recalled the words of party president J P Nadda saying that DMK is the biggest enemy of Tamils and Tamil tradition and they should not return to powerin the state. On the other side, ruling AIADMK has ensured good governance by effectively implementing centre’s scheme, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-aiadmk-will-split-seats-amicably-says-annamalai/articleshow/80740235.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Smaller parties, independents form boards in many local bodies||Jaipur: Smaller parties and independents have formed governing boards in several municipal bodies with the support of either Congress or BJP.NCP, with the support of independents, formed its board in Nokha (Bikaner), while RLP managed its board in Mundwa (Nagaur).A former ally of BJP, RLP formed its board with the support of two BJP and one independent councillors. There was a tie between Congress and RLP with 11 seats each in the house of 25. BJP got two seats while one BJP rebel won as an independent candidate. “The remaining three candidates, including BJP, helped our candidate in securing victory in Mundwa,” said Ravindra Singh, national treasurer of RLP. Interestingly, RLP quit NDA over the three farm laws.Narayan Janhwar of NCP secured victory by securing 31 votes in the house of 45 in Nokha municipality. He was supported by the Congress and independent councillors.The three independents who won the chairmanship are Dinesh Chandra Teli from Gangapur Nagar Palika in Bhilwara, Mitu from Nagaur Nagar Parishad and Nirmala Devi from Bhinder in Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/smaller-parties-independents-form-boards-in-many-local-bodies/articleshow/80739192.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Noida||Seven cops suspended in Noida for extorting money from drivers||NOIDA: A team of seven police officers from police post of Okhla Barrage under the jurisdiction of Sector 39 police station were suspended on Sunday following allegations of extortion. On Friday, a video had gone viral on the social media platforms in which the police personnel were heard extorting money from the drivers of commercial vehicles going towards Noida from the Kalindi Kunj route for not issuing challan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/seven-cops-suspended-for-extorting-money-from-drivers/articleshow/80740242.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Live streaming banned at Mahabodhi temple||GAYA: The Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) has banned live streaming at world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara. Now, only the person holding the pass issued by BTMC will be allowed to make video on the Mahavihara campus. BTMC secretary Nangzey Dorjee issued a letter in this regard on February 6 and sent copies of it to chief monk of the Mahavihara, all Buddhist monks, staff of the BTMC, police inspector-cum-security incharge and the supervisor. “It is being noticed that visitors and the staff, to whom pass has not been issued from the office, are making videos from their cellphones. They make video by moving around the Mahavihara campus and do live streaming through social media platforms. This is not good from security point of view,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/live-streaming-banned-at-mahabodhi-temple/articleshow/80740245.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Three caught stealing parts of Army bunkers in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Villagers in Jaisalmer on Sunday caught three thieves for stealing iron pieces from bunkers made by Army during the Kargil war. This incident took place in Nokh area. In the last 15 days, Army has lodged cases of iron theft from 11 bunkers at Nokh police station. After the incident came to light, police and Army officers inspected the entire area to find out how many bunkers were broken and robbed. Around 1,500kg iron and other metals are used to make the bunkers. Nokh SHO Mohammad Hanif said that on information by villagers, police caught the three thieves red-handed while stealing parts of bunkers near Lunayat village. The Army has lodged an FIR in the incident. Army naib subedar P Manoher has lodged cases of theft at 11 bunkers in a fortnight. "We have detained some people who are being interrogated," the police officer said. Police have lodged a case under IPC section 379, 3 PD, PP Act for damaging and stealing government property. At the time of Kargil war, the Army had constructed a large number of bunkers in Nokh and Nachna areas and many other border areas. Every year, Army does cleaning and maintenance of these bunkers. Also, many operational activities are held at these places. Considering the bunkers abandoned, theives have started demolishing and robbing them. On Sunday, the thieves were taking away iron pieces in tractors when the locals informed the cops. Before the police could reach the spot, villagers caught the thieves and handed them over to cops. The police seized a trolley truck too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/3-caught-stealing-parts-of-army-bunkers-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80743343.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ajmer||BJP's Braj Lata Hada is mayor of Ajmer||AJMER: Braj Lata Hada of BJP was elected mayor of the Ajmer Muncipal Corporation securing 61 out of 80 votes on Sunday. The BJP had 48 councillors, but the independents chose to go with it and voted for Hada, who is the wife of Ajmer city BJP president Priye Sheel Hada. Of the five municipal bodies in the district, BJP managed to form boards in three. The previous board too was held by the BJP. Interestingly, Draupadi Devi of Congress got only 19 votes. However, there was cross voting as three independents from Dargah Bazaar vowed to vote for Congress. Congress got 18 seats in this election. BJP leaders said that people of Ajmer elected the party again, which shows that the BJP is working for the welfare of common man. Meanwhile, those who lost elections in Congress accused local leaders of groupism. Similarly, Dinesh Singh Rathore of BJP was elected chairman of Kishangarh Nagar Parishad. He defeated Pradeep Agarwal of Congress by 12 votes. In Bijay Nagar, Anita Mewara of BJP won by one vote, in Sarwar Chagna Kanwar of Congress was elected as chairperson by defeating Sharda Devi of BJP by nine votes and in Kekeri, Kamlesh Kumar Sahu of Congress won the election by eight votes defeating Mishrilal of BJP. Supporters of both the BJP and Congress gathered at Ajmer Municipal Corporation and shouted slogans for their leaders. When BJP corporators, who were housed in Jaipur, arrived at the AMC office, there was tension between the supporters of both the parties and police was alert to control any situation. For the deputy mayor’s post in AMC, the election will be held on Monday. Interestingly, BJP is yet to announce its candidate, but there are three names doing the rounds in the party — Gyan Saraswat, Neeraj Jain and Ramesh Soni. Meanwhile, Gajender Singh Ralawata is the Congress candidate. Ralawata recently retired from AMC from the post of deputy commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/braj-lata-hada-is-mayor-of-ajmer/articleshow/80743195.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Licence for food trucks to pass health dept scanner before final nod||NEW DELHI: Even as South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) cleared the proposal for issuing licence to food trucks at various locations in its area, the health department is still examining various factors before finalising the new policy. Once prepared, the policy will be placed before the House for final approval and implementation. “The proposal approved in the standing committee and House meeting was private and moved by an elected representative. That’s why before implementing the proposal on ground we need to prepare a policy and get the preamble passed again,” an SDMC official said. He added that the department is examining various factors such as provision for taking permission from the land-owing agencies where these food vans will be placed, process for obtaining fire NOCs, their feasible timings and waste disposal process to avoid inconvenience to people living in the neighbourhood. “We are going through all these points and it will take at least a month to present the policy again,” said the official. Twelve years ago, the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi stopped issuing licenses to food trucks due to traffic congestion and sanitation issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/licence-for-food-trucks-to-pass-health-dept-scanner-before-final-nod/articleshow/80740250.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||Four temple elephants from Trichy head for Thekkampatti rejuvenation camp||Trichy: Four temple elephants from Trichy city commenced their journey on Sunday to the state government-sponsored 48 day-long annual rejuvenation camp at Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district. The four elephants, each in separate trucks, were sent from Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department’s Yatri Nivas facility on Kollidam Flood Bank Road.This year, the annual rejuvenation camp for temple elephants to be held on the banks of the Bhavani River at Thekkampatti will commence on Monday. Two temple elephants, Andal and Lakshmi alias Premi from Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam, Akila of Arulmigu Jambukeswarar temple in Thiruvanaikoil and Lakshmi from Arulmigu Thayumanaswami temple in Rockfort were sent to the camp from the city. Andal and Akila are thick friends and were often seen hanging out together with the fellow jumbo Sengamalam from Mannargudi Arulmigu Rajagopalaswami temple during the previous rejuvenation camps, the temple mahouts said. “We have sent a veterinary team comprising two veterinary doctors along with the four elephants. The elephants were screened and tested and are fit for road travel,” Dr S Esther Sheela, regional joint director, animal husbandry department, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-temple-elephants-from-trichy-head-for-thekkampatti-rejuvenation-camp/articleshow/80740244.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||Man attempts to loot cash from ATM||Trichy: An unidentified person tried to break open an automated teller machine (ATM) near Somarasampettai in Trichy district run by a private bank in early hours on Sunday. Though the miscreant damaged the front portion of the machine, he was unable to take any cash from it, police said. According to police, the incident came to light when a man approached the ATM functioning on the Vayalur road in Somarasampettai, which is on the outskirts of the city, and found that the machine was broken and alerted the police. On information, Jeeyapuram police arrived at the spot and also informed bank authorities. Based on the CCTV camera footage, police initiated their investigation. In the footage, a person, who approached the centre at around 3 am on Sunday, broke a CCTV camera fixed outside the centre and another camera inside the centre, police said. The miscreant broke the machine using a hammer and a crowbar and attempted to destroy the cash dispenser portion. However, he could not succeed in his attempts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-attempts-to-loot-cash-from-atm/articleshow/80740246.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Metrowater official who bought land for Rs 1 crore booked in DA case||CHENNAI: Purchasing a plot worth Rs 1.19 crore has landed a senior official of Metrowater in a soup, with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) booking her in a disproportionate assets case. D Nirmala, the accused, is a special tahsildar in the land and estate wing of Metrowater. Usually the agency checks for disproportionate assets over a period of five or seven years. In Nirmala’s case, it was restricted to three years, from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019. According to the FIR, the official purchased the 1,790 sqft plot in the name of her husband TPonraj, and registered it at the Pallavaram sub-registry on March 18, 2019. As per DVAC’s calculations, income earned by the official during the check period was Rs 15.84 lakh. She had incurred an expenditure of Rs 10 lakh during the period. The agency calculated that during the check period, the value of her assets was Rs 1.3 crore. Thus, the value of her disproportionate assets was calculated to be Rs 1.24 crore, DVAC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dvac-books-da-case-against-metrowater-official/articleshow/80739204.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai cop’s two sons on bike killed in head-on collision with car||NAVI MUMBAI: Two sons of a Mumbai Police assistant sub-inspector were killed in a road mishap on Vashi’s Palm Beach Road in a head-on collision between their bike and a Mercedes early on Monday. As the Mercedes driver fled the spot, APMC police have registered an FIR against him for alleged rash and negligent driving causing death. “We will obtain the car owner’s address from the Panvel RTO office on Monday and arrest him,” said APMC police sub-inspector Pankaj Mahajan. “As the driver fled the spot, we cannot ascertain whether he was driving drunk, hence Section 185 of the Motor Vehicle Act for drunk driving has not been invoked against him.” The incident took place around 1.30am near the APMC truck terminal, when siblings Akshay (29) and Sanket Gamare (24) were returning to their residence in Vashi village on their bike. According to two passersby who witnessed the accident, the police said, the Mercedes was taking a left turn at the junction to head towards Sanpada when it came in front of the bike and the two vehicles collided. “The impact of the crash was so severe that the bike flung 50m away and the two brothers sustained severe injuries. Both were rushed to NMMC Hospital, where they were declared brought dead on arrival,” said Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cops-two-sons-on-bike-killed-in-head-on-collision-with-car/articleshow/80740248.cms||George Mendonca
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Residents see ‘red’ at supply of impure water in Krishna Colony||Jaipur: Residents of Krishna Colony at Amber Road are facing difficulties over supply of red-coloured water. For the last six days, water supplied for the first 30 minutes appears red in colour. Thereafter, the water gets clearer. But, people do not fill up their utensils and prefer to order water tankers. Girdhari Israni, a resident of the colony, said, "I believe there is some leakage in the pipeline due to which red water is being supplied in the colony. Everyone is fed up as earlier dirty water was being supplied and now it is red in colour". Another resident Sheela Sharma said that she and her family avoid using the water and prefer purchasing a water tanker. Although not everyone can afford a tanker. Some residents wait for the water to clear up after 30 minutes and use alum to clean it. Residents complained that it is negligence on the part of PHED which failed to take any action sooner. PHED officials visited the area on Sunday and dug up two holes to identify where the water was leaking. Residents were told that no water will be supplied in the area on Monday as the department will investigate the reason behind tinted water. Manish Beniwal, additional chief engineer of PHED, said they will look into the issue. Residents also complained that pipelines laid decades back should be changed in accordance with the rising population. Many times, pipelines leak and contaminated water is supplied. Residents have demanded a quick solution to the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-see-red-at-supply-of-impure-water-in-krishna-colony/articleshow/80739207.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Three caught stealing parts of Army bunkers in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Villagers in Jaisalmer on Sunday caught three thieves for stealing iron pieces from bunkers made by Army during the Kargil war. This incident took place in Nokh area. In the last 15 days, Army has lodged cases of iron theft from 11 bunkers at Nokh police station. After the incident came to light, police and Army officers inspected the entire area to find out how many bunkers were broken and robbed. Around 1,500kg iron and other metals are used to make the bunkers. Nokh SHO Mohammad Hanif said that on information by villagers, police caught the three thieves red-handed while stealing parts of bunkers near Lunayat village. The Army has lodged an FIR in the incident. Army naib subedar P Manoher has lodged cases of theft at 11 bunkers in a fortnight. "We have detained some people who are being interrogated," the police officer said. Police have lodged a case under IPC section 379, 3 PD, PP Act for damaging and stealing government property. At the time of Kargil war, the Army had constructed a large number of bunkers in Nokh and Nachna areas and many other border areas. Every year, Army does cleaning and maintenance of these bunkers. Also, many operational activities are held at these places. Considering the bunkers abandoned, theives have started demolishing and robbing them. On Sunday, the thieves were taking away iron pieces in tractors when the locals informed the cops. Before the police could reach the spot, villagers caught the thieves and handed them over to cops. The police seized a trolley truck too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-caught-stealing-parts-of-army-bunkers-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80739206.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||BJP's Braj Lata Hada is mayor of Ajmer||AJMER: Braj Lata Hada of BJP was elected mayor of the Ajmer Muncipal Corporation securing 61 out of 80 votes on Sunday. The BJP had 48 councillors, but the independents chose to go with it and voted for Hada, who is the wife of Ajmer city BJP president Priye Sheel Hada. Of the five municipal bodies in the district, BJP managed to form boards in three. The previous board too was held by the BJP. Interestingly, Draupadi Devi of Congress got only 19 votes. However, there was cross voting as three independents from Dargah Bazaar vowed to vote for Congress. Congress got 18 seats in this election. BJP leaders said that people of Ajmer elected the party again, which shows that the BJP is working for the welfare of common man. Meanwhile, those who lost elections in Congress accused local leaders of groupism. Similarly, Dinesh Singh Rathore of BJP was elected chairman of Kishangarh Nagar Parishad. He defeated Pradeep Agarwal of Congress by 12 votes. In Bijay Nagar, Anita Mewara of BJP won by one vote, in Sarwar Chagna Kanwar of Congress was elected as chairperson by defeating Sharda Devi of BJP by nine votes and in Kekeri, Kamlesh Kumar Sahu of Congress won the election by eight votes defeating Mishrilal of BJP. Supporters of both the BJP and Congress gathered at Ajmer Municipal Corporation and shouted slogans for their leaders. When BJP corporators, who were housed in Jaipur, arrived at the AMC office, there was tension between the supporters of both the parties and police was alert to control any situation. For the deputy mayor’s post in AMC, the election will be held on Monday. Interestingly, BJP is yet to announce its candidate, but there are three names doing the rounds in the party — Gyan Saraswat, Neeraj Jain and Ramesh Soni. Meanwhile, Gajender Singh Ralawata is the Congress candidate. Ralawata recently retired from AMC from the post of deputy commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/braj-lata-hada-is-mayor-of-ajmer/articleshow/80739203.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||2 killed as bus hits car in Jhunjhunu||Jaipur: Two persons were killed while three others were injured in a head-on collision between a car and a bus at Ojtu bypass near Chirawa in Jhunjhunu on Sunday. All five passengers in the car were going to attend the condolence meeting of their friend’s father at Majau village near Gudhagodji town of Jhunjhunu. According to the police, five people in a car from Gurugram were headed to a village near Gudhagodji town when a rashly-driven Haryana Roadways bus collided with the car."All the five persons got trapped inside the vehicle after the accident. A rescue team rushed to the spot with metal cutters and ropes to bail out the victims," said a senior police officer. "Two persons who died on the spot were identified as Suresh and Karamveer. Both were working in a private company at Gurugram and were going to attend the condolence meeting of their friend Satbir’s father who died some days ago," the officer added. The condition of three others was stated to be critical according to the hospital authorities in Chirawa. "The injured were rushed to the government hospital in Jhunjhunu," the officer said. A case has been registered against the driver of the bus who managed to flee from the scene. "According to eye-witnesses, the car was hit by a Haryana Roadways bus," the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-killed-as-bus-hits-car-in-jhunjhunu/articleshow/80739212.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||2 more held from Jaisalmer SDM office for issuing fake NOCs||Jaisalmer: City police on Sunday arrested two more persons from the SDM office for allegedly issuing fake NOCs allowing people to enter prohibited areas near international border.SP Ajay Singh said Jitendra Khatri, a resident of Khatri Pada and Anop Singh, a resident of Badoda village, have been arrested in this regard and investigation is on. Eight accused were arrested a few days ago.Many persons from Himachal Pradesh were issued NOCs under the seal of district SP by charging Rs 25,000. So far, in this case, 10 culprits including two police personnel were arrested and also a middleman, typist and the person who made the fake seal. People displaced due to Pong Dam project in Himachal Pradesh were allotted land in border areas. As borders are prohibited areas, people have to take permission from SDM office to visit their land. For getting permission from the SDM Office, a character certificate has to be verified by police.The racket was busted when Kotwali SHO Balwanta Ram Gothwal arrested middleman Shambhu Singh and recovered a fake seal of SP from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-more-held-from-jaisalmer-sdm-office-for-issuing-fake-nocs/articleshow/80739210.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Charas worth Rs 50 seized, 3 held in Gopalganj||PATNA: Police seized 265kg of charas from a pickup van near Balthari checkpost on NH-28 in Gopalganj district on Sunday morning. The consignment kept inside a secret compartment in the van is estimated to be worth Rs50 crore in international market, Kuchaikot police station SHO Ashwani Kumar Tiwari said. Three persons from Nepal, who were travelling in the van, were arrested. They were identified as Prakash Kumar Kurmi and Vicky Kumar Srivastava of Ranighat and Vinay Kumar Sahni of Madhwal, all in Parsa district of Nepal. “Police, on receiving intelligence input that a drug consignment is to be smuggled from Nepal via Gopalganj, started strict vehicle checking at several locations in the district,” the SHO said. Tiwari said the pickup van was intercepted around 7am on Sunday. “During checking and verification, police found that the registration number of the van was actually of a tractor,” he said. He said when the vehicle was thoroughly checked, the consignment was found hidden in a compartment between the driver’s cabin and the carriage section. He said the consignment was to be delivered at Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh via Gorakhpur. “Vinay was the owner of the consignment. It was to be delivered to another drug smuggler at Bareilly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/charas-worth-rs50cr-seized-3-held/articleshow/80740256.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||2 more crocs found dead in Berach river, PCB takes water sample||Udaipur: Two more crocodiles were found dead in Nagri area of Berach river in Chittorgarh district on Sunday.On being alerted by residents, the forest department officials went to the area and took the carcasses for postmortem to the veterinary hospital. “Of the two, one is a decomposed carcass of an adult crocodile, while the other is a skeletal remain of a baby crocodile. The post-mortem of the adult crocodile has been conducted and the reports are awaited,” DFO Sugna Ram Jat told TOI.Two days ago, on Friday, the villagers had spotted a dead crocodile in the area, which they had carried to the collectorate and staged a protest. The villagers had alleged that the waste water released by Hindustan Zinc Ltd is polluting the river water which is further taking toll on the avian life as well as killing their cattle. After the protest, the officials from the Pollution Control Board had collected the water sample from the area while the forest department, too, had held post-mortem and taken viscera samples.On Sunday, too, the villagers confronted the forest officials and demanded action against the company for causing environmental harms and fatality to the wildlife. Locals said that for some time, mass mortality of fishes and birds had been reported and now in two days, three crocodile carcasses have been discovered. Despite repeated reminders, the authorities as well as the district administration have not taken any action. The villagers warned to move to the court if stringent steps are not taken soon. Meanwhile, the forest department said the cause of deaths would be known from the post-mortem reports only.“The post-mortem reports will soon arrive while the viscera test reports may take some time. If polluted water is found to be the cause of deaths, we will write to the PCB recommending appropriate actions against the responsible body since the matter falls under their jurisdiction,” the DFO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-more-crocs-found-dead-in-berach-river-pcb-takes-water-sample/articleshow/80739209.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||Passenger from Singapore lands with Covid +ve status||Trichy: Panic set in at the Trichy international airport on Sunday morning after a passenger who arrived by an Air India Express flight from Singapore carried a test report saying she is Covid-19 positive. However, by the time it became known, her co-passengers numbering 168 had already left the airport. The district administration has asked the airline to explain how she got into the aircraft despite being certified Covid-positive. AIE’s flight IX1681, operated under the Vande Bharat Mission, arrived in Trichy from Singapore at 7.30 am. Since it is mandatory for passengers to produce their Covid-19 RT-PCR test report on arrival, airport staff started verifying the same. However, they were taken aback to find the test result of a 38-year-old woman passenger marked positive. Subsequently, they informed the district health officials who arrived and questioned her before taking her to the government hospital in Trichy. During inquiry, the woman, a native of Pudukottai district, claimed that neither the airport authorities in Singapore nor the staff of the airline asked her to produce RT-PCR test results at Singapore. The health officials are trying to reach out to the remaining passengers to get them to undertake a Covid-19 test and also identify their contacts. TOI’s efforts to contact the airline authorities went in vain. District collector S Sivarasu told TOI: The woman passenger has been isolated and put under further medical examination to confirm that she is positive. Meanwhile, we have demanded an explanation from the airline authorities for not adhering to the travel advisory and SOP before allowing passengers to board the flight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/passenger-from-singapore-lands-with-covid-ve-status/articleshow/80740252.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||More schools tell Pune zilla parishad about grabbed RTE seats||PUNE: Five more schools in the city have approached the education office of the Pune zilla parishad (ZP) with complaints of students admitted under the Right to Education (RTE) Act with false income certificates. On Friday, TOI had reported about three schools presenting over 100 cases with proofs of documents of students who belong to well-to-do families who had taken admission under RTE's 25% reservation scheme for economically disadvantaged children. The five schools had similar complaints and were getting ready to submit documentation with the names of such students in their schools to the ZP officials. Meanwhile, the state in-charge of RTE, Dinkar Temkar, had said strict action will be taken against parents in cases where it could be established and the admissions will be cancelled. The Pune ZP had recently conducted an investigation into some admissions under RTE and found that seats in some reputed schools were cornered by well-to-do parents for their children. The parents of such students had provided false income certificate proofs issued by the tehsil office to grab seats meant for those from a poor background. As per the RTE guidelines, students belonging to poor economic backgrounds and whose parents have an annual income of less than Rs one lakh are eligible to apply under the 25% reservation quota in private schools. The investigation by the Pune ZP found that the parents had submitted false income certificates issued by the tehsil office. K D Bhujbal, the investigating officer at the education office of Pune ZP, said, “We have received more complaints from schools that have brought on record more such cases. All the schools that have approached us have been told to provide all necessary documents of the such cases to our office so that we can launch a further enquiry into the fresh cases.” The principal of a school who has filed a fresh complaint with the education office said they have been contemplating raising the issue with the office that allotted these admissions for some time now. “After we got to know about the three school principals taking proactive steps and submitting the faulty cases with the education office, we too approached the ZP to ensure that the scheme is not misused,” she said. President of Shikshan Hakka Manch, Matin Mujawar, said urgent action needs to be taken against the parents misusing the law. “There are stringent punishments under the act for any false motives, and it should be used to stop this activity as many deserving students are losing out on this opportunity in private schools,” he added. Temkar told TOI on Sunday that the matter is serious and if the false certificates are being produced by parents then the practice needs to be stopped immediately. “We will have to devise some more stringent rules to scrutinise the documents to avoid this misuse of the scheme. In case of the Pune complaints, the local education office will take appropriate steps and if required the admissions will be cancelled. Decision will be taken at the local education office level,” he added. GRAPHIC: What Do The Rules Say? -- In Maharashtra, the eligibility for RTE seats is that the child should be from 'disadvantaged groups', or 'weaker sections'. Disadvantaged group -- Scheduled class, scheduled tribe, backward class, orphan, migrant and street children, child with special needs, children of divorced women, children of widow Weaker sections Children from castes and communities which are not in the disadvantaged categories but whose parents / guardians have an annual income less than Rs one lakh per annum quotes The system of admission under the RTE Act is flawed. It was essentially developed to empower the underprivileged children but has been misused. There were such cases in our school too, and after finding out the fake documents, and confronting the parents, they stopped sending their children and changed their contact details too. As a school community, we are grateful to the ZP officials who have taken the responsibility of checking and cross-verifying the documents of the parents. Earlier, this was in our purview. Now, people who plan to misdirect the government and the schools by taking undue advantage of the Act, and sabotage the rights of deserving children, will realise their follies. Ritu Mendiratta I Principal, The Stepping Stone School||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-more-schools-tell-pune-zp-about-well-to-do-parents-cornering-rte-seats/articleshow/80740255.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 8, 2021||Mumbai||Warm Sunday; air quality in Mumbai gets better||MUMBAI: The city woke up to a warmer Sunday morning as minimum temperatures saw a sharp increase. IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum of 22C, a spike from Saturday’s 16.9C. Colaba’s minimum temperature, too, rose from 19.8C on Saturday to 22.2C on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityMaximum temperatures too saw a marginal hike on Sunday. Santacruz and Colaba recorded day temperatures of 34.6 and 33.6C. The two stations recorded a maximum of 34.2 and 33.4C on Saturday. The higher temperatures resulted in the air clearing up. According to SAFAR, Mumbai’s overall AQI was 173.An AQI between 101-200 is considered moderate and doesn’t pose any health problems to the general public. Saturday’s AQI was 207.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/warm-sunday-air-quality-in-city-gets-better/articleshow/80740261.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Institutes to start coaching from this week||CHENNAI: With Joint Entrance Examination (JEE Main) just two weeks away and more students being allowed to attend school, coaching institutes are planning to start offline classes for competitive exams from this week. Some institutes have started sessions for individual students who want to clear concepts. Due to Covid-19, IIT aspirants and medical aspirants have been attending online coaching classes. “Competitive exams are approaching. The first session of JEE (Main) will start on February 23. Many students are having a lot of doubts. Their confidence level is not high and we need to help them by giving coaching,” said B Pavan Kumar, deputy director, FIITJEE. The institute partially started physical coaching classes for JEE and NEET aspirants on January 19 after reopening of schools. But the attendance is less than 50%. The institute has rooms measuring 400sqft to 500sqft with the capacity to conduct classes for 60 students. Pavan Kumar said they will allow only 20 students per room to maintain social distancing. Aakash Institute started doubt-clearing sessions for individual students in classes X and XII. “We will start our physical coaching soon. Everybody is looking forward to the classes. We are planning to start classes after getting clearance from the government,” said Chandan Chand, regional director of Aakash Institute. Allen Career Institute is planning to conduct physical classes starting next week and it has made Covid-19 negative report mandatory for attending offline classes “We have arranged for Covid-19 testing campaign at the coaching centres for NEET and JEE aspirants on Monday,” said V Benjamin Franklin, head, school tie-ups, Allen Career Institute. Despite the pandemic, the number of Class XII students opting for coaching has not come down. “Due to lack of physical classes, enrollment among lower level classes has come down. Once the physical classes start, more students may join the coaching,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/institutes-to-start-coaching-from-this-week/articleshow/80739211.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||As govt continues surveillance, over 1 lakh Covid tests done in 7 days||JAIPUR: Despite dipping Covid cases, the health department has not lowered its guard. Surveillance is still continuing to keep a check on change in pattern in the disease. In the last week (February 1 to February 7), the health department conducted more than 1,11,000 tests and found 702 cases with the positivity rate just above 0.6%. The number of tests done in first week of February was 4,894 higher than the tests done in the last week of January.A health departmentofficial said, “We are continuing doing tests as part of our efforts for surveillance of Covid. Though the number of cases have gone down, we are watchful.” In the state, more than 59 lakh people have already been tested. Recently, mutated Covid virus was reported in the UK, which spread even more faster. Following which, the health department had conducted tests and found some cases of mutated UK strain of Covid virus. Now, the health department has been doing surveillance through testings, but no such incidents of cases have been reported in clusters in the recent past. The number of deaths happening due to Covid have gone down. In the first week of February, only six deaths have been reported from different parts of the state. On Sunday, no death due to Covid was reported but 75 persons tested positive in the state taking its tally to 3,18,193. With no deaths reported, the state’s toll stood at 2,772. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (22), Kota (11), Ajmer (8), Bhilwara (7), Udaipur(7), Jhalawar (4), Jodhpur (4), Bharatpur (4), Nagaur (2), Rajsamand (2),Banswara (2), Dholpur (1) and Jaisalmer (1). Weekly Covid situationTests doneCasesDeathsMortality rate (%)Feb 1-71,11,9077026.09Jan 25-311,07,01383980.9Jan 18-241,31,5151471110.7Jan 11-171,38,1082,185130.6BOX: Today’s positive: 75Cumulative positive:3,18,193Today’s death: 0Cumulative death: 2772Today’s recovered: 138Cumulative recovered:3,13,957Active cases: 1464||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/as-govt-continues-surveillance-over-1-lakh-covid-tests-done-in-7-days/articleshow/80739246.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||IJK seeks 6 seats in DMK alliance||Trichy: Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK) party founder and Perambalur MP T R Pachamuthu on Sunday said that his party has sought six seats in the DMK alliance in the coming Assembly election. He added that IJK is planning to face the election on their own symbol rather than DMK party symbol. “If we start to use the election symbol of the alliance, there will be no growth for our own party. We will try the best to face the election on a separate symbol, our alliance is in a healthy relationship. But like in 2011 Assembly election, we may even consider facing the election alone to sustain the party if the situation arises,” Pachamuthu said. “As one parliamentary constitute encompass six-state assembly constituencies, we have asked for six segments in the DMK alliance. We are in discussion and will accept what we get,” Pachamuthu said at Perambalur. The MP was in the town to inaugurate an MP office.  He added that IJK has sought Kunnam, Ariyalur, Lalgudi and Kallakurichi assembly segments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ijk-seeks-6-seats-in-dmk-alliance/articleshow/80740257.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Assailant killed during firing at Hameerwas identified||Jaipur: Churu police on Sunday identified the assailant who was killed by the henchman in the firing at Hameerwas. Four people including a notorious fugitive were killed in the gang war which took place on Friday.The deceased assailant is wanted in a murder case at Sonipat in Haryana which took place six days prior to Hameerwas firing. Senior police officers of Churu district have intimated the family of the deceased who was identified as Balveer (32) alias Cheema who was a resident of Chandigarh. "His family has been intimated and hopefully his postmortem would be conducted on Monday," said a senior officer of Hameerwas police station. Prafful Kumar, inspector general of police, Bikaner range, said, "We have also identified some more people who had given shelter to the six assailants who later indulged in firing at Dhani Mauji and killed four people including a fugitive, an assailant and two locals. The assailant group had some local relatives in Churu. Thus, by nabbing them we can get closer to three fleeing assailants". Sampat Nehra is a key member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. Bishnoi, a former national decathlon player, was allegedly having a rivalry with one Pradeep Swamy. Police admitted that the murder of Pradeep Swami is a big jolt to the murder case of Ajay Jaitpura who was killed by the Sampat Nehra gang on January 17, 2018. "Pradeep was an eyewitness in the case. He was eliminated because of this reason by Nehra gang," said a senior officer. Pradeep Swami was police witness in the Ajay Jaitpura murder case. Police had given security to Pradeep. But, he escaped when his name emerged in a murder case in January this year. Police had announced a reward of Rs 2,000 on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/assailant-killed-during-firing-at-hameerwas-identified/articleshow/80739228.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK man files plaint over pro-Sasi posters in his name||Trichy: An AIADMK functionary in Perambalur on Sunday had found himself in the middle of a controversy after wall posters with his name and portrait came up at various parts of the town to welcome V K Sasikala. The AIADMK functionary has lodged a complaint with the Perambalur police to take legal action against the perpetrators for using his credentials without his knowledge.The complainant was identified as R Rasaram, 70, district secretary of MGR Mandram, Perambalur, hailing from Vadakku Madevi road. He also serves as the director of Trichy central co-operatives bank. “There are people working against my development in my own party. I suspect that they were behind the posters. Since the party is expelling functionaries raising posters, such an attempt was made to unseat me,” Rasaram told TOI.On Sunday morning, Rasaram’s supporters alerted him about the posters hailing and welcoming Sasikala. The posters said that Chinamma (Sasikala) is returning to head the party. Around 300 posters were found on four roads, old bus stand and Palakkarai. The posters also have the portraits of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and AMMK party leader TTV Dhinakaran. Claiming that his photograph and name was used in the posters without his knowledge, Rasaram said that he alerted the party’s high command claiming that there was a ploy to bring him disrepute. The posters cropped up in Perambalur town did not have the name of the printing press. He has asked the police to examine the CCTV footage to find the people involved. Police sources said that inquiry is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-man-files-plaint-over-pro-sasi-posters-in-his-name/articleshow/80740259.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad cops arrest 9, solve 2 cases||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday solved two separate robberies that had occurred last month in Chakan and Wakad with the arrest of nine persons. Police said the suspects had targetted the workers returning home after second shift. Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch team led by senior inspector Shankar Babar on Saturday arrested six men for assaulting and robbing Anil Shingnapure of his cash and valuables collection, collectively worth Rs15,000, in the early hours of January 20. The robbery had happened on Talegaon-Chakan Road when Shingnapure was returning home from work on his motorcycle. Sub-inspector Girish Chamle told TOI that the suspects — Ravi Thakar (24), Yogesh Mengal (23), Dhanesh Thakar (22), Laxab Mengal (20), Nikhil Mengal (25) and Samir Jadhav (26) — all from Khed, were returning home after a attending a marriage function. “They noticed that Shingnapure was driving alone in the early hours, and attacked him. They had robbed his cash and cellphone, collectively worth Rs 15,000,” Chamle said. The police did not have clue about the robbers. “Recently one of the suspects was telling one person about the incident. He was our informer. We got a tip-off and took all the six into custody,” Chamle said. In the Wakad incident, the police team led by senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar on Saturday arrested three suspects for robbing Satish Mhaske (39) of his cash and cellphone near Kalewadi in the early hours of January 19. The police have recovered robbed cellphone and the scooter used by the suspects — Rohit Lonare (23) of Aundh, Kiran Gaikwad (19) of Pimpri and Omkar Sarode (20) of Kalewadi. Sub-inspector of the Wakad police, Siddhanath Babar, said the suspect were arrested after scrutiny of the several CCTV footages. “Sarode is a criminal on the police records and has two cases against him,” Babar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-cops-detect-two-robberies-nine-held/articleshow/80740258.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Delhi||National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission orders 3-year jail for builder||NEW DELHI: Builders who ignore orders of consumer courts may face a jail term.  In an order that can be an eye opener for errant developers, National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has sentenced the managing director and directors of a company to three years imprisonment, for failing to refund money on time to unhappy customers waiting for flats since 2008.  “I have given thoughtful consideration to the rival contentions. It is a decree against the judgement debtor (Parsvnath Developers Ltd). JD has failed to comply with the decree despite getting a number of opportunities. They have not honoured their own undertakings and it seems that the special leave petition (in Supreme Court) has been filed with the sole intention to delay the payment of decretal amount. Moreover, there is no stay of the execution,” a bench presided by justice Deepa Sharma observed, while handing down the jail term. While taking the extraordinary step, the commission gave the developer time till February 10 to deposit the entire amount decreed by it earlier, saying only then will the warrant of arrests not be executed.  The commission took a dim view of the argument by Parsvnath Developers that they should not be penalised since the commission’s order — asking it to refund money to some customers — has been challenged in the apex court.  According to a decree passed in 2019, NCDRC had directed Parsvnath to refund the principal amount along with 12% interest for the deficiencies in service and unfair trade practices in terms of complaint cases filed by five complainants, all retired army officers.  The complainants said they had booked flats with Parsvnath at Privilege Project, Noida, but never got possession.  Appearing for the complainants, senior advocate APS Ahluwalia and advocate SS Ahluwalia, contended before the commission that the builder has been seeking repeated adjournments and giving undertakings to comply with the order, but did not honour his own undertaking.  The counsels highlighted that one of the complainants is a senior citizen and retired army officer who has already crossed the age of 75 years and still waiting for the refund of his money paid towards the flat that never materialised, pointing out that no builder/developer can presume himself to be above law.  Justice Sharma agreed and noted, “It is apparent that despite the direction of this commission to furnish the name of the MD and directors JD (Parsvnath) has failed to comply with this direction.”  On behalf of the developer, advocate Manoranjan said the commission orders have already been challenged in apex court where it is likely to come up on February 9. He added that Parsvnath was ready to pay 20% of the amount as directed earlier by the commission but received no response from the complainants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/panel-orders-3-year-jail-for-builder/articleshow/80740278.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 8, 2021||Jaipur||Woman seeking work as daily wager gang-raped, 3 held||Jaipur: A 32-year-old woman, who was looking for work as a daily wager, was allegedly gang-raped by three persons including a contractor in the city on Saturday. After the rape, she raised an alarm and police managed to arrest all the accused.The woman was isolated from her husband and had some issues with her paternal family and was roaming at Vijaypura locality prior to the rape.According to police, the woman came to Ghat ki Guni area some days ago and was looking for work on Saturday evening. “The accused identified as Rajesh Kumar (35) took her to a house that belonged to his known friends in Kanota area. After woman arrived at the house, all the three persons boozed together and cooked meat. Thereafter, the accused raped the woman,” said Dhiren Shekhawat, station house officer, Kanota police station.After the rape, woman also left the place, but she had forgotten her bag containing cloths and some other things inside the room. “Thus she visited the room again where the two other accused, including Jagmohan (25) and Harikesh (50) gang-raped her. After the incident, she raised an alarm and screamed for help in the locality where the room was situated. Locals intimated police about the incident and our team arrested two accused from the spot while the main accused Rajendra was also been arrested during early hours on Sunday,” Shekhawat added.Police have also taken the woman for the medical examination and will have her 164 CrPC statements. “There is no foul play as it is a clear case of rape. We are now aiming at filling an early chargesheet into the matter and will provide every help to the rape survivor,” he added.Box –One held for sodomyKanota police on Sunday arrested a 26-year-old man for allegedly sodomising a seven-year-old boy at Bagrana Basti locality on February 4. “Following the incident, the boy had given the identity of the accused who was on the run. On Sunday, our special team arrested him,” said Dhiren Shekhawat, SHO, Kanota police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-seeking-work-as-daily-wager-gang-raped-3-held/articleshow/80739247.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Patna||Union minister for setting up textile park in Bihar||PATNA: Union minister for law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Sunday that he would make sincere efforts to persuade the officials of the ministry concerned to set up a textile park in Bihar. Addressing the workers of the BJP at a function here, Prasad said the Union Budget unveiled a scheme for setting up textile parks in the country. “I will request the Bihar president of the party, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, to make efforts for setting up a textile park in the state,” he told the participants at the ‘Budget par Charcha’ programme. Spelling out the philosophy of the Budget, Prasad said the Narendra Modi government was committed to making ‘Swachh Bharat’, ‘Swastha Bharat’, ‘Surakshit Bharat’ and ‘Sankalpit Bharat’ with all-round development. Pointing out a new initiative called production linked initiative (PLI), the Union minister said the central government would provide new incentives related to production to companies with the motto ‘the more you produce, the more you get’. Without taking the name of China directly, Prasad said, “I will not name our big neighbouring country, but 10 companies from there have come to India amid the Covid-19 pandemic.” He said the Budget also envisaged setting up critical care units in 602 districts and proper nutrition in 102 districts across the country. Prasad described the Budget as historic and said the Modi-led government at the Centre was committed to taking the development of the country to a new height.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-for-setting-up-textile-park-in-state/articleshow/80740277.cms||Ramashankar
February 8, 2021||Pune||Eateries offer amenities to cash in on WFH trend & increase footfall||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The same old surroundings and a relatively smaller working space, compared to a physical office, has encouraged eatery owners to cash in on the work from home (WFH) trend and provide a change of scenery to professionals while they work remotely with all requisite amenities like Wi-Fi, food and others against a certain sum, at their establishments. Many restaurants are now opening earlier than their usual time to offer breakfasts and some are even offering packages — including Wi-Fi, snacks and beverages — to professionals to encourage them to come and work from their venues. “We have initiated a co-working set-up and the response has been increasingly good. There is a massive IT crowd in Magarpatta, who flock here. We also have many influencers coming in and other professionals from as far as Baner, who need a change of scene. The first coffee is on the house. We have a separate pocket-friendly menu for these clients and provide free Wi-Fi. There is a conference room which people can use for free, besides printing, scanning and photocopying facilities, which can be availed at nominal rates. We also arrange de-stressing games and encourage these clients to participate in them to let out some steam after a hard day’s work,” said Raj Paree, CEO, The Cult House and Terra. “Many professionals, who have to work from home, can’t go out for coffee, tea or cigarette breaks. We leveraged this situation and offered Wi-Fi at a nominal cost on an hourly basis at our outdoor cafe in Kharadi. This move has witnessed an increase in footfall in the afternoons,” said Hemanta Jadhav, owner of Cafe Coffee Time. “The High Spirits Cafe is offering daily deals which include a meal, high speed Internet and a few cups of coffee. Since our venue is out of doors and very green, it serves as a peaceful place to avoid distractions during work. We open at 11am and offer all-day breakfasts,” said Somesh Narwani, operations manager at High Spirits Cafe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eateries-offer-amenities-to-cash-in-on-wfh-trend-increase-footfall/articleshow/80740276.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||RSS leader urges Union govt to end deadlock with farmers||Sindri: Lack of trust between the Centre and the farmers is the primary reason for the prolonged farmers’ agitation over the new farm laws at the Delhi border and the government needs to come forward to bridge the trust gap to end the stalemate, RSS ideologue and activist K N Govindacharya said on Sunday. Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of ‘Shiksha Vikash Sangam’ organised by a private body at Chetna Mahavidyalaya in Sindri, Govindacharya said, “Big market players use both ethical and unethical means to weed out small players from the market and the legitimate psychological fears being expressed by the farm leaders about the privatization of the sector is not mere conjectures but based on the experience of the last 30 years. The government needs to take the initiative to break the logjam.” He further said as a confidence-building measure, the government should unilaterally announce a legal framework to guarantee the MSP. “Repeated talks with farmers could not yield any result as the government failed to come up with new proposals for the farmers,” he said, adding, “Allowing the agitation to continue is neither in favour of the government nor the farmers.” He also said the government should set up a tribunal with representatives of farm bodies for arbitration in case of disputes between private mandis and those involved in contract farming. “There was no need to remove rice and wheat from essential commodities in a haste and the government should bring them back under the purview of the Essential Commodities Act,” the RSS leader said. He, however, mentioned that the farmers were carrying out such “a peaceful agitation for so long is a unique example in Indian polity”. While replying to a query, Govindacharya said he was in favour of decentralized economic development in India. “We, under the banner of Bharat Vikash Sangam, are working towards the goal of ‘Sabko Bhojan-Sabko Kaam’ (food and work for all) and we have divided the entire nation into 127 eco-agro-climatic zones for preparing area-specific developmental plans after taking into account the locally available resources and climate. So far, we have created development clusters in 40 districts and work in 150 other districts is in an advanced stage. We aim to prepare a list of 10,000 activists for coordination among all the 127 nodal centres for working in sectors like health, education, employment, agriculture and animal husbandry, among others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rss-leader-urges-union-govt-to-end-deadlock-with-farmers/articleshow/80739146.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Rajkot||We will emerge as main opposition in Rajkot: AAP leader Manish Sisodia||RAJKOT: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia flagged off Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) civic body election campaign in Rajkot with a roadshow on Sunday. Sisodia, while addressing media persons before the roadshow, said that AAP will emerge as the main opposition party in Rajkot after the civic body elections. The AAP leader held a 20-km roadshow in an open jeep covering all the major areas of the city. AAP supporters in huge numbers joined this roadshow on their motorcycles and cars in Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani’s home town. However, as soon as the roadshow as over, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) team swung into action and removed all the AAP posters and banners. “People are frustrated with the BJP but they don’t have a strong option. I have heard from the people in Gujarat that Congress contested elections but they contested only to aide BJP’s victory. Congress’s strategy was being decided in BJP office and sometimes Congress’s tickets are also decided in BJP’s office,” claimed Sisodia. The Delhi deputy CM also alleged that Congress’s elected representatives were not able to understand voter’s sentiments and often switched loyalties. He highlighted the work done by his party in Delhi. “When AAP can make government school work properly, don’t allow private schools to increase the fees, providing electricity free for a large chunk of people, free bus tickets for women and more things in Delhi why BJP could not do in cities of Gujarat in their rule of the last 25 years. He appealed to people to give one chance to AAP to experience the best governance. Commenting on ticket give to dissidents from BJP and Congress, Sisodia said, “We gave tickets to the good candidate as they fit our criteria. People have no faith in Congress that it can defeat BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/we-will-emerge-as-main-opposition-in-rajkot-sisodia/articleshow/80738423.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||RJD seeks better coordination in grand alliance after it fails to get Madhupur seat||Ranchi: The Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) has demanded for a common minimum programme and a coordination committee of all the alliance partners in the Jharkhand government “for better coordination in governance”. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday after chairing the state RJD unit’s executive committee meeting, state party president Abhay Kumar Singh said, “We may have only one MLA in the state assembly but it must be kept in mind that it was owing to the concerted efforts of all the alliance partners, that BJP could be uprooted from Jharkhand. No one can ignore the important role played by our national president Lalu Prasad in forging the Congress-JMM-RJD alliance ahead of the 2019 assembly election in Jharkhand and every constituent should get its due share of responsibility.” He added, “We had nine MLAs at one time in Jharkhand and we have also gained prominence in Bihar so there is no denial of the fact that if the party workers start focusing on their organizational strength, RJD will become a force to reckon with by 2024 assembly election.” The executive committee adopted and passed 20 resolutions in which major focus was given on strengthening the party and its participation in governance. The RJD demand for more representation in board, corporations and formation of core committees assumes significance in the wake of the party’s recent claims over the vacant cabinet berth — Madhupur — being ignored. On Friday, chief minister Hemant Soren appointed Hafiz Ul Hasan as the minister indicating that the seat is going to be contested by JMM. Hafiz is likely to fight the bypoll, expected in April, from the Madhupur constituency, which fell vacant following the death of his father Haji Hussain. The JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has a seat sharing deal of 6:4:1 ministers and taking a cue from that, Congress insiders on Saturday had said that going by the number of MLAs they have in the House, the Grand Old Party has a natural claim over the seat. The meeting was also attended by former minister and in-charge of Jharkhand affairs Jayprakash Narayan Yadav. Yadav criticised the farm laws and “the Centre’s apathy in addressing the needs of farmers”. He said, “We will stand by the farmers until Centre withdraws all the three laws.” He added, “Unemployment and migration of labourers are some of the major challenges in Jharkhand and it is our duty to attract the government’s attention towards them.” Meanwhile, the party members elected Sanjay Prasad Yadav as RJD’s general secretary on Sunday and all the members were asked not to issue any statements or put up posts on social media which do not toe the party’s ideology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rjd-seeks-better-coordination-in-grand-alliance-after-it-fails-to-get-madhupur-seat/articleshow/80739402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||Centre nod to int’l cricket stadium on BSL land in Bokaro||Bokaro: The Union Steel Ministry and the Steel Authority of India (SAIL) on Sunday gave their in-principal approval for transferring a 20-acre-plot near Visthapit College at Balidih in Bokaro, which falls under SAIL unit Bokaro Steel Plant’s (BSL) command area, to Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) for setting up an international cricket stadium. The cricket stadium, which will be the third international one in Jharkhand after Ranchi and Jamshedpur, will be constructed with funds from BCCI. Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan said, “BCCI and JSCA have sanctioned Rs 250 crore for construction of the stadium. I had met SAIL chairman Soma Mandal and BSL’s director in-charge Amarendu Prakash in Delhi on Thursday and discussed the project. Now that the Union steel minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, has given his consent, the proposed land will be allotted soon to the authorities concerned.” Amarendu Prakash said, “The proposal for allotment of land for the cricket stadium has made progress and is likely to be finalised soon.” A senior BSL official preferring anonymity said, “A few formalities and clearances need to be taken care of. Once that is done, the proposed plot is likely to be allotted shortly.” In 2016, JSCA had sought land from Bokaro district administration for setting up a “world-class” cricket stadium here. While initially a plot in Satanpur area was allotted for this purpose the stadium could not be constructed there since the forest department did not give clearance. Later Narayan intervened and asked the BSL management to provide land from its command area for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-nod-to-intl-cricket-stadium-on-bsl-land-in-bokaro/articleshow/80739052.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Vadodara||‘Spread love’ viral circular jolts MSU||Vadodara: In an attempt to malign the image of MS University (MSU), a fake circular of the university was widely circulated on social media on Sunday, asking female students to find a boyfriend. Dated January 28, it read that after February 7 it is mandatory for all girls to have at least one boyfriend for security purposes and any girl who is single would not be allowed on the campus. “They will have to show evidence that they have a boyfriend before attending any class. Spread love,” the circular further stated. The circular seems to be a genuine one as it had the university’s name and logo on the heading and had a reference number, too. It is, however, suspected that the mischief monger morphed the text on the image of an original circular as there was no uniformity in the text of the body and at two places, instead of ‘university’, ‘college’ was used. “We are yet to know about the fake circular’s origin. But whoever did it should know that it is vulgar,” said MSU’s officiating registrar, Dr K M Chudasama. “On behalf of the university I appeal to students that if they are receiving it, they should behave responsibly and not circulate it further,” he said. In the recent past, too, somebody played mischief by posting a fake image of the online exam portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/spread-love-viral-circular-jolts-msu/articleshow/80737822.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||10 cybercons arrested from Bokaro, Koderma districts||Bokaro/Koderma: Acting on a tip-off, Bokaro police on Sunday nabbed eight cybercriminals after a raid at a city hotel under Chas police station. All the arrested were operating from the hotel and hailed from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, police said. Of the eight, one is from Uttar Pradesh and rest were from Bihar. Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha at a news meet said, “They were held from Yamuna hotel in Chas. Of the eight, one is a woman and living in two rooms in the hotel. We also seized several passbooks, ATMs, cheque books, 19 mobile phones, gold chain and Rs 4.17 lakh cash from their possession.” The cybercons were active for the past three years and cheated several across the country, said police, adding they used to steal money from the bank accounts residents by getting account details by calling them on their mobiles posing as bank staffs. “The accused booked rooms a few days ago. They came here in an SUV two days ago,” said Jha. During questioning, police also learnt the accused opened many fake bank accounts in the name of other people. Meanwhile, two cybercriminals were also held in Koderma district and police recovered 13 ATM cards, five mobile phones, five SIM cards among others. The action was taken following a complaint in Nawalshahi police station by Sunil Kumar Yadav, who lost Rs 1.5 lakh from his bank account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10-cybercons-arrested-from-bokaro-koderma-districts/articleshow/80739690.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||Trade body wants spl eco-zone tag for Santhal Pargana region||Dumka: Traders and industrialists have advocated for amendments to the Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act (SPT Act) to ensure overall development of the tribal heartland. On Sunday, the Santhal Paragana unit of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) conducted a meeting in Deoghar where all the attendees batted for amendments to the act. “Unless the SPT Act is amended, industrial growth is not possible in Santhal Pargana,” Alok Mallik, vice president of the FJCCI Santhal Pargana regional committee, said. FJCCI president Pravin Jain, who also attended the meeting, said that development in Santhal Pargana – which covers six districts -- is only possible with trade and industrialization. “The proposed international airport in Deoghar, which will start operating soon, will result in considerable rise in business activities not only in Santhal Pargana but also in its adjoining parts. It is high time that the state government set up infrastructural facilities to exploit the vast potential of that region,” he said, adding that the area be declared as a ‘Special Economic Zone’. Some attendees at the meeting criticised the apathetic attitude of the successive state governments in providing infrastructural facilities in the allotted industrial areas in Santhal Pargana. They said that lack of such facilities have posed hurdles for the growth of small and medium scale industrial units in Jharkhand. “At least 10 places, including Jasidih and Devipur in Deoghar, have been identified as industrial areas by the state government but the government’s lackadaisical approach is proving to be detrimental for the region’s progress,” Mallik said. He added that some of the plots allotted by the government do not have even basic infrastructural facilities, owing to which the industrialists feel cheated. Some attendees claimed that they are facing issues in procuring possession certificates for the lands allotted to them. Jharkhand’s two tenancy laws — SPT Act and Chotanagpur Tenancy Act -- have always been a contentious issue in the state. Previous BJP government’s unsuccessful attempt to amend those proved costly for it led to the change of guard in 2019 assembly polls. With the JMM-Congress-RJD government in place, which came to power on the plank of saving jal, jungle and jameen of tribals, renewed demands by traders for amendment will prove to be tough for the ruling dispensation in balancing the needs of industrialists and the indigenous people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trade-body-wants-spl-eco-zone-tag-for-santhal-pargana-region/articleshow/80739770.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Goa||Lack of dumping site causes Sattari’s waste issue to spiral||Keri: Most village panchayats in Sattari taluka have failed to identify and establish garbage dumping sites, which is leading to waste being disposed of in irresponsible and hazardous ways. The problem has been worsening with time, with garbage now found dumped in the rivers flowing through Sattari. There are 12 village panchayats in Sattari taluka, but so far none have established a dumping site. In the taluka, the process of acquiring land is lengthy as the identified plot in most areas either falls under the jurisdiction of the forest department or is government owned. The government has also not yet released the necessary grants to panchayats for waste management. In this situation, panchayats find it difficult to hire rented vehicles or to pay workers’ wages. The garbage disposal problem reached such a point in Sattari that recently the Goa Human Rights Commission, taking serious note of the waste dumped in the Valvonti, directed the panchayats of Morlem, Keri and Poriem to inspect the river regularly. Block development officer for Sattari Suryaji Ran, said that many panchayats have recently started garbage collection. He, however, said that much is left to be desired yet. “It is noticed that there is no provision made for wet garbage due to the lack of a garbage dumping site. Cotorem, Thane-Dongurli and Savarde panchayat have identified dumping sites and are awaiting the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the forest department. Keri and Morlem panchayats have received the NOC from the water resources department. Poriem is in the process of transferring land,” Rane said. He said that he has requested the department officials concerned to expedite the work of granting the necessary permissions for establishing garbage dumping sites. “Instructions have been given to take steps for garbage tax collection,” Rane said. The government had recently formulated the Rural Garbage Disposal Scheme to assist village panchayats in safe and hygienic disposal of garbage. Mauxi in Sattari was one panchayat identified to receive benefits under the scheme. “Our panchayat has already undertaken door-to-door collection of solid waste,” Mauxi resident Devidas Gaonkar said. But, in many panchayat areas, collection of hazardous waste is found to be carried out inappropriately. As recommended by the Central Pollution Control Board, no incinerators have been established for disposal of diapers and sanitary pads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lack-of-dumping-site-causes-sattaris-waste-issue-to-spiral/articleshow/80740288.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||Hunger strike by doctors in protest against Centre’s mixopathy policy||Ranchi/Jamshedpur: Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Jharkhand staged a one-day relay hunger strike on Sunday against the Union government’s policy of ‘mixopathy’. The protest, which was part of a nationwide agitation by the IMA, saw participation of doctors from various district units of the IMA. The agitation came in the wake of a notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the Ayush ministry, which stated that ayurveda doctors can perform select surgical procedures after taking a bridge course of six months. Notably, the protesting doctors had last month boycotted OPD services for a day in both state-run and private hospitals as part of the agitation. Talking to TOI, the secretary of IMA (Jharkhand), Dr Pradeep Singh, said: “The government is saying that it has taken this decision in order to address the shortage of doctors, but how can we allow untrained and unskilled people to conduct surgeries? Will the government deploy auto drivers to fly planes if there is any dearth of pilots?” Doctors from other district units like Ramgarh, Jamshedpur, Palamu, Latehar and Dhanbad, too, protested against the policy of ‘mixopathy’. They threatened to surrender their licences if the government does not withdraw its decision. The joint secretary of IMA Ranchi unit, Dr Ajit Kumar, said: “On the one hand, the Centre is asking half-trained doctors to conduct surgeries but, on the other hand, it continues to block admission in three medical colleges of the state for the current session. If it really wants to increase the number of doctors, it should allow MBBS students to pursue bridge courses to get skilled instead of permitting ayurveda doctors to perform surgery.” Meanwhile, in Jamshedpur, the doctors held a day-long protest at Baugh-e-Jamshed Chowk in Bistupur. The programme was attended by doctors from both the public and the private sectors. IMA Jamshedpur Chapter secretary Mrityunjay Singh said: “The move of the Union government will prove detrimental to the Indian medical system in the coming days. The government should focus on increasing the numbers of properly-trained doctors and medical colleges but allowing ayurveda doctors to perform surgical work would adversely affect public people.” “We have congregated here to make people aware of the move of the Centre as it can cost patients their lives,” Dr Saurabh Chaudhary, another IMA member, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hunger-strike-by-doctors-in-protest-against-centres-mixopathy-policy/articleshow/80739087.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 38 new Cov cases, 1 death||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Sunday recorded 38 fresh cases against 34 recoveries and one death that came in from Ranchi district taking the toll to 1,078. Meanwhile, the active cases came down to 431 while only seven of the 24 districts reported fresh cases. As per government data, as many as 1,19,017 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,508 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 98.73%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.08%. The doubling rate of the virus stood at 2,038.11 days against the national figure of 873.66 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 9866 beneficiaries were inoculated on Sunday across 163 session sites in Jharkhand. Beneficiaries included 5,497 healthcare workers and 4,369 frontline workers. The overall turnout for vaccination on Sunday stood around 41%. As per health department data, a total of 1,06,211 beneficiaries of the 3,28,704 scheduled till Sunday have been vaccinated. A total of 246 AEFIs have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-38-new-cov-cases-1-death/articleshow/80739092.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Goa||50-yr-old dies in wild boar attack at Pernem||Panaji: On Sunday, a 50-year-old resident of Varkhand, Pernem, was allegedly killed in a wild boar attack in a forest area. Pernem PI Jivba Dalvi said Ankush Parab was brought dead on Sunday morning to Redkar Hospital in Dhargal. After receiving the information, police arrived at the hospital for investigations. Dalvi said that Parab and his brother had gone into a forest area in Varkhand around 9am to graze their cattle. “Suddenly, he was attacked by a wild boar. This caused a deep cut and bleeding injuries to his right leg hamstring and left hand bicep region. After the postmortem was conducted, his body was handed over to his relatives,” Dalvi said. PSI Sanjit Kandolkar is conducting further inquiries in the case. On the same day, the death of a male foreign national was reported at Pernem police station. Around 12.30pm, police received information that a body was found floating in the stream at Parsem. Pernem fire station personnel were called to retrieve the body. After conducting a panchnama, the body was sent to Goa Medical College to be preserved. The victim was later identified as Russian national Evgeny Cherenkov, 49, who was residing at Siolim. Dalvi said that inquiries revealed that the victim was depressed and had sent a message to his friend in Russia that he wanted to end his life. He had been missing from his room for the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-yr-old-dies-in-wild-boar-attack-at-pernem/articleshow/80740301.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Madgaum bank’s virtual meet on Feb 21||Margao: The annual general meeting (AGM) of the Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank will held at 10 am on February 21 in virtual mode, a public notice issued by the bank says. The 48th AGM held on December 26 was adjourned. Members who had attended the meeting have now been asked to visit the closest branch of the bank to submit their applications for attending the virtual meeting and collect the procedural guidelines. The last date for members to submit their applications is February 15.  At the general body meeting of the bank held on December 26, the shareholders had demanded that the bank disclose the list of major defaulters before the meeting was adjourned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/madgaum-banks-virtual-meet-on-feb-21/articleshow/80740312.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Campaigning ends for 1st phase of panchayat polls||Vijayawada: Campaigning for the first phase of panchayat elections concluded on Sunday evening. With polling scheduled to start on Tuesday morning, police have taken special measures directing outsiders to leave villages. District collectors across the state announced they have completed preparations for polling. Polls to panchayats in 168 mandals across 14 revenue divisions will be held in this phase. Of the 3,249 gram panchayats, 517 sarpanchs were elected unanimously while 2,732 will go for polls in the first phase. Altogether, 35,502 wards will go for polls in this phase. The atmosphere was upbeat across villages with contestants carrying out door-to-door campaigns trying to explain their agenda. In sensitive areas, police have set up pickets around polling stations while state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar requested voters to come forward to vote for the candidates they think will develop their respective villages. He said the commission had completed arrangements to conduct elections in a fair and transparent manner. The SEC has passed directions for the protection of officials who will be involved in the election process. The Election Commission of India’s (ECI) circular 154/2020, extending comprehensive protection to functionaries discharging election duties, is being implemented for the first time on the country by the state election commission, according to SEC Ramesh Kumar. In its directions, the state election body stated that observers working at SEV shall not be transferred without concurrence of the commission during the course of the poll. “Collectors and other magisterial officers who play key roles in panchayat elections should not be disturbed from their natural positions till the completion of their natural tenure in the position,” it said. Police personnel heading various formations and have done an election tour of duty too shall not be disturbed without serving a normal tenure, as determined appropriate by the DGP. “All returning officers and assistant returning officers in particular who have served the tour of duty are entitled for tenurial protection and shall not be transferred before completion of a normal tenure,” the SEC directed. The SEC has asked officials to work without fear, in a fair and transparent manner upholding the spirit of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/campaigning-ends-for-1st-phase-of-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80738539.cms||Venu Lanka
February 8, 2021||Goa||Govt drags feet over Dongri coal block process||Panaji: Close to two months after the state government gave the go-ahead to float a tender to select a mine developer cum operator (MDO) for the Dongri-Tal II coal block, Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) is yet to float the request for proposal (RFP). The state government had appointed aXYKno Capital Services Pvt Ltd as the consultant in October last year, and in December, the Public-Private-Partnership cell’s steering committee met and reviewed the draft RFP for the Dongri-Tal coal block. GIDC chairman Glenn Ticlo confirmed to TOI that the RFP is delayed. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had on December 19 announced that the tender to appoint the MDO would be floated within 15 days. “The consultant has prepared the RFQ (request for qualification) and we have decided to float the RFQ in around 15 days,” Sawant had said after chairing the Public-Private-Partnership steering committee meeting. GIDC has already asked the Union coal ministry for additional time to appoint a mine developer-cum-operator and pay the Rs 196 crore performance guarantee for the Dongri-Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh. GIDC has already asked the Union coal ministry for additional time to appoint a mine developer-cum-operator and pay the Rs 196 crore performance guarantee for the Dongri-Tal II coal block||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-drags-feet-over-dongri-coal-block-process/articleshow/80740316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Goa||‘Adventurous women’ lend colour to last day of bird fest||Margao: As the curtains came down on the 4th Bird Festival organised by the state forest department at Mollem on Sunday, the various field activities coupled with insightful presentations and webinars conducted during the 3-day festival left participants enlightened with the wealth of information of avian biodiversity of the region. Significantly, of the various groups and organisations which attended the festival, participation of a 25-member all-women “Adventurous Women Group” came in for special appreciation from the organisers. The women arrived in Goa in a convoy of cars ahead of the festival and participated in an awareness rally organised by the state forest department on the theme “Save Forests, Save Wildlife.” Additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar, speaking to TOI, expressed his admiration over the participation of the women’s group in the awareness rally and other activities at the festival. Group administrator Shrestha Goyal, a businesswoman, told TOI that the group has been working for women empowerment since the last several years. “Our activities are aimed at bringing about a difference in the lives of women and empowering them to face the challenges of life. We were privileged to have been invited to participate in the nature conservation awareness rally for the 4th Bird Festival in Goa. It was indeed a great experience exploring the rich biodiversity of the forests of Goa, and we all hope it remains this way for posterity,” Goyal said. The group also conveyed messages of social interest—keeping one’s city and surroundings clean, planting more trees, etc—by employing innovative and creative ideas to drive home their point. Apart from students of various colleges, a large number of birders and nature lovers from across the country participated in the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/adventurous-women-lend-colour-to-last-day-of-bird-fest/articleshow/80740328.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Pandemic not grounds to release murder accused: Court||270 words Panaji: A Panaji sessions court has held that the pandemic is not grounds for the release of an accused in serious offences, adding that the excuse given by an accused in a murder case that evidence was not recorded during the lockdown in Goa did not hold good because the same scenario prevailed all over the country and not only in Goa. The additional sessions court judge, Bela Naik rejected the bail application of murder accused Ramanand Shah from Uttar Pradesh who knocked on the doors of the court stating that he has been in judicial custody since June 2016 and there is tremendous increase in Covid-19 patients in custody causing danger to his life and other inmates. The court stated that the grounds of Covid, “does not entitle the accused to release him on bail as the outbreak of the pandemic Covid-19 is not a ground to release the accused in such a serious offence”. The accused stated that on account of the outbreak of the pandemic, evidence cannot be recorded and the matter cannot be proceeded. The court also noted that the accused has been charge-sheeted for murder “which is a very serious offence, the punishment for which is life”. “The contention of the accused that he is unnecessarily detained in judicial custody is also not a ground to grant this application and no evidence was admittedly not taken during the stage of lock-down not only in Goa but all over India. The present application is bad in law and infructuous and hence not maintainable,” additional sessions judge stated. The court also noted that the matter is presently being taken up and recording of evidence is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-not-grounds-to-release-murder-accused-court/articleshow/80740363.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||50% seating for Carnival parade, SOPs for Samba Square||Cleared 300 words Panaji: With Covid-19 vaccines starting to roll out, Goa’s first big state-supported tourism event is set to be celebrated on February 13 and 14, after almost a a year since the pandemic hit globally. As opposed to the usual six venues where the float parades are held, the festival will this year be held only in Panaji and Margao. In Panaji, the float parade is expected to manoeuvre through the old route – Divja circle to Kala Academy. However the final decision on the parade route is awaited. Unlike last year however, only 50% seating capacity inside the pandals is being allowed at the at parade, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “There will be no restrictions on participants for the floats provided they follow social distancing and wear a mask,” he added. TOI had earlier reported that the district collectors have been asked to work out the SOPs that will be required to be followed, which would then be communicated to the organising committees. In addition to this, the Samba Square in Panaji will also be held by following standard operating procedures (SOPs). “Kiosk operators as well as attendees must wear masks. On our part, we will ensure that the kiosks are erected keeping social distancing in mind, temperature of attendees will be checked before they enter, and the space will be sanitised,” Madkaikar said. He said that since the last Carnival people are now aware of their responsibilities while interacting with one another. “From January onwards, even the number of Covid-19 positive cases have decreased. People now know how to take care of themselves,” he added. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) is awaiting the green signal from the North Goa district collector to hold the Carnival in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-seating-for-carnival-parade-sops-for-samba-square/articleshow/80740378.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Must cancel Carnival, says former mayor||Panaji: While the district administration and Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate are at loggerheads over the route for the Carnival parade in the capital city, corporator and former mayor of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), Surendra Furtado, wants the parade cancelled. In letters to chief minister Pramod Sawant and tourism minister Babu Azgaonkar, Furtado has objected to the decision of the government and CCP to hold the carnival parade and a four-day Samba Square Carnival party in Panaji. “I strongly object to the same as at such events there is neither any social distancing nor wearing of face masks as when people party, they find it hard to breathe freely with masks on,” Furtado stated in his communication. He alleged that the government and CCP leadership were only interested in “making money at the cost of people’s health”. “After a long and tough struggle, we have managed to bring the Covid-19 virus under control. Now is the time to strangulate the virus and not give it space to recoup and attack with vengeance,” he added. “I hope saner voices will prevail and the Carnival is cancelled.” On Sunday TOI had reported that Monserrate had written to Sawant to refrain from holding the parade if held on the Miramar-Dona Paula route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/must-cancel-carnival-says-former-mayor/articleshow/80740382.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Give financial help for khels, Intruz: Cong||Panaji: With Goa figuring among the eight states and union territories with a high Covid-19 positivity rate, the BJP-led state government needs to act sensibly instead of putting Goa at a risk of a fresh surge in novel coronavirus cases, Congress said here on Sunday. Congress also said that the state government should encourage traditional Intruz and Khel Tiatr. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant must tell his tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar that the show must not go on and put the brakes on the political Carnival,” said state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar. As per the Union health ministry, Goa is fourth among states with high positivity rate. Goa has a weekly positivity rate of 4.4% as against the national average of 1.8%. “The BJP government needs to act sensibly and not push Goans into the risk of transmitting Covid infection.” Panjikar said that participation of the local folk artists in traditional Intruz celebrations and other Goan cultural events has come down drastically over the last few years. “The government must give financial help to local Khel Tiatr groups and traditional Intruz celebrations in villages, which will help in restricting mass gatherings and encourage the traditional culture,” Panjikar said.  Congress blamed BJP for discouraging the traditional Intruz and Khel Tiatr by commercialising the carnival organised by the tourism department for political and commercial gains. Congress also claimed that irregularities are noticed while organising the Carnival, which compels the agencies to do sub-standard work. Congress also said that the tourism department delays prize money of the floats and the grants of Shigmo Organising Committees. As Goa ranks fourth among eight states and union territories with high Covid-19 positivity rate, Chief minister must tell his tourism minister that the show must not go on and put the brakes on the political Carnival. The government needs to act sensibly and not push Goans into the risk of transmitting the Covid infection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-financial-help-for-khels-intruz-cong/articleshow/80740392.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Fr Conceicao D’Silva passes away at 65||Panaji: Charismatic preacher and Konkani supporter Fr Conceicao D’Silva passed away after a massive heart attack early Sunday morning. He was 65. Two funeral services will be held for Fr D’Silva on Monday at Our Lady of Snows Church, Raia (his last posting as parish priest), at 10.30am and at his native village of Orlim at 4pm. The service in Raia will be livestreamed, assistant parish priest of Raia Fr Pedro Costa said. “His body will remain here till 3pm and then move to Orlim,” he said. D’Silva was popular for his Friday retreat services that he started in Ambelim close to three decades ago and was known for his charismatic connect with the faithful. He was ordained a parish priest in 1983 and served as parish priest in Carambolim, Taleigao, Raia and also served in the parishes of Calangute, Verna and Tilamol (Quepem). A strong supporter of Konkani, particularly in the Roman script and of the Goan identity, D’Silva was of the opinion that Goan identity depended on its language, Konkani. He would say that if there was no Konkani, the idea of Goa and our identity would be lost forever. “He believed Konkani in Roman script should be preserved and given equal status along with Devanagiri in the official language act,” Tomazinho Cardozo said. D’Silva was also the vice president of Konkani Dalgado Konknni Akademi and supported the academy financially between 2003 to 2008 till the government started giving yearly grants. He also raised funds and renovated churches in Taleigao, Mandur, Carambolim and the Cruz dos Milagres retreat centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fr-conceicao-dsilva-passes-away-at-65/articleshow/80740394.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Mayem locals seek deadline in land issue||Bicholim: Members of Mayem Bhuvimochan Nagrik Kruti Samiti have demanded that the state government set a deadline to resolve the custodian property issue in Mayem. They have planned a series of meetings involving locals to decide on their plan of action in the matter. “After passing an act in the year 2014, it has been found that so far only a single case of providing sanad to a house has been undertaken. As of today, only 282 sanads have been provided out of 1,140 files submitted. We don’t know why the government is going so slow on this issue,” Samiti member Sakharam Pednekar said. Samiti secretary Rajesh Kalangutkar said that the government is bent on delaying the process of allotting sanads. “Every time the samiti brings the matter to light in the media, the government begins the process of allotting sanads, but later on, as the buzz in the media dies down, things slow down again. We demand with the government to give us the final deadline as to when this entire issue will be resolved,” he said. The samiti will organise a series of meetings from February 9. The samiti members have also demanded class one land rights to the people of Mayem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mayem-locals-seek-deadline-in-land-issue/articleshow/80740413.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||India No. 3 in world as 58L health, frontline workers get vaccinated||NEW DELHI: India vaccinated the third highest number of people against Covid-19 in the world with over 58 lakh health and frontline workers receiving first doses of the vaccine till Sunday evening, the health ministry said. The US and the UK are ahead of India. However, the two countries had started vaccinations against Covid-19 much earlier. The health ministry’s observation about global ranking is based on data till February 5 from ‘Our World in Data’ and does not include China. The Centre has asked states and UTs to exponentially increase the coverage, so that the vaccine drive can be accelerated. Around 12 states have vaccinated more than 2 lakh people each. Uttar Pradesh alone accounted for 6,73,542 of all vaccinated people. Of the total 58,03,617 people who received vaccine doses in 23 days since the launch of the drive across India on January 16, 53,17,760 were health workforce and 4,85,857 were frontline workers. Over 1.16 lakh vaccination sessions have been held so far. From February 13, recipients will start receiving the second dose, which has to be given after a gap of four weeks. The government is also aiming to extend the vaccination to cover the elderly population, beginning March. However, before doing so, it needs to stabilise vaccination among the first two groups — healthcare and frontline workers. The Centre has asked every state and UT to schedule all healthcare workers for vaccination at least once before February 20 and immediately thereafter organise mop-up rounds for them. Similarly, all frontline workers must be scheduled for vaccination at least once before March 6. Given the target and the fact that only around 13 states have so far given the first dose of the vaccine to 60% of their health workers, most states will be required to pick up pace over the next week. On Sunday, 28,059 people were vaccinated in 12 states till evening. Of these, 12,978 were healthcare workers, while the other 15,081 beneficiaries were frontline workers. Over 1.1 sessions have been held so far. 1,295 sessions were held till 6.40 pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-no-3-in-world-as-58l-health-frontline-workers-get-vaccinated/articleshow/80740843.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Amaravati||State to bid for VSP if Centre disinvests: Min||Amaravati: Industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy on Sunday said that the Centre should spare Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) as part of promises made in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. He said that plant ownership should be transferred to the state government after taking away the debt burden by the Centre. Speaking to the media, the industries minister said that the state government would file a bid to purchase the plant if the Centre goes ahead with its decision to disinvest its shares in the plant. He added that the state government has been lobbying to get grants for a new steel plant in the state for the last two years. “Since the Centre has come out with a decision to withdraw its stake in the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (RINL-VSP), it should consider transfer of the asset to the state in return of granting a new plant. We will protect the steel plant as it is the pride of the state,” Mekapati Gautham Reddy said while adding that it is not wise to handover a plant set up after such long-drawn public agitation. The minister further said that he would appraise the proposal to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on behalf of the industries department. He said that the chief minister has already written a detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bail out the loss-making public sector giant.He added that the chief minister’s proposal has received overwhelming backing from industry leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-to-bid-for-vsp-if-centre-disinvests-min/articleshow/80738702.cms||Samdani MN
February 8, 2021||Goa||07 Albert_Teenager succumbs to injuries after suicide attempt||Poinguinim: Ateenager, residing at Pansulem, Canacona, succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment, after he allegedly attempted suicide. The 19-year-old native of Karnataka tried to end his life on January 30 at his residence. But the teenager was soon discovered by his mother and two brothers, who immediately rushed him to the community health centre in Canacona. He was then shifted to Goa Medical College and Hospital in Bambolim for treatment. Early on Sunday morning,he succumbed to his injuries. After a post mortem was conducted, the body washanded over to the relatives for final rites. A case of unnatural death was registered. According to police investigation, the boy had a tiff with his mother. The family was running a ros omelet kiosk to make a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/07-albert_teenager-succumbs-to-injuries-after-suicide-attempt/articleshow/80740423.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC keen to win panchayats, special focus on Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor district||AMARAVATI: Taking gram panchayat elections in Chittoor district as a matter of prestige, the YSRC leadership has deputed senior leaders and ministers to the district. The party is determined to wrest maximum number of panchayats including in Kuppam constituency represented by TDP supremo Chandrababu Naidu. All party legislators have been told to stay put in their constituencies till the completion of the elections. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s decision to put the results of panchayats that turned unanimous on hold and subsequent move to house arrest panchayat raj minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy have infuriated the party leadership, prompting it to walk the extra mile to clinch majority of the panchayats. “Our leaders want to teach a lesson to all those who tried to create troubles for the party by winning as many seats as possible in panchayat elections,” said Shaik Karimulla, a mandal-level leader of YSRC. YSRC supporters have already bagged nearly 112 village panchayat sarpanch posts in the first phase. While 20 mandals in Chittoor revenue division are going to polls on Tuesday, 17 mandals in Madanapalle revenue division and another 14 mandals of Madanapalle division would go to polls in the second and third phases. All mandals in Tirupati revenue division would face elections in the final phase. Villages in Kuppam assembly constituency represented by N Chandrababu Naidu and Punganur constituency represented by panchayat raj minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy will go to polls in the third phase. “We are not taking any additional care to win the panchayats in the district as people are overwhelmingly with us and they are eager to support our activists. We are going to win over 95 per cent of the seats where the polling is scheduled with comfortable majorities. TDP has no candidates in many places,” said government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, who reviewed the party’s prospects with the legislators along with TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy, district in-charge minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy. Deputy chief minister Narayana Swamy said that SEC had only furthered their cadres’ commitment to win more seats. Nearly 30 villages of the 112 which turned unanimous in the first phase are from GD Nellore constituency represented by Narayana Swamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-keen-to-win-panchayats-special-focus-on-chittoor-dist/articleshow/80738721.cms||Samdani MN
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||3 districts in Nagpur division have less than 100 Covid-19 patients under treatment||NAGPUR: Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli — three out of six districts in Nagpur division now have less than 100 Covid-19 patients under treatment. At 40, Gadchiroli has lowest number of patients under treatment in the state. Chandrapur (98) and Gondia (92) also have active cases under 100. Chandrapur achieved this feat on February 7 while Gondia on February 6. Gadchiroli has been reporting less than 100 cases since January last week. Barring Nagpur, no other district in Nagpur division has more than 500 cases. With Wardha (385) and Bhandara (127), Nagpur has 3228 patients under treatment. Only 961 of them are hospitalized and all the others are recovering at home. But, the condition in Amravati division is not so good. On Sunday, Amravati once again reported nearly 200 new cases, followed by Akola (54), Buldhana (45) and Yavatmal (42). Akola now has 808 patients under treatment, highest in last 45 days. Overall, Vidarbha region reported 776 new cases and 800 recoveries on Sunday. After a two-day gap, recoveries were slightly more than the number of new cases in the region. Now, the region has 2.77 lakh Covid-19 cases with 2.64 lakh recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 95.2% which is still less than the state’s average of 95.6% and national average above 97%. The region reported 5 deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. Two of them were from Nagpur and one each from Wardha, Yavatmal and Buldhana. But, two deaths reported in Nagpur were of those patients who were referred to Nagpur from other states/divisions in critical condition and who died during treatment after testing Covid-19 positive. No death was reported from Nagpur city, neither from Nagpur district on February 7, which is a record. This has happened for the first time after June 17 that no death of a native patient from Nagpur district was reported. Amravati: The Covid-19 situation in the district continues to be alarming as 192 new cases were reported on Sunday. The caseload is now 23,058. There were no deaths for the second successive day, keeping the toll constant at 423. Yavatmal: Death of a 66-year-old man took the toll to 435. Out of the 201 reports, 42 were found positive. Currently, 458 active positive patients are undergoing treatment in various Covid Care Centres across the district. Chandrapur: There were four new cases on Sunday. No death was reported, leaving the toll steady at 392. The collective Covid total has climbed to 23,136, while total recoveries are 22,646. Wardha: A 62-year-old man died on Sunday, taking the toll to 311 while 51 patients tested positive and 41 were discharged. The caseload rose to 10,328 and recoveries 9,632 while active positive patients are 385. Akola: The district reported 54 new cases, and 19 recoveries on Sunday. No death was reported. . Buldhana: With 45 new cases and 69 recoveries, Buldhana district also reported death of a 68-year-old man. Washim: 15 new cases were detected and 21 recovered on Sunday. As no death was reported, the death toll remained unchanged at 155. Bhandara: With 5 new cases, 19 patients recovered from Bhandara on Sunday. No death was reported. Gondia: The district reported 8 new cases and 11 recoveries. No death was reported on Sunday. Total case load of Gondia reached 14,255.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-districts-in-nagpur-division-have-less-than-100-covid-19-patients-under-treatment/articleshow/80739540.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||‘RecycleU’ to delete e-waste||Chandrapur: The Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) has launched ‘RecycleU’, through which the sanitation department will collect e-waste at your doorstep and give manure in exchange. Despite many measures undertaken at different levels for environmental conservation, e-waste still remains a cause for concern. ASPM, a Chandrapur-based NGO, developed this app for the corporation. Citizens can now hand over e-waste like defunct radios, depleted batteries, computer monitors, mouse, mobile, defunct electronic equipment, bad watches, etc to the sanitation department and get wet manure in exchange. Mayor Rakhi Kancharlwar has urged citizens to download app on their mobile. “They have to just upload a photo of the e-waste at their home. According to the location obtained through the app, sanitation workers will come to their house and collect the e-waste. They will be compensated with green manure in exchange of e-waste” she said. Citizens will also get some points as soon as they post a photo of e-waste on the app. Prizes will be given to those who get more points. The app will be helpful in creating awareness regarding e-waste management. It will also provide a platform for advertisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recycleu-to-delete-e-waste/articleshow/80739551.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Faction feud in Karnataka Congress deepens after poll||BENGALURU: The controversy over the Karnataka Youth Congress election refuses to die down, with the disqualification of Mohammed Nalapad widening divisions in the party. Nalapad, the son of Shanthinagar Congress legislator NA Haris, received the highest number of votes (64,202) in the election for the youth wing president’s post, but he was disqualified over a 2018 criminal case. Raksha Ramaiah, who got 57,271 votes, was declared the winner. Nalapad and Ramaiah were backed by camps loyal to state Congress president DK Shivakumar and opposition leader Siddaramaiah, respectively. Shivakumar is reportedly still supporting Nalapad and party insiders claim his camp has urged the high command to reverse the disqualification and appoint him to the post. If that cannot be done, Nalapad should be made a working president, the camp has said. The faction loyal to Siddaramaiah, who allegedly campaigned for Ramaiah, has objected to both the proposals. Ramaiah, who met Siddaramaiah on Sunday, said he had already complained about the vote count to the internal election commission and was waiting for a response. Nalapad’s supporters claim that his disqualification was wrongful as the decision was taken after the results were announced. “Our concern is that BJP and JD(S) may take advantage of this situation. CM Ibrahaim, who has hinted at leaving Congress and joining JD(S), believes Muslim party members get a raw deal in Congress and Nalapad’s case will only strengthen his argument,” said a member from Shivakumar’s camp. The election was held in three phases between January 10 and 13. Senior Congress figures, who are supposed to stay away from the process, reportedly campaigned for the candidate of their choice and influenced voters. While Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah led two camps, the third was headed by veterans like BK Hariprasad, who supported HS Manjunath’s candidacy. After the final results, Manjunath was elected as the vice-president of the youth wing. “The election was conducted to uphold the democratic values which Congress endorses. Naturally, a section of members feels let down after seeing the outcome. We hope it will be rectified and the sanctity of election will be restored,” said Haris. Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad, who once headed the youth wing, also expressed disappointment. “More than 20,000 votes were found to be rejected on flimsy grounds. We expect that the election should be free and fair,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/faction-feud-in-karnataka-congress-deepens-after-poll/articleshow/80740818.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||VNIT prof gets patent for metal ion adsorbent from tur dal husk||Nagpur: An associate professor from the Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology (VNIT) and his team have been granted patent for development of metal ions adsorbent from husk of tur dal, technically known as cajanus cajan. According to associate professor Shriram S Sonawane from VNIT chemical engineering department, the adsorbent helps in removal of dangerous contaminants from water and will be a value addition for the food industry. It will also make industrial effluent safe before discharge into water bodies, he says.The Central government patent office has granted certificate to Sonawane and his team comprising Vishal R Parate, MI Talib and Ajit P Rathod on January 29.The latest is the sixth patent granted to Sonawane under whom seven students have completed PhD and two more are taking his guidance. Sonawane, who has published more than 150 papers in various reputed international journals and conferences, conducts research in multi-dimensional areas including chemical and environmental sciences, polymers, biotechnology, biochemistry, nanotechnology, nanofluids, nano separations and more.The associate professor told TOI that the invention is a result of joint venture of VNIT, department of Food Technology, University Institute of Chemical Technology (UICT) and Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University (KBCNMU), Jalgaon. “It could become possible due to financial, moral and infrastructural support provided by VNIT director Pramod M Padole,” he said.The adsorbent was developed by activation of industrial waste of tur dal husk with sulphuric acid, followed by carbonization. The invention covered study of every aspect of the adsorbent like its characterization for various physic-chemical properties and structural morphology using modern analysis instruments and tools with standard methods.Sonawane said, “Heavy metal ions like copper Cu (II) and lead Pb (II) are considered as most dangerous contaminant responsible for water pollution. Other inorganic pollutants such as trace elements, mineral acids, metals, metal compounds, inorganic salts, complexes, sulphates and metals containing organic compounds can contaminate water. Our adsorbent will successfully isolate all these contaminants from water.” He claimed the adsorbent will benefit in safe disposal of industrial and other effluents in river, sea etc. “It will also be useful in giving food safety from health hazards due to heavy metals (Cu/ Pb) in juices, carbonated beverages and drinking water,” said Sonawane.The researcher also said the invention will be beneficial in controlling environment pollution caused by industrial waste of tur dal husk as it will be reused for developing the adsorbents. “Also, it is a conversion of waste to wealth as husk otherwise is disposed off without any utilization,” he said.According to the associate professor, various conditions (different pH of the solution, agitation speed, temperature, adsorbents dose and contact time) were also done in the study to obtain optimum condition of adsorption. In addition, study of thermodynamic aspect of metal removal (copper and lead ions) by developed adsorbent was carried out in the invention.Sonawane said most important part of the research was modelling of metal removal behaviour of adsorbent by adsorbing copper (II) and lead (II) ions from their aqueous solution.“From recycling point of view, desorption study was also conducted in the investigation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vnit-prof-gets-patent-for-metal-ion-adsorbent-from-tur-dal-husk/articleshow/80739576.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 8, 2021||Srinagar||Apni Party bags Srinagar & Shopian, eyes 10 more DDCs||SRINAGAR: Altaf Bukhari’s Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) has bagged Srinagar and Shopian district development councils and is leaving no stones unturned to secure majority of the 10 DDCs in Kashmir. Its candidates got elected as chairman and vice-chairman in both DDCs with the support of independents. The majority of DDCs in Jammu division, on expected lines, are to be headed by BJP winners. This will definitely shrink the political space of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) of the mainstream parties, National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, People’s Conference, J&K People’s Movement and CPM. Notably, PAGD could win only three seats in Srinagar and two in Shopian out of the 14 that were contested in each district. Bukhari, who is perceived as the “Centre’s man in the valley”, told TOI, “This is the start of real democracy and the politics of truth in the Union territory. We will pursue the issues of people till the end come what may.” Elections to 280 DDC constituencies were held in eight phases from November 28 to December 19 last year. This was the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into Union territories last year. JKAP’s Aftab Malik became chairman of Srinagar DDC, with the votes of 10 elected members of which seven were independents. They have pledged support to JKAP. Bilal Ahmad, also of JKAP, was elected vice-chairperson. PDP’s Manzoor Ahmad Bhat got only four votes. Interestingly, BJP’s lone member in the Srinagar DDC, Ajaz Hussian, supported Malik for chairmanship. Srinagar DDC has 14 members: seven independent, three from JKAP, and one each from NC, BJP, PDP and JKMP. The elections of chairman and vice chairman in Shopian district of south Kashmir has caused further dent on the Gupkar Alliance. JKAP bagged the posts of chairman and vice-chairman in Shopian DDC. JKAP’s Bilqees Akhtar, who will be the first chairperson of Shopian, polled eight votes while her rival from Gupkar Alliance secured six. The winner of the post of vice-chairman, which also went to JKAP, was decided through a draw of lots because of a tie. One PAGD member voted in favour of JKAP, which fetched Irfan Manhas the post. Out of the 14 seats in Shopian, four went each to NC and independents while the tally of PDP, JKAP and Congress were three, two and one respectively. Later, three out of the four Independent members and one each from NC and Congress joined JKAP. One independent member went to NC. The DDC in highly terrorist-infested Kulgam district in South Kashmir has gone to CPM. Mohammad Afzal, who is also the CPM district secretary, was unanimously elected as the first DDC chairman of Kulgam. He was supported by all the 13 members. The post of vice-chairman went to NC. In Kulgam, NC and CPM won five seats each, two were bagged by Congress and two by PDP. BJP took over chairmanship of the two DDCs of Jammu and Kathua. The saffron party, with 11 out of 14 members in Jammu DDC, will head the council. BJP member from Bhalwal and former MLA from Raipur, Domana Bharat Bushan was elected unopposed as chairman of Jammu DDC. Suraj Singh, DDC member from Khour, was elected unopposed as vice chairman. Independent DDC member from Suchetgarh, Taranjit Singh Tony, a known critic of BJP, proposed the names of Bharat Bushan and Suraj Singh for the posts of chairperson and vice chairperson. In Kathua, BJP won 13 out of the 14 seats: the lone opposition member is from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Col (Retd) Maan Singh and Raghunandan Singh Babloo were elected unopposed as chairman and vice-chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/apni-party-bags-srinagar-shopian-eyes-10-more-ddcs/articleshow/80741909.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 8, 2021||India||Apni Party bags Srinagar & Shopian, eyes 10 more DDCs||SRINAGAR: Altaf Bukhari’s Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) has bagged Srinagar and Shopian district development councils and is leaving no stones unturned to secure majority of the 10 DDCs in Kashmir. Its candidates got elected as chairman and vice-chairman in both DDCs with the support of independents. The majority of DDCs in Jammu division, on expected lines, are to be headed by BJP winners. This will definitely shrink the political space of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) of the mainstream parties, National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, People’s Conference, J&K People’s Movement and CPM. Notably, PAGD could win only three seats in Srinagar and two in Shopian out of the 14 that were contested in each district. Bukhari, who is perceived as the “Centre’s man in the valley”, told TOI, “This is the start of real democracy and the politics of truth in the Union territory. We will pursue the issues of people till the end come what may.” Elections to 280 DDC constituencies were held in eight phases from November 28 to December 19 last year. This was the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into Union territories last year. JKAP’s Aftab Malik became chairman of Srinagar DDC, with the votes of 10 elected members of which seven were independents. They have pledged support to JKAP. Bilal Ahmad, also of JKAP, was elected vice-chairperson. PDP’s Manzoor Ahmad Bhat got only four votes. Interestingly, BJP’s lone member in the Srinagar DDC, Ajaz Hussian, supported Malik for chairmanship. Srinagar DDC has 14 members: seven independent, three from JKAP, and one each from NC, BJP, PDP and JKMP. The elections of chairman and vice chairman in Shopian district of south Kashmir has caused further dent on the Gupkar Alliance. JKAP bagged the posts of chairman and vice-chairman in Shopian DDC. JKAP’s Bilqees Akhtar, who will be the first chairperson of Shopian, polled eight votes while her rival from Gupkar Alliance secured six. The winner of the post of vice-chairman, which also went to JKAP, was decided through a draw of lots because of a tie. One PAGD member voted in favour of JKAP, which fetched Irfan Manhas the post. Out of the 14 seats in Shopian, four went each to NC and independents while the tally of PDP, JKAP and Congress were three, two and one respectively. Later, three out of the four Independent members and one each from NC and Congress joined JKAP. One independent member went to NC. The DDC in highly terrorist-infested Kulgam district in South Kashmir has gone to CPM. Mohammad Afzal, who is also the CPM district secretary, was unanimously elected as the first DDC chairman of Kulgam. He was supported by all the 13 members. The post of vice-chairman went to NC. In Kulgam, NC and CPM won five seats each, two were bagged by Congress and two by PDP. BJP took over chairmanship of the two DDCs of Jammu and Kathua. The saffron party, with 11 out of 14 members in Jammu DDC, will head the council. BJP member from Bhalwal and former MLA from Raipur, Domana Bharat Bushan was elected unopposed as chairman of Jammu DDC. Suraj Singh, DDC member from Khour, was elected unopposed as vice chairman. Independent DDC member from Suchetgarh, Taranjit Singh Tony, a known critic of BJP, proposed the names of Bharat Bushan and Suraj Singh for the posts of chairperson and vice chairperson. In Kathua, BJP won 13 out of the 14 seats: the lone opposition member is from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Col (Retd) Maan Singh and Raghunandan Singh Babloo were elected unopposed as chairman and vice-chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/apni-party-bags-srinagar-shopian-eyes-10-more-ddcs/articleshow/80740860.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 8, 2021||Jammu||Apni Party bags Srinagar & Shopian, eyes 10 more DDCs||SRINAGAR: Altaf Bukhari’s Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) has bagged Srinagar and Shopian district development councils and is leaving no stones unturned to secure majority of the 10 DDCs in Kashmir. Its candidates got elected as chairman and vice-chairman in both DDCs with the support of independents. The majority of DDCs in Jammu division, on expected lines, are to be headed by BJP winners. This will definitely shrink the political space of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) of the mainstream parties, National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, People’s Conference, J&K People’s Movement and CPM. Notably, PAGD could win only three seats in Srinagar and two in Shopian out of the 14 that were contested in each district. Bukhari, who is perceived as the “Centre’s man in the valley”, told TOI, “This is the start of real democracy and the politics of truth in the Union territory. We will pursue the issues of people till the end come what may.” Elections to 280 DDC constituencies were held in eight phases from November 28 to December 19 last year. This was the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into Union territories last year. JKAP’s Aftab Malik became chairman of Srinagar DDC, with the votes of 10 elected members of which seven were independents. They have pledged support to JKAP. Bilal Ahmad, also of JKAP, was elected vice-chairperson. PDP’s Manzoor Ahmad Bhat got only four votes. Interestingly, BJP’s lone member in the Srinagar DDC, Ajaz Hussian, supported Malik for chairmanship. Srinagar DDC has 14 members: seven independent, three from JKAP, and one each from NC, BJP, PDP and JKMP. The elections of chairman and vice chairman in Shopian district of south Kashmir has caused further dent on the Gupkar Alliance. JKAP bagged the posts of chairman and vice-chairman in Shopian DDC. JKAP’s Bilqees Akhtar, who will be the first chairperson of Shopian, polled eight votes while her rival from Gupkar Alliance secured six. The winner of the post of vice-chairman, which also went to JKAP, was decided through a draw of lots because of a tie. One PAGD member voted in favour of JKAP, which fetched Irfan Manhas the post. Out of the 14 seats in Shopian, four went each to NC and independents while the tally of PDP, JKAP and Congress were three, two and one respectively. Later, three out of the four Independent members and one each from NC and Congress joined JKAP. One independent member went to NC. The DDC in highly terrorist-infested Kulgam district in South Kashmir has gone to CPM. Mohammad Afzal, who is also the CPM district secretary, was unanimously elected as the first DDC chairman of Kulgam. He was supported by all the 13 members. The post of vice-chairman went to NC. In Kulgam, NC and CPM won five seats each, two were bagged by Congress and two by PDP. BJP took over chairmanship of the two DDCs of Jammu and Kathua. The saffron party, with 11 out of 14 members in Jammu DDC, will head the council. BJP member from Bhalwal and former MLA from Raipur, Domana Bharat Bushan was elected unopposed as chairman of Jammu DDC. Suraj Singh, DDC member from Khour, was elected unopposed as vice chairman. Independent DDC member from Suchetgarh, Taranjit Singh Tony, a known critic of BJP, proposed the names of Bharat Bushan and Suraj Singh for the posts of chairperson and vice chairperson. In Kathua, BJP won 13 out of the 14 seats: the lone opposition member is from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Col (Retd) Maan Singh and Raghunandan Singh Babloo were elected unopposed as chairman and vice-chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/apni-party-bags-srinagar-shopian-eyes-10-more-ddcs/articleshow/80741908.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 8, 2021||Nagpur||VNIT prof gets patent for metal ion adsorbent from tur dal husk||Nagpur: An associate professor from the Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology (VNIT) and his team have been granted patent for development of metal ions adsorbent from husk of tur dal, technically known as cajanus cajan. According to associate professor Shriram S Sonawane from VNIT chemical engineering department, the adsorbent helps in removal of dangerous contaminants from water and will be a value addition for the food industry. It will also make industrial effluent safe before discharge into water bodies, he says. The Central government patent office has granted certificate to Sonawane and his team comprising Vishal R Parate, MI Talib and Ajit P Rathod on January 29. The latest is the sixth patent granted to Sonawane under whom seven students have completed PhD and two more are taking his guidance. Sonawane, who has published more than 150 papers in various reputed international journals and conferences, conducts research in multi-dimensional areas including chemical and environmental sciences, polymers, biotechnology, biochemistry, nanotechnology, nanofluids, nano separations and more. The associate professor told TOI that the invention is a result of joint venture of VNIT, department of Food Technology, University Institute of Chemical Technology (UICT) and Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University (KBCNMU), Jalgaon. “It could become possible due to financial, moral and infrastructural support provided by VNIT director Pramod M Padole,” he said. The adsorbent was developed by activation of industrial waste of tur dal husk with sulphuric acid, followed by carbonization. The invention covered study of every aspect of the adsorbent like its characterization for various physic-chemical properties and structural morphology using modern analysis instruments and tools with standard methods. Sonawane said, “Heavy metal ions like copper Cu (II) and lead Pb (II) are considered as most dangerous contaminant responsible for water pollution. Other inorganic pollutants such as trace elements, mineral acids, metals, metal compounds, inorganic salts, complexes, sulphates and metals containing organic compounds can contaminate water. Our adsorbent will successfully isolate all these contaminants from water.” He claimed the adsorbent will benefit in safe disposal of industrial and other effluents in river, sea etc. “It will also be useful in giving food safety from health hazards due to heavy metals (Cu/ Pb) in juices, carbonated beverages and drinking water,” said Sonawane. The researcher also said the invention will be beneficial in controlling environment pollution caused by industrial waste of tur dal husk as it will be reused for developing the adsorbents. “Also, it is a conversion of waste to wealth as husk otherwise is disposed off without any utilization,” he said. According to the associate professor, various conditions (different pH of the solution, agitation speed, temperature, adsorbents dose and contact time) were also done in the study to obtain optimum condition of adsorption. In addition, study of thermodynamic aspect of metal removal (copper and lead ions) by developed adsorbent was carried out in the invention. Sonawane said most important part of the research was modelling of metal removal behaviour of adsorbent by adsorbing copper (II) and lead (II) ions from their aqueous solution. “From recycling point of view, desorption study was also conducted in the investigation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vnit-prof-gets-patent-for-metal-ion-adsorbent-from-tur-dal-husk/articleshow/80739776.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 8, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 3 kids tortured, mother, tutor killed in robbery bid||GHAZIABAD: A 29-year-old woman and a 17-year-old girl were brutally murdered while three children were tortured with a knife, a grinding stone and a screwdriver during a robbery attempt by a woman the kids called “amma” and her boyfriend who was known to them as “tailor uncle”. After the brutality in Masuri area of Ghaziabad on Saturday evening, the accused fled with jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh and Rs 1 lakh cash. Both of them were arrested later that night. Police said the accused — Uma, who is in her early 30s, and her boyfriend Sonu, aged 28 — were known to the victims’ family as they were from the same village in Uttar Pradesh. Around 7.30pm on Saturday, they came to the house of Dolly (29) and started a casual conversation over tea. Dolly was not alone at home. Her three children — Meenakshi (7), Rudra (5) and Gori (10) — were taking tuitions from 17-year-old Anshu, a Class 9 student who stayed in the same house with her family as a tenant. Dolly’s father-in-law and husband, who run a chaat stall in the local market, were out for work. After having spent a few minutes chatting with Dolly, the accused whipped out a gun and locked the 29-year-old woman and the children in a room. They also bolted the main door from inside. According to police, Sonu and Uma ransacked the entire house, but could not find any cash or valuables. They then pointed a gun at Dolly and asked her about jewellery. When Dolly refused to answer despite sustained questioning, Sonu shot Anshu dead. He then fired at Dolly, who slumped to the ground and lost consciousness. Aware that she was still alive, Sonu brought a knife and screwdriver from the kitchen and stabbed Dolly at several places as she screamed for help. All this while, Uma kept asking Dolly about the cash and valuables. It wasn't just the brutality of the assault, but also that it unfolded in front of children as young as five years old, that sent shockwaves across police circles. Every time Dolly refused to let the accused know where she had kept the jewellery, Sonu and Uma slapped the kids hard. At one point, Sonu brought a grinding stone from the kitchen and hit the head of seven-year-old Meenakshi with it. He was going to slit the throat of Gori when Dolly mumbled out the whereabouts of the valuables. But that was hardly the end of it. Unhappy with the amount of cash and jewellery kept in one corner of an almirah, Sonu aimed his pistol at Dolly and pressed the trigger. But the bullet somehow got stuck in the barrel. He then picked up the grinding stoned and smashed the woman’s face with it. When little Rudra and Gori tried to save their mother, Sonu pinned them to the ground and slit their throat too. The accused left them to die and fled the house. Around half an hour later, when Dolly’s father in law Lokman Singh Jadaun returned to the house, he found Rudra and Gori groaning in pain. With help from neighbours, he took Dolly and the children to a nearby hospital. Dolly and Anshu were declared dead on arrival, while the three other children were referred to Sarvodaya Hospital in Kavi Nagar. Doctors said Gori and Rudra were stable, but the condition of Meenakshi, who was hit on the head with the stone, was quite critical. It was Gori who led the cops to the accused. “Uma amma aayi thi tailor uncle ke saath aur sabko mar diya (Uma aunty had come with tailor uncle and killed everyone),” she told the police. Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani reached the hospital and formed five teams to nab the accused. “We arrested Uma from her house in Sihani Gate. The jewellery was also recovered from there. She confessed to the robbery and murder and told us that Sonu had fled with the cash,” said Iraj Raza, SP (rural). Sonu was arrested around 1am on Sunday after a brief exchange of fire with the police on the Dasna flyover. “He was trying to flee the city on a bike. The police asked him to surrender, but he tried to flee. The cops fired at him and a bullet hit him in the leg. The money was recovered from him along with a pistol,” Raza said. Police said they were still trying to find out why Sonu and Uma were so desperate to have the money and jewellery and what drove them to resort to such brutality on Dolly and her children, whom they had known for years. Uma has told the police that they had come to know that Jadaun had recently sold a property and had kept all the money in the house. On the way to the police station, she told this reporter: “Yes, I had planned to rob them with Sonu. But I did not kill anyone.” Both the accused were booked under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 380 (theft) and under relevant sections of the Arms Act. Watch Unidentified man attacks family in Ghaziabad, 2 dead||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/aunty-tailor-uncle-lock-up-three-kids-in-room-kill-their-mother-tutor/articleshow/80740497.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 8, 2021||Vadodara||Principal seeks bribe from food contractor, booked||Vadodara: Principal of a school in Dediapada taluka of Narmada district has been booked in a case that dates back to 2015 for demanding bribe from a contractor. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) filed a case against Kishor Solanki on Saturday after they received a complaint along with audio clipping from the contractor. According to ACB sleuths, 43-year-old Solanki, principal of Model School, had sought around Rs 50,000 from food contractor Bharat Vankar to let him continue with the contract. The accused demanded the bill amount of food consumed by Class X1 students. ACB sleuths are collecting more evidences against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/principal-seeks-bribe-from-food-contractor-booked/articleshow/80737829.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bengaluru||How they became the voice of sporting events||Bengaluru: Over the years, male television commentators and presenters have related most of the memorable moments in sport. Women are now making their mark in this field, enriching discussions on various competitive events with their unique perspective and insights. The role requires a thorough understanding of the game and its history, almost fan-like devotion, razor-sharp focus and spontaneity. Madhu Mailankody presents and analyses various sports in English and regional languages. She works at a leading sports television network, sharing the studio with experts during the Kannada broadcast of the Indian Premier League. She also anchors in Malayalam during the Indian Super League. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+:  Meet these women voices of sports||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-they-became-the-voice-of-sporting-events/articleshow/80740840.cms||Harigovind
February 8, 2021||Goa||Second phase of Covid vaccination to begin today||370 words Panaji: The second phase of inoculation against Covid-19 will begin on Monday when frontline workers will receive the first dose of the vaccine. Three sessions of vaccination, one in North Goa and two in South Goa, will be held on the first day. Police, home guards, revenue personnel and those working in municipalities and panchayats will receive the jab at government primary school, Panaji, South Goa District hospital and T B hospital, an official said. The state has set a target of 300 beneficiaries on the first day, 100 at each of the vaccination sites. More than 15,000 frontline workers have registered to receive the vaccine. The state has been allocated 67,000 doses of the vaccine which are expected during the week, but it has enough to begin vaccinating frontline workers on Monday. Simultaneously, the vaccination of healthcare workers will continue for the next five days till February 12, after which the state will begin administering the second dose of the Covishield vaccine. On Monday, vaccination for healthcare workers will be held at Ayurvedic college, Shiroda, health centre at Ponda, besides three sessions at GMC and North Goa district hospital. Over 7,000 healthcare workers from the public and private sector have already received the first dose of the vaccine out of 19,000-odd healthcare workers and central government employees who have registered on the website. Chief medical officer of the state family welfare bureau Dr Vandana Dhume stated that the state plans to complete giving as many healthcare workers the first dose by February 12. State immunisation officer Dr Rajesh Borkar, state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar and Dr Dhume appealed to healthcare workers and frontline workers who have registered on the portal not to miss their turn to take the vaccine as there is freezing of generation of names. Dhume said those who reject the vaccine now will have to wait and will receive their turn again only after the fourth phase of the vaccination drive, along with the public. Dhume said there were no serious AEFIs reported from the vaccine beneficiaries. Dr Borkar said all three of them had taken the first dose of the vaccine. The doctors said the vaccination is the only definite way out of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-phase-of-covid-vaccination-to-begin-today/articleshow/80740238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Goa||Mining pits to be used for cage culture for fisheries||Panaji: Goa’s coastline shows potential for fish culture with scope for installing as many as 30 lakh cages for fish production, Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh said on Sunday. To begin with 1,000 cages will be set up in Goa, he said. In addition, “there are enough reservoirs in Goa, including mining ones. We will start cage culture there, too. Nowhere is there space available for cage culture like in Goa. We only need seed and feed links”, Singh said. He said that Goa, despite the immense and unmatched potential of its coast, falls short of fish for consumption during the fishing ban. The state’s fish processing units also depend on supply from Maharashtra and Karnataka. Cage culture will ensure that Goa not only meets its requirement for consumption and fish processing units, but will also become one of the biggest fish exporters in the country, he said. “Goa has the capacity to produce the highest quantity of fish in the country and the quality of this fish produced through cage culture will be of export quality,” said Singh. The state currently produces 1 lakh tonne of fish, he said. “The National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) has carried out a survey showing that cage culture is possible in 200sq km into the sea. When we discussed this with the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) regional centre in Tamil Nadu, they said cage culture can safely be carried out in 72 sqkm by ensuring that tourism and fishing activities are safeguarded. I cannot even imagine it has the capacity for 30 lakh cages to be installed in all. It will provide a new model of marine culture,” said Singh. He said that the use of cage culture will mean that fishing boat workers do not have to go through the hardships of living at sea for eight to 10 days and will also save on diesel costs. There is also a lot of scope for inland fisheries in Goa, for which about Rs 65 crore will be provided inland for Biofloc, Recirculating Aquaculture Systems (RAS) and Reservoir Cage Culture. State fisheries minister Filipe Nery Rodrigues said that this will really be useful in making Goa self-sufficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-pits-to-be-used-for-cage-culture-for-fisheries/articleshow/80740263.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Goa||Repairs of eight bundhs in North Goa on anvil||Panaji: Eight bundhs in Tiswadi, Bardez, Ponda and Bicholim talukas have deteriorated, and estimates to undertake repairs are under preparation. Of these, five bundhs are located in Tiswadi and one each in Bardez, Bicholim and Ponda, an official said. Over the years across the state, many bundhs have deteriorated further owing to neglect towards timely repairs, while some are covered in mangroves, rendering these uncultivable for paddy crop. A Tiswadi farmer said that due to the decline in overall agricultural activities in the state in the past few decades, paddy cultivation in khazan land has also dropped. “When a crucial bundh breaks or if there is a breach, and it is not repaired in time, and hence paddy cultivation takes a back seat,” he said. Though tenants’ associations are in a way responsible for the upkeep of bundhs and to ensure that any deterioration in a bundh in their respective jurisdictions is initmated to the government. But at many places, they (associations) are in disarray. “Also, you can’t blame the associations all the time. Many a time, there is an inordinate delay in releasing funds by the government. If there is a delay of over two-three years in sanctioning funds, farmers naturally get frustrated,” he said. Another obstacle that comes in the way of expeditious repairs is that it is a laborious process, and there are not many people alive today who have the skills in repairing bundhs using traditional methods. People in the know say that the government must explore the option of using boat mounted cranes for speedier soil excavation that is needed for filling the breach in the bundh. “Normally, soil close to the bundh is excavated and used for repairs. Since it is done manually, it takes time,” a tenants’ association member said. When a bundh remains unrepaired for a prolonged period, there is always a possibility that people having vested interests and want to exploit the situation. In no time, you may see land-filling happening to make a way for a real estate entity or some may use it for pisciculture, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repairs-of-eight-bundhs-in-north-goa-on-anvil/articleshow/80740279.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||IMFL prices set to reduce by Rs 10 in state||Ranchi: India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) brands are likely to become marginally cheaper in Jharkhand later this month as the state’s excise and prohibitions department has decided to rollback a the special cess it had imposed to shore up revenues during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic. The Covid-19 cess, which was fixed at 10% of the maximum retail price, will be rolled back and the move is likely to increase the profit margin of the state’s licensed retail liquor sellers. “The proposal to withdraw the cess has already been approved by chief minister Hemant Soren. The notification will be out by this week, after a new price list of IMFL brands are drafted based on the calculations which is to be necessitated due to the withdrawal of the special cess,” a senior officer of the state excise and prohibitions department said, requesting anonymity. The excise portfolio is handled by Soren since minister Jagarnath Mahto was hospitalised in Chennai for a lung transplant after getting infected with Covid-19 last year. Meanwhile, excise secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey did not respond when contacted. While excise officials remained tight-lipped, sources in the department said IMFL brands are likely to become cheaper by Rs 5-Rs10 per bottle with the rollback of the cess. After 60 days of closure due to the nationwide lockdown, IMFL and country made liquor stores of the state were allowed to reopen on May 20 last year. The department had hiked the VAT and imposed a cess, thereby making IMFL brands pricier by at least 23% of their MRP. Achintya Sah, president of Jharkhand Rajya Khudra Sharaab Vikreta Sangh (JRKSVS), said the rollback of the cess will provide retailers some relief by providing an increase in the profit margin. “But the dip in prices is likely to be marginal,” he said. Notably, the excise department’s hike in prices, which was aimed at compensating revenue losses, came as a bane for liquor sellers as the retail sales had plummeted. “There was a shortage of cash when the stores reopened. Then a four-month lull in business during monsoon. From November onwards, we had expected the sales to grow, but that did not happen due to an upper limit on weddings and social gatherings, which was mandated by the government.” Sah said, adding that the sales are down by 35% from its projections for the 2020-21 FY. On an average, the Jharkhand government receives Rs 1,800 crore a year from retail liquor sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/imfl-prices-set-to-reduce-by-rs-10-in-state/articleshow/80738979.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||Farmers are gradually favouring new laws, says Munda||Ranchi: Union tribal affairs minister and Khunti MP Arjun Munda on Sunday said that a large section of farmers of the country are now turning in favour of the new farm laws, despite the ongoing protests along Delhi borders for over two months. Following the nationwide chakka jam on Saturday, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikat, who has emerged as the rallying point of the protests after the Republic Day fiasco in Delhi, gave the Union government time till October 2 to repeal the laws, announcing the farmers will continue to stage sit-ins along the borders of Delhi capital till then. Speaking to reporters at the state BJP headquarters in Ranchi, Munda said, “Farmers are gradually understanding the good intentions and works done by our government, which is why even after implementation of the laws, we have been clinching polls.” Earlier in the day, Munda held an extensive session with BJP workers to explain them the finer points of the Union Budget presented a few days ago to publicise it among the masses. While the ruling coalition government in the state has snubbed the Budget as pro-capitalist, Munda termed it as a foundation for Atmanirbhar Bharat. “The Budget has everything for every class and is meant for the mass. This Budget marks the foundation of a self-reliant India in the coming years,” he said, counting on a host of initiatives like hike in health spending, thrust on digitisation, focus on building infrastructures across different spectrum among others. Countering the charges of the opposition that the BJP government is attempting to sell-off public entities under its disinvestment plans, Munda questioned if such a thing was happening for the first time in the country. “Haven’t disinvestments ever happened in the country? Our model of disinvestment is job-oriented to match with the global economic trends and standards. Flow of foreign direct investment will help in creation of assets and jobs for the countrymen. It depends on how one perceives things,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farmers-are-gradually-favouring-new-laws-says-munda/articleshow/80738984.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Chennai cops, Navy not cooperating: Kin of sailor||DALTONGANJ/RANCHI: Family members of Suraj Kumar Dubey, the 27-year-old navy sailor from Palamu who died in a Mumbai hospital on Friday night after he was burnt by his kidnappers at a forest in Palghar in Maharashtra, on Sunday accused Chennai police and Navy officials of non-cooperation in trying to ascertain the actual reason of how Dubey was burnt. Contesting the version of Palghar police who said Dubey, posted in Coimbatore, died in abduction for ransom gone wrong, the family members said they suspected the hand of one of Dubey's colleague in his death. Palghar police had said culprits abducted Dubey from Chennai airport and demanded Rs 10 lakh as a ransom to release him. In his dying declaration, Dubey had reportedly said the kidnappers burnt him after he refused to pay the amount. Talking to TOI, Saket Dubey, the younger brother of the deceased, said, "We had first contacted Chennai police soon after my brother went missing and requested them to register an FIR against his colleague who was in constant touch with my brother. However, they told us that they cannot file an FIR since my brother went missing during his journey from Jharkhand." They also contested the version of Palghar police who dubbed the incident was an outcome of abduction for ransom gone wrong. Palghar police had said that the deceased was abducted from Chennai for Rs 10 lakh ransom and was burnt in their jurisdiction after he denied acceding to their demands. Talking to TOI, Saket Dubey, younger brother of the deceased said, “We had first contacted Chennai police soon after my brother’s whereabouts were unknown. We requested them to register an FIR against a colleague of my brother who was in constant touch with him. However, they said that they couldn’t file an FIR as he had gone missing during his journey which he had started in Jharkhand.” Later, the family members had submitted a missing complaint report with Chainpur police station in Palamu on February 1 stating that they were not able to contact Dubey on his mobile number. They had told local police here that they had last spoken to Dubey around 6:45 pm on January 30 when he was supposed to board a flight to Chennai from Hyderabad. The father of the deceased, Mithilesh Kumar Dubey, said, “My son had left for his INS Agrani unit in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, on January 30 after availing one month’s leave. But his cellphone was switched off from 6.46 pm of January 30.” Palamu police said that their initial probe traced Dubey’s location to the airport metro station at Meenambakkam and later at the NSG camp under Otteri police station. SDPO (Palamu) K Vijay Shanker said, “I was in touch with my batchmate in Chennai who found out that a taxi driver named Sudhir had dropped Dubey at the NSG camp in Otteri.” Meanwhile, the family members also suspected the hand of Dubey's colleagues and claimed that they could not get any assistance from the naval unit of the deceased. Duey's elder brother Niraj Kumar Dubey said, "Officers of my unit said they will declare my brother an absconder as he had not rejoined from leave despite contacting one of the unit members. I had personally requested the commanding officer of my brother and sought his help to get the FIR registered against my brother's colleague in Chennai. Later on February 1, the commanding officer said my brother have stayed back in Chennai for a day and I should not worry. When I contacted Dharmendra Kumar, a colleague of my brother who was in constant touch with him, his attitude completely changed and he said that my brother was an absconder. This raised my suspicion.” On Palghar police's claim of murder because of Rs 10 lakh ransom, Niraj said, "How can it be a case of abduction for ransom when we never got a call for money? If the culprits wnt money, then they must have to contact us because the kidnapped cannot arrange and give them the money. We never had a call from the alleged culprits since my brother left home on January 30." Meanwhile, BJP MP from Palamu, V D Ram, has sent a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, demanding a CBI inquiry into the murder. Ram said, “I have requested Amit Shah ji for a CBI probe. This is a fit case for an inquiry by the central agency. The country has lost a young navy sailor in a mysterious condition.” The MP added that he had also written to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh for a high-level probe into the incident. “I requested the Union defence minister to initiate a joint probe by naval and police force,” he added. Congress MLA from Mahagama, Dipika Pandey Singh, too wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren demanding the state government’s intervention with its counterparts in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu for a detailed probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-police-navy-officials-not-cooperating-in-finding-out-the-truth-behind-sailors-murder-family-members-of-deceased/articleshow/80740951.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Booth app may be introduced in West Bengal polls||KOLKATA: The Election Commission of India is likely to introduce booth app in the forthcoming Bengal assembly polls in an effort to weed out bogus voters, avoid duplicate voting and give accurate details of the polling process every two hours. Bengal will be the first state where this app is being planned to be introduced in a full-fledged manner. The functional process consists of the creation of an encrypted QR code on the photo voter slips. The booth-level officer scans the code and allows entry of voters whose names are listed. The code is scanned again to verify the identity of the voter before allowing him/her to poll. The recorded entries are then transmitted back to the EC’s central server. The returning officer gets to view the dashboard about real-time voter turnout and other poll events. “The polling process requires manual search of name of electors and this is time-consuming. There are multiple errors due to incorrect entries. Later on, there is a lot of hassle on reconciliation of the figures from EVM to the turnout. The booth app helps in identification of voters using encrypted QR code from the digital marked copy of the electors,” a senior EC official explained. The multifunctional app will also help in providing advance queue information and real-time turnout information to voters and officials. “The booth app can auto-detect duplicate entries and prevent repeat voters from entering the polling station. Whenever there is a duplicate entry, the polling official will get a loud sound on his mobile phone,” the official added. The app was piloted in Hamirpur (Uttar Pradesh) in 5 polling stations, 3 assembly constituencies (Samastipur, Kasba Peth and Phagwara) of Maharashtra, Bihar and Punjab and thereafter introduced in 10 ACs of Jharkhand in November 2019. For the first time, the poll panel is thinking of introducing this application in the assembly polls of Bengal. “We hope this will help in free and fair polls,” the official said. The booth app is configured to connect to the central ECI server in a minimalistic way and transmits the data in an encrypted manner. This helps in giving meaningful information about gender-wise polling, age-wise polling, speed of polling, traffic during the day and other poll-related events and incidences. This will help election officers in taking the right decision at the right time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/booth-app-may-be-introduced-in-bengal-polls/articleshow/80740553.cms||Saibal Gupta
February 8, 2021||Jamshedpur||Villagers oppose land acquisition for airport at Dhalbhumgarh||JAMSHEDPUR: Even before a brick could be laid for the construction of an airport in Dhalbhumgarh, a section of villagers have opposed it, with the gram sabha of Devshol village holding a meeting on Sunday to oppose the government proposal to acquire 24 acre land for the construction, which may prove to be a boon for air connectivity between Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. The airport will connect the industrial belt of Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, Kharagpur in West Bengal and Balasore in Odisha, experts believe. The proposed site is quite close to NH-33 and has a railway station near it which makes it all the more accessible for all. The project had earlier run into rough weathers after it was declared an elephant corridor. Later, it was clarified by Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato that the elephant corridor crosses through Ghatshila and not Dhalbhumgarh. Mahato, however, said the Hemant Soren government is not giving much support in clearing the hurdles in the construction of the airport at the once-airstrip laid during World War-II. At the gram sabha meeting, gram pradhan Dakhin Hansda and panchayat sevak Sudhansu Shekhar Bansuri told villagers that under no circumstances will villagers hand over their land for the construction of the airport. The duo pointed out that the villagers will be displaced from their land if they hand it over to the government. They said that multinationals will slowly take all their land and they will be left landless if they allow the government to construct an airport in their area. “The villagers worship “kala pahar”, which is near the airstrip and if the airport is constructed, what will happen to the religious beliefs?” the duo asked. They also said the construction of the airport will damage their socio-economic life and the future generations will suffer as they will become landless. “Tribals have knowledge of herbs and plants and earn a decent living from farming and the airport will snatch their bread and butter,” they said, demanding the government to change their plans. Notably, the foundation stone of the project, around 60km from Jamshedpur, was laid by former chief minister Raghubar Das during the BJP regime in the state. According to Mahato, “Once the airport is built, the amount of revenue the area generates will get a boost and a large section of people will get employment of various kinds.” He also expressed confidence that all hurdles will be cleared and the project will be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/villagers-oppose-land-acquisition-for-airport-at-dhalbhumgarh/articleshow/80739034.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||1 crore people will get LPG connections for free: PM Modi||KOLKATA: Over one crore people in the country will get LPG connections for free under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana. This was revealed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Haldia on Sunday while inaugurating a host of projects in the state. He said in Bengal, over 90 lakh people have got gas under PMUY and, of them, 36 lakh are from the SC/ST category. On Sunday, Modi dedicated to the nation the 347-km Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline. This pipeline is a part of the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project. The Dobhi-Durgapur pipeline has been built at a cost of Rs 2,433 crore by GAIL. During the project stage, it generated 15 lakh man-days of employment. The project will revive Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited’s Sindri (Jharkhand) fertilizer plant, supply gas to Matix fertilizer plant in Durgapur and supply gas to industrial, commercial and automobile sectors and boost city gas distribution across all major towns in these states, including the cities of Purulia, Asansol and Durgapur in Bengal. Incidentally, Bengal Gas, a JV between GAIL and the state government, will invest Rs 7,000 crore for setting up the city gas grid in Kolkata and adjacent areas in the next few years. It aims to set up 186 CNG stations in the Kolkata geographical area ultimately depending on CNG demand and conversion of existing vehicles to CNG. Besides Kolkata, BGC has city gas distribution rights for some areas of Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and the two 24 Parganas. Besides the gas pipeline, the PM inaugurated an LPG terminal at Haldia port. This will meet the requirement of LPG in Bengal and other states in eastern and north-eastern India. According to oil ministry officials, LPG penetration has witnessed a phenomenal growth in the country after the launch of PMUY. Bengal, along with other eastern states, also witnessed a similar growth in LPG consumption. LPG penetration in Bengal, which was only 41.4% in April 2014, has increased to 99.5% as on date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/modi-1cr-people-will-get-lpg-connections-for-free/articleshow/80740559.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal should vote for BJP for ‘ashol paribartan’: PM Modi||HALDIA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off his Bengal poll campaign on Sunday, saying only BJP would ensure “ashol paribartan (real change)”, accusing the ruling Trinamool of being just a reincarnation of the Left Front, which had helmed a rebirth of violence, corruption and attacks on democracy. In a speech peppered with Bengali phrases, the PM accused the state government of being anti-farmer and anti-people, saying it was blocking all attempts by the Centre to help. He stressed on a “double-engine” thrust on development to end the state’s reluctance to provide central benefits, promising voters that Bengal’s first BJP cabinet would ensure marginal farmers were not denied the benefits of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. Tying up Bengal’s love for football with BJP’s core ideology, he said Trinamool had committed several fouls in the last 10 years: misgovernance, attacks on the opposition, looting people’s money and attacks on faith. “People would soon show them the ‘Ram card’,” he said, warning people against “match-fixing” by Trinamool, Congress and the Left. “In Delhi, they speak behind curtains; they speak behind closed doors. They will now do political match-fixing. In Kerala, the Left and Congress have decided to loot the government after every five years.” At this largely industrial township in East Midnapore, the Prime Minister took aim at development. “Even before Independence, Bengal was among the most developed states,” he said at the Haldia Helipad Ground. “Why has this progress slowed? Industry and infrastructure here need change and modernisation.” The entire country was looking at Bengal in 2011, Modi said. “Mamata Didi promised paribartan (change) in Bengal; people trusted her. Bangal mamata ki aash leke jee raha tha par dus saal use nirmamta mili. (People hoped for compassion but got heartlessness over the last decade). What Bengal got wasn’t the paribartan it hoped for but a rebirth of the Left.” “The rebirth of the Left is the rebirth of corruption, rebirth of crime and criminals, rebirth of violence, rebirth of attacks on democracy,” PM Modi told the crowd in Haldia, which had been a Left bastion for decades. He even told them that Tripura was on the growth path after years of “Left misgovernance”. Modi then tore into the Trinamool Congress, launching into a scathing attack against party chief and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “When you demand your rights from Didi, she gets angry, she gets confused. She even gets angry at ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ slogans. But when anti-nationals spew venom against the country, Didi never gets angry. These days you may have seen in the news how international conspiracies are coming to the fore to discredit India. Now it is being planned how to defame India, how to damage India’s reputation. Did you ever hear even a word against these conspiracies from Didi?... The country will respond to these conspiracies with all its might. Those who raise their voices saying ‘Ma Mati Manush’ now lack the courage to speak up for Bharat Mata. They lack courage because they have in all these years criminalised politics, institutionalised corruption and politicised administration and the police.” Without naming anyone, he once again brought up a pet BJP theme: “The Bua-Bhatija vaad (aunt-nephew nexus)”, he said, must end. Modi wondered whether the poor in Bengal were there “only for votes”. “There is corruption even during tragedies and disasters. People in Bengal know what they (the state govt) have done with the help Centre dispatched after Cyclone Amphan. Such was the situation that even the court had to make strong remarks. The Centre sent rations during corona, but the state did not send to the poor. I am thankful that people in Bengal had four crore Jan Dhan bank accounts; we could send money directly.” But Modi’s strongest attacks were against the non-implementation of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. “I am very pained that even during these difficult times, lakhs of farmers in Bengal did not get hundreds of crores under the PM Samman Nidhi. Till now, more than 10 crore marginal farmers have got Rs 1.15 lakh crore under this. Bengal refused to join this scheme and not a single farmer benefited.” Attacking Banerjee’s pro-farmer stance, he said: “More than 25 lakh farmers had applied to the TMC government for this scheme. The state has only finalised 6,000 beneficiaries. Even then we can’t send money to these 6,000 farmers, as the state has not provided the bank details of the state agency. They are ready to do politics over farmers but are insensitive to their needs. The farmers (in Bengal) have already decided that BJP will form the next government. And the first cabinet decision will be to implement this scheme in Bengal. All who have been denied the benefits will get their due.” Modi claimed only a “real change” could end corruption and extortion. “Bengal hasn’t implemented the National Educational Policy. It has not implemented Ayushman Bharat and one nation-one ration card scheme, which could have benefited workers employed outside the state. They have not implemented the seventh pay commission.” “People are watching.... The tolabaz (extortion) syndicates are guests for a few days. I hope Bengal’s local administration will uphold the Constitution. No one should fear the tolabazs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-should-vote-for-bjp-for-ashol-paribartan-modi/articleshow/80740565.cms||Suman Mondal
February 8, 2021||Ranchi||Chennai cops, Navy not cooperating: Kin of sailor||DALTONGANJ/RANCHI: Family members of Suraj Kumar Dubey, the 27-year-old navy sailor from Palamu who died in a Mumbai hospital on Friday night after he was burnt by his kidnappers at a forest in Palghar in Maharashtra, on Sunday accused Chennai police and Navy officials of non-cooperation in trying to ascertain the actual reason of how Dubey was burnt. Contesting the version of Palghar police who said Dubey, posted in Coimbatore, died in abduction for ransom gone wrong, the family members said they suspected the hand of one of Dubey's colleague in his death. Palghar police had said culprits abducted Dubey from Chennai airport and demanded Rs 10 lakh as a ransom to release him. In his dying declaration, Dubey had reportedly said the kidnappers burnt him after he refused to pay the amount. Talking to TOI, Saket Dubey, the younger brother of the deceased, said, "We had first contacted Chennai police soon after my brother went missing and requested them to register an FIR against his colleague who was in constant touch with my brother. However, they told us that they cannot file an FIR since my brother went missing during his journey from Jharkhand." They also contested the version of Palghar police who dubbed the incident was an outcome of abduction for ransom gone wrong. Palghar police had said that the deceased was abducted from Chennai for Rs 10 lakh ransom and was burnt in their jurisdiction after he denied acceding to their demands. Talking to TOI, Saket Dubey, younger brother of the deceased said, “We had first contacted Chennai police soon after my brother’s whereabouts were unknown. We requested them to register an FIR against a colleague of my brother who was in constant touch with him. However, they said that they couldn’t file an FIR as he had gone missing during his journey which he had started in Jharkhand.” Later, the family members had submitted a missing complaint report with Chainpur police station in Palamu on February 1 stating that they were not able to contact Dubey on his mobile number. They had told local police here that they had last spoken to Dubey around 6:45 pm on January 30 when he was supposed to board a flight to Chennai from Hyderabad. The father of the deceased, Mithilesh Kumar Dubey, said, “My son had left for his INS Agrani unit in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, on January 30 after availing one month’s leave. But his cellphone was switched off from 6.46 pm of January 30.” Palamu police said that their initial probe traced Dubey’s location to the airport metro station at Meenambakkam and later at the NSG camp under Otteri police station. SDPO (Palamu) K Vijay Shanker said, “I was in touch with my batchmate in Chennai who found out that a taxi driver named Sudhir had dropped Dubey at the NSG camp in Otteri.” Meanwhile, the family members also suspected the hand of Dubey's colleagues and claimed that they could not get any assistance from the naval unit of the deceased. Duey's elder brother Niraj Kumar Dubey said, "Officers of my unit said they will declare my brother an absconder as he had not rejoined from leave despite contacting one of the unit members. I had personally requested the commanding officer of my brother and sought his help to get the FIR registered against my brother's colleague in Chennai. Later on February 1, the commanding officer said my brother have stayed back in Chennai for a day and I should not worry. When I contacted Dharmendra Kumar, a colleague of my brother who was in constant touch with him, his attitude completely changed and he said that my brother was an absconder. This raised my suspicion.” On Palghar police's claim of murder because of Rs 10 lakh ransom, Niraj said, "How can it be a case of abduction for ransom when we never got a call for money? If the culprits wnt money, then they must have to contact us because the kidnapped cannot arrange and give them the money. We never had a call from the alleged culprits since my brother left home on January 30." Meanwhile, BJP MP from Palamu, V D Ram, has sent a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, demanding a CBI inquiry into the murder. Ram said, “I have requested Amit Shah ji for a CBI probe. This is a fit case for an inquiry by the central agency. The country has lost a young navy sailor in a mysterious condition.” The MP added that he had also written to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh for a high-level probe into the incident. “I requested the Union defence minister to initiate a joint probe by naval and police force,” he added. Congress MLA from Mahagama, Dipika Pandey Singh, too wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren demanding the state government’s intervention with its counterparts in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu for a detailed probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chennai-police-navy-officials-not-cooperating-in-finding-out-the-truth-behind-sailors-murder-family-members-of-deceased/articleshow/80738973.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: For kin of cops who fell in line of Covid duty, a shot of bittersweet memories||KOLKATA: Shots of hope will roll out on Monday for Kolkata’s cops, but for several among the first batch of recipients, relief and hope — at finally getting the vaccine — will be tinged with tears and sorrow. Among the 37,500 registered to receive the jab over the next few days will be a select group of men and women: wives, sons, daughters and brothers of Kolkata Police personnel who lost the battle against Covid-19. Now with the force after receiving jobs on compassionate grounds, these bereaved relatives will be queueing up for vaccination, wondering whether the shot could have saved their loved ones had it arrived “a little earlier” and praying it “wipes out the pandemic.” According to senior officers at Lalbazar, seven such names have been enlisted so far to receive the jab. Among them is the widow of an inspector and relatives of four constables, an assistant sub-inspector and a civic volunteer. All of them are posted at the headquarters. Kolkata Police has lost 23 personnel to Covid in the past 11 months. For Paromita Sardar, daughter of constable Dilip Sardar from the Sealdah traffic guard who died of Covid in June, the idea of vaccination seems like an emotional roller-coaster. “The vaccine will ensure that I can keep my family safe. I was one of the first to fill in the forms. I just wish it had arrived a bit earlier, before my father got infected. I think I will find it difficult to keep my emotions in check on that day,” she said. Sukanta Das, who got a job after his civic volunteer brother Subrata Das lost his life in July, says he has been waiting eagerly for this day. Das said: “My brother may have lost his life in this war but he had strong convictions. Till the last day, he believed we can defeat the pandemic. Given a chance, I will get everyone in the house vaccinated.” Posted at Lalbazar, Sukanta says he has seen from close quarters how the force has responded to the pandemic. “It gives me pride that my brother was a Covid warrior.” Rupa Mukherjee, wife of inspector Abhigyan Mukherjee, says she would like to wait and see how effective the vaccines are. “I have gone through a phase when test after test on my husband turned out negative. We had no idea he was affected with Covid. He worked till the last day. Like everyone else, I, too, am looking forward to a Covid-free society and the vaccine can be the most useful tool to achieve that. But, I will still personally wait a bit more for the results to show,” she said. The Lalbazar welfare cell, which has played a crucial role in ensuring treatment for 4,147 infected personnel in the Kolkata Police ranks, said they were motivating the kin of deceased employees to join the vaccination drive. “They will feel emotional. As Kolkata Police family, we will always stand by them and help them in every possible way,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-kin-of-cops-who-fell-in-line-of-cov-duty-a-shot-of-bittersweet-memories/articleshow/80740572.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||TMC takes aim at Howrah turncoats from the venue of their BJP debut||Howrah: Trinamool Congress condemned the turncoats from its Howrah unit who had a week ago made their BJP debut on the saffron party’s dais at Dumurjola stadium, the very venue from where Bengal’s ruling party launched its salvo on Sunday. Before the event, Trinamool cleansed with Gangajal the stadium where senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy had attended last Sunday’s rally. That day, Domjur MLA and former Trinamool minister Rajib Banerjee, Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya, former Howrah Municipal Corporation mayor Rathin Chakraborty and HMC former councillor Bani Singha Roywere present on the BJP dais. On Sunday, Trinamool’s Howrah district chairman Aroop Roy described Rajib and Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari as “Vibhishan and Mirjafar”, without naming them. He said people hated turncoats, as was the case with Mirjafar. “I hope the Domjur MLA, who quit Trinamool, will contest from the same seat. I will ensure he loses his deposit. There was some garbage that has left Trinamool. Now, the party is clean and people know the garbage,” said Roy, also the cooperative minister. “Mamata Banerjee’s development work will help Trinamool stay in power for the next 25 years,” he added. All 16 seats in Howrah district would go to Trinamool, Roy said. Taking a dig at Rajib, Roy’s party colleague and MP Kalyan Banerjee alleged: “The Domjur MLA, when he was irrigation minister, was happy with Mamata Banerjee but turned unhappy when he was made forest minister. His needs are contractors and a department with a huge budget allocation.” Taking on the BJP leadership, Banerjee said PM Narendra Modi and BJP president J P Nadda were trying to pose as Bengalis to impress voters. “It is difficult to be a Bengali, and you are not even a proper Hindu. You are making political gains by selling Ram-ji,” he said. “I request PM Modi-ji to be in Bengal the day poll results would be declared. Bengal people will reject BJP, and you should be here to witness it,” Banerjee added. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-takes-aim-at-howrah-turncoats-from-the-venue-of-their-bjp-debut/articleshow/80740554.cms||Rupak Banerjee
February 8, 2021||Kolkata||Centre should engage with farmers, not plant nails: TMC||Kolkata: The ruling Trinamool Congress on Sunday responded sharply to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “anti-farmer” barbs at CM Mamata Banerjee, saying it was Modi who was planting a barrier of nails, instead of talking to agitating farmers. The party also claimed that Modi’s allegation of non-implementation of central schemes was an attempt to divert attention from the lakhs of citizens who had been queuing up to avail themselves of the benefits of the government’s flagship programmes, ranging from free ration and healthcare to farmer support schemes. “Had the Centre been genuine about its intentions, it would have reached out to the thousands of protesting farmers in the national capital, out in the bitter cold, for 70 days,” said party MP Saugata Roy. “It would not have built a barrier of nails and walls. He (Modi) hasn’t found time to talk to the agitators even once.” Roy dismissed Modi’s claim about an “international conspiracy” against India, as Modi claimed in Haldia, saying it was “their (BJP’s) inability to comprehend their own people’s problems”. He added that the Trinamool “never endorsed pro-Khalistani slogans”, but spoke on farmers’ issues. “The Prime Minister is doing politics with farmers in Bengal. The PM Kisan beneficiaries have enlisted with the Centre. Bengal has said that the scheme funds should be given to the state treasury, which would be sent to the farmers’ accounts. They are not doing it for politics.” He said Bengal was providing farmers cash benefits under its own Krishak Bandhu scheme. The party also took on the PM for attending “political programmes at taxpayers’ expense”. Trinamool general secretary Partha Chatterjee said: “Shocking to see how the Prime Minister is using taxpayers’ money to spread his political agenda in West Bengal, right before elections.” Roy said the Bengal government was already providing free ration to all. “It is now implementing the universal health care insurance scheme, Swasthya Sathi. Now the chief minister is taking governance to people’s doorsteps through her Duare Sarkar programme.... Whenever BJP faces trouble, they fall back on nationalism and religion. The people of Bengal will show a red card to BJP , which will not be able to reach a three-digit figure (at the polls).” Referring to the PM’s “Ram card,” Roy said: “It is known that BJP shows religious cards when they fail to perform.” He also refuted the PM’s charge that the chief minister had objected to ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ slogans. He said the CM had merely said that ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans were inappropriate at a government function. About the PM’s alleged Amphan funds misuse, Roy said the state government had spent “much more on relief and rehabilitation” than the Centre’s two tranches of Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 2,600 crore. “The loss is pegged at nearly Rs 1 lakh crore. They will not release funds but allege fund misuse,” he said. “There is also no ‘match-fixing’,” Roy said, referring to another of Modi’s charge. “It was BJP that had got CPM votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He said Bua-Bhatija Sarkar, but it is Mamata Banerjee’s government. Abhishek Banerjee is not part of the government, but is a Trinamool MP and a youth leader.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centre-should-engage-with-farmers-not-plant-nails-tmc/articleshow/80740568.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: SHE to help fight crimes against women||VADODARA: Don’t be worried as how to file a complaint against sexual harassment any more. ‘SHE’ will not only help you lodge the complaint against the perpetrator, but will also counsel you. In a bid to focus on problems faced by women in the city solely, the city police has decided to start a special centre under its SHE team initiative in the Police Bhavan. “One of the key motives of this proposed centre is to encourage women to approach the police if they face any crime. This centre will focus on giving a conducive environment for the women to file complaint or narrate their harrowing experiences,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. Women will also be counselled by a team of policemen that are being trained to handle the victims. Singh said that L&T has given in-principle approval for sponsoring the cost of the centre. “A technical data centre is also on cards for storing details of all the cases we register. We won’t just keep records of the cases but also the action taken by cops that will help us in improving our reaction to such incidents,” Singh told TOI. A police sub-inspector and four cops have been assigned the work of recording all the data. “We recently booked a man under PASA after a woman approached our SHE team and complained against him. Investigations revealed that he was involved a similar crime in the past,” he added. “But this centre and SHE team is not just about the crimes. We are also offering help to women including the senior citizens,” Singh said. On January 29, the SHE team took an ill senior citizen to hospital as she was alone at her home. Singh himself has visited homes of many senior citizens, especially women, to ensure that his team is looking after them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/she-to-help-fight-crimes-against-women/articleshow/80737833.cms||Tushar Tere
February 8, 2021||India||Kisan unions not responding to govt proposals: Goyal||NEW DELHI: Consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the Centre was ready to engage with farmers’ unions but added that the representatives were not responding to proposals to fix problems, if any, with the farm laws. “The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has said the government is a phone call away but someone has to call to talk or move ahead. If farmers have any objection to the laws, then let us know and the government is willing to address that,” the minister said, adding that the central government had proposed to suspend implementation of the laws for 18 months to address concerns. While condemning the incidents by certain protestors on Republic Day, he said some farmers had been misled on some issues. Besides, he said the laws were for farmers across the country, with a large number of them having small holdings. “Farmers have been confused and the government has proposed to clear the confusion. We have given option after option to address their concerns. But when I heard in media reports ‘tareekh par tareekh’, which is actually wrong, it must be said that the Centre has given proposal after proposal,” Goyal, who is a key member of the negotiating team, said. He added that the new farm bills had been introduced to boost income levels and had been welcomed across the country. Goyal, who also holds the railways portfolio, said a date for launch of the bullet train from Mumbai to Ahmedabad would be finalised after the Maharashtra government, which has gone slow on land acquisition, moves ahead with the most crucial aspect of the high-profile project. “Bullet train is delayed due to virtual stopping of land acquisition in Maharashtra. The PM had also flagged it during a Pragati meeting (with top officials from state and central government). Gujarat has made nearly 90% land available, while Maharashtra has not done even onethird. We had to start with the Gujarat leg of the project and tenders are getting awarded now,” he said. Goyal said the announcements in the budget had seen a massive allocation for capex by the railways to over Rs 2.1 lakh crore, from Rs 40,000-45,000 crore a few years ago, which will boost demand in other sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kisan-unions-not-responding-to-govt-proposals-goyal/articleshow/80740995.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chennai||Woman, 2 kids die in suicide gas blast in Chennai||CHENNAI: In what appears to be a case of suicide, a woman killed herself and her two children at her house in an apartment complex in New Washermenpet late on Saturday. Police said she opened the knob of a gas cylinder and placed it in her bedroom. Moments later, she set herself and her two daughters ablaze. While her two daughters – aged three and eight months respectively – were charred to death instantly, the woman succumbed at the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital on Sunday. The deceased woman was identified as Anuradha, 24, a native of Bihar. She was married to Ansar Kumar,40, who runs a steel factory at Manali. The couple lived at Prince Village apartments on Elaya Street, New Washermenpet. Anuradha is Ansar’s second wife and the couple had two children – three-year-old Sithara and eight-month-old Tanya. Kumar left for his workplace on Saturday afternoon. He also took his mother Sharda for an errand. At 5.30 pm, Anuradha locked up her front door. Police believe she took her LPG cylinder from her kitchen and placed it in her bedroom, and opened its knob. Minutes later, she lit a matchbox, which resulted in a powerful blast. Hearing the cries of the children, her neighbours rushed to help but saw her house on fire. They informed fire and rescue services personnel at Tondiarpet, who managed to put out the blaze in 30 minutes. They two children were charred beyond recognition, while Anuradha was and to a hospital where she passed away of burn injuries. A preliminary investigation revealed that Ansar had demanded a sum of ?10 lakh from Anuradha to help him expand his business. Since Anuradha’s family refused to pay him money, he picked up frequent quarrels with her, neighbours said. There were several instances when he even physically abused her, police said Two days ago, Anuradha reported the matter to her sister’s husband, who tried to console her. Police said they did not find any suicide note but believe the woman was driven to death because of her husband’s demand for money. Based on a complaint from the woman’s family, police booked Kumar and remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-2-kids-die-in-suicide-gas-blast-in-chennai/articleshow/80741006.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||Dorsey ‘likes’ pro-stir tweets, govt questions ‘neutrality’ of Twitter||NEW DELHI: Twitter founder Jack Dorsey's decision to 'like' some of the tweets made in support of farmers protests has not gone down well with the government which feels the act raises questions over the neutrality of the micro-blogging platform. "If the founder of Twitter is openly taking sides, it does raise questions over the neutrality of the platform and how it deals with India's requests related to the subject," a top source in the government said. Dorsey had liked a few tweets which supported international singer Rihanna's stand on the ongoing farmers' protest against the new agricultural laws. The tweets liked by Dorsey included the ones by Washington Post journalist Karen Attiah, who claimed in a tweet that "Rihanna has the Indian government shook". In another tweet, Attaih demanded a dedicated emoji for the ongoing farmers' protests in India just like it did in the case of the Black Lives Matter protest after George Floyd's brutal killing. Meanwhile, amidst the growing tensions between Twitter and the Indian government, a senior functionary of the company (Mahima Kaul, the India and South Asia public policy director) has quit, though the micro-blogging platform said there was no connection between the developments and her resignation. "At the start of this year, Kaul decided to step down from her role... to take a well-deserved break. It's a loss for all of us at Twitter, but after more than five years in the role we respect her desire to focus on the most important people and relationships in her personal life. Mahima will continue in her role till the end of March and will support the transition," Monique Meche, VP, Public Policy at Twitter, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dorsey-likes-pro-stir-tweets-govt-questions-neutrality-of-twitter/articleshow/80741043.cms||Pankaj Doval
February 8, 2021||Jammu||Jammu and Kashmir: Magnitude-3.5 earthquake hits Gulmarg||GULMARG: An earthquake of magnitude 3.5 on the Richter scale occurred in Gulmarg of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday morning, according to the National Centre for Seismology.  "Earthquake of Magnitude 3.5, Occurred on February 8, 04:56am, Lat: 34.22 & Long: 73.61, Depth: 30 Km, Location: 73km WNW of Gulmarg, Jammu and Kashmir, India for more information," NCS said.  No loss of life and property has been reported so far. Further details are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/earthquake-of-magnitude-3-5-hits-jammu-and-kashmirs-gulmarg/articleshow/80741108.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Indore||I’ve faith in judiciary, says Munawar Faruqui||INDORE: Soon after his release from prison late Saturday night, 36 hours after Supreme Court granted interim bail, stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui said he trusts the judicial system. In a video message, Munawar said, “I have faith in the judiciary and in law. I am confident I will get justice. I would not like to comment further on this issue at the moment.” Sources say his cousin drove him to Junagarh, Gujarat, 700km from Indore. The stand-up comedian, arrested on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, had been denied bail twice in a local court and then HC before getting bail in SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ive-faith-in-judiciary-says-munawar-faruqui/articleshow/80741125.cms||Karishma Kotwal
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||Zero Covid death in MP, first time in 10 months||BHOPAL: It was a day when zero meant a lot — a lot of hope. There was not a single Covid death in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, according to the health bulletin — the first time since April 2. With Corona count dropping every day and MP topping the states in vaccination coverage, the pandemic seems to have been pushed on the back foot. The first Covid death in MP was reported on March 25 in Ujjain. Since then, the toll has reached 3,820 — at an average of nearly 12 a day. In mid-April, MP had the highest death rate, with every 19th Coronavirus dying from the infection. In December 2020, MP had the fifth highest death rate. It’s a stunning recovery with the mortality count remaining in the single digit almost since the beginning of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/zero-covid-death-in-mp-first-time-in-10-months/articleshow/80741134.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||Weeks after reopening, ragging continues to haunt MP colleges||BHOPAL: Ragging continues to haunt college campuses in Madhya Pradesh. Sample this: Even during 2020, when most of the colleges were closed, MP stood second in ragging complaints. The situation is the same in 2021 as well. Within a month, eight complaints have been filed, which is the second highest in the country. Two days ago, a Bhopal court convicted four senior girl students for ragging their junior and forcing her to commit suicide in 2013. The court awarded a 5-year jail term to the accused students. Those who have been convicted include Dipti Solanki, Divyanshi Sharma, Nidhi Magre and Kriti Gaur. The court acquitted a teaching faculty. Even when it comes to the total number of complaints filed on the anti-ragging helpline since 2009, MP stood third in the country with 766 complaints. UP tops the list with 1,214 complaints, while West Bengal is on the second spot with 809 complaints. As per the UGC anti-ragging helpline data, 23 complaints were filed in 2020. UP had the highest ragging complaints with 35 complaints filed. The data revealed that 132 ragging complaints were filed in MP in 2019. This was also the highest number of complaints filed from MP ever since UGC started the online complaint facility in 2009. Before this, 104 and 100 complaints were filed from MP in 2018 and 2017 respectively. In the past four years, ragging complaints have been on the rise. Only in 2012, MP had 32 ragging complaints, the lowest number of complaints. Experts said that the time has come for the state to have its own legislation against ragging like other states have done. The neighbouring state of Maharashtra, where the number of ragging incidents had gone up in the late 90s, had introduced the Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act 1999 to check the menace. Bhopal district court lawyer, Deepak Gour, said in the absence of legislation, there is no fear among the perpetrators. “There is no deterrence in this situation. It is tough to handle the situation in the absence of state legislation,” said Gour. “Ragging is rampant in colleges and there should be a state legislation,” he emphasized. On the contrary, states where such anti-ragging laws are available have managed to tackle the situation. “A state like Andhra Pradesh has its own state anti-ragging law. It is called Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Act 1997. Last year, MP had witnessed 23 cases, while Andhra had seen only three cases and no case so far in 2021. There is a need to have a state anti-ragging law,” said a senior faculty. In most cases, the accused either escaped unpunished or was awarded nominal monetary penalty and suspension from hostel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/weeks-after-reopening-ragging-continues-to-haunt-mp-colleges/articleshow/80741190.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 8, 2021||India||‘Madagascar wants to deepen defence relations with India’||Complementing India’s efforts to expand its presence in the western Indian Ocean, a region of increasing strategic significance for global powers, the island nation of Madagascar is pitching for stronger defence ties with India, saying the latter provides a security umbrella to countries in the region. Visiting Madagascar defence minister Richard Rakotonirina tells Sachin Parashar his country wants to gain from India through joint military exercises, capacity building and establishment of a semaphore system on the coast for white shipping. Excerpts from the interview:Could you talk a bit about the significance of Madagascar’s participation in the IOR conclave hosted by India.This visit is a response to the invitation of the Indian government to visit Aero India Expo and it was also an occasion to participate in the conclave of ministers of defence of Indian Ocean Region organised by Indian defence ministry. The aim of this conclave was to harmonise the views of neighbouring IOR countries’ defence ministers, to see together how to consolidate cooperation in Indian Ocean, whether in the sector of defence or in humanitarian economy, blue economy, in prosperity. What role do you see India playing in Indian Ocean Region, more specifically in the western Indian Ocean?India is a key player in the Indian Ocean. First of all because it is a superpower in terms of demography, in terms of economy and in military power. India is a leader in terms of regional security and economic cooperation, whether bilateral or multilateral, in the field of culture. India is now a member of the UNSC and thus represents the southern countries. We can’t ignore that India is among founding members of Non Aligned Movement. India and Madagascar had signed an MoU for defence cooperation. What are your expectations from India in terms of defence cooperation?For Indian Ocean countries, India represents a security umbrella which maintains peace and prosperity in the area. Indeed, one MoU was signed earlier between India and Madagascar. We would like deepening of defence cooperation, in maritime sector specifically, through transfer of Indian expertise to Malagasy National Navy. We want to consolidate defence cooperation through the setting up of a semaphore system on the coasts of Madagascar through white shipping (agreement). All that requires the creation of a Malagasy-Indian joint commission. Madagascar specially expects (to gain) from India through capacity building, through joint military exercises. India is a maritime superpower in the region, its presence is critical to serenity of this region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/madagascar-wants-to-deepen-defence-relations-with-india/articleshow/80741218.cms||Sachin Parashar
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Spoil your MLA’s peace of mind, govt will collapse: Farm leader||Kitlana Toll Plaza (Bhiwani): Asserting that the agitation against the Centre's farm laws is going strong, farm union leaders on Sunday urged the farmers to build pressure on their area MLAs to support their cause and also remain vigilant against those trying to divide them to weaken the movement. Addressing a jam-packed mahapanchayat organised at Bhiwani’s Kitlana toll plaza, BKU ( Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “We built so much pressure in Punjab that Akali MP Harsimrat Badal withdrew her support to the BJP-led NDA at the Centre. The same needs to be done by the farmers in Haryana.” Targeting the junior alliance partner in Haryana’s BJP-JJP combine government, he added, “You all need to spoil the peace of mind of your elected MLAs, who took your votes and joined the BJP by going against the people’s mandate. Once farmers adopt this stance against the JJP MLAs, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government will collapse within two days. And the day the Haryana government falls, the (Narendra) Modi government (at the Centre) will come crashing down.” Expressing similar sentiments, farm leader Darshan Pal Singh said “the BJP-JJP government has lost the right to stay in power as it let down the people.” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who was also present on the occasion, warned against alleged attempts to weaken the stir by calling it the agitation of Punjab and Haryana. Praising Rajewal for providing sound leadership to the stir and assuring full support to the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, he told the huge gathering, “The government will leave no stone unturned to create a wedge between the people by calling the agitation Sikhs versus others, or Jat versus others. I am proud of my Sikh brothers from Punjab, who are leading this agitation and their decision will the final.” Referring to the Republic Day incidents at the Red Fort, he said the youth were misguided by the government agencies to give ‘Kisan Andolan’ a bad name. He also lauded the role of Haryana khap panchayats in strengthening the stir. Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu faced opposition from the crowd when he tried to downplay the resignation of INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala from the legislative assembly in support of farmers. Among others present on the occasion were Dadri independent MLA Sombir Sangwan, Meham MLA Balraj Kundu along with various khap leaders. However, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni was conspicuous by his absence. Taking a lesson from the Jind mahapanchayat, where the stage had collapsed, the organisers had brick-lined the stage this time. Also, breaking from tradition, a special lane was created for women to sit in the mahapanchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spoil-your-mlas-peace-of-mind-govt-will-collapse-farm-leader/articleshow/80740315.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Campaign intensifies for release of activist Nodeep||Bathinda: Days after her bail application was rejected by a Sonipat court, a campaign has been launched for the release of Dalit labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur. With niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, Meena Harris, mentioning Nodeep, in a tweet on Saturday, more and more have raised the issue with hashtag #SpeakUpForNodeep trending on Twitter. The democratic rights organisations, trade unions, farmer organisations and student activists are demanding release of the activist who was arrested on January 12. Nodeep is facing case for attempt to murder and extortion for allegedly assaulting police and demanding money from factory owners. Hailing from Gyandar village under Kakhuwali Mandi police station in Muktsar Sahib of Punjab, 23-year-old Nodeep is a member of Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan at Sonipat. She was working in a factory at Kundli but was sacked in December, allegedly for participating in the farm protests at nearby Singhu. The Sonipat court had rejected her bail plea on February 2 and now the family is going to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court for bail. He family said she and other members from Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan had joined the protests to express solidarity with the farmers and to raise issue of payments to workers in Kundli industrial area. Meena’s tweet claimed that Nodeep was sexually assaulted. Nodeep’ sister Rajvir Kaur, a research scholar at Delhi University, also alleged that her sister was tortured and physically assaulted while in custody. “Nodeep had told me so when I visited her in jail on January 13. She was arrested to stop her from raising voice for payment of unpaid wages to near 300 workers in Kundli and to break growing solidarity between workers and the peasantry at Singhu border.” Farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann and Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh said that police should stop harassing those supporting the struggle. “Nodeep was supporting the protest and was raising her voice for which she is paying the price. But we all are with those supporting the struggle,” they said. On the other hand, police have denied the charges of torture and illegal detention, saying these allegations were being levelled as an afterthought. She was kept in custody accompanied by two female police personnel for the period she stayed in police custody and was medically examined, police have said. The case against her was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by one Lalit Khurana, who works as an accountant with Elecmech Private Ltd, Kundli. The complaint alleged that Nodeep, along with two other women and more than 50 men, stormed the company office and demanded money. When police was informed, three cops who reached the spot were allegedly assaulted by the the group. The police have said Nodeep was facing two other serious criminal cases too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/campaign-intensifies-for-release-of-activist-nodeep/articleshow/80740326.cms||Neel Kamal
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Delhi cops arrest 61-year-old accused of Red Fort violence||CHANDIGARH: The Delhi Police crime branch on Sunday arrested a Karnal resident from Chandigarh’s Industrial Area Phase 1 accused of violence at Red Fort in Delhi on January 26. The Delhi Police had earlier announced an award of Rs 50,000 for his arrest. After arresting the 61-year-old, identified as Sukhdev Singh, the Delhi police crime branch team informed the Industrial Area Phase 1 police and took the accused to Delhi. The Delhi cops were following Sukhdev Singh’s car and intercepted him near the Centra Mall traffic lights. They nabbed him after taking his car into their custody. After this, the Delhi team went to the local police station and informed the cops there about the Karnal man’s arrest. The Chandigarh police have registered a DDR in the case. The Delhi crime branch team was searching for Sukhdev Singh, who had been identified after scrutinizing video footage of violence. Delhi Police had released photographs of 70 suspects accused of involvement in the violence at Red Fort and other parts of Delhi during the tractor parade on the Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-cops-arrest-61-year-old-accused-of-red-fort-violence/articleshow/80740346.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Many JJP leaders give into pressure and support farmers||Hisar: Many leaders of Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), a ruling coalition partner in Haryana, are feeling the pressure to support the farmers protesting against the three central agriculture marketing laws. JJP state spokesperson and president of the Hisar Bar Association (HBA), Mandeep Bishnoi, Rajmal Kajal, member of the party’s national executive and national president of Kajla Khap, as well as the party’s active worker Anu Sura are among those who came out openly in support of the farmers. Advocate Bishnoi, as the president of HBA, has been sitting on a dharna in the court premises in support of farmers for several days now. According to him, the interest of the farmer is everything for JJP and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has met the Prime Minister and home minister many times to speak on behalf of farmers and is constantly striving to sort the farmers’ issues, he said. Bishnoi said the central government should resolve the deadlock that has been going on for the last two and a half months with a solution soon. Similarly, Kajal, on behalf of Kajla Khap announced his support to the farmers. He also had given his support to the farmers’ chakka jam. He also said his party has always been in support of the farmers. Similarly, Sura has been actively participating in the dharna at the Chaudharywas toll with farmers for a long time. Sura was earlier in the Aam Aadmi Party and had joined the JJP before the last assembly election. She said she is also a farmer, a good enough reason for her to support the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/many-jjp-leaders-give-into-pressure-and-support-farmers/articleshow/80740333.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Bhopal||Eight held from MP, UP & Chhattisgarh for trafficking||BHOPAL: Cops from MP and Chhattisgarh busted an inter-state gang of human traffickers with the arrest of eight people from Uttar Pradesh, besides the two states. Police got to the accused while tracing a missing teen, who was sold off to a person with learning disabilities in Lalitpur. The teenager from Chhattisgarh, who eventually committed suicide, was sold five times before being sold to a person in Lalitpur, UP for Rs 70,000. The victim hailed from Kansabel village in Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh. Women trafficking has been going for long in Bundelkhand region because of its skewed sex ration. The sex ratio of Chattarpur is 900. A number of cases were reported from Odisha where girls were sold out to the families looking for brides. Investigations in the present case started after Chhattisgarh police reached Chhatarpur with a case of a missing girl, 18. Chhattisgarh cops told their counterpart in Chhatarpur that she was taken away by Ajay and Asha Toppo, residents of Chhatarpur in July last year after luring the teen’s family and promising her a job. Toppo couple lives in Gadhimalehara. Superintendent of police Chhatarpur Sachin Sharma said, “Interrogation revealed that the couple accused had brought the girl from Jashpur to Chhatarpur promising her a job and later sold her for Rs 20,000 to Kallu Raikwar 7 months ago.” “Finally, Santosh Kushwah bought the victim for Rs 70,000. She was forcefully married to Babloo Kushwah, who is mentally challenged. She committed suicide two months after marriage in Lalitpur,” he said. Between Raikwar and Kushwah families, the girl was sold three more times. Further investigation is on. After Jashpur police reached Chhatarpur, an SIT was formed to trace the girl leading to the arrest of Ajay and Asha. Besides, Harendra Singh, Rajpal Singh, Deshraj Kushwah and Munna Kushwah were also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eight-held-from-mp-up-chhattisgarh-for-trafficking/articleshow/80741243.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Raipur||Eight held from MP, UP & Chhattisgarh for trafficking||BHOPAL: Cops from MP and Chhattisgarh busted an inter-state gang of human traffickers with the arrest of eight people from Uttar Pradesh, besides the two states. Police got to the accused while tracing a missing teen, who was sold off to a person with learning disabilities in Lalitpur. The teenager from Chhattisgarh, who eventually committed suicide, was sold five times before being sold to a person in Lalitpur, UP for Rs 70,000. The victim hailed from Kansabel village in Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh. Women trafficking has been going for long in Bundelkhand region because of its skewed sex ration. The sex ratio of Chattarpur is 900. A number of cases were reported from Odisha where girls were sold out to the families looking for brides. Investigations in the present case started after Chhattisgarh police reached Chhatarpur with a case of a missing girl, 18. Chhattisgarh cops told their counterpart in Chhatarpur that she was taken away by Ajay and Asha Toppo, residents of Chhatarpur in July last year after luring the teen’s family and promising her a job. Toppo couple lives in Gadhimalehara. Superintendent of police Chhatarpur Sachin Sharma said, “Interrogation revealed that the couple accused had brought the girl from Jashpur to Chhatarpur promising her a job and later sold her for Rs 20,000 to Kallu Raikwar 7 months ago.” “Finally, Santosh Kushwah bought the victim for Rs 70,000. She was forcefully married to Babloo Kushwah, who is mentally challenged. She committed suicide two months after marriage in Lalitpur,” he said. Between Raikwar and Kushwah families, the girl was sold three more times. Further investigation is on. After Jashpur police reached Chhatarpur, an SIT was formed to trace the girl leading to the arrest of Ajay and Asha. Besides, Harendra Singh, Rajpal Singh, Deshraj Kushwah and Munna Kushwah were also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/eight-held-from-mp-up-chhattisgarh-for-trafficking/articleshow/80741244.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Cotton witnessed big jump in procurement in January||BATHINDA: Even as farmers’ struggle against the three central farm laws continues, the raw cotton purchases witnessed a big jump in January in three northern states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. In January, 37.95 lakh bales (1 bale= 170 kilogram) were purchased from these three states, whereas in the previous combined three months of October, November and December only 15.90 lakh bales were purchased. Out of the total purchases in the three months till January 2021, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has made almost half the procurement, as per the data compiled by trading body Indian Cotton Association Limited (ICAL). The ICAL has prepared the estimated target of the purchase of 62.10 lakh bales in these states and out of it 53.85 lakh bales have been purchased so far, 86.71% of the set target. Out of the purchase of 53.85 lakh bales, CCI has purchased 24.76 lakh bales. Punjab witnessed highest procurement by CCI as it bought 5.10 lakh bales or 61.90% out of total 8.24 lakh bales bought in the state. In Haryana, CCI procured 10.52 lakh bales out of total purchase of 18.49 lakh bales. CCI has made relatively less purchases in Rajasthan at only 33.70% or 9.14 lakh bales out of total purchase of 27.12 lakh bales. Till December 2020, only 2.24 lakh bales were purchased and in January, 6 lakh bales have been purchased in Punjab taking the figure of purchase to 8.24 lakh bales out of target of 10.20 lakh bales. In Haryana, 6 lakh bales were purchased till December 2020 and 12.49 lakh bales in January, have been purchased taking the figure to 18.49 lakh bales out of the target of 21.05 lakh bales. In Rajasthan, till December 2020, 7.67 lakh bales were purchased but in January 19.45 lakh bales have been purchased, taking the count to 27.12 lakh bales out of the target of 30.85 lakh bales. (See table) Till January 31, the total of 53.85 lakh bales have been purchased both by CCI and private traders, whereas in the previous cotton purchasing season total 51.27 lakh bales were purchased till January 31. ICAL president Mahesh Sharda said, “Cotton is being purchased on bigger scale by CCI, private traders and factory owners. Some of the cotton purchases have been made above the minimum support price (MSP) at nearly Rs 6,000 per quintal though initially the cotton was purchased at Rs 4,700- Rs 4,800 per quintal. The MSP of 27.5-28.5 MM long staple cotton is Rs 5,725 per quintal with 8% moisture content.”  An official of Punjab agriculture department said that the cotton purchases were satisfactory and faster than previous season. It is expected that the arrival and purchases may be completed by March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cotton-witnessed-big-jump-in-procurement-in-jan/articleshow/80740353.cms||Neel Kamal
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest internal matter, don’t comment: Khattar to int’l celebs||Karnal: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Sunday, advised international celebrities to avoid making comments on the ongoing farmers’ protest in India, saying that it is an internal matter and they should not interfere in it. The chief minister was in Karnal on Sunday to lay the foundation stones of 24 development projects worth Rs 86 crore during a programme at Vikash Bhawan. Reacting to international celebrities like Mia Khalifa and Rihanna’s tweets on farmers’ protest, Khattar said, “No one should interfere in the internal matter of any country. There is a democratic system in India. Farmers are our own people and we will sort this issue out amicably. Hence, they should avoid making comments on the ongoing farmers’ protest.” He said the Centre is ready for talks with farmers and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made it clear that he is a phone call away. Therefore, he said, they should come forward to continue talks with the government to resolve the issue. The issue is also being discussed in Parliament. In my point of view, it will be resolved soon, Khattar said. He inaugurated 18 projects costing Rs 62.47 crore, and laid the foundation stones of six projects worth Rs 10.7 crore. Khattar also flagged off Super Sucker Machine from Vikash Bhavan. He also resumed the Rahgiri programme, which had been discontinued for almost 10 months due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-protest-internal-matter-dont-comment-khattar-to-intl-celebs/articleshow/80740357.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Nashik||At 10°C, Nashik coldest city in Maharashtra on Sunday||NASHIK: Among all the cities in Maharashtra, Nashik recorded the lowest minimum temperature at 10 degrees celsius on Sunday making it the coldest in the state. Close behind were Jalgaon and Pune cities. Niphad, a major grape-growing belt, however, was even colder at 7.2 degrees celsius on Sunday. While Jalgaon city recorded a minimum of 10.4 degrees celsius — a departure of 2 degrees from normal — Pune was the third coldest city in Maharashtra with a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees celsius, a departure of 1 degree. Nashik city has been experiencing temperature fluctuations over the past few days. On Saturday, the minimum temperature was12 degree celsius, and it was 13.6 degrees celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature in Nashik city, however, increased from Saturday’s 27.2 degrees celsius to 28.3 degrees celsius on Sunday. The minimum temperature in Niphad on Sunday was significantly lower than the 10 degrees celsius recorded here on Saturday. The minimum temperature here had dropped to 6.5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-10c-nashik-coldest-city-in-maharashtra-on-sunday/articleshow/80741259.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Protesters break barriers to unite against farm laws||SHAHJAHANPUR KHERA (REWARI): The weather is different. Many have never experienced the cold, much less out in the open in makeshift shelters. The food is different - but the goal is the same. At Shahjahanpur, farmers from across the country have displayed remarkable resilience and cooperation. Gurbani, bhajans, Hindu prayers and patriotic songs are sung three times a day. Avid discussions on the state of affairs are also a routine affair.  Barring a few incidents in January, when a group of farmers from Punjab-Rajasthan borders breached barricading to reach Bawal turning point, no untoward incident has been reported from this front. “All those here have a generally calm mindset. In the morning, prayer assemblies and meeting sessions are held to discuss the latest developments in Parliament, other states and other borders. One person is in touch with the police and local administration of both the states,’’ said Amra Ram, president of All India Kisan Sabha and coordinator of this agitation point of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. He added that even traffic movement has not been impeded here as the protesters are camping on an overbridge. There are around 500 temporary tents or trolleys being used as makeshift shelters on the one and a half kilometre long overbridge on this stretch of Jaipur-Delhi national highway. The community kitchen is stocked with groceries and milk from NCR districts and Rajasthan. “Desi” water geysers and bottled water have been provided. Hoardings used as tableaux during the parade have been placed on the road here. “These hoardings were used in our parade. We went up to Bawal and returned from the same point. Yoginder Yadav ji led the parade and he visits frequently,’’ said Sanjay Madhav, convenor of the Rajasthan unit of All India Kisan Sabha and the local coordinator. Special arrangements have been made for farmer leaders from Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Goa, Odisha and western and southern states of the country. Most of the farmers are from Rajasthan. Those from other states arrived by train from Bhiwadi, Alwar and New Delhi. “We are not here for our own sake but for generations to come, therefore, there is no question of going back. Even in our villages, we live in the same conditions,’’ said 70-year-old Jodha Singh Warraich from 28 GB Chak Sri Vijay Nagar tehsil of Sri Ganganagar. He added that they have made special efforts to provide a conducive atmosphere for the women and children camping here. 24X7 community kitchensSweetened milk in the morning and evening, vegetables, daal, chapati, rice and lassi are available at all times. There is also a steady supply of snacks and sweets like laddu, jalebi, bread pakoras and tea. The kitchens are manned by a gurdwara from Kota and Baba Joga Singh group from Chak 40 GB Vijayanagar. These kitchens cater to 3,000 to 5,000 protesters, who are camping here or visiting. Gas stoves, electric tandoor, pressure cookers, chapati making machines and other equipment is being used. Since procurement of drinking water is a major challenge, kitchens use tank water for cooking and packaged water bottles for drinking. “Depending on the ration and vegetables in store, we consult the local committee and prepare langar accordingly. We have everything for everybody, especially those who are heart or diabetes patients. A team of sewadars looks after those on medication or those who fall sick here. This is in addition to langar sewa,’’ said Dalbir Singh, one of the sewadars from the Vijayanagar team. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a sewadar from Gurdwara Sahib, Kota talked about coordination of two kitchens and preparation of food for people from other states. “They prefer rice and pulses. Either we take their help or they accommodate us,’’ he said. A united front The presence of farmers from eastern, western and southern regions of the country has made this protest site a unique one. Besides visits by activists like Medha Patkar, farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Kerala are camping here. Many of them are not accustomed to the cold and are not familiar with the language. “Since we are all sailing in the same boat, the mission comes first, so there are no issues,’’ said Jose Gregory, a farmer leader from Alleppey, Kerala. Jose has been camping here with a group of around 50 members. “Due to the language issue, we rely on expressions and body language to figure out what is being said. Now that we have been here for around a month, we have started understanding their language,” he said. Jose Yameshwar Samantary from a village in Bhubneshwar, Odisha said, “This agitation is a lifetime experience for us. People here are really cooperative. Someone accompanies us when we go to markets of Rewari and Bhiwadi. They try their best to make food which suits our requirements or they make material available for us.’’ Jagroop Singh, a farmer from Kota said, “We do not have issues with anybody. We understand them through their body language and gestures. Rest, we also know a little of English, so we can converse.’’ Cops ready but relaxed As Delhi Police takes the blame for heavy and multi-layered barricading on the borders, Haryana Police has also felt the heat. The first layer comprises concrete slabs and barbed wire, followed by a company of cops armed with batons and tear gas guns. The second layer comprises ITBP and CISF Jawans armed with anti-riot gear and the third layer is of Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel. Anti riot vehicles with tear gas lobbing guns and water cannons are also stationed. Besides, earth has been dug up and slabs have been placed on green belts. “These are precautionary measures to ensure that the law and order situation remains under control,’’ said Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal. There are only a handful of personnel from Bhiwadi police district, Rajasthan. The party is deployed at the epicentre, on the overbridge. Some are also deployed on slip roads. They looked visibly relaxed. “They are a peaceful and disciplined lot. Since they have been here for a long time, we really don’t have issues with them. Rather, we are trying to facilitate them,’’ said R M Joshi, SP, Bhiwadi police district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesters-break-barriers-of-language-climate-in-common-cause-against-laws/articleshow/80740365.cms||Manvir Saini
February 8, 2021||India||Govt overlooks glacier studies, claim experts||DEHRADUN: In 2017, scientists at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) had filed a detailed report on floods in the Himalayas, including the Nanda Devi Valley. This was among many reports on glaciers in the region that were never considered for any new power project. “We fail as scientists when the government overlooks our suggestions and assessments,” Pradeep Srivastava, senior scientist at the institute who had led the 2017 study, told TOI on Sunday, hours after a glacier broke off, fell into the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers, and swept through villages. “The primary reason these disasters strike is that the concerned authorities don’t pay heed to scientific advice while setting up power projects on rivers that originate from glaciers, like the one on the Rishiganga.” The spaces where scientific advice can come from is also shrinking. “India does not have a single institute that can assess the current state of glaciers. WIHG had a Centre for Glaciology, which was shut down last year,” DP Dobhal, a retired scientist from WIHG who had headed the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy evaluation, told TOI. In Uttarakhand, with its estimated 12-GW hydropower potential (the country’s second highest after Arunachal Pradesh), this is especially important. But how new power projects over glacier-fed rivers are approved is something scientists said they were wary of. Srivastava said, “The government does not consider any glacier study while setting up a new power project in the hills. It should be mandatory … If we filed reports, they would not be considered.” The government agency which monitors the upper Himalayas through satellite data, meanwhile, said these events cannot be predicted with certainty. MPS Bisht, director of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre, said, “Natural calamities can never be ascertained by anyone. However, research and ground assessments can help save lives and public property.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-overlooks-glacier-studies-claim-experts/articleshow/80741273.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 8, 2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad to carry out immunisation drive soon||NOIDA: The National Health Mission (NHM) has directed 37 districts of the state, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, to carry out an intensive immunisation drive later this month to ensure vaccination of children who could not avail the facility due to the lockdown imposed last year owing to Covid-19. A target of 90% has been fixed for this drive called Mission Indradhanush - 3.0. A letter issued by mission director, Aparna Upadhyay, stated that to increase immunisation coverage, a campaign in these districts will be run in two phases. According to the guidelines provided by the government, in the first phase, vaccination will be done on February 23, March 1 and March 2. The second phase will be conducted on March 23, April 5 and April 6. Prior to the campaign, a district-level sensitisation programme will be done on Monday and then the block-level orientation is scheduled for February 9 and 10. After this, a list of beneficiaries will be prepared by ASHA workers between February 11 and 16. Districts have been asked to prepare a micro plan between February 17 and 19. The micro plan and the list of beneficiaries will be reviewed at the state level the next day. A copy of the order has also been sent to the district magistrates and additional directors (health) respectively. In the campaign, children from zero to two years will be vaccinated with BCG, polio, hepatitis, DPT, Rotavirus, Vitamin A drops and measles. Apart from this, tetanus vaccines will also be given to pregnant women in the campaign. Mission Indradhanush was launched by the central government to vaccinate children younger than two years and pregnant women who miss out on regular immunisation. These vaccinations are given for free by the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-ghaziabad-to-carry-out-immunisation-drive-soon/articleshow/80740393.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Ghaziabad||Noida, Ghaziabad to carry out immunisation drive soon||NOIDA: The National Health Mission (NHM) has directed 37 districts of the state, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, to carry out an intensive immunisation drive later this month to ensure vaccination of children who could not avail the facility due to the lockdown imposed last year owing to Covid-19. A target of 90% has been fixed for this drive called Mission Indradhanush - 3.0. A letter issued by mission director, Aparna Upadhyay, stated that to increase immunisation coverage, a campaign in these districts will be run in two phases. According to the guidelines provided by the government, in the first phase, vaccination will be done on February 23, March 1 and March 2. The second phase will be conducted on March 23, April 5 and April 6. Prior to the campaign, a district-level sensitisation programme will be done on Monday and then the block-level orientation is scheduled for February 9 and 10. After this, a list of beneficiaries will be prepared by ASHA workers between February 11 and 16. Districts have been asked to prepare a micro plan between February 17 and 19. The micro plan and the list of beneficiaries will be reviewed at the state level the next day. A copy of the order has also been sent to the district magistrates and additional directors (health) respectively. In the campaign, children from zero to two years will be vaccinated with BCG, polio, hepatitis, DPT, Rotavirus, Vitamin A drops and measles. Apart from this, tetanus vaccines will also be given to pregnant women in the campaign. Mission Indradhanush was launched by the central government to vaccinate children younger than two years and pregnant women who miss out on regular immunisation. These vaccinations are given for free by the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/noida-ghaziabad-to-carry-out-immunisation-drive-soon/articleshow/80743542.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Noida||Noida: Registrations for health workers in mop-up round to end on February 10||NOIDA: The district health department on Sunday issued directives for the mop-up round to vaccinate healthcare workers (who didn’t get inoculated in Phase 1). The vaccinations have been scheduled for February 15. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO) of GB Nagar, said: “All registered public and private medical institutes are directed to ensure that they submit the list of HCWs through their representatives in the prescribed format through a soft copy from February 8 to 10 at the DPM office from 10am and take a receipt certificate of the list of names submitted.” Dr Ohri added, “This will not only ensure correct names and numbers getting uploaded on the portal, but also rule out any complications related to designate HCWs being left out from their institute, hospital or clinic.” They will have to carry a pen drive to ensure only correct names of beneficiary, upload data and take receipt certificate from the computer operator at the DPM office. Only HCWs from registered public and private medical facilitates qualify for mop-up round. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer (DIO), in charge of Covid vaccination in GB Nagar said: “Retired army doctors, colonels and senior government doctors fall in the individual capacity category and will qualify in the third phase when 50 plus citizens will be considered for vaccination,” said Dr Tyagi. While over 500 HCWs are left to get vaccinated from Sharda hospital, there are 300 HCWs from Yatharth hospital and 125 HCWs from Child PGI. Meanwhile, over 40 cases of mild to moderate Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases were reported from previous vaccination drives held in the district till now “We had two HCWs from dental and physiotherapy departments who complained of low BP, low pulse and fainting syndrome post vaccination on Friday. They were admitted in our ICU and monitored for over 24 hours and are stable now. They are likely to be discharged by Monday,” said Dr Ajit Kumar from Sharda hospital. Registrations for the second phase of Covid vaccination of frontline workers ended on Sunday. Around 16,746 FLWs were registered till Sunday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/registrations-for-health-workers-in-mop-up-round-to-end-on-feb-10/articleshow/80740421.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC gives partial relief to panchayat raj minister||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Sunday gave a partial relief to panchayat raj and Rural Development (PR&RD) minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy in the case of restraining orders passed by State Election Commission (SEC). After hearing a house motion petition moved by Reddy, the high court set aside the order to restrain him to home but upheld the order that Reddy will not have access to media till elections are over. Taking a serious note of the comments made by Reddy, state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar invoked his plenary powers on Saturday and directed Director-General of Police (DGP) to restrain PR&RD minister to his house and not allow him to speak to the media till polls are over. Challenging the order of the SEC, Reddy moved high court with a house motion petition. Arguing on behalf of him, senior counsel C V Mohan Reddy said that SEC distorted the comments of Ramachandra Reddy in his order based on media reports. He said that alleged comments were made in response to the illegal orders of the SEC who directed the Chittoor and Guntur collectors not to announce the results of unanimous elections. Mohan Reddy further said that the minister only appealed to the officials concerned not to obey that illegal order as they will have to face disciplinary action according to law. He argued that restraining panchayat raj minister from leaving his house itself is a violation of constitution and his fundamental rights. When the government took a policy decision to give incentives to Panchayats where the election was unanimous, panchayat raj minister has every right to propagate that policy. He also contended the order of SEC as arbitrary as neither a notice was served nor an explanation was sought. Arguing on behalf the SEC, senior counsel B Adinarayana Rao told the court that the PR&RD ministry is the nodal agency to assist SEC in holding panchayat elections and the minister concerned goes on record saying that he will not obey the orders of the SEC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-hc-gives-partial-relief-to-panchayat-raj-minister/articleshow/80741306.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 8, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Volunteer dies two days after taking Covid vaccine||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 29-year-old village volunteer, R Lalitha, died at Rentikota village of Srikakulam district on Sunday. Incidentally, she took the Covid-19 vaccine on February 5. Her family members and relatives alleged that the vaccine had an adverse effect on Lalitha, leading to her death. They said that Lalitha developed high fever on Saturday a day after she was vaccinated. She was shifted to a hospital at Palasa in the early hours of Sunday. However, doctors declared that she was brought dead to the hospital. Srikakulam district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr KC Nayak said that Lalitha took the vaccine on February 5. “The patient had not developed any complications after taking the vaccine, and she attended the duties as usual on February 5 and 6. At this juncture, we cannot tell what had led to her sudden death. All other people, who received the vaccine from the same vial, are doing fine. A forensic examination will be conducted to determine the cause of the death,” said Dr Nayak. Palasa tehsildar Madhusudana Rao said that the volunteers, who took the vaccine along with Lalitha, have been kept under observation. One suspected vaccine death was reported during January in the state. This is the second suspected case of vaccinerelated death in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-volunteer-dies-two-days-after-taking-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80741331.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||Massive damage after glacier burst triggers flood in Uttarakhand; 7 dead, 170 missing||DEHRADUN: At least 170 people have been reported missing after a glacier broke off near Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli district in the Garhwal Himalayas on Sunday morning, triggering massive damage in its wake that was reminiscent of the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. By evening, bodies of seven men were recovered, but no one could say how many have died in the catastrophe that has once again shaken Uttarakhand. The 13.2 MW Rishiganga hydropower project near Jashimath was completely washed away; the 520 MW NTPC hydro project on the Dhauliganga river near Raini was partially damaged and at least five bridges were impacted by the surge of water that was unleashed, cutting access to a number of villages in the area. The State Emergency Operation Centre said, of the missing persons, 148 were in the NTPC hydropower site whereas 22 were at the Vishnugad project. Most of them are believed to be workers involved in the hydropower projects. “The maximum water level at the Tapovan barrage is 1,803 metres, but as per initial reports, the water level crossed 1808 metres, causing the breakage,” said Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of the state’s disaster mitigation and management centre (DMMC). Read AlsoVillage struck by disaster was the cradle of the Chipko movementDEHRADUN: Raini, the village in Chamoli where the disaster struck on Sunday, is the cradle of the Chipko movement initiated by villagers in the Uttarakhand hills in the 1970s to save trees. Residents of this ecologically-conscious village say, "We have been crying hoarse over major devastation thatThe water level of the Dhauliganga river at Joshimath breached all records, Central Water Commission (CWC) officials said. “At 11am, the water level recorded at Joshimath was 1,388 metres,” Saumitra Haldar, chairman, Central Water Commission told agencies. During the 2013 Uttarakhand flash floods, the highest flood level at Joshimath was 1,385.54 metres, he added. Read AlsoUttarakhand glacier burst: ‘We helplessly watched our loved ones washed away’While those in the higher reaches saw their loved ones swept away, those downhill darted in panic. “Bhaago (run),” people were screaming. But they could not keep going. “The air was thick, pungent. They could not breathe, could not run faster. They just buckled down and waited,” Sangram Singh Rawat,Chief minister Trivendra Rawat, who conducted an aerial survey and went to areas near the disaster site, announced Rs 4 lakh relief to the next of kin of those killed. PM Modi also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the families of the deceased. Later in Dehradun, Rawat said a team of 100 Army personnel, including those from the engineering task force, and 250 personnel from ITBP's 1st battalion are engaged in rescue operations. Read AlsoWhy did glacier break in cold winter month of Feb?February temperatures can drop to below zero in the hills of Uttarakhand's Chamoli. Why, then, did a glacier break off, with disastrous effect? "In winter, glaciers remain firmly frozen. Even walls of glacial lakes are tightly bound. A flood of this sort in this season is usually caused by anOfficials monitoring the situation said that water flow in the Alaknanda river gradually stabilised ahead of Nandprayag in Chamoli district though a high alert has been issued and people living along the Alaknanda and Ganga river banks on all the districts — from Chamoli to Haridwar — have been asked to evacuate. Read AlsoTragedy could be result of ‘very rare’ bursting of water pockets in glacierCalling the glacial burst in Uttarakhand a "very rare incident", scientists on Sunday said satellite and Google Earth images did not show a glacial lake near the region, but there was a possibility of 'water pockets' (lakes inside glaciers) which might have burst, leading to this extreme event evenEarlier, as a precautionary measure, flow of the Bhagirathi river was stopped and reservoirs of GVK dam in Srinagar and Veer Bhadra dam in Rishikesh were emptied in order to manage flow of the surging Alaknanda. Watch Uttarakhand glacier burst: Rescue operation continues, 7 bodies recovered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/massive-damage-after-glacier-burst-triggers-flood-in-uttarakhand-7-dead-170-missing/articleshow/80740908.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Rakesh Tikait and son take centre stage at mahapanchayats in Bhiwani & Nuh||BHIWANI/NUH: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait held a mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Bhiwani on Sunday and called for support in intensifying the agitation against the three laws in other states too. In Nuh, his son Gaurav Tikait addressed another mahapanchayat of 10,000 villagers and asserted that the agitation would continue until the three laws were repealed. “The farm protest has started to expand to other parts of the country too. So, we decided to go to another state and hold a meeting with farmers and their leaders,” Tikait said in Bhiwani. The BKU leader also called for unity among farmers of different states, alleging that the government was trying to divide the protesters on the basis of region and religion. “Two government representatives had come to meet me on Saturday, but I refused them. Any discussion with the government will take place in the presence of 40 members of the kisan morcha,” he added. Tikait’s call for expanding the protest came a day after he said farmers would wait till October 2 for the Centre to withdraw the laws and then take out a “kranti” rally with 40 lakh tractors. The move to address farmers in neighbouring Haryana is crucial for Tikait, who had so far been leading the agitation only at UP Gate. He is known to wield considerable influence among farmers in western UP and it was his emotional call in the aftermath of the Republic Day violence that had infused a fresh lease of life into the agitation at the Ghazipur border. The mahapanchayat in Bhiwani was attended by around 20,000 people. Apart from Tikait, farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal Singh took part in the event. This was Tikait’s second mahapanchayat in Haryana since the agitation began in November last year — the first one being in Jind’s Kandela on February 3. While addressing the farmers, Tikait also appreciated the role of “khap” leaders in the agitation. “There is not a single weak link in the entire movement. There will be no ghar wapsi until our demands are met,” the BKU leader told the gathering. Since most of the farmers protesting around Delhi’s borders are from Punjab, he said that it is the 40-member delegation of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha that will continue to hold negotiations with the Centre. “We will support the Punjab leadership and it will head the delegation. We will not change any of our 40 members,” the farmer leader said. Tikait also called on the young protesters to bring soil and water from their houses. “I urge you to visit the fields and apply the soil on your bodies. If you do this, none of you will sell your land to anyone even in extreme situations. We have to save our land. You give me your anger and we will win this battle,” he added. In Nuh, Tikait’s son Gaurav attacked the Union agriculture minister on the three laws. “The minister has been asking us about issues with the laws. I want to ask him that if there was nothing wrong with the laws, why did the government agree to more than 10 of the 15 points raised by farmers’ unions at the meetings?” he asked. The mahapanchayat in Sunhera village of Nuh was attended by around 10,000 people. Apart from Gaurav, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and three Congress MLAs from the district — Aftab Ahmed, Mohammad Iliyas and Mamman Khan — also participated in the event. Gaurav clarified that the farmers would not vacate any of the protesting sites across NCR unless the laws were taken back. He also sought an impartial investigation into the Republic Day violence in Delhi. “They are accusing us of insulting the Tricolour. But I must tell them that we can die and kill to save the national flag and its dignity,” he added. Bhim Army’s Azad said the farmers’ movement could not be derailed on the grounds of religion. “A farmer has only one religion and that is farming. The crowd present here today is proof of the unity among different religions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/tikait-and-son-take-centre-stage-at-mahapanchayats-in-bhiwani-nuh/articleshow/80740478.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
February 8, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM welcomes President Ramnath Kovind during his visit to Chittoor||TIRUPATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan and a group of elected representatives from Chittoor district greeted President Ramnath Kovind on his arrival at Chippili near Madanapalle on Sunday. The President inaugurated Bharat Yoga Vidya Kendra’s yogashala at Satsang Foundation ashram near Madanapalle in Chittoor district. Kovind interacted with students of yoga teacher training programme at the ashram. During his interaction with the students, Kovind said Kriya yoga was a holistic discipline for the elevation of mind and body. “Yoga will always be of great help in meeting daily challenges in all spheres and to explore deeper aspects of consciousness. It is impressive that students from across the country have come here to this ashram at Madanapalle for the course,” said Kovind. After planting a peepal tree, Kovind unveiled the foundation stone for Swaasthya hospitals, a 38-bed hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-cm-welcomes-president-ramnath-kovind-during-his-visit-to-chittoor/articleshow/80741384.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Withdraw support from Haryana govt, alliance leaders urged||BHIWANI: Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Sunday urged alliance leaders to withdraw support from CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s government. “Farmers and khap panchayat colleagues should create pressure. After the Khattar government falls, the central government will realise the power of the farmers,” said farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. He urged the youth to come forward and lead the agitation. Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh said the BJP government in the state has let its people down. “It has no right to stay in power. Sarv khap panchayat has strength to take the protest ahead and we hope that a united struggle will ensure a win for the farmers,” he said. People from Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Gauripur, Mankawas, Rasiwas, Chhapar, Hisar, Rohtak and Jind attended the mahapanchayat at Kitlana. After the stage collapse in Jind, this time the organisers set up a brick-lined podium for the gathering . “Earlier, we supported the BJP. But the government’s rigidness about the farm law has shown us that they are not thinking for the farmers. My husband has been camping at Kitlana since January 12. Now, we have come out to support the agitation,”,” said Savita Sangwan, one of the many women at the protest site. “The central government has to remember that kisan nahi toh kuch nahi (nothing is possible without farmers),” said farmer Nayanpal Sangwan. A senior police officer said 300 personnel have been deployed near the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/withdraw-support-from-govt-alliance-leaders-urged/articleshow/80740481.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
February 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Not stepping down, will be CM for 10 more years: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Ending speculation over elevation of Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president KT Rama Rao as chief minister, his father and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Sunday that he would continue in the post for the next 10 years. Warning ministers and MLAs against speaking about possible change of guard in Telangana, KCR said he would throw out leaders (from the party) who say KTR would assume charge as the new CM and create confusion. “I am all right and will continue to be CM for next 10 years. If there is any change, I will take you (MLAs and other elected representatives) into confidence and inform you. But some people have crossed the party’s discipline and gave statements on possible change of CM,” KCR told elected representatives and party leaders at the party’s executive committee meeting. “I won’t spare anybody and kick them out and teach them a lesson, if anybody continues their loose talk,” KCR added. There was speculation in party circles that KTR would be made chief minister and KCR would take a plunge into national politics. Many ministers and MLAs gave statements that KTR was a capable and efficient leader and there was nothing wrong in making him CM. Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav, V Srinivas Goud, Eatala Rajender, Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Mohd Mahmood Ali gave statements in favour of KTR. They said KTR is efficient and capable and there is nothing wrong in it. While deputy speaker T Padma Rao went a step ahead and congratulated KTR at a function in Secunderabad, Bodhan MLA Shakeel Ahmed stated that he would like to see KTR as CM during the next assembly session itself. This led to confusion in the party circles and government over rumours of KTR stepping into KCR’s shoes in the second or third week of February. “To clear the air, the TRS supremo made the remarks on the new CM voluntarily,” a minister said. KCR did not speak about the BJP and the Centre, which was widely anticipated after the setbacks in Dubbak bypoll and GHMC elections. “As chief minister, in the interest of the state, I will take decisions based on the situation,” he reportedly commented. He said TRS should win both in Khammam and Warangal municipal corporation elections and the Nagarjunasagar bypoll with a thumping majority and the party cadre should work in that direction unitedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-stepping-down-will-be-cm-for-10-more-yrs-kcr/articleshow/80740407.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 8, 2021||Noida||Double murder: One more held in Greater Noida, hunt on for 2 others||GREATER NOIDA: Another person was arrested from Greater Noida in connection with the murder of an elderly couple in their house on February 5. Businessman Narendra Nath (70) and his wife Suman (67) were found murdered in their house in Alpha 2. The house was found ransacked and Suman’s jewellery and cash were missing. Police said Visun Singh was arrested after a brief exchange of fire in Sector Beta 2 on Sunday. Two others, also believed to have a role in the murder, escaped. On Saturday, police in Gwalior had rounded up two suspects — Dev Sharma and Lallu Singh Bhadoria — who were taken into custody by Greater Noida police. The police have named the prime suspects as Rohit and Subhash, both of whom are still untraceable. Preliminary probe has also revealed that Rohit would visit Narendra Nath’s house often and had even borrowed money against his bike a few days ago. Narendra Nath, a cousin of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, had allegedly told his family that Rohit was extremely aggressive at times. Sujeet Upadhyay, the SHO of Beta 2 police station, said the location of Rohit’s mobile phone was found to be near Narendra Nath’s house on the day he was murdered. Call details of Narendra Nath have revealed that the businessman would talk to some people in MP. But it has also come to the fore that the same set of people were in touch with Rohit as well. “Rohit and his aides had booked a cab to a guest house in Sakhipur village on Friday. The cab driver told us he had dropped them to Gwalior the next day. They have been identified in CCTV footage. The driver told us that the accused were calling each other as Rohit, Dev, Visun and Shubhash,” the officer said. A Greater Noida police team reached Gwalior and detained Sharma and Bhadoria for questioning. Sharma spilled the beans on the remaining accused. Based on the information, the police had set up a check post at Beta 2. Visun and two others were riding a bike and were asked to stop. When they started fleeing, the cops fired at them and Visun was hit in the leg. The two others managed to flee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/double-murder-1-more-held-hunt-on-for-2-others/articleshow/80740488.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 8, 2021||India||Tragedy could be result of ‘very rare’ bursting of water pockets in glacier||NEW DELHI: Calling the glacial burst in Uttarakhand a "very rare incident", scientists on Sunday said satellite and Google Earth images did not show a glacial lake near the region, but there was a possibility of 'water pockets' (lakes inside the glaciers) which might have burst, leading to this extreme event even as the entire Hindu-Kush Himalayan region has emerged as a climate change hotspot over the years. Though the event needs further analysis, it is unlikely to be a 'cloud burst' as weather reports in Chamoli district showed sunny weather till Sunday with no record of precipitation. Dry weather is likely to prevail over Uttarakhand even on Monday. The event, however, will remind Indian planners that the frontier of climate change could be nearer home than some faraway Arctic ice melt. "It's a very rare incident for a glacial burst to happen. There's a possibility of a water pocket in the region which might have erupted. We need further analysis, weather reports and data to confirm if this indeed was the case," said Mohammed Farooq Azam, assistant professor, glaciology and hydrology, IIT Indore. He, however, did not rule out the possibility of a snow avalanche-induced landslide. "Our understanding is also evolving. There is no doubt that global warming has resulted in warming of the region," Azam said. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) was informed during its meeting on Sunday that "glacial burst led to rising of water levels in the river Rishiganga, which washed away the Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2 mw". "There is no danger of downstream flooding and the rise in water level has been contained, as per information given by the Central Water Commission (CWC). There is also no threat to neighbouring villages," an official statement said. The impact of global warming on glacial retreat is well documented. A recent assessment report of the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD) - an intergovernmental body - showed that temperatures were rising in the Hindu-Kush Himalayan region and this, along with global temperature increases, will have more impact in the Himalayan region due to elevation-dependent warming. "If the world can keep temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius, in the HKH region, it would translate to at least a rise of 1.8 degree C, and in some places, above 2.2 degrees C. Himalayan regions are also least monitored and this event actually shows how vulnerable we could be," said Anjal Prakash, research director and adjunct associate professor at Indian School of Business, Hyderabad. Prakash, coordinating lead author of the IPCC's special report on oceans and cryosphere, said, "I would request the government to spend more resources in monitoring the region better so that we have more information about the change process. The result will be that we are more aware and can develop better adaptation practices." Watch Uttarakhand: Water pocket inside glacier might be cause of tragedy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tragedy-could-be-result-of-very-rare-bursting-of-water-pockets-in-glacier/articleshow/80740143.cms||Vishwa Mohan
February 8, 2021||World||George Shultz, US secretary of state who helped usher out Cold War, dies||WASHINGTON: George Shultz, Ronald Reagan's genial secretary of state who identified a diplomatic opening that helped end the Cold War but contributed to a new brand of conflict by advocating preemptive strikes, has died. He was 100. An economics professor who saw himself more as a data-driven expert than an ideologue, Shultz had the rare distinction of serving in four different cabinet positions -- including Treasury secretary as Richard Nixon dismantled the post-World War II Bretton Woods monetary system. "One of the most consequential policymakers of all time, having served three American presidents, George P Shultz died February 6 at age 100," the Hoover Institution think tank said in a statement on its website. Secretary of State Antony Blinken described Shultz as a "legend" and a "visionary." "He helped achieve the greatest geopolitical feat of the age: a peaceful end to the Cold War," Blinken said in a statement. In the Reagan White House, notorious for infighting, Shultz was one of the least controversial figures, cultivating cordial ties with Congress and the press and -- most crucially -- rock-solid backing from the president himself, who kept Shultz as his top diplomat for six and a half years. In early 1983, half a year into his tenure, Shultz returned from China to a snowed-under Washington and was invited by Nancy Reagan to a casual dinner at the White House, where he was intrigued to hear the famously anti-Communist president sound eager to meet the Soviets. "He had never had a lengthy session with an important leader from a Communist country, and I could sense he would relish such an opportunity," Shultz wrote in his memoir, "Turmoil and Triumph." Days afterward, Shultz brought the Soviet ambassador to the White House in an unmarked car for a secret meeting with Reagan, who pressed for Moscow to allow the emigration of Pentecostal Christians who had sought refuge in the US embassy. The Soviets quietly followed through. Reagan's unlikely role as a negotiator with the superpower he termed an "evil empire" had begun. In 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev ascended to the helm of the Communist Party, and Shultz -- joining then-vice president George HW Bush -- flew to Moscow and met him at the funeral of his predecessor, Konstantin Chernenko. Shultz immediately detected opportunities with Gorbachev. "Gorbachev is totally different from any Soviet leader I've met," Shultz told reporters. A former Marine who fought the Japanese in World War II, he recalled the trust he built with the Soviets as Treasury secretary when he offered a sincere salute at a memorial to their war dead. Shultz's approach with Gorbachev encountered deep skepticism from Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and CIA chief Bill Casey, but Reagan overruled them. By 1987, Reagan and Gorbachev signed the landmark Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. The Soviet Union soon began disintegrating after Gorbachev initiated liberal reforms and dissent grew. Shultz later played down Gorbachev's role, pointing to underlying weaknesses in the Soviet system and crediting the US leader's massive boost in defense spending. He also hailed European allies, especially West Germany, that defied public protests against NATO missile deployments in the 1980s. "The Soviets had to see that and realize that we were strong and our diplomacy was based on strength," Shultz said in a 2015 appearance at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, where he spent his post-government career. Shultz became secretary of state weeks after Israel invaded Lebanon, a nation that would become central to an issue that would define his tenure: terrorism. In 1983, a suicide bomber suspected to be a Shiite Muslim militant blew up the barracks of US Marines serving as peacekeepers in Lebanon, killing 241, with a second attack targeting French forces, killing 59. With hijackings and bombings rising around the world, Shultz vowed in a 1984 speech at a New York synagogue that the United States would go "beyond passive defense to consider means of active prevention, preemption and retaliation." "We cannot allow ourselves to become the Hamlet of nations, worrying endlessly over whether and how to respond," said Shultz, who recommended the US strikes on Libya in 1986 after a US soldier died in an attack on a Berlin nightclub. Shultz's doctrine was cited two decades later when George W Bush's administration invaded Iraq, inaccurately alleging it was pursuing weapons of mass destruction. Shultz vocally backed the invasion, which along with ensuing wars would claim hundreds of thousands of lives. Declaring Iraq to be a "rogue state," Shultz said Saddam Hussein's overthrow was crucial "for the integrity of the international system and for the effort to deal effectively with terrorism." While secretary of state, Shultz's policies in the Middle East were more moderate. He repeatedly clashed with ally Israel, especially over Lebanon, and opened contacts with the Palestine Liberation Organization. Shultz had served Nixon as labor secretary and also headed his Office of Management and Budget, a cabinet-level post. In an essay for his 100th birthday in 2020, he bemoaned the style of Donald Trump, saying that the United States, like individuals, could succeed only if others trust it. "Put simply," Shultz said, "trust is the coin of the realm."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/george-shultz-us-secretary-of-state-who-helped-usher-out-cold-war-dies/articleshow/80741440.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: ‘We helplessly watched our loved ones washed away’||A roar, a haze, a split second of stunned silence. And then, chaos. It was an exceptionally bright Sunday morning when Mahatami Devi, 42, stepped out of her house in Uttarakhand’s Jugju village to fetch firewood and cattle fodder from the neighbouring Raini village. One of her three sons, 17-year-old Ankit, was home at the time. “I met her around 8am. I was going uphill with three men to carve a pagdandi (pathway) in Raini. She was headed downhill. She said a quick hello and moved ahead,” Sangram Singh Rawat, former gram panchayat member of Raini village, told TOI. “An hour later, there was a loud, thundering sound. When we looked up, the clear blue sky had turned grey. And then, we heard Ankit screaming, ‘Save my mother.’ A wall of water came surging through the hills, sweeping with it everything that came in its way — people, cattle, trees. We could do nothing.” Read AlsoWhy did glacier break in cold winter month of Feb?February temperatures can drop to below zero in the hills of Uttarakhand's Chamoli. Why, then, did a glacier break off, with disastrous effect? "In winter, glaciers remain firmly frozen. Even walls of glacial lakes are tightly bound. A flood of this sort in this season is usually caused by anMetres away, Anita Devi, 70, from Raini Chuksa village was grazing cattle when the debris-laden Dhauliganga raged through Raini. “She was with her grandson Golu and daughter-in-law Tanuja. The two of them ran for their lives when they heard the sound. Anita Devi was left behind. We saw the river swallow her as she stood there, helpless,” said Kundan Singh, 42, from Raini. While those in the higher reaches saw their loved ones swept away, those downhill darted in panic. “Bhaago (run),” people were screaming. But they could not keep going. “The air was thick, pungent. They could not breathe, could not run faster. They just buckled down and waited,” Sangram said. Read AlsoVillage struck by disaster was the cradle of the Chipko movementDEHRADUN: Raini, the village in Chamoli where the disaster struck on Sunday, is the cradle of the Chipko movement initiated by villagers in the Uttarakhand hills in the 1970s to save trees. Residents of this ecologically-conscious village say, "We have been crying hoarse over major devastation thatAfter about half an hour, the village elders in Raini said they should go looking for those who were missing. “What we saw was horrifying. Where we had seen people working hours ago — cutting wood, grazing cattle — there was a swamp of debris. Not one of our people could be spotted,”Sangram said. Kundan’s nephew is among them. “He had taken around 150 goats for grazing. He has gone missing,” Kundan said. With villages in the area cut off because bridges have been swept away, many labourers and their families are stranded. Kundan is hosting about 20 of them at his house. Read AlsoTragedy could be result of ‘very rare’ bursting of water pockets in glacierCalling the glacial burst in Uttarakhand a "very rare incident", scientists on Sunday said satellite and Google Earth images did not show a glacial lake near the region, but there was a possibility of 'water pockets' (lakes inside glaciers) which might have burst, leading to this extreme event evenKundan and Sangram have been protesting against hydropower projects in the geologically fragile region for years. Their petition had taken the state and Centre to court for the Rishiganga project. Kundan said, “What happened today was nature’s way of telling us things are horribly wrong.” 1/18In pics: Flooding in Chamoli's Joshimath area after glacier breaks in Uttarakhand Previous NextShow Captions<p>Locals inspect the site near damaged Dhauliganga hydropower project at Reni village, after a glacier broke off in Joshimath causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river, in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, Sunday. (PTI)</p><p>80 - 100 meters depth achieved (cleared off debris). Tunnel is on upslope and 2.5 kms long. The second tunnel is being searched out: ITBP</p><p>After tireless efforts of Army personnel, including Engineering Task Force, the mouth of the tunnel was cleared. Work continued throughout the night with earthmovers by installing generators and search lights. Field Hospital providing medical aid at the incident site: Indian Army</p><p>A team of Scientists of DRDO-SASE flown in last night to Dehradun, is leaving for Joshimath area for surveillance and reconnaissance: Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA)</p><p>The operation to rescue the people trapped in a tunnel is underway. Efforts are on to clear the tunnel with the help of JCB machine. A total of 15 people have been rescued and 14 bodies have been recovered from different places so far: Chamoli Police, Uttarakhand</p><p>Aerial rescue & relief missions have resumed with Mi-17 & ALH helicopters flying from Dehradun to Joshimath with disaster relief teams on board: Indian Air Force (ANI)</p><p>General view during a flood in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. (Reuters photo)</p><p>Damaged dam of the Rishi Ganga Power Project, after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>Glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>Rescue teams managed to establish contact with 16 persons stuck inside a tunnel in the Tapovan area. Rescue operations have begun to save them, according to DGP.</p><p>ITBP personnel assess the damages in Tapovan and area of Reni where flash flood occurred earlier today. (Photo source: ITBP)</p><p> More than 150 labourers working at the Rishi Ganga power project may have been directly affected.</p><p>A rescue team works at the site of a flood in Chamoli, Uttarakhand, India February 7, 2021 in this still image obtained from a video. </p><p> Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat being briefed on flood situation by Army and ITBP jawans, in Tapovan area of Chamoli district.</p><p> A view of damaged dam after a Himalayan glacier broke and crashed into the dam at Raini Chak Lata village in Chamoli district in the northern state of Uttarakhand, India. (Reuters)</p><p>Rescue operation underway after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>Chamoli: Damaged dam of the Rishi Ganga Power Project, after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. (PTI)</p><p>A dam is shattered by a river in Chamoli, Uttarakhand, India February 7, 2021 in this still image taken from video. (Reuters)</p>||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-helplessly-watched-our-loved-ones-washed-away/articleshow/80741455.cms||Shivani Azad
February 8, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: Panic as leopard seen in Brindavan Gardens||MYSURU: A leopard-spotted moving inside popular tourist spot Brindavan Gardens at KRS Reservoir in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, has triggered panic among the reservoir staff and tourists. The CCTV cameras installed near the south gate of the garden showed the big cat moving around the area on Thursday night, officials said. According to sources, big cats regularly enter villages near the dam area in search of food. "But this is the first time a leopard was spotted inside the garden, which is visited by thousands of tourists every day. Measures have been put in place for the safety of tourists," they added. Range forest officer Sunitha said they have tracked pugmarks and have placed trap cages at the garden and nearby villages - Mahadevapura and Neralakere - to capture the male leopard which has been moving in the area for the past one week. Forest department officials visited the spot after gram panchayat officials filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/panic-as-leopard-seen-in-brindavan-gardens/articleshow/80741519.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Business||Hyundai, Kia say they are not in talks with Apple on autonomous car development||SEOUL: South Korea's Hyundai Motor Co and Kia Corp said on Monday they are not in talks with Apple Inc on developing autonomous vehicles, sending their shares tumbling. In early January, Korea Economic Daily TV reported Apple and Hyundai were in discussions to develop self-driving electric vehicles by 2027 and develop batteries at U.S. factories operated by either Hyundai or its affiliate Kia Corp. Shares of Hyundai and Kia were trading down 6.8% and 13.6% respectively versus the broader market KOSPI's 0.6% drop. So far this year, Hyundai has advanced 30%, while Kia has rallied 63% on reports they may build Apple car. Apple has never acknowledged talks with the automaker about building vehicles. Reuters reported in December that Apple was moving forward with autonomous car technology and aimed to produce a passenger vehicle that could include its own breakthrough battery technology as early as 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/hyundai-kia-say-they-are-not-in-talks-with-apple-on-autonomous-car-development/articleshow/80741531.cms||---
February 8, 2021||World||South Africa halts AstraZeneca vaccinations over variant data||JOHANNESBURG: South Africa will suspend use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot in its vaccination programme after data showed it gave minimal protection against mild to moderate infection caused by the country's dominant coronavirus variant. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said on Sunday the government would await advice from scientists on how best to proceed, after disappointing results in a trial conducted by the University of the Witwatersrand. The government had intended to roll the AstraZeneca shot out to healthcare workers soon, after receiving 1 million doses produced by the Serum Institute of India on Monday. Instead, it will offer vaccines developed by Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer in the coming weeks while experts consider how the AstraZeneca shot can be deployed. "What does that mean for our vaccination programme which we said will start in February? The answer is it will proceed," Mkhize told an online news briefing. "From next week for the next four weeks we expect that there will be J&J vaccines, there will be Pfizer vaccines. So what will be available to the health workers will be those vaccines." "The AstraZeneca vaccine will remain with us ... up until the scientists give us clear indications as to what we need to do," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-africa-halts-astrazeneca-vaccinations-over-variant-data/articleshow/80741545.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||India dispatches Covid-19 vaccines to Barbados, Dominica||MUMBAI: India on Sunday dispatched two consignments of Covishield Covid-19 vaccines to the countries of Barbados and Dominica under the Vaccine Maitri initiative. The consignments of vaccines, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) departed from Mumbai at 11:35 pm yesterday. India had earlier provided Barbados with Covishield vaccines, for which the country's Prime Minister Mia Mottley has expressed her gratitude to the Indian government and the people for the "most generous" donation of Covid-19 vaccine doses. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, Mottley said: "I trust that you are well and safe. On behalf of my Government and people, I wish to express gratitude to you, your Government and the people of the Republic of India for its most generous donation of the Covishield vaccines (under the auspices of Oxford Astrazeneca)." Recently, Barbados media had reported that the country will be receiving 1,00,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from India. Barbados, with a population of over 2.87 lakhs, has recorded 1,641 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 1,274 persons have recovered. Last month, Srivastava said New Delhi plans to supply 1 crore or 10 million vaccine doses to Africa and 10 lakh to United Nations health workers under GAVI's (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation) COVAX facility. Srivastava said that India plans to commercially export coronavirus vaccine to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Canada, Mongolia and other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-dispatches-covid-19-vaccines-to-barbados-dominica/articleshow/80741542.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||Village struck by disaster was the cradle of the Chipko movement||DEHRADUN: Raini, the village in Chamoli where the disaster struck on Sunday, is the cradle of the Chipko movement initiated by villagers in the Uttarakhand hills in the 1970s to save trees. Residents of this ecologically-conscious village say, "We have been crying hoarse over major devastation that was being caused by the hydropower project in our area, but no one paid heed." Trying to come to terms with the scale of the tragedy that swept away the region leaving behind a massive trail of devastation on Sunday, the villagers told that they had approached almost all the officials of the district administration as well as forest department pointing out that the Rishiganga hydropower plant set up in 2005 was "being built in contravention of all environmental norms". "We also approached the NGT to protect our biosphere and all the nearby villages, but nothing happened and the power project company continued its work unabated. We have pictures of them using bombs to break rocks. There are scores of carcasses of wild animals which died after falling into the dam due to the bomb explosions. Raini was being killed every day, but the authorities remained blindfolded and deaf," said SS Rawat, former sarpanch of van panchayat Raini, who played an active role in filing a petition against the Rishiganga hydropower project. Incidentally, the hydropower plant is constructed in the buffer zone of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, which is a UN recognized world heritage site. In their letter to the SDM of Joshimath in May 2019, a copy of which is with TOI, the villagers wrote, "Since the stone crusher works are going on right in the middle of river, many wild animals, like deer, leopards, black bears etc. are entering our village, which increases risk to the wildlife. Despite the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve being a world heritage site, the stone crusher has not been set even 10 metres away." When contacted, Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve DFO NB Sharma said, "The hydropower plant is not in the core zone, but in the buffer area. And some of the activities in the buffer zones are allowed if the company concerned meets all the relevant clauses set by the ministry."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/village-struck-by-disaster-was-the-cradle-of-the-chipko-movement/articleshow/80741540.cms||Shivani Azad
February 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Drone delivery: IISc devises privacy aid||BENGALURU: As the use of unmanned aerial vehicles or remotely piloted vehicles aka drones for delivery could be reality soon in India, there are concerns of privacy issues as these devices have sensors such as cameras and microphones. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science's department of computer science and automation here have developed Privaros, which allows host airspaces (apartment complexes, universities, etc) to ensure that delivery drones are privacy-compliant. As the sector opens up to more operators, there's a possibility of a malicious operator misusing sensors to turn drones into flying spies. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has given permission to 13 consortia for delivery experiments. Privaros can be integrated with drone operation policies such as India's Digital Sky framework, IISc says. ‘Privacy aid designed for commercial delivery drones’Privaros is designed for commercial delivery drones, such as those of Amazon Prime Air. Such drones visit various host airspaces, each with different privacy requirements. The framework uses mandatory access control to enforce policies of these hosts. Privaros is tailored for ROS (robot operating system), a middleware popular in many drone platforms,” researchers Prof Vinod Ganapathy and team added. In India, the first consortium to receive DGCA clearance to test delivery drones was from Bengaluru. Privaros incorporates new mechanisms into drone software that allows host-specified policies on board the drone. Trusted hardware on the drone can prove to the host airspace that it (drone) complies with its policies. Ganapathy told TOI: “We have a working prototype.” The team evaluated Privaros on an Nvidia Jetson TX2 development kit, motivated by the fact that unlike most off-the-shelf drones, it is equipped with a hardware trusted execution environment and allows programmable access to both secure and normal world. Their evaluation showed that a drone running Privaros can robustly enforce various privacy policies specified by hosts, and its core mechanisms only marginally increase communication latency and power consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drone-delivery-iisc-devises-privacy-aid/articleshow/80741577.cms||Chethan Kumar
February 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 10 years on, no sign of concrete Sector 82-83 road||GURUGRAM: For more than a decade, residents of several housing societies in Sector 83 have been waiting for the development of the road connecting to the dividing road of sectors 82 and 83. The unpaved stretch, which is 500 metres long, is marred with mud and has an uneven surface, causing inconvenience to commuters. The residents pointed out that the road is crucial as it provides easy connectivity to the nearby marketplace. “Work is going on to build a new police station in Sector 83, which could have been done later and the road could have been built now. Authorities are not prioritising our problem,” a resident alleged. More than 2,500 residents living in various societies such as Lifestyles Homes, City Homes and K block are forced to travel a long way to reach the main sector road, which they claim is neither convenient nor eco-friendly. “As of now, we have to travel around 1.3km to reach the nearby marketplace and mall. The way from my home to the market is still at a walking distance but in the absence of a proper road, people are forced to take their vehicles which is not eco-friendly and further creates problem as they park their vehicles on the road in a haphazard manner. This can be simply avoided if the authorities build basic infrastructure,” said SK Jain, RWA president, Lifestyle Homes. The residents further alleged that several representations have been made to the authorities concerned and the local representative but to no avail. Lokesh Yadav, general secretary, K block RWA, said, “The area is suffering from years of neglect by the civic body. Now the road is not even walkable, forget about driving. Even a few spells of rain create a mess here, worsening the situation.” Many senior citizen have fallen and got injured while using the uneven road several times in the past, the residents said. “The only source of light is coming from the streetlights installed inside the society premises leaving this stretch completely unsafe at night. Now more than ever, the road needs to be developed as the new police station is about to be functional soon,” said Sayandeb Bose, a resident of Sector 83. Meanwhile, a senior official of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that they will look into the matter. Jitender Garg, joint commissioner (MCG), said they have not received any representation from the residents. “However, we will consider the matter and take steps to resolve the problem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/10-years-on-no-sign-of-concrete-sec-82-83-road/articleshow/80740284.cms||Akanksha Gupta
February 8, 2021||Gurgaon||Lone STP can’t cover 530 families: Gurugram colony||Gurugram: Lack of sewage treatment plants (STPs) in BPTP Astaire Gardens in Sector 70A has left residents facing severe hygiene issues. They alleged that the developer has not built a centralised STP as promised but instead installed an STP with a capacity of 100 KLD for C-2 block in October last year. The residents argue that it only caters to 200 households of the colony, while the rest have to rely on makeshift arrangement for the sewage disposal. This, they claim, have serious implications for the environment. The untreated water is being collected by the private tractors on the regular basis and dumped at nearby places. Several complaints have been made to the authorities concerned but nothing has been done so far, say residents. Debojit Hore, RWA general secretary, said, “There are about 530 families living in blocks B, C-1, C-2, D, and E. The builder is supposed to provide the centralised STP with a capacity of 1 MLD by now. For the past four years, the developer has done nothing but given us false assurance. At present, tractors come to our society two times a day and pump out the sewage waste and dispose of it wherever they find vacant space. It is very difficult to live here because of unhygienic conditions that pose health issues. We are continuously exposed to hazardous gases.” Moreover, the facility management is not monitoring the parameters of STP operation regularly and as a result treated water is not in the permissible limit, residents say. Rajeev Gupta, MD of Business Park Maintenance Service (BPMS) Pvt Ltd, said, “We have installed the STP according to the dependency of the occupancy. Further expansion of STPs is in process and would be operational soon. The STP would not run without a specific load, which is why we have made a temporary provision through which private tankers take out sewage waste to the designated STPs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lone-stp-cant-cover-530-families-sec-70a-colony/articleshow/80740309.cms||Akanksha Gupta
February 8, 2021||Kochi||Palakkad: Mother slits 6-year-old’s throat to ‘please god’||PALAKKAD: In a shocking incident, a 35-year-old mother brutally killed her six-year old son as a “sacrifice to god” at Pulakkad in Puthupalli Therivu, under Palakkad town police station limits, in the early hours of Sunday. After the crime, Shaheeda Sulaiman called up police and revealed that she had sacrificed her third son, Aamil, by slitting his throat with a knife in their bathroom at 4am on Sunday. Police arrested the mother. The FIR says the mother admitted to having sacrificed her third son to please god. It is a deliberate murder, the report added. She also revealed to the police that she is three months pregnant. Aamil’s legs were tied in his sleep and he was taken to the bathroom and butchered, police said. Her husband Sulaiman, a taxi driver, and two other sons who were sleeping in another room were unaware of the cold-blooded murder. They came to know of the incident only after police reached their house following Shaheeda’s phone call. Police termed it a preplanned murder. Shaheeda told police she was only carrying out god’s wish, which was revealed to her through an inner calling. She had collected the telephone number of Janamaithri Police from a neighbour on Saturday. Neighbours said she was a former teacher in a madrassa and that she had no history of mental problems or any other health issues. After completing inquest proceedings police shifted the body of the child to Palakkad district hospital mortuary for postmortem. District superintendent of police R Viswanath and other police officials visited the scene of the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palakkad-mother-slits-6-year-olds-throat-to-please-god/articleshow/80741662.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid vaccination: Kerala fails to finish phase I on time||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state has missed its deadline for the completion of the first phase of vaccination among healthcare workers (HCW). It managed to vaccinate only 2,90,112 HCWs against the target of 4,08,723 by the deadline of February 5. Health Minister KK Shailaja has warned against the slow rate of vaccination and has urged to speed up the process as the second phase is set to begin on February14. “Those who have registered with the Covaxin App should get vaccinated as scheduled,” said the health minister. “It has been found that some people are not coming to the vaccine centres on the allotted dates. Hence, we have directed all the healthcare workers to inform the vaccine centres if they are not able to come on the date allotted to them.” “If anyone is not giving prior intimation that they will not be coming to the vaccine centres, they will lose the opportunity for getting vaccinated. It has been found that since these people are not coming on time, it is affecting the vaccination process,” Shailaja said. The ministers added that the government has instructed all healthcare workers, and ASHA and Anganwadi workers to take the vaccination without fail. “The government has to go ahead with the second phase of the vaccination from the second week of this month,” she added. The total number of health workers registered for the first phase include those in the government and private sector and those in central government services. Ernakulam has the highest number of registrations from the HCWs, 69,761 while in Thiruvananthapuram, the registered number is 52,995. The other district-wise numbers are Alappuzha, 22,701, Kannur, 29,762, Kollam, 23,019, Kottayam, 28,855, Kozhikode, 36,982, Malappuram, 27,444, Palakkad, 27,135, Pathanamthitta, 20,822 and Thrissur, 41,316. Idukki, Kasaragod and Wayanad have fewer healthcare workers left to be vaccinated as the registrations in those districts were also less. In Wayanad, 11,193, Idukki 9,421 and Kasaragod 7,317 HCWs had registered and to date, 90% of the target has been met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-vaccination-kerala-fails-to-finish-phase-i-on-time/articleshow/80741677.cms||---
February 8, 2021||India||At ‘mahapanchayats’, vow to spread stir across states||BHIWANI/NUH: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait held a mahapanchayat in Haryana's Bhiwani on Sunday and called for support in intensifying the agitation against the three laws in other states too. In Nuh, his son Gaurav Tikait addressed another mahapanchayat of 10,000 villagers and asserted that the agitation would continue until the three laws were repealed. "The farm protest has started to expand to other parts of the country too. So, we decided to go to another state and hold a meeting with farmers and their leaders," Tikait said in Bhiwani. The BKU leader also called for unity among farmers of different states, alleging that the government was trying to divide the protesters on the basis of region and religion. "Two government representatives had come to meet me on Saturday, but I refused them. Any discussion with the government will take place in the presence of 40 members of the kisan morcha," he added. Tikait's call for expanding the protest came a day after he said farmers would wait till October 2 for the Centre to withdraw the laws and then take out a "kranti" rally with 40 lakh tractors. The move to address farmers in neighbouring Haryana is crucial for Tikait, who had so far been leading the agitation only at UP Gate. He is known to wield considerable influence among farmers in western UP and it was his emotional call in the aftermath of the Republic Day violence that had infused a fresh lease of life into the agitation at the Ghazipur border. The mahapanchayat in Bhiwani was attended by around 20,000 people. Apart from Tikait, farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal Singh took part in the event. This was Tikait's second mahapanchayat in Haryana since the agitation began in November last year - the first one being in Jind's Kandela on February 3. While addressing the farmers, Tikait also appreciated the role of "khap" leaders in the agitation. "There is not a single weak link in the entire movement. There will be no ghar wapsi until our demands are met," the BKU leader told the gathering. Since most of the farmers protesting around Delhi's borders are from Punjab, he said that it is the 40-member delegation of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha that will continue to hold negotiations with the Centre. "We will support the Punjab leadership and it will head the delegation. We will not change any of our 40 members," the farmer leader said. Tikait also called on the young protesters to bring soil and water from their houses. "I urge you to visit the fields and apply the soil on your bodies. If you do this, none of you will sell your land to anyone even in extreme situations. We have to save our land. You give me your anger and we will win this battle," he added. In Nuh, Tikait's son Gaurav attacked the Union agriculture minister on the three laws. "The minister has been asking us about issues with the laws. I want to ask him that if there was nothing wrong with the laws, why did the government agree to more than 10 of the 15 points raised by farmers' unions at the meetings?" he asked. The mahapanchayat in Sunhera village of Nuh was attended by around 10,000 people. Apart from Gaurav, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and three Congress MLAs from the district - Aftab Ahmed, Mohammad Iliyas and Mamman Khan - also participated in the event. Gaurav clarified that the farmers would not vacate any of the protesting sites across NCR unless the laws were taken back. He also sought an impartial investigation into the Republic Day violence in Delhi. "They are accusing us of insulting the Tricolour. But I must tell them that we can die and kill to save the national flag and its dignity," he added. Bhim Army's Azad said the farmers' movement could not be derailed on the grounds of religion. "A farmer has only one religion and that is farming. The crowd present here today is proof of the unity among different religions," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-mahapanchayats-vow-to-spread-stir-across-states/articleshow/80741644.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
February 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Covid-19 infections cross 4-lakh mark in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru crossed the 4-lakh mark on Saturday, but both positivity rate and case fatality rate (CFR) have reduced compared to earlier months. As per BBMP’s Covid-19 bulletin on Saturday, 3,950 patients were being treated for the infection, which put the total recoveries as on that day at 97.9%. With 4,401 deaths, the overall CFR stood at a little more than 1%. BBMP claimed that CFR for the first week of February was 0.69%. In January, it was 0.7% compared to 1.02% in December 2020. More than 3.9 lakh of the 4 lakh people who caught the infection have already been discharged, which is in line with the overall Covid-19 recovery expected globally. On average, the virus has been killing only about two people for every 100 that test positive. More than 70 lakh tests have been conducted in Bengaluru, which crossed the 60 lakh tests per day milestone only on January 5 this year. This puts the overall positivity rate at 5.66%, which is lower than New Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai and Lucknow. Also, Bengaluru’s CFR is also the lowest compared to these four cities. BBMP officials said that at least nine wards have reported zero cases in the past 10 days but did not release the names of these wards. And, according to the bulletin, only six active patients remain untraced as of February 6, while authorities have, as on date, traced more than 12.7 lakh primary contacts and 14.8 lakh secondary contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-infections-cross-4-lakh-mark-in-bengaluru/articleshow/80741681.cms||---
February 8, 2021||Kochi||More traffic rule violations come to the fore in Ernakulam||KOCHI: The strengthening of vehicle inspection by motor vehicles department (MVD) has exposed large-scale traffic offences being committed by motorists in Ernakulam, especially those in rural areas. The enforcement wing intensified the inspection as part of road safety month, which began on January18 and will end on February 17. The check reports of traffic offences increased in the district in January when compared to December. Though most of the violations are related to driving two-wheeler without helmet, other cases also show sharp increase. As many as 314 check reports were issued in January for driving uninsured vehicle as against 237 in December. Driving uninsured vehicle is an offence under Section 196 of Motor Vehicles Act and invites a fine of Rs1,000. The Supreme Court in its order in 2018 had asked all the states in the country to ensure that in case of an accident, the owner of an uninsured vehicle is made to pay adequate compensation to the victim’s family. If the owner fails to pay compensation, the vehicle can be auctioned and amount to be deposited with the Motor Vehicles Claims Tribunal to pay the compensation. Transport department in Kerala also made amendments in Kerala Motor Vehicles Rules by inserting this provision against releasing uninsured vehicle involved in an accident. “We could not carry out the inspection properly due to Covid restrictions and the local body election. Now we have resumed the inspection in full scale. Besides, vehicle shortage issue of the department has also been addressed with the release of electric vehicles. We are focusing on accident-prone areas during our inspection,” said Ernakulam enforcement RTO Shaji Madhavan. As many as 4,575 check reports were issued in January against 2,755 in December. Cases of non-payment of taxes, alteration of vehicles, using sun films, fancy number plates, unauthorized parking, overload in goods and driving without licence continue to report more in January. Increase in check reports has resulted in a hike in compounding fee collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-traffic-rule-violations-come-to-the-fore-in-ernakulam/articleshow/80741708.cms||---
