February 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Parents, youths seek help to start reading again||BENGALURU: Abhishek Sharma, a manager in a private firm, is looking for reading classes and tutors for his 12-year-old son, who he says, “cannot sit down for more than 15 minutes with a book”. “I’ve been a voracious reader all my life and so was my son,” Sharma said. “However, in the past few months, he is so saturated with online classes and digital content that it’s impossible for him to focus on reading. I hope professional support will help him start reading again.” Sharma’s predicament is not unique. Reading groups, classes and circles are increasingly in demand as students and young adults struggle to pick up the habit again. Though the lockdown helped some take up the hobby again, the addiction to gadgets has been hard to kick. Dhanya P, an engineering student, deactivated her social media handles on New Year’s Day and joined a reading group to “return to reading”. She says she found herself picking up her phone and checking messages and online content every time she tried to read. “I realised I needed a system to resume reading,” Dhanya said. “In the group, we have a set reading list that covers several genres. We also get together once every few weeks to analyse and discuss the books. This way, I am accountable to a group and the peer pressure is helping.” Start with a newspaperFarah Nasir, founder, English Hour Academy in Benson Town, Bengaluru — her pupils call her ‘Reading Buddy’ — says there is an increase in the number of parents seeking help their kids pick up the reading habit. She launched her academy, which offers courses in reading, speaking skills, storytelling and creative writing among in October last year with only two students. It has now grown to 36. Her youngest student is aged four and the oldest 74! She says the first thing she asks a new student to do is to start reading a newspaper. “I put a lot of emphasis on it as it helps one not only to start reading, but also learn about current affairs and improve communication skills,” Farah said. She says during the lockdown she observed children in her own family glued to gadgets. “That is why I focus on helping kids read physical books, not on tablets or Kindle,” said Farah, who even helps children in London and the US. “I hold interactive sessions, analyze novels and design personalised reading classes.” She says picking novels or books that interest an individual is the next step. She also encourages her students to produce alternative endings to books to keep them engaged. Interactive booksDeepthi Rohith, founder of ‘Owlets Reading Room’, a WhatsApp based book and toy store for kids up to 10, says the demand for interactive books for little children has skyrocketed since May 2020 and she is seeing an increase in demand for sessions on storytelling and reading. Deepthi began Owlets with her parents Murli and Jayashree in 2019 and specialises in selling books imported from the UK and Indian-made toys. “Ours is India’s first and a one-of-a-kind WhatsApp-based book and toy store,” she said. “From my experience, I can say that to inculcate a reading habit among children, books that they love must be read to them repeatedly. The reading must involve voice modulations and enunciations that help them understand the meaning and familiarise themselves with the book.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-parents-youths-seek-help-to-start-reading-again/articleshow/80756324.cms||Farheen Hussain
February 9, 2021||India||Missing K2 climbers feared dead||ISLAMABAD: Pakistani military helicopters continued to search for three missing climbers on the world’s second-highest mountain, K2, on Monday, as hopes for their survival faded rapidly amid harsh weather conditions. Muhammad Ali Sadpara, 45, of Pakistan, John Snorri, 47, of Iceland, and Juan Pablo Mohr, 33, of Chile, were last seen on Friday around noon at the Bottleneck — a steep narrow stretch less than 400m below the summit — which is considered the most difficult and dangerous part of the climb. It was the group’s second attempt at climbing K2 this winter, a season that has already seen three other climbers die in the area. Several experts, including local high altitude climbers and Sherpas from Nepal, are part of the rescue mission searching for the missing climbers for three days now. K2, located in the Karakorum mountain range, is one of the most dangerous climbs in the world. Last month, a team of 10 Nepalese climbers scaled the mountain for the first time in winter. A winter climb is particularly dangerous because of the unpredictable and rapidly changing weather. Winter winds on K2 can blow at more than 200km/h (125 mph) and temperatures can drop to minus 60 degrees Celsius (minus 76 Fahrenheit). Sadpara, one of Pakistan’s most celebrated climbers who had ascended eight of the world’s highest mountains, was accompanied by his 20-year-old son Sajid Sadpara, who was asked by his father to climb down after the oxygen mask he was using leaked. “I waited overnight at a camp just below the Bottleneck, believing the three had summited and would be coming down,” Sajid Sadpara told reporters in Skardu on Sunday. He said that he had kept the light of his tent on at night thinking they would see it when they return. “I am sure they went missing while descending from the summit. The chances of surviving the extremely cold weather after remaining missing for three days and without proper gear are very low,” the climber added. Meanwhile, the Sherpas and Canadian filmmaker Elia Saikaly, who were at the K2’s base camp for the last two weeks to make a documentary on Ali Sadpara and his son about their accomplishments, have wrapped up their assignment and were taken to Skardu in a helicopter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/missing-k2-climbers-feared-dead/articleshow/80756432.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 9, 2021||India||LeM chief’s wife detained for questioning||JAMMU: J&K Police’s special operations group (SOG) on Sunday detained Seeba, wife of Lashkar-e-Mustafa chief Hidayatullah Malik, for questioning a day after the ‘A’ category terrorist was arrested with a pistol and grenade from Jammu city’s outskirts. “An LLM student at Kashmir University, Seeba was detained from her sister’s residence in Jammu city. She was quizzed about her role in helping Malik,” said a source. Besides detaining her, police on Sunday also arrested another two others from Jammu — the landlords who had rented out their houses without getting the police verification of their tenants done. The arrest of the self-styled commander came after a series of terrorists’ arrests. The first arrest in this chain was of Ayaz Bhat of Anantnag on January 18, from whom a pistol was recovered. On his disclosure, two more terror associates, Rayees Mir of Pampore and Shakir Itoo of Shopian, were arrested with grenades. Later, four more terror associates were arrested from Anantnag and two pistols, AK-47 rounds and hand grenades recovered from them. During the investigation, those arrested revealed that Malik was putting up in Jammu’s Bathindi area and planning a major terror attack in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lem-chiefs-wife-detained-for-questioning/articleshow/80756716.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 9, 2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh proposes land for mega integrated textile park in Ratlam||INDORE: The Madhya Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation (MPIDC) has proposed an industrial land in Ratlam to develop a mega integrated textile park after the finance minister announced to launch seven mega textile parks with integrated facilities in three years in the Union budget 2021-22. MPIDC executive director Rohan Saxena said, “We have proposed a 1,000 acre land in Ratlam to develop a mega integrated textile park under the recently-announced scheme in the Union budget. The selection of the site will be on a competitive basis. Given the location and connectivity of Ratlam to the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, the location well suits the requirement of the textile park.” Saxena said setting up of a textile park will help in generating local employment and giving a thrust to economic development of the region. The industry department is eyeing investments from medium and large-scale industries in Ratlam. Madhya Pradesh Textile Mills Association chairman Akhilesh Rathi said, “There are many states in the race to grab the park as it will initiate mega economic development. Most important parameters for selection are location and skill available in that geographical location. The government should suggest a location that should be less than an hour from the airport for smooth transit and to attract global buyers and related stakeholders.” Aimed at boosting the textile sector and developing the country as a manufacturing and export hub, the textile ministry has proposed to develop seven Mega Integrated Textile Region and Apparel (MITRA) Parks on over 1000 acres each. These mega textile parks will have world class infrastructure, research and development laboratories and other common facilities for players. Major competitors of India in textile, China, Vietnam and Ethiopia already have such infrastructure to produce bulk quantities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-proposes-land-for-mega-integrated-textile-park-in-ratlam/articleshow/80756411.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
February 9, 2021||India||9 booked for selling property owned by trust named after Rajiv Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Jammu: Police on Monday registered a criminal case against nine people, including beneficiaries and revenue officials, for alleged involvement in hatching a criminal conspiracy and misappropriating property owned by a charitable body named “Shri Rajiv Gandhi Trust”. Jammu SSP (crime branch) Shailender Singh said, “Police booked one Vijay Gupta, (executor of the trust); Prem Parkash Sharma (deceased), the then naib tehsildar of Nayabat; and seven other public servants and private persons for their involvement in misappropriating Shri Rajiv Gandhi Trust property.” A complaint was filed by one Hindu Bhushan Gupta before the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant-governor alleging misappropriation of property owned by a trust created by his deceased uncle, Himnishwar Gupta, who had passed away about 26 years ago in Delhi. “The late Himnishwar Gupta had remained unmarried during his lifetime and before his death had executed a will to transfer all his property to a trust, which he named Shri Rajiv Gandhi Trust. He had nominated four close friends as trustees,” the SSP added. One of the accused, Vijay Gupta, intentionally and dishonestly disposed of trust property in connivance with the then revenue officials, the complainant alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9-booked-for-selling-property-owned-by-trust-named-after-rajiv-gandhi/articleshow/80756760.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 9, 2021||India||Peoples Conference man elected Kupwara DDC chairperson with Apni Party support||SRINAGAR: Sajjad Lone’s Peoples Conference, which has five members in the Kupwara district development council (DDC), managed on Monday to get the post of Kupwara DDC chairperson with the support of three Apni Party members and two others despite four NC members abstaining from voting. Apart from Apni Party support, PC’s Irfan Panditpuri received the backing of one Awami Ittehad Party member and one Independent candidate, officials said. “The party was hopeful that three other members would remain absent and force the authorities to adjourn the election due to lack of quorum, but they turned up,” NC insiders said. A People’s Conference member also was elected Kupwara DDC vice-chairperson. The Baramulla DDC, however, was unable to elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson due to lack of quorum. The Baramulla deputy commissioner Baramulla adjourned the elections for 10 days. Official sources said only seven members turned up and a quorum required 10. Those present included Safina Baig (Independent) ,Muhammad Muzaffar (Independent), three PC members and two from Apni Party. Those who didn’t show were two members each from National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party and Congress, and Irfan Hafiz Lone (Independent). The rules governing the election of chairpersons/vice-chairpersons of DDCs mandate a strength of two-thirds of elected members to achieve quorum in the first instance. However, the quorum for second and subsequent election meetings demand a simple majority which, for Baramulla district, would mean eight members present in the second instance. In Budgam, Independent candidate Nazir Ahmad Khan was elected DDC chairperson, while Nazir Jahar of NC was elected vice-chairperson. Meanwhile, a meeting notice was issued on Monday for the conduct of elections on February 13 for chairperson and vice-chairperson of Bandipora DDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/peoples-conference-man-elected-kupwara-ddc-chairperson-with-apni-party-support/articleshow/80756822.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 9, 2021||India||Pak intruder shot dead along international border||JAMMU: Alert Border Security Force (BSF) personnel shot dead a Pakistani intruder along the international border in Jammu’s Samba sector on Monday. A BSF spokesperson said, “Around 9.45am, vigilant BSF troops observed a Pakistani intruder heading towards the security fence near Chak Faquira border outpost in Samba sector. Despite repeated warnings, he kept moving towards the fence and was fired upon by the troops.” The spokesperson added that the intruder’s body was later recovered by BSF from the fenced area, some 40m inside the Indian territory. A Pakistani intruder was killed in the same area on November 23, 2020, and a tunnel was also detected nearby recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-intruder-shot-dead-along-international-border/articleshow/80756842.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 9, 2021||Business||UK judge denies Mallya cash to fund legal battles in India but allows him money for £22,500 a month lifestyle||LONDON: A UK judge has refused fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya permission to use money from a £2.9 million (Rs 29 crore) cash pot from the sale of his mansion in France to fund his legal battles in India but allowed him to take money from the fund, held in the court funds office, to enjoy a £22,500 (Rs 22.5 lakh) a month lifestyle in Britain and also to pay his legal fees to oppose the bankruptcy petition. The 13 Indian banks to whom Mallya owes £1.05 billion (Rs 10,507 crore) have applied to make the 65-year-old bankrupt in the insolvency and companies court (ICC) of the London high court. In November Mallya applied for £2.7 million (Rs 27 crore) from the cash pot to cover past and future litigation costs in respect of those bankruptcy proceedings as well as cash for other legal fees in the UK as well as in India, stating they were inextricably wound up in the bankruptcy proceedings. The £2.87 million fund arose from the €3.288 million sale of his property Le Grand Jardin in Cannes, France, which was paid into the court in October 2020. On Monday deputy ICC judge Barnett allowed Mallya to access about £1.2 million (Rs 11.9 crore) in total from that cash pot. Barnett gave permission for Mallya to access £121,000 (Rs 1.2 crore) towards his £22,500-per-month living expenses for the next six months. He also allowed £786,000 (Rs 7.9 crore) for his incurred costs and £288,000 (Rs 2.9 crore) for future legal costs in respect of defending the bankruptcy petition. This was despite the banks’ concerns that he was depleting any assets in the court’s control and the banks saying he should instead sell two yachts and two cars he owns and that he was owed almost £1.5 million (Rs 15 crore) by various Mallya family trusts. The banks, represented by TLT LLP, also argued he should cut his cloth according to his means. Tony Beswetherick, representing the banks, had argued that Mallya had not been transparent about his assets and whether there were other sources from which he could fund payments. But Philip Marshall, representing Mallya, said the sale of luxury items such as boats are unlikely to be realised efficiently in the middle of a pandemic and the trusts are not in a position to repay the loans to Mallya as their underlying assets are subject to attachments in India. Barnett denied Mallya permission to use the cash pot to pay £556,000 (Rs 5.6 crore)in legal fees due to two Indian law firms and a senior member of the Indian bar and future legal costs in India of £203,000 (Rs 2 crore). Mallya was seeking the cash to fund legal fees for his settlement proposal in the Supreme Court of India, his challenge to the 11.5% interest rate on the principal debt of Rs 6,203 crore, and his challenge to the attachment orders obtained by the Indian government under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act. Barnett also denied Mallya permission to use the cash pot to make a final payment of £128,000 (Rs 1.3 crore) owed to London law firm Boutique Law for representing him in his extradition proceedings. The court has already released £83,000 (Rs 83 lakh) for him to pay the legal cost of the Crown Prosecution Service in those proceedings, or else he would have gone to jail. Barnett said: “It seems to me that Dr Mallya’s legal advisers in respect of the extradition proceedings must, or should have appreciated that they were at risk of not being paid.” Mallya lost all his legal cases against his extradition in April 2020 but has not yet gone back to India as he has “applied to the home secretary for a status meaning he won’t go back,” his barrister, Philip Marshall, had told the high court last month. The £569,000 (Rs 5.7 crore) Mallya wanted for costs in his ongoing Diageo proceedings and £57,000 (Rs 57 lakh) for costs in connection with his worldwide freezing order were also denied by Barnett. Finella Fogarty, partner at international law firm RPC, representing Mallya, said after the hearing: “With regard to the element of the order sought which was not granted (namely payment of fees for the Indian proceedings), given Dr Mallya considers these to be inextricably linked to the English bankruptcy proceedings, we have instructions to apply for permission to appeal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uk-judge-denies-mallya-cash-to-fund-legal-battles-in-india-but-allows-him-money-for-22500-a-month-lifestyle/articleshow/80756908.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 9, 2021||India||Uttarakhand: 171 still missing, rescue teams race against time||DEHRADUN: Over 500 rescue personnel from state, disaster and defence forces are racing against time to rescue the 34 workers — and there could be more — believed trapped inside a 1.6-km-long debris-filled tunnel of the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The flooded Dhauliganga is the river on which the project was being built. The rescue effort on Monday — with two National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams, over 300 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) team and over 120 from the Army — was entirely channelised towards that one tunnel. The 12 men in the other tunnel of the project had been rescued on Sunday. The cause of the flood remains uncertain. Fresh satellite-based assessment by the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing reported that it was not a glacier burst but a landslide that may have triggered an avalanche, which then caused the flood. Executive director of the Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre Piyoosh Rautela said, “Satellite data from February 7 clearly shows that a landslide at the terminus of the glacier at an altitude of 5,600m triggered a snow avalanche, covering approximately 14sq km, and causing a flash flood downstream of Rishiganga river.” With maps, sniffer dogs and shovels, the rescue team at Tunnel Number 1 had been at work since Sunday evening. The concern has been oxygen — deep inside a tunnel that is blocked from both sides, the men might suffocate. “The first 72 hours are crucial in such cases,” chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said while reviewing the rescue operation. “The tunnel is very long. There might be enough oxygen inside.” Rescue teams will continue to work overnight, ITBP said at the time of filing the report. “It is extremely cold. We are hopeful that our people are alive, that there are oxygenated spots inside,” ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said. Tunnel Number 1 is a relatively narrow structure, about 25m wide. Only one excavator can enter at a time. “Because it is completely filled with slush, clearing the way has been a challenge,” DGP Ashok Kumar, who has been camping there, said. Because when the debris is cleared, there is not much space to manoeuvre — ITBP posted videos from inside the tunnel on Monday night. So, progress has been slow. By Monday night, they managed to get 100-130m into the tunnel. The hope, now, is that they get to this one point in the tunnel where the slush may have subsided. “About 180m into the tunnel, there is a sharp 90 degree-bend, which may have slowed down the flow at least,” Kumar added. The search team, working simultaneously and led by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), found 19 more bodies from the Tapovan project site and downstream areas, till Srinagar in Pauri district. The toll has now gone up to 26. “About 171 persons are missing,” DGP Kumar said. About 2,500 people in 13 villages, right up to Niti Pass, were completely cut off on Sunday after a bridge collapsed in Raini. “We are airdropping essentials in these remote villages and will keep doing so until connectivity is restored,” DGP Kumar said. On Monday morning, 3 Mi-17 choppers, 1 Chinook and one Advanced Light Helicopter landed at Jolly Grant airport in Dehradun to assist in rescue work. On Sunday, two Hercules, two AN-32s and four other Army helicopters were engaged in the rescue operations. Watch Uttarakhand glacier burst: 197 still missing, NDRF, ITBP teams intensify relief operations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/171-still-missing-rescue-teams-race-against-time/articleshow/80757319.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 9, 2021||India||Twitter reaches out to govt on a/c block||NEW DELHI: Faced with a warning of arrest of its employees and a penal action, American social media giant Twitter has finally reached out to the government and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for talks on the latter’s demand for blocking 257 accounts over the carriage of the hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide with regards to the farmers protest. Perhaps, concerned over the possibility of arrest of its employees under Section 69A (3) of the IT Act for non-compliance of the government’s order (that carries a jail term of up to seven years), the micro-blogging giant said it has initiated the talks to look into the concerns raised by the IT ministry. “Safety of our employees is a top priority. We continue to be engaged with the government from a position of respect and have reached out to the minister for a formal dialogue,” a spokesperson for Twitter told TOI. Read AlsoAmid row over 257 a/cs, Centre asks Twitter to block 1,178 moreIn fresh trouble for Twitter over the “misuse” of the platform regarding farmers’ protests, the Centre has served a new notice asking it to block 1,178 accounts, suspected to be linked to Khalistan sympathisers or backed by Pakistan. This is in addition to 257 handles the Centre earlier demandedThe spokesperson said an acknowledgement to the receipt of the non-compliance notice has also been formally communicated to the government, just as it has started a review of the IT ministry’s orders (on blocking of the handles). “We review every report we receive from the government as expeditiously as possible, and take appropriate action regarding such reports while making sure we hold firm to our fundamental values,” the firm said. The company has also shared an update with the government. “We strongly believe that the open and free exchange of information has a positive global impact, and that the tweets must continue to flow,” the spokesperson said. The company has been cornered on the issue of tweets related to the farmers agitation against the proposed changes to the agricultural laws, as the government has instructed it to block around 257 accounts that sent out posts on the platform with the hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide. While the company had first ‘withheld’ (blocked) the accounts after the IT ministry’s request, it soon unblocked them (termed ‘unwithheld’ by the company) in the name of “free speech” and because it found the content “newsworthy”. This had infuriated the IT ministry that not only threatened action against Twitter and its India officials, but also sent out a fresh list of 1,178 handles that it sought to be blocked, purportedly for being backed by Khalistan sympathisers, or by Pakistan and operating from foreign territories. Twitter has said that when it gets a request for blocking a particular handle, it reviews it under both “the Twitter Rules and the local law”. “If the content violates Twitter’s rules, the content will be removed. If it is determined to be illegal in a particular jurisdiction, but not in violation of the Twitter rules, we may withhold access to the content in the location only. Our goal is to respect local law while protecting our principles of free expression,” the firm said. The IT ministry has warned the firm to comply with its instructions as they have been given keeping the public order in mind and in order to diffuse tensions and hatred. Watch Twitter reaches out to I-T minister on account block||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-reaches-out-to-govt-on-a/c-block/articleshow/80757372.cms||Pankaj Doval
February 9, 2021||Business||India-EU interim trade deal likely at May summit||NEW DELHI: India and the European Union are looking at an ambitious interim trade agreement, a move that might be announced during the India-EU summit scheduled for May 8 in Portugal. The two sides are also discussing an investment pact, which would be important for India to attract more interest from investors in the region. A statement by the EU on Monday said commerce minister Piyush Goyal and executive vice-president and commissioner for trade for the EU, Vladis Dombrovskis, “tasked experts to look into the feasibility of resuming work on trade and investment agreements; new areas of cooperation (regulatory aspects and resilient value chains); as well as enhancing collaboration on WTO reform”. The optimistic outcome of the first India-EU high-level dialogue on trade and investment held over the weekend stems largely from the fact that India appears to be taking a more proactive approach to a trade deal with the EU. An EU statement on Monday said, “The two sides had open and constructive exchanges on a broad range of issues with the aim of enhancing EU-India trade and investment relations. Their discussion will feed into the preparation of the upcoming EU-India Leaders’ Meeting.” Dombrovskis and Goyal are likely to meet for a second round of discussions before the summit. The decision to establish the high-level dialogue had been taken by both partners during the 15th EU-India Summit held on 15 July 2020. Both sides “reiterated their interest in resuming negotiations for ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade and investment agreements once their respective approaches and positions are close enough. In the meantime, they examined alternative approaches and looked into the possibility of opening new areas of cooperation, for instance in relation to the resilience of global value chains and regulatory cooperation, notably in relation to new technologies.” Climate cooperation, connectivity and health will be the new areas of cooperation that are likely to be announced at the summit. The discussions on Friday also covered “various key policy developments and market access issues. The EU side provided an update on the ongoing review of the Generalised Scheme of Preferences, which expires at end of 2023, and on the work towards EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism under the European Green Deal…” The two ministers, the EU said, “examined a selection of key market access issues to identify prospects for resolving them”. WTO reforms were also part of the discussions between the two ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-eu-interim-trade-deal-likely-at-may-summit/articleshow/80757435.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 9, 2021||India||Covid-19: 71% of last week’s cases from 2 states||Kerala and Maharashtra accounted for as much as 71% of all fresh Covid-19 cases recorded last week, with Kerala alone making up almost half (49%) of the total. This was the highest share of any two states in weekly coronavirus cases in the country, again pointing to the fact that the virus continues to be active in Kerala and Maharashtra while steadily retreating in the rest of the country. Both Kerala and Maharashtra recorded a slight rise in fresh cases recorded last week (February 1-7) while the rest of the country witnessed a steep 30% fall in infections as compared with the previous seven days. Out of the total 80,536 fresh cases detected in the country during the week, Kerala logged 39,260 cases. Last week, the state had seen a steep week-on-week decline in infections. The only other major state to record a rise on weekly cases was Maharashtra, which logged 17,672 new cases, 379 more than the count in the previous week. This was the first time in four weeks that the weekly tally of cases had risen in Maharashtra. Together, Kerala and Maharashtra accounted for 56,932 fresh cases in the past week, 71% of the total count in the country. In the rest of the country, just 23,604 new coronavirus cases were recorded. The corresponding figure in the previous week was 33,742, which means cases in the rest of the country saw a 30% decline. On Monday, at least 8,669 new cases were recorded in India, a slight increase from the number (8,584) reported last Monday. There were 75 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-71-of-last-weeks-cases-from-2-states/articleshow/80757495.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 9, 2021||India||Nitish may expand cabinet today, include 18 ministers||NEW DELHI: Expansion of the Nitish Kumar ministry in Bihar is likely on Tuesday with more than 18 new ministers set to take oath. According to sources, the BJP brass cleared the names of party legislators to be inducted in the ministry, which was forwarded by party president JP Nadda to CM Nitish Kumar on Monday. “The swearing-in will take place on Tuesday,” said a party source, adding that the names were finalised after a discussion held by PM Modi with home minister Amit Shah and Nadda. Sources said the two NDA allies — Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Vikassheel Insaan party (VIP) — will get berths in proportion to their strength in the assembly. Both parties have four members each in the house and one each has already been accommodated. It was learnt that the principal allies, BJP and JD(U), will stick to the portfolios that are with their ministers. While BJP will accommodate VIP from its quota, JD(U) will take care of HAM. Earlier in the day, Nitish Kumar said the delay in cabinet expansion was because he was waiting for the list of legislators who will become ministers from the BJP quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nitish-may-expand-cabinet-today-include-18-ministers/articleshow/80757524.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
February 9, 2021||India||Protein behind corona’s slow Asia spread: Study||MUMBAI: Deficiency in a particular human protein, which is more common in Europe and the United States than in Asia, could explain why coronavirus is not spreading as fast in Asian countries. A team of scientists from the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani, West Bengal, have found a biological reason for the slower spread of a mutant of coronavirus in Asia compared to the West. The team has explained how higher levels of a human protein — neutrophil elastase — helps the virus to enter the human cell, multiply and also spread faster from infected individuals. However, this protein is kept in check by the biological system, which produces another protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT). AAT deficiency leads to higher levels of neutrophil elastase in the cells, which in turn helps in faster spread of the virus. This deficiency is known to be much higher in Europe and America than among Asians. The study has been published in the journal, Infection, Genetics and Evolution. The team of scientists led by Nidhan Biswas and Partha Majumder observed that the rate of the spread of the mutant virus — D614G — has been non-uniform across geographical regions. The researchers say that, “…in order to reach 50% relative frequency, the 614G subtype took significantly longer time in East Asia (5.5 months) compared to Europe (2.15 months) as well as North-America (2.83 months).” “Many were speculating why coronavirus spreads differentially across geographies. The most popular speculation was the higher temperature in Asia was not congenial to the spread of the coronavirus. We believed the cause had to be biological, rather than physical or social,” said Majumder. The researchers linked the differential spread to an additional cleavage site created by the D614G mutant virus, for entry into the human cell. “However, some naturally-occurring mutations in the AAT-producing gene results in deficiency of the AAT protein. This deficiency is known to be much higher in the Caucasians of Europe and America than among Asians,” said Majumder. “While we used AAT deficiency data from East Asia, along with North America and Europe, for the study, considering the pace at which the coronavirus is spreading, the numbers are representative of other Asian regions too, including India.” As per their data, AAT deficiency is the least in East Asian countries — 8 per 1,000 individuals in Malaysia, 5.4 per 1,000 in South Korea, 2.5 in Singapore. On the other hand, 67.3 in per 1,000 individuals in Spain are AAT deficient, 34.6 in the UK and 51.9 in France and in the US it is prevalent in 29 individuals among 1,000. The researchers emphasized that this finding along with other social factors may explain the differential geographical/ethnic spread of the mutant virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/protein-behind-coronas-slow-asia-spread-study/articleshow/80757537.cms||Yogita Rao
February 9, 2021||India||Schools open across Odisha, Rajasthan & Bihar||BHUBANESWAR/JAIPUR/KOTA/PATNA: After a gap of more than 10 months, students across Odisha, Rajasthan, and Bihar attended school on Monday, following strict Covid-19 guidelines. While students of Classes IX and XI returned to schools in Odisha, students of Classes VI to VIII came back to schools in Rajasthan and Bihar, with students of the higher classes having joined school earlier in these two states. Schools in Bihar reported over 70% attendance. Schools in Rajasthan had lower turnout of students, as most parents were reluctant to send their children out, while some schools did not open at all as attendance was sparse. Odisha had a median attendance in its schools, with teachers saying that more students would flock back in due course. Higher secondary schools in the state introduced staggered timings for physical classes so as to avoid crowding. “Meeting friends was a major attraction to return to school after so many months,” Pratima Sahu, a Class IX student of Unit-IV Girls’ High School in Odisha, said. Three girl students — two in Jhalrapatan and one in Jhalawar city — and a teacher of a government school in Bhawanimandi, Rajasthan, were found to be Covid-19 positive on Sunday. A medical team led by CMHO visited the two schools and collected samples of the contacts and their family members on Monday. All the schools in Patna, claimed strict adherence to the Covid protocols. Sister M Serena AC, principal of Carmel High School, said attendance was more than what they expected for the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/schools-open-across-odisha-rajasthan-bihar/articleshow/80757555.cms||Minati Singha
February 9, 2021||India||Govt mulls tweak in rules for flexible working hours||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday said it will consider changes to the proposed rules under the new labour laws to allow greater flexibility in working hours. Union labour secretary Apurva Chandra said while workers can be made to work for a maximum of 48 hours per week, individual companies will be permitted to tweak daily work hours, with the consent of their employees, from 8 to 12 hours in a day, as long as the upper limit of 48 hours is not breached, and employees get the remaining time of the week as paid holidays. He also said the labour and employment ministry is expected to complete the process of finalising rules under the four labour codes soon. The ministry, Chandra said, is also expected to set up the web portal for registration of unorganised sector, including gig and platform workers and migrant workers by June 2021. The portal will also help formulate health, housing, skill, insurance, credit and food schemes for migrant workers. Workers enrolled on the portal will also be provided with an incentive of free coverage for a period of one year for accidental and disability cover under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bhima Yojana (PMSBY). “Rule making process is under way and likely to be completed in the coming week. All stakeholders are also consulted in framing of rules. This ministry would soon be in a position to bring into force the four codes; Code on Wages, Industrial Relations; Occupational Safety; Health and Working Conditions (OSH); and Social Security Codes,” Chandra said. The labour ministry had envisaged implementation of all four labour codes from April 1 this year. Chandra also said the Labour Bureau is readying to launch four new surveys on migrant workers, domestic workers and employment generated by professionals and transport sector. The Bureau will also commission an ‘All India Establishment based Employment Survey (AIEES)’. Results of all these surveys are likely to come within eight to nine months from the start of actual field surveys, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-mulls-tweak-in-rules-for-flexible-working-hours/articleshow/80757581.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu granted bail||VISAKHAPATNAM: The sixth additional district sessions court at Sompeta in Srikakulam district on Monday granted bail to former minister and TDP state president Kinjarapu Atchannaidu. Srikakulam police had on February 2 arrested Atchannaidu and over 20 other persons for allegedly threatening and preventing a candidate Kinjarapu Appanna from filing nomination for the sarpanch post ahead of gram panchayat elections at Nimmada village, the hometown of the TDP leader. The court also sanctioned bail to 21 others who were arrested and remanded in connection with the case. Atchannaidu was asked to submit a surety of Rs 50,000 to the court. The court dismissed the custody petition filed by Srikakulam police, citing various reasons. Advocate-General Sudhakar Reddy told the court that as Atchannaidu was arrested under Section of 307 of IPC he was not eligible to get bail. However,Atchannaidu’s counsel Gorle Rama Rao said the former minister was eligible for bail. It may be recalled that Atchannaidu was remanded in custody for fourteen days on February 2 and shifted to Ampolu sub-jail in Srikakulam. His bail petition was moved in court on February 3. Gorle Rama Rao said though the bail petition was supposed to come up for hearing on February 4, it was heard on Monday as the court had postponed the hearing after it failed to receive the case diary on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/former-min-atchannaidu-granted-bail/articleshow/80755435.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kanpur||All dug roads must be constructed by March end, urban minister tells jal nigam officials||KANPUR: Minister for urban development Ashutosh Tandon on Monday reprimanded the jal nigam officials and said that all roads dug by it must be constructed by the end of March by all means without any excuses. The minister, who was in the city on Monday to lay the foundation stone of development works asked the municipal commissioner to submit a report regarding the solid and waste management plant of Panki. The minister got angry after some corporators complained about the poor condition of the city roads. At the review meeting, he asked the general manager of jal nigam when the dug roads would be repaired ? He got annoyed when the jal nigam officials said that the roads could not be repaired due to the corona pandemic. He told them that he was not interested in any excuses and that all roads must be constructed by the end of March. If any carelessness is found, the officials should be ready for action, he warned. The minister laid the foundation stone and dedicated some projects worth Rs 81 crore. When mayor Pramila Pandey complained to the minister regarding the problem created by the overflowing Sisamau nullah, the latter again came down heavily on the jal nigam officials and asked them to go to the spot along with the mayor and solve the problem. On the complaint about the poor condition of the Gujaini model road, he asked the officials to inspect the road with the MLA of the area. Talking to mediapersons, Tandon said, “In sanitation, ranking of the city has been improved as earlier Kanpur was on the 265th number and now it has jumped to the 25the place. Efforts should be made to place the city under top ten”. He said work of the smart city project should also be geared up .Traffic signals and e- challan at two dozen crossings would be made operational soon, he added. When asked about cleanliness of Ganga, Tandon said that efforts were being made to keep the river clean and pure. He would recommend to the government to release Rs 48 crore to tap the nullahs so that they could not discharge their effluent into the river. He asked the mayor to launch a campaign to remove dairies from the city limit as the government was serious to keep the cities clean and dairy free. Regarding Maswanpur road, he asked the MP and the MLA to construct the road from their funds. The urban development minister inspected the solid and waste management plant at Panki. Surendra Maithani, MLA, informed him that the underground water get polluted and residents of adjacent areas complained about diseases due to the garbage plant. He urged the minister to direct the officials to shift the plant to some other place. Tandon asked municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi to submit a report about it. Meanwhile, during the foundation laying stone function at Kanpur Municipal Corporation office, some corporators squatted on the floor to lodge their protest. Corporators Kamal Shukla, Manoj Pandey, Amandeep and others alleged that chairs were not offered to them . The officials then pacified them and provided them chairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/all-dug-roads-must-be-constructed-by-march-end-urban-minister-tells-jal-nigam-officials/articleshow/80755544.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Patna||June 2022 target for Ganga Path link road to Patna hospital||PATNA: An elevated approach road between the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and Ganga Path is likely to be ready by June 2022. It will facilitate people arriving from north Bihar to the PMCH, CM Nitish Kumar said during the launch of the up-gradation of the hospital on Monday. “The 1.12km long elevated approach road is getting constructed utilising funds to the tune of Rs131cr. IT is targeted to be completed by June 2022,” said Pankaj Kumar, managing director of Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL), the executing agency for the project. Another official in the BSRDCL said the ramp of the elevated approach road would end near Rajendra Surgical Ward of the PMCH. “It will be a composite structure made using concrete and steel. The piling work has already started, and the progress is as per schedule,” he said, adding the elevated road will have four lanes. Apart from the PMCH, the under-construction Ganga Path will have approach roads at six other places, including LCT Ghat, AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Krishna Ghat, Gai Ghat, Kangan Ghat and Patna Ghat. It will also be linked to the newly constructed R Block- Digha Road and AIIMS- Digha elevated highway. The foundation for the 20.50km four-lane road along the bank of Ganga between Digha and Nasriganj was laid by CM Nitish in 2013. It is elevated for 11.70km and is getting constructed utilising funds to the tune of Rs 3,390 crore. “The stretch between Digha and AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies is targeted to be constructed by December this year, while the entire project is targeted to be completed by June 2022,” the BSRDCL officer said. Ganga Path is also a part of the Patna ring road, which is getting constructed in batches through projects being executed by the state as well as central government agencies, like the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). For instance, apart from Ganga Path, the under-construction Kachchi Dargah- Bidpur six-lane bridge is also a part of Patna ring road. The alignment of the 130-km long ring road is Bihta-Naubatpur-Dumri-Beldari Chak-Kachhi Dargah- Bidupur bridge-Saran-Astipur-Naya Gaon-Dighwara -Sherpur-Bihta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/june-2022-target-for-ganga-path-link-road-to-pmch/articleshow/80755443.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 9, 2021||Vijayawada||No fund crunch for Polavaram: Union minister||VIJAYAWADA: Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has said there is no dearth of funds for the Polavaram project. The minister was replying to a question in Rajya Sabha by YSRC member V Vijayasai Reddy on the release of funds for the Polavaram project in keeping with the schedule suggested by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. The minister said the chief minister had written to the Centre on February 5, 2020 to streamline the reimbursement of funds spent by the state government on the project. The minister said the central government was reimbursing the expenditure as per bills sent by the state and according to the recommendations of the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) and Central Water Commission (CWC). The funds are provided for the project through extra budgetary resources from Nabard under its long term irrigation fund, the minister said. Shekhawat said Nabard raises funds from the market once a requisition is made by the ministry, based on bills provided by the state government and recommended by the PPA and the CWC, and added that Nabard would require two to three weeks to raise the required funds, and which would take a couple of days to be transferred to the state government. The minister said the chief minister had set 2022 as the deadline for completion of the project and works were being carried out to reach the target. On the project cost, the minister said the state government had sent a proposal to revise the project cost at 2017 prices as against 2013-14 prices as agreed earlier. He said the proposal was under consideration. Shekhawat also asked the state government to speed up the project work and rehabilitation and resettlement work, stating the government take up the rehabilitation and resettlement on the basis of water storage. He said if water was stored at a 41-meter-level, about one lakh acres of land would be submerged and the government should rehabilitate people of this area on priority. The minister further said that over 35 per cent of project-affected people have already been rehabilitated and resettled and the rest would be taken up as works are completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-dearth-of-funds-for-polavaram-union-min/articleshow/80755350.cms||Gopi Dara
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: POCSO case registered against 40-year-old||KOLKATA: A nine-year-old girl was allegedly abused by a 40-year-old man, Tarak Saha, in the Purba Putiary area between 8pm and 9.30pm on Sunday, while she was watching a volleyball match from the balcony of a house in the neighbourhood. Locals gathered at Saha’s house and demanded he be handed over to them but cops managed to rescue him. But a local who tried to stop the mob was roughed up. “The accused touched the victim inappropriately besides abusing her. The child raised an alarm and informed her father. We arrested Saha and registered a case under 10 POCSO Act,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pocso-case-registered-against-40-yr-old/articleshow/80755804.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 9, 2021||Patna||Students flock to schools as offline classes resume in Patna||PATNA: Schools in the city, which reopened for classes VI to VIII after around 10 months on Monday, saw students thronging the campus and enjoying reunion with their friends. Academic activities for students of classes IX to XII had started in the first week of January. Sister M Serena AC, principal of Carmel High School, said the attendance was more than expectation on the first day. “Seeing students’ enthusiasm, we are expecting full attendance from Tuesday onwards,” she said, adding the final examinations would be conducted in March. “The new academic session is expected to commence from the second week of April as usual,” she said. Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said, “We have not switched to offline mode for students of classes VI to VIII because they will write their final examinations in March, which is just 20 days away.” Although all the schools have been asked to allow only 50% of students in every class on a day and the remaining 50% the next day, the students who attended school on Monday were excited to resume classes. “It was refreshing to attend school after such a long gap. I met my friends after a long time. Although we could not sit or eat together, I was happy to be in close proximity with them,” said Aishwarya Sinha of St Joseph’s Convent High School. Aadya Singh, a student of Carmel High School, said, “Initially, I was a bit reluctant to go school. However, all my fears are gone now. We follow all the Covid protocols on the school campus.” Mrinal Singh of DAV Public School said online studies were taking a toll on his eyes. “It’s nice that schools have reopened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-flock-to-schools-as-offline-classes-resume-in-patna/articleshow/80755412.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Shifting Baner garbage plant is in public interest, says SC||PUNE: The Supreme Court on Monday observed that given the number of residences around the Pune Municipal Corporation’s wet garbage processing plant on Sus Road in Baner, “the only thing that can be done in public interest” is to shift the plant. The SC bench of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and Justice B R Gavai directed the senior counsel appearing for the PMC to seek instructions “on this aspect of the case” while adjourning the hearing of an appeal by four weeks. In the meantime, the bench granted a stay on the operation and implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s order of October 27 directing the PMC to shift the plant within four months. Lawyer Saurabh Kulkarni, the original applicant before the NGT who represented the Sus Baner Road Vikas Manch, told TOI, “The four-month time given to the PMC for shifting the plant was to end on February 28. As such, the PMC moved an appeal in the SC and we, too, had filed a caveat on behalf of the Vikas Manch. The matter came up for hearing today (Monday).” The NGT, in the impugned (under challenge) order, had said, “The plant is in violation of the right to clean environment of the inhabitants and is against the statutory norms.” It further said the present site may be used for its original purpose of a biodiversity park. The Vikas Manch had filed the application on March 2, 2019, following which the green tribunal had constituted a joint committee of experts to inspect the site and file a report. The NGT observed that the deficiencies cited in the joint panel’s report existed even at the time of its ruling. It further said that consent to establish the plant was required under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Such consent had not been taken, it said. Consent to establish must precede any authorisation by pollution regulator and, thereafter, there has to be consent to operate from time to time, the tribunal said, adding that the location of the plant was not desirable as it was in the vicinity of habitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shifting-baner-garbage-plant-is-in-public-interest-says-sc/articleshow/80756033.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 9, 2021||Business||Byju’s to be ICC’s global partner in Rs 130 crore deal||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: After becoming the Indian cricket team’s official sponsor, edtech major Byju’s has now signed a deal in the range of Rs 120-130 crore to become a global partner with International Cricket Council (ICC), according to sources aware of the matter. Byju’s three-year deal with ICC comes at a time when India is slated to host two major cricketing events — the T20 World Cup in 2021 and the 50-over cricket World Cup in 2023. As a global partner, Byju’s will have extensive in-venue, broadcast, and digital rights across all ICC events. This marks yet another instance of internet firms spending on cricketing events to acquire users. Paytm, PhonePe, credit card payments startup Cred and edtech startup Unacademy are some of the other names who have bagged different sponsorship rights for blockbuster cricketing events, including the IPL. “The annual payout for this deal will not be equal each year as most of it will be paid this year and then in 2023 as India will host two major events during that time,” a person aware of the matter said. When contacted, a Byju’s spokesperson declined to comment on the deal size. “Sports is a big part of life for most Indians and cricket, in particular, holds a very special place in our hearts. It is a matter of pride for us as an Indian company to represent our nation on a global platform like this. Just as cricket inspires billions across the world, we too as a learning company hope to inspire the love of learning in every child’s life,” Byju Raveendran, founder and CEO of Byju’s, said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/byjus-to-be-iccs-global-partner-in-rs-130cr-deal/articleshow/80756989.cms||Digbijay Mishra
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Jorabagan girl was gang-raped: Kolkata cops||KOLKATA: Four days after a nine-year-old girl was raped and murdered in Jorabagan, it has emerged that there was a second person who played a more crucial role in the violent crime than the private guard arrested earlier. The arrest of marble-cutting technician Ranvir Tanti alias Raghuvir (43) on Monday has also established that the girl was gang-raped before being murdered. While security guard Ram Kumar alias Lambu had provided the murder weapon — a knife — it was Tanti who killed her. “Kumar claimed he was too drunk and weak to commit the murder even though he fetched the knife and Tanti agreed to slit her throat,” a source said. “Tanti works at the marble shop of a local trader, a regular at the residence of the girl’s maternal uncle, and the girl knew Tanti by face. That evening, she accepted chips and biryani from Kumar. The two accused were drinking and hatched the plan together,” a source said. “We asked Tanti — who is from Begusarai in Bihar — to come to Lalbazar for questioning after repeated questioning of Kumar revealed that another person was involved. We arrested Tanti based on evidence around 12.50pm,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Sources said the police will be praying before court on Tuesday — when Tanti is produced there — to add gang-rape charges along with the criminal conspiracy section. Police had charged Kumar under IPC sections 302 (murder), 376AB (rape on woman under 12 years of age) and Section 6 of POCSO Act. Sources said Tanti, who lives in the same Jorabagan locality as Kumar, had fled to Begusarai. “We had to exert pressure to ensure he came back for questioning. The forensic team put up some crucial evidence which helped us build the case,” said an officer. The probe will now rest on building up strong evidence. Local cops said the accused were addicted to child pornography, a fact that will be established once experts go through the seized phone. Police and family sources said the girl — who celebrated her ninth birthday last Monday — had been warned to stay away from the building where the crime took place by her grandmother, but had gone in to play hide and seek. The next sequence of events are under probe. Sources claimed the child was offered biryani and chips, some of which she ate. “The post-mortem report suggests she may have been murdered between 9pm and 2am. We believe the murder took place between midnight and 2am,” said a source. While there is a theory the child was drugged so she could be taken close to the third-floor stairs, there are questions on the role of people who live on the second and third floors, said sources. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jorabagan-girl-was-gang-raped-cops/articleshow/80755775.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 9, 2021||Patna||Tutor held for rape of 15-year-old Saharsa girl||PATNA: A private tutor was arrested on Monday for raping his 15-year-old student for the last one year and making her pregnant in Saharsa district. The victim’s father was also thrashed by the accused family members after he refused their offer to settle the matter over Rs1.5 lakh. The matter came to light when the victim, stated to be a class VIII student of a government middle school, was admitted to the Sadar hospital in a serious condition on Saturday. According to the doctors, the girl’s condition worsened due to heavy bleeding. The accused, Sublesh Kumar Yadav, used to give her tuition at his private coaching institute under Saur Bazar police station. SHO Jaishankar said Sublesh was sent to jail. He has been booked under POCSO Act besides other sections of the IPC. The victim’s father told the police that Sublesh had been sexually assaulting his minor daughter for the last one year. His daughter got pregnant in the process. A couple of days ago, the accused provided some pills to her, which led to heavy bleeding. An investigating officer said the matter was initially brought to the panchayat, which suggested the accused’s father Ram Ballabh Yadav, a home guard jawan, to get his son married to the girl. Though the accused agreed to the proposal before the panchayat, he refused later on the plea of being implicated in a case of child marriage as the girl was a minor. Initial investigation revealed that the accused family had offered Rs1.5 lakh to the victim to settle the matter. On Sunday, an FIR was lodged against the accused, which led to his arrest. The SHO said raids were on to nab the others involved in assaulting the survivor’s father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tutor-held-for-rape-of-15-year-old-saharsa-girl/articleshow/80755076.cms||Ramashankar
February 9, 2021||Business||Usha fans maker to exit chlor-alkali biz||TNN Mumbai: Siddharth Shriram Group, best known as the maker of Usha fans and sewing machines, is set to sell the chlor-alkali business to a little-known company in Ahmedabad for Rs 165 crore. Chlor-alkali products like soda ash and caustic soda are ingredients used to make soap and detergents. The proposed sale will mark the Siddharth Shriram Group’s exit from the chlor-alkali business, which has its plant in Punjab. The plant, with a capacity of 250 tons per day, is north India’s -largest chlor-alkali manufacturer after Punjab Alkalies and Chemicals. The Rs 5,000-crore group is selling the chlor-alkali business, housed under the publicly listed Mawana Sugars, to focus on the sugar business and to strengthen its balance sheet. The business has a turnover of Rs 200 crore. The board of Mawana Sugars will be meeting on Tuesday to consider, among other items, the company’s December quarter results. The chlor-alkali business is being sold to Bodal Chemicals on a slump sale basis, said sources. Slump sale means a transfer of the business of a company for a lump sum without assigning any values to individual assets and liabilities of the entity. The proposed deal will offer backward integration to the Ahmedabad-based dyestuff player. Bodal has 10 plants in the country with nine located in Gujarat and one in Uttar Pradesh. Mumbai-based Singhi Advisors is advising Mawana Sugars on its restructuring moves. Siddharth Shriram’s first cousin Ajay Shriram, chairman of DCM Shriram, is the second-largest player in chlor-alkali. The market leader is Grasim, owned by industrialist Kumar Mangalam Birla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/usha-fans-maker-to-exit-chlor-alkali-biz/articleshow/80756827.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 9, 2021||Business||ToneTag helps Amazon app customers to shop offline||Mumbai: Amazon customers will be able to make offline payments in stores using the e-commerce giant’s app with the support of proximity payments company ToneTag’s sound wave technology. This creates a communication between the phone and the point of sale using existing infrastructure without the customer having to queue up or be near the counter. ToneTag, founded by former Infosys employee Kumar Abhishek with Vivek Kumar Singh, has Amazon and Mastercard among its investors and has raised close to $10 million so far. The company will be taking this technology to global markets during the current year. Besides using its flagship technology that uses sound waves to carry encrypted payments data, ToneTag is engaged in creating a payments solution for phone users who are not digitally literate. The solution involves calling a central number and punching in the key and amount. According to Abhishek, the company started in 2013, finding technology solutions using existing infrastructure. It had started out by offering its solution to ICICI Bank for acceptance of payments. It later partnered with banks to integrate its technology in their mobile apps. Bank of Baroda has already incorporated ToneTag’s software in its mobile app. “We then looked at how we can improve the experience for users so that when they walk into a cafe or a store, they can place an order and make a payment from their phone,” said Abhishek. “To work on the contactless payment, it was important to be present in an app that was being used by millions of customers. That is why we partnered with Amazon. On the merchant side, we worked closely with Mastercard and some banks. By end of 2019, we were roughly doing a million transactions every third day,” he added. According to Abhishek, the only limitation is in terms of managing data. He added that the deployment of 5G will vastly increase transaction capability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tonetag-helps-amazon-app-customers-to-shop-offline/articleshow/80756943.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 9, 2021||Patna||PM ‘maligning’ country on farmer issues: Tariq Anwar||PATNA: The All India Congress Committee general secretary Tariq Anwar lashed out at the Centre for ignoring issues raised by the farmers against the new farm laws. While interacting with the media at Sadaqat Ashram on Monday, Anwar also raised the issue of special status for Bihar which has not been accorded by the Centre yet. He said the atrocities on the protesting farmers was maligning the image of India and advised Prime Minister Narendra Modi to step back, rather than showing stubborn attitude. “The issue of farmers is the biggest issue of our country. These laws have been made to strengthen the corporates, rather than farmers and it is sad that PM Modi is not ready to accept this fact. Through these laws, they are trying to snatch the right of farmers to even knock the door of court and those who have grievance go to district administration, instead of moving to the court,” Anwar said. He even demanded a legal guarantee for minimum support price. Anwar said farmers were being mishandled and putting nails or digging roads to obstruct their movement was shameful. He said, “First they called the farmers Khalistanis, then Pakistani and now they are saying that China and foreign powers are funding these farmers. It is shameful. This issue has reached the international platform and more delay in resolving it will further malign the image of our country. Just because of the ego of the PM and NDA government, this issue is not being sorted out.” When asked why the movement was missing the zeal in Bihar, Anwar cited lack of strong farmers’ unions in the state. However, he said his party will inform people about the problems in the new law and organize public meetings. Moving to the issue of special status, Tariq said it was proposed by chief minister Nitish Kumar in 2006-07. “He had then criticized the UPA government for not providing special status to Bihar. But now, there is a double engine government, so where is the obstruction? As far as opposition is concerned, we will support in all the development work. Nitish ji should counsel PM Modi on this issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-stir-tariq-slams-pm-for-maligning-country/articleshow/80755861.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 9, 2021||Patna||Man kills girlfriend, self in Bihar's Muzaffarpur||PATNA: A 35-year-old man shot dead his girlfriend and then himself with a countrymade pistol at a hotel under Kazi Mohammadpur police station area in Muzaffarpur town on Monday. The deceased were identified as Manish Kumar Srivastava and Rani Kumari alias Nisha Kumari (30). While Manish belonged to Kanti police station area, Rani hailed from PNT Colony under Town police station area. The police said the incident came to light when a staff of the hotel at Aghoria Bazar knocked the door of room number 301 for sanitation. When the occupants didn’t respond, the hotel manager informed the police who broke open the door and found them dead on the bed. A countrymade pistol and two used cartridges were recovered from the room. Kazi Mohammadpur police station SHO Md Salauddin said the two were in a relationship for long. They had cheked in the room around 7pm on Sunday and were supposed to vacate it around 1pm on Monday. The bodies were handed over to their relatives after postmortem. An FSL team visited the spot and collected samples. “The man was suffering from depression,” an investigating officer told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-girlfriend-self-in-muzaffarpur/articleshow/80755487.cms||Ramashankar
February 9, 2021||Vadodara||Over 1,000 crocodiles find cosy homes in Vadodara district||VADODARA: This is a truly jaw-dropping rise! The first census to ascertain number of crocodiles in Vadodara district has revealed that there are at least 1,000 reptiles in the waterbodies. Officials involved in the census say Vadodara easily has the highest number of crocodiles among all districts of Gujarat. In Vishwamitri river, which passes through the city, their numbers have swelled four times to 270 in the last 20 years. “During the census conducted in Vishwamitri River our teams spotted over 270 crocodiles. This included the adults as well as baby crocodiles that are reside in different parts of the river. The count of crocodiles in entire Vadodara district crosses 1,000 mark,” said Kartik Maharaj, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Vadodara. Apart from Vishwamitri River, forest officials also counted crocodiles in Dhadhar River, Dev River, Mahi River, Ajwa Lake and about 50 ponds in the entire district. “This was the first such comprehensive census wherein we included crocodiles living in all the talukas. Many of the ponds in the talukas are home to crocodiles. One of the main reasons for these reptiles being found in so many ponds is the Narmada canal which has a vast network. Many crocodiles swim through the canal and migrate to different water bodies,” Maharaj explained. In Vadodara city, majority of the crocodiles were spotted in stretches between Bhimnath Bridge to Central Jail, Sayajibaug and near Kala Ghoda Circle.  As many as 11 teams of the forest department were formed to count the crocodiles in two parts – one in day time and another at night. The forest teams walked around the 17-km stretch of Vishwamitri River starting from Vadodara-Ahmedabad Expressway to Talsat village in Makarpura to count the reptiles. “Arouind 60% of the crocodiles measuring over five foot are adults while the rest between two feet to five foot are baby crocodiles in Vishwamitri River,” Maharaj told TOI.  In the 2015 census, the river was home to 260 crocodiles. “The numbers have gone up in the latest census as crocodiles staying in Vishwamitri River have no natural enemy. They have adapted to the environs and get enough food too,” he added. “The crocodiles have learnt to co-habit with Barodians and both respect each other’s boundaries. These reptiles have evolved since ages and learnt the art of surviving in any environment,” said Arvind Pawar of Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-1000-crocs-find-cosy-homes-in-vadodara-district/articleshow/80755020.cms||Tushar Tere
February 9, 2021||Patna||International Tipitaka Chanting from May 7||GAYA: The 11-day 16th International Tipitaka Chanting will be organized on the campus of world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara at Bodh Gaya from May 7 to 17. This time, devotees from different countries will be connected through virtual mode. International Tipitaka Chanting Council and The Light of Buddha Dhamma Foundation International head Wangmo Dixie said at least 108 senior monks of 11 countries will participate in the event by following the standard operating procedure (SOP) in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Monks and other devotees will be connected through virtual mode. Only those senior monks who can travel will be invited to participate in the event physically,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/international-tipitaka-chanting-from-may-7/articleshow/80755070.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Patna||ECR gets allocations for 57 ongoing projects: GM||PATNA: Faced with enormous challenges due to Covid-19 pandemic, the East Central Railway (ECR) was second among the zones by generating Rs840.99 crore revenue from passengers’ segment alone during April 2020 to January 20, 2021 period. The ECR also gained third position in goods segment by earning Rs11,147.35 crore during this period. Talking to reporters here on Monday, ECR GM L C Trivedi said altogether 216 pairs of special passenger trains are originating from or passing through the zone, while 39 pairs of other passenger trains are running daily on short distance routes in the ECR. “We will restore regular passenger trains after getting approval from the Railway Board only,” he said. “It was a landmark achievement for the ECR when it achieved 100 per cent fitment in biotoilets and was the first zonal railway to convert LHB coaches into head-on generation (HOG) locomotives in Indian Railways. ECR was the first to introduce digital payment process on the running trains by ticket checking staff,” Trivedi said. Enumerating the highlights of the budget allocations for the ECR for the 2021-22 fiscal, Trivedi said deadlines have been set for completing various ongoing projects this year only. “While the 22-km-long new line project between Nirmali and Saraigarh will be completed by March, gauge conversion between Jayanagar and Bijilpura, a distance of 52km, and patch track doubling work between Katereah and Kursela (7km), will also be completed soon,” he said. The GM said the ECR has got allocations for 57 ongoing works being carried out at different places in Bihar to complete 5,267km of new lines, gauge conversion and track doubling. “These works will be completed at a cost of Rs74,880 crore in the state while 16 railway works will be completed in Jharkhand at a cost of Rs22,815 crore covering a total length of 1,272km,” he said. He said the ECR has got allocations of Rs3,944.5 crore for new lines, Rs3,035 crore for track doubling and Rs390 crore for gauge conversion work. Besides, ECR has got Rs580 crore for track renewal and Rs487 crore for various passenger amenities works in the zone, he said, adding that the sanction of Rs161 crore will further strengthen signal safety in the zone. According to the GM, railways has decided to achieve 100 per cent electrification work by 2023 with an aim to check environment pollution as well as save huge money being incurred on spiralling diesel cost. Introduction of vista dome LHB coaches will herald a new beginning for most comfortable and safe journey by trains, he said, adding the present budget also aims at achieving national rail plan for India by 2030.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gets-allocations-for-57-ongoing-projects-gm/articleshow/80755346.cms||Kumod Verma
February 9, 2021||Patna||Charges of police atrocities on Rupesh’s kin serious in nature: BJP||PATNA: BJP state chief Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Monday said the allegations of police atrocities made by the close relatives of Rituraj, the prime accused in the IndiGo station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh’s murder case, were serious in nature and senior officers should look into the matter. A video went viral in which Rituraj's wife Sakshi alleged that she was tortured by the police during interrogation at the police station for two consecutive days and he was forced to confess to the crime. “If the family allegations against the police are to be true, they are serious in nature. They should be properly investigated. The senior police officers should look into the matter,” Dr Jaiswal said, but hastened to add that he didn’t mean to cause any hindrance in the investigation into the high-profile murder case. “But relatives should not be treated like accused,” he added. Meanwhile, the family members of Rituraj have demanded a CBI probe into the murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/charges-of-police-atrocities-on-rupeshs-kin-serious-in-nature-bjp/articleshow/80755305.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Business||3 women-led cos win Rs 7 lakh grant each from Visa||Chennai: Three women-owned businesses — Bunko Junko, My Chapter One and MoWo Social Initiatives — have received a grant of Rs 7 lakh each from payments major Visa as recipients of its programme in India in partnership with IFundWomen. Visa said on Monday that it received applications from around hundreds of businesses across India in sectors including fashion and apparel, healthcare & wellness, food & beverages and art & events. Sixteen semi-finalists were evaluated by a jury panel comprising senior leaders across Visa, FICCI FLO (FICCI Ladies’ Organization) and e-commerce platform Instamojo. The final winners were selected based on jury votes.Mumbai-based Bunko Junko, founded by Bhavini Parikh, is in the upcycling textile business, using pre-consumer excess as a source for manufacturing exclusive designer pieces in clothing, accessories and home linen. Chennai-based My Chapter One, founded by Ranjani Indrajith and Madhumati Narayanan, is a ‘reading gym’, that aims to inculcate reading habits and life skills in children. They have 40 mompreneurs as reading hosts and have engaged 600 kids so far.MoWo Social Initiatives, started by Jai Bharathi Addepalli, offers two and three-wheeler training and related livelihood opportunities to women in Hyderabad. “Access to funding, educational resources and a digital presence are fundamental building blocks that will help small businesses get back to not only surviving, but thriving,” Kevin Phalen, global head of business solutions, Visa, said. “We are proud to provide businesses around the globe with the capital and educational resources they need to achieve their goals.” In addition to the grant, digitisation partner Instamojo is providing the winners with tools to help build their digital presence including benefits such as free payment collection of up to Rs 3 lakh and free shipping for products listed on Instamojo for first fifteen shipments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/3-women-led-cos-win-rs-7-lakh-grant-each-from-visa/articleshow/80756456.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||DDU VC under Bihar Lokayukta lens for fin lapses during stint at Purnea varsity||LUCKNOW: The Bihar Lokayukta has asked Purnea University to probe allegations of financial irregularities against its former vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh. Prof Singh is now the vice-chancellor of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gorakhpur University. Following the directives of the Lokayukta, Purnea University has constituted a five-member committee, headed by its financial advisor, to prepare and provide compliance report of the alleged financial embezzlement by Prof Singh. The final hearing in the case will be held on May 7 after the submission of a report by the director of higher education. Issuing an order on January 12 following the probe conducted by the superintendent of police (Lokayukta Vigilance), the Bihar Lokayukta said Prof Singh’s case needs immediate attention of the principal secretary to the Chancellor of Purnea University and the higher education director so that appropriate steps could be taken for financial audit conducted into the aspects mentioned in the SP’s fact-finding report. While hearing the case, Bimal Kumar Rai vs Prof Rajesh Singh, the Lokayukta said though the Purnea University officials failed to comply with his earlier order for providing relevant records, the exhaustive report submitted by the SP, Lokayukta Vigilance, showed that “there was total financial indiscipline and collapse of proper management of financial fund of the university” during Prof Singh term. Observations in the SP’s report regarding poor maintenance of cash books, missing serial numbers on files, no mention of tenders in files, and financial irregularities in purchase of laptops and bags for a seminar, hint at the abuse of financial powers by Prof Singh. The report also showed that the university failed to provide any documents for loans of Rs 10 lakh each taken by 12 constituent colleges to meet the expenditure incurred by the university. The inquiry report said the purpose of the amount of Rs 1.2 crore taken by the university remains unclear. It was also found that unanimous approval for loan came from the syndicate three months after the decision was taken by the university under Prof Singh, and the money was transferred by the colleges. Prof Singh was the first VC of the newly-constituted Purnea University and was given the charge on March 19, 2018, for a period of three years. However, he tendered his resignation on September 2, 2020, following his selection as the vice-chancellor of DDU Gorakhpur University. In a press communique, Gorakhpur University’s media and public relations office said, “It’s a routine process. The Lokayukta has taken cognizance because Purnea University has not submitted the audit report which will soon be sent to him. The Lokayukta is yet to pass his judgement. The hearing is scheduled on May 4.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ddu-vc-under-bihar-lokayukta-lens-for-fin-lapses-during-stint-at-purnea-varsity/articleshow/80757094.cms||Isha Jain
February 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Gopalganj boy kidnapped, rescued within hours||PATNA: A Gopalganj boy was recovered from Siwan district within five hours of his kidnapping on Monday. Five suspects, including a mukhiya identified as Umesh Shahi, have been detained for interrogation. Class X student Amit Kumar (15), the grandson of homeopathic practitioner Dr Bachneshwar, was kidnapped in a luxury car around 6.30am from Mirganj police station area when he was on way to his coaching institute on his two-wheeler. Amit’s two-wheeler was found abandoned on NH-531 near Matihani. Though the police denied any ransom call to Amit’s family, sources said Rs10 lakh was demanded for his safe release. Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar said the SIT, formed under DSP Naresh Kumar immediately after Amit’s father Manoj Kumar of Manikpur lodged a kidnapping case with Mirganj police station, traced the route and rescued the boy from Goriakothi in neighbouring Siwan when the kidnappers were planning to shift the captive to Uttar Pradesh. However, sources said the kidnappers released Amit under police pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gopalganj-boy-kidnapped-rescued-within-hours/articleshow/80755510.cms||Ramashankar
February 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Tension in Andhra Pradesh's Macherla, 50% single nominations||GUNTUR: Tension prevailed in Macherla assembly constituency on Monday as the deadline for filing nomination papers for the gram panchayat elections ended. In many villages, only one nomination was received for sarpanch and ward member posts at the close of deadline. While 30% of the panchayats turned unanimous, in several other places as the deadline ended for withdrawal of nominations, Macherla reported nearly 50% unanimous nominations. Local legislator and government whip Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy who has won the seat for the last four terms has extended his consolidation over the constituency by encouraging locals to patch up their differences and opt for unanimous elections. According to sources, only 20 nominations were filed for 15 sarpanch posts in Karampudi mandal and a few are expected to withdraw from the race in the next two days thus paving the way for unanimous election. Similarly, only 24 nominations were filed for 20 village sarpanch posts in Veldurthi mandal. An almost identical situation prevailed in Durgi, Rentachintala and Macherla rural mandals. After seeing the poor response from the cadre, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu sought the State Election Commission (SEC) to provide protection for party supporters to file papers in Macherla. Former Gurazala legislator Yarapathineni Srinivasa Rao has urged the SEC to suspend elections in Macherla and Gurazala in Guntur and Punganur constituency in Chittoor, alleging officials have violated the election code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/unanimous-nominations-surge-in-macherla/articleshow/80755411.cms||Samdani MN
February 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Decision on unanimous polls in two districts up to SEC, says Andhra Pradesh govt||VIJAYAWADA: The government has left the decision on unanimous elections to gram panchayats in Chittoor and Guntur districts to the State Election Commission (SEC). The SEC had earlier instructed the two district collectors to not issue declaration certificates to the winners owing to the high number of panchayats in the two districts that turned unanimous. The decision to withhold announcement of results had drawn the ire of panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy who directed government officials to not follow the earlier directions of the SEC. Following the minister’s statement, state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar directed that the minister be confined to his house till the completion of elections. Challenging the SEC’s orders, the minister filed a house motion petition in the high court. While the high court struck down the order confining the minister to his residence, it upheld the order barring Ramachandra Reddy from addressing the media till February 21. The minister then filed a review petition with the division bench of the court, which is likely to come up for hearing on Tuesday. The government has now taken the decision to leave the matter to the discretion of the SEC. This was made clear by panchayat raj and rural development principal secretary Gopalakrishna Dwivedi at a press conference here on Monday. The principal secretary said ballot papers for gram panchayat elections will have a ‘None of the above’ option this time. However, votes polled for Nota will not be counted, he said. He also reviewed the department’s preparedness for first round of polling that will start Tuesday. Meanwhile, the SEC cancelled his districts tour on Monday on health grounds. He visited a local eye hospital for a minor infection, sources said. In the evening, the SEC met governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan at the Raj Bhavan and reportedly briefed him on the first phase of elections to the gram panchayats to be held on Tuesday. Sources say the SEC also briefed the governor about his decision on Ramachandra Reddy and subsequent court orders on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/decision-on-unanimous-polls-in-two-dists-up-to-sec-says-govt/articleshow/80755202.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Patna||Thin attendance in Gaya schools||GAYA: The attendance was thin as classes VI to VIII in government and private schools reopened on Monday after nearly 10 months following the Covid-induced lockdown. In private schools, the attendance was better than the government middle schools. The students of private schools were excited to re-join classroom study and meet their classmates after a long gap. Education department district programme officer (DPO) Durga Yadav said all Covid safety protocols were followed in all the 1406 middle schools in the district. Bhumika Sinha of class 10 at Delhi Public School was glad that her younger brothers and sisters would be able to study more efficiently. “Students of my school came to attend the classes only with the consent of their parents. Before boarding the school bus, the conductor got their hands sanitized and did thermal screening. They also had to get their hands sanitized at the school gate. Only one student was on one bench in the classrooms,” she said. Akanksha Vandna of Kendriya Vidyalaya said 20 students in a class were allowed, but only 10 had come to school. The students were asked to assemble in the playground where teachers told them how to maintain physical distancing. Shaurya Rajput of DAV Public School, Rotary campus, said students of class VI came to her school. “I have to go to school on Tuesday. I am very excited to meet my classmates after such a long gap,” Shaurya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thin-attendance-in-gaya-schools/articleshow/80755213.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Patna||JD(U) eyes 32 seats as it gears up to contest Assam polls||PATNA: Bihar’s ruling JD(U) is gearing up to contest the coming assembly polls in Assam without joining hands with any alliance or political party. The party’s Assam unit has identified 32 out of total 126 assembly constituencies in the north-east state where the party can field its candidates. Assembly polls in Assam are due in April this year. “The state executive meeting of the Assam unit of JD(U) held in Guwahati on February 4. The state executive committee has identified at least 32 assembly constituencies where the party has a strong presence. State-level leaders have expressed their desire to contest election from these 32 seats,” JD(U)’s national secretary and party’s north-east in-charge Sanjay Verma told TOI on Monday. He, however, said the final decision about the number of seats would be taken by JD(U)’s national leaders. To a question, Verma said JD(U) would contest the Assam polls on its own, without allies. He further hinted that some sitting MLAs of an Assam-based regional party recently approached JD(U) leaders to join the RCP Singh-led party. “Some leaders in Assam want to join the JD(U) keeping in mind the secular credentials of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar,” Verma said. Sources in JD(U) said the 32 constituencies identified by the Assam unit are primarily located in districts like Nagaon, Tinsukia and Barpeta. In the last 2016 assembly polls, Maulana Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the JD(U) had formed a grand alliance of "secular parties" in Assam. Then, the JD(U) had contested four assembly seats but failed to register a victory on any seat. The JD(U) had secured on .07% votes. Its partner the AIUDF contested 74 seats, won 13 seats and secured 13% of polled votes in 2016 polls. Verma said the JD(U) has also decided to contest the autonomous development council (ADC) elections in Tripura. The ADC elections are due in the month of coming April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-eyes-32-seats-as-it-readies-to-contest-assam-polls/articleshow/80755829.cms||Madan Kumar
February 9, 2021||Patna||Ram Madhav sketches road map for Atmanirbhar India||PATNA: Former BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav said at the Nalanda University (NU) on Monday that China is not just an emerging economic superpower, but is trying to shape a new world order, about which one should be sensitive. He sketched out a possible road map for Atmanirbhar India to move ahead in such a scenario. Delivering a distinguished talk on the topic ‘India and the contours of the new world’, Madhav said institutions like NU are striving towards excellence and have an important role in placing India as a formidable force in such a world. Madhav also drew attention to the growing impact of non-state institutions, like Facebook and Twitter that are playing active role on a par with the nation and state. Emphasizing on attaining academic excellence as part of the efforts for the consolidation of national strength, Madhav said: “New concerns like climate change, energy security, health care, technology and cyber space among others are emerging as new agendas globally.” He also appreciated the efforts of the NU vice- chancellor Sunaina Singh for “her diligent efforts in building the varsity campus infrastructure and framing its academic architecture in tune with the contemporary vistas of knowledge.” Prof Ramesh Chandra Sinha, chairperson, Indian Council of Philosophical Research, presided over the session. Concurring with the talk, Prof Sinha said if a new world order emerges, it should ground itself on atmabodh (self-realisation), a value which Lord Buddha’s India has gifted to the world. NU VC Sunaina Singh said in the concluding remarks that new structures that are emerging as part of the new world order, if turned constructive and positive, can be huge assets. “Action oriented development and reflection on growth are significant. Every faculty, each student has a responsibility towards nation, as well as towards their own fields of scholarship,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ram-madhav-sketches-road-map-for-atmanirbhar-india/articleshow/80755801.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Excise department cracks down on illicit liquor, nabs 227 accused in 7 days||LUCKNOW: In a major crackdown, 227 persons involved in acts of illicit liquor trafficking were arrested by the excise department from across the state in the first week of February. The department also seized 29,212 litres of illicit liquor and registered 718 cases. The department also destroyed around 76,000 kg lahan – the raw material used for preparing illicit liquor. Additional chief secretary, excise department, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that preventive action is being carried out regularly by the department to control the manufacture, sale and smuggling of illicit liquor. Giving details about the crackdown, excise commissioner Guruprasad said that in Meerut district, 11 cases of illicit foreign liquor were recovered and three vehicles were seized. In Basti, 440 litres of rectified spirit and Rs 6,700 were recovered from a car, while its four occupants were arrested. Likewise, in Bareilly, a person was arrested with 239 cases of Haryana made illegal foreign liquor. Similarly, during the checking of vehicles in Bhadohi, 60 cases of illicit country liquor was recovered from a goods carrier. A raid was conducted at the house mentioned by the driver during the interrogation and 1,400 litres of illicit alcohol, 500 grams of urea, a motorcycle and a large quantity of empty bottles, fake labels and lids were recovered. An FIR was lodged against six persons found to be indulging in this illegal trade of liquor. In a raid by the joint team of excise and police in Agra district, 513 quarters and 1,572 bottles of illicit liquor of various brands, huge quantity of QR codes and fake labels were seized from a warehouse whereas 11 persons were arrested from the spot and booked. During checking by excise team in Meerut, 5,400 bottles of unlabelled illegal foreign liquor in 450 cases were recovered from a goods carrier near Dasna toll in Ghaziabad, said excise officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/excise-dept-cracks-down-on-illicit-liquor-nabs-227-accused-in-7-days/articleshow/80757130.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Business||RBI uses repurchases to control bond yields||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has taken an aggressive stance and has indicated that it will leave no stone unturned to keep bond yields under check. After rejecting all bids for its benchmark bond, the central bank on Monday announced a Rs 20,000-crore bond buyback on February 10, 2021. Later in the evening, the RBI announced a twin sale (re-issue) of two dated securities for Rs 22,000 crore. This is for the first time that two auctions are being conducted in the same week. On offer are the benchmark 10-year bond and the 5.15% 2025 bond for Rs 11,000 each. The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond eased to 6.04% after the announcement. According to banks, the government bond market is easier to calibrate than, say, the foreign exchange or equities markets. This is because the biggest participants are government-controlled (these include State Bank of India and Life Insurance Corporation) and not active traders. Additionally, the RBI has disproportionate control on the supply of securities. According to Bank of Baroda chief economist Sameer Narang, there is pressure on yields because, with the higher fiscal deficit, the centre’s borrowing requirement for FY21 went up by Rs 80,000 crore, and for FY22 the gross borrowing programme is Rs 12.05 lakh crore. However, sources said that the RBI can still manage to keep the supply under control. First, banks have been allowed to retain 22% of SLR (statutory liquidity ratio, or government bond) holdings in a held-to-maturity category where they do not have to make provisions for depreciation. These bonds are not traded by banks and are therefore out of circulation. Second, the RBI intends to purchase more than Rs 3 lakh crore of bonds through its open market operations. Third, by creating a new category of retail investors, the central bank has ensured that the supply of these bonds will be below the demand as, with business growth, banks will need to maintain a higher supply of government paper in bonds.What is helping the RBI is the surge in forex inflows on the back of investment by foreign portfolio investors. The rising value of equities also creates room for more bond purchases by domestic institutions as they rebalance their portfolio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-uses-repurchases-to-control-bond-yields/articleshow/80756912.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Schools issuing fake age certificates to face action||BIHARSHARIF: Nalanda district and sessions judge Dr Ramesh Chandra Dwivedi has directed the DM and SP to take action against school principals and clerks for issuing fake age certificates to adult offenders declaring them juvenile in order to protect them from harsh punishment. Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board principal judge Manvendra Mishra had apprised Dwivedi about the practice. On his direction, Mishra on Monday directed the district education officer (DEO) to warn such school principals and clerks and ensure departmental proceedings against them if they are found guilty of doing this. In his observation, Mishra noted that some school principals, for monetary gains or other reasons, allow manipulations in the age column of the admission registers to prove adult offenders of heinous crimes as juveniles to save them from punishments. He cited several recent examples like that of one Biran Singh, a gang-rape accused in Rajgir in 2019, who had obtained a certificate from a local school showing him a juvenile while his medical examination declared him an adult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-issuing-fake-age-certificates-to-face-action/articleshow/80755157.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Varanasi||1,481 students get degrees in 9th convocation of IIT-BHU held||Binay Singh | tnn Varanasi: The 9th convocation of the Indian Institute of Technology, BHU was organised at the Swatantrata Bhawan on Monday. Degrees were conferred upon 1,481 meritorious students of different courses including BTech/ BPharm (775), IDD/IMD (259), M Tech/M Pharm (294), and 153 research scholars. Besides, 80 Gold and Silver medals and 16 prizes were also awarded in various categories to 52 graduates. For the first time, the IIT-BHU held its convocation ceremony using mixed reality technique through which the CEO and founder of a cloud-based information security company in the USA, Jay Chaudhry, also an alumnus of the institute and Padmashri Kota Harinarayan, the chairman of the Board of Governors of the institute attended the ceremony. Under the Covid-19 protocol, only the recipients of medals, deans, head of the departments, and officials of the institute were present at the convocation while alumnus and current students, academics and other guests from different parts of the country attended the programme online. The IIT-BHU director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain awarded the degree, medals and prizes to the students. Ankan Bohara of computer science engineering bagged the maximum medals including seven Gold with President’s medal and a silver, and Dr Annie Besant Prize, while Avanish Singh of chemical engineering bagged six Gold and two prizes. Other meritorious students who were awarded medals are Aman Shreshtha of electronics engineering (five Gold and two prizes), Shikar Gupta of electrical engineering (four Gold and two prizes), Prashant Baghel of mechanical engineering (four Gold and one prize), Anushka Pal of metallurgical engineering (four Gold), Ankit Kumar of civil engineering (two Gold and three prizes), Parth Ajmera of pharmaceutical engineering (two Gold and one prize), Surendra Baniya of civil engineering (two Gold), Vinay Kumar Yadav of mechanical engineering (two Gold), and Shubham Kumar Mahato of mining engineering (two Gold). Ananya Gupta of electrical engineering was awarded with Directors Gold Medal and Indira Tripathi Gold Medal for her outstanding performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/1481-students-get-degrees-in-9th-convocation-of-iit-bhu-held/articleshow/80755006.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Allahabad||SRTC to recruit women drivers for Pink Exp||Prayagraj: As there is an acute shortage of women drivers to run all women ‘pink buses’, UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) officials have doubled their efforts to find trained female drivers for the job. Once recruited, these women drivers would be asked to operate the pink bus service. In a bid to provide a safe journey to working women and girl students, UPSRTC has introduced the Pink Express, an all women bus service. These air-conditioned buses are equipped with vehicle tracking system and would have CCTV and GPRS mainly to check the rash driving and to ensure full security to women passengers. This bus service has come as a boon for female commuters between Lucknow and Prayagraj. Only female passengers are allowed to board the bus. Male passengers are allowed only when they are accompanied by female co-passengers. Though the service was launched in 2019, authorities have failed to find women drivers to operate it. As a result, these buses have women supporting staff, but male drivers. Presently, around 40 female staff members are working as conductors and other supporting staff in Prayagraj region. Authorities are sure that now when the process for appointing female drivers has commenced the pink service will become an all women affair soon and would also start operating from Prayagraj region. Pink buses for Prayagraj are currently operating from Lucknow. UPSRTC regional manager TKS Bisen said that efforts are being made to recruit women drivers. After the recruitment is done, the operation of pink buses will start even from Prayagraj region. Meanwhile, to meet the rush of devotees visiting the city on Mauni Amavasya (February 11), UPSRTC will operate 2,000 additional buses. The process of operating buses will start from February 9. In all, 1,800 buses were operated by the UPSRTC on Makar Sankranti. Bisen said that 2,000 buses will be operated initially but their numbers can be increased if need be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/srtc-to-recruit-women-drivers-for-pink-exp/articleshow/80755023.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Search for optimal local advertising ends with Mirchi LOVE 107.2 FM||Lucknow: Mirchi LOVE 107.2, Lucknow’s most-loved hyperlocal FM station, prides itself for providing the ultimate retail therapy for brands, with innovative campaigns weaved into the most creative localised content and multi-format offerings. In line with the brand’s new and improved identity, Mirchi LOVE has been at the forefront of providing unique and customised brand solutions, aiding their discerning retail clients to connect with the local audiences via multiple platforms, not just radio. In a recent campaign for Dr Pathak’s Pain Clinic, a premium health care clinic in Lucknow, Mirchi LOVE activated a well-rounded radio campaign, leveraging the clout and reach of prime-time radio jockeys RJ Harshi & RJ Tashi. Along with on-air advertisements, Mirchi LOVE launched the campaign through their live shows as well. This unique activation of a well-crafted radio campaign and an in-show integration led to a highly successful engagement and a hike in brand awareness across audiences in Lucknow. Mirchi LOVE’s multi-format advertising fetched a significant return on investment for the marketing money spent by the brand. Talking about his engagement with Mirchi, Dr Amitesh Pathak, owner of Dr Pathak’s Pain Clinic says, “It was a great pleasure to get associated with a brand like Mirchi LOVE as it gave us an experience like never before. From the very moment the campaign kick started, we received an immense number of positive responses that only boosted our trust in Mirchi. As the radio jockeys of Mirchi LOVE—RJ Harshi and RJ Tashi—are known for their content and shows in Lucknow, we could reach a large number of local listeners and engage with them via contest giveaways.” Taking Mirchi LOVE’s new brand identity up a notch, the brand also rolled out some innovative schemes for advertisers wherein premium mobile phones were given out as gratification. Participating in one such lucrative scheme, Vivek Shukla, CMD of Team Ad Event Media said, “Besides the fact that we fetched some great responses for our client campaigns, the amount of love and recognition we received after being a part of this scheme really made us feel good to have associated with a very client-friendly radio station like Mirchi LOVE. It gave us more reasons to move towards radio for advertisements and promotions.” “NJSV group stands for trust and believes in building a strong bond with every single customer who looks for their dream homes. And choosing a similar campaign partner which has the same credibility and bond with their consumer group was what we were really looking forward to. That’s when we chose Mirchi LOVE Lucknow and were really thrilled after seeing the results. Their approach for providing apt solutions to their clients’ requirements is phenomenal. Hearing quality RJs in Mirchi LOVE talk about our brand in itself got us an added advantage of earning the credibility in our consumers’ minds.” says Sourav Singh, CMD, NJSV Group, one of the happy patrons of all new Mirchi LOVE. With the perfect blend of consumer engagement through music, content, entertainment, and seamlessly weaved in advertisements, Mirchi LOVE provides an edge to the brands, enabling them to communicate with and reach their target audience in an impactful and effective way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/search-for-optimal-local-advertising-ends-with-mirchi-love-107-2-fm/articleshow/80757102.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Business||Sical appoints new MD; independent directors resign||Chennai: Four independent directors at Sical Logistics, part of Coffee Day VG Siddartha group, have resigned in the past 10 days, all citing personal reasons. The company has also appointed T Subramanian as its new MD last week, and R Ram Mohan, the non-executive chairman also stepped down from his position. While H Rathnakar Hegde, independent director, resigned effective January 27, to spend more time with family, others including Srinivasan H R, S Ravinarayanan, and Sudhir Vidya Kamath subsequently resigned citing personal reasons and preoccupation, as per regulatory filings. Reporting its quarterly financials on Monday, Sical Logistics posted revenue of Rs 123 crore for the quarter ended December 2020 and a loss of around Rs 15 crore. The company also disclosed that it had not serviced debt on due dates to banks and financial institutions amounting to Rs 348 crore comprising Rs 247 crore in principal and Rs 101 crore in interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sical-appoints-new-md-independent-directors-resign/articleshow/80756431.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Business||Digit aims at auto issue of policies||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Digit Insurance, which in its latest round of funding gained unicorn status (valued at over $1 billion), is working on technology to make issue of policies and endorsements a straight-through process. Digit is already settling 73% of its motor insurance claims through automation with software reading the invoice, driver’s licence and RC book in addition to doing damage assessment through photographs and videos. The company is also the biggest deployer of API (application program interface) integration with partners, which allows distributors to plug into the company’s systems. It has so far made available 700 APIs to partners, which gives them speedy access to Digit’s products and services. Speaking to TOI, Digit Insurance chairman Kamesh Goyal said that the company is using technology to give decision-makers a deeper and faster way to look at data. “We are making policy issuance a straight-through process across all lines of products. We are also trying to make workflows to make endorsements to policies a straight-through process.” According to Goyal, while technology is being used as an enabler, it is not the only differentiator. “It is also about risk-selection and pricing skills, product design simplification, user interface, user experience and execution. Pricing is crucial — even if you have the best technology but go wrong in pricing, things can go haywire,” said Goyal. Digit Insurance is a joint venture promoted by Goyal, an industry veteran, and Canadian billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Group. Watsa had earlier said that Fairfax would look at taking Digit’s tech-enabled model to other markets where it had a non-life business. “Fairfax is keen to take the model to other markets and we have had a lot of people from the group come and look at our operations. The challenge is that their IT systems are different and it is not entirely a technology play where a vendor can facilitate a plug-and-play model. It also depends on local norms for the auto sector and how companies look at data. The discussion continues,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digit-aims-at-auto-issue-of-policies/articleshow/80756808.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Senior citizen kills self||Kolkata: A 72-year-old who was unable to bear losses incurred during the pandemic allegedly died by suicide on Monday. “Around 10.50am, Naktala Road resident Tapas Haldar was found hanging inside his electrical goods workshop. A suicide note was found in his pocket,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/senior-citizen-kills-self/articleshow/80755837.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Man jumps off roof, dies||Kolkata: A 65-year-old, Gautam Mukherjee, allegedly jumped off the roof of his five-storey Bansdroni house on Monday, reportedly unable to endure his ailments. “The body had injuries. No foul play was detected but there was no note,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-jumps-off-roof-dies/articleshow/80755851.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Patna||16,893 get vaccine shots, 56 more test Covid positive in Bihar||PATNA: On a day 56 new Covid-19 cases were registered and 16,893 people vaccinated across the state, CM Nitish Kumar thanked the doctors and healthcare workers for tackling the virus selflessly by risking their lives. At a function held at Patna Medical College and Hospital on Monday, the CM said Bihar has the lowest Covid fatality rate in the country. “While 1.44% of Covid-19 positive people have died in the country, the figure stands at 0.58% in Bihar. As far as Covid-19 test is concerned, we are testing 22,000 more people per 10 lakh population than the national average,” he said, adding those above 50 years of age are likely to get vaccine shots from March. Meanwhile, 61% of the registered frontline workers took Covid-19 vaccine shots on Monday, showing significant improvement from the first and second day when 53% and 49.4% of frontline workers had turned up at the vaccine centres. Of the 53,385 registered beneficiaries, 16,893 took the vaccine shots, including 8,435 healthcare and 8,458 frontline workers, on Monday. The overall vaccination rate in the state stood at 32% on Monday. Since the launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, altogether 3,97,291 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated in the state, including 3,80,901 healthcare and 16,390 frontline workers. Meanwhile, the state’s Covid tally rose to 2,61,355 on Monday with 56 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The day also saw 129 people recovering from the virus in the state. With this, the state’s Covid recovery rate has increased to 99.12%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16893-get-vaccine-shots-56-more-test-covid-ve-in-bihar/articleshow/80755391.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||New Kolkata top cop confident of smooth, peaceful elections||KOLKATA: Soumen Mitra, a 1988-batch IPS officer, took charge as Kolkata Police commissioner on Monday. Outgoing commissioner Anuj Sharma handed over charge at Lalbazar before taking charge of the state CID at its Bhawani Bhawan headquarters. Speaking to reporters after taking charge for the second time, Mitra said “professionalism” in Kolkata Police will ensure that the polls are conducted smoothly and peacefully. “We have a team of very good officers. I am happy to be here for the second time. Kolkata Police is one of the best forces in the country,” he said. Stating that all elections were challenging, he said that all Election Commission directives will be followed. “With the kind of professionalism that the Kolkata Police has always shown, we will be able to conduct the elections well. I have joined today and will do everything to keep our city safe so that citizens are able to exercise their franchise without fear,” Mitra said. He also mentioned the broad areas that he wants to concentrate on as Kolkata’s top cop. “There has been a change in the crime pattern. New-age crimes are being reported nowadays. Cyber-oriented crimes are happening and the elderly are often the victims of these. I will work to empower the force further through training. Better service will be provided to our citizens, to the elderly, to the weaker sections, to women and children. Preserving the environment is also a priority. We will see to it that charge sheets are filed quickly and convictions take place as soon as possible.” Mitra was greeted by Sharma in the morning before the handing over of charge. The new commissioner held a series of meetings with senior Kolkata Police officers on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-kolkata-top-cop-confident-of-smooth-peaceful-elections/articleshow/80755831.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 9, 2021||Patna||Make PMCH a world-class hospital in five years: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday laid the foundation for conversion of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) into a world-class 5,462-bed hospital and asked the officials concerned to complete the project by the next five years. Once completed, PMCH will be the second largest hospital in the world and largest in the country. As per the plan, the project was to be completed in seven years in three phases. However, the CM said since there had already been delay in starting the project, it should be completed in five years now. Nitish said he would personally inspect the site without prior information and advised a committee of formal principals, senior doctors, officials and experts to oversee the work. “This is my dream project. I will provide all possible help for its timely completion,” Nitish said, adding there will be no shortage of manpower and resources. He said the construction work would not affect existing medical facilities at the hospital. “Work will also be done simultaneously to link the hospital with Ganga pathway and the proposed flyover on Ashok Rajpath for better connectivity,” he said. The redevelopment of PMCH entails an expenditure of Rs 5,540 crore. Apart from 5,462 beds, there will be 250 MBBS seats at the hospital. Of the 5,462 beds, 939 will be for ICU units, 610 for paediatrics department, 552 for general surgery and 478 for general medicine. Currently, the PMCH has 1,754 beds and 150 MBBS seats. The renovated hospital will be spread in an area of 77,96,000 square feet. It will be a green and an earthquake-resistant building. There will be a helipad on the terrace for landing of air ambulances and parking facility for 3,334 vehicles. Residential facilities for doctors and staff and accommodation for attendants will also be there. Health minister Mangal Pandey said the project is among the two-three big projects started after in Bihar independence. “It will restore the past glory of PMCH. Once completed, the hospital will stand as a symbol of developed Bihar,” Pandey said. He added the largest hospital with 10,000 beds is in Taiwan. Patna Sahib MP Ravishankar Prasad and deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad praised the development works done in Bihar under the leadership of Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/make-pmch-a-world-class-hospital-in-five-years-nitish/articleshow/80755276.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 9, 2021||Business||Sensex surges for 6th day in row, ends above 51k pts||Mumbai: As the Budget-rally continued, the sensex on Monday gained for the sixth consecutive session to close above the 51,000 mark for the first time. The index had crossed the 51,000 milestone in early trade on Friday, but had closed lower at 50,732. On Monday, the sensex closed 617 points or 1.2% higher at 51,349 points after hitting an intraday record high at 51,523 points. The Nifty too hit a lifetime high at 15,159 points and for the first time closed above the 15,100 level. Since the Budget, the sensex has surged 5,063 points or nearly 11% as financial, FMCG and IT stocks have notched up strong gains. In Monday’s market, Infosys, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries led the rally in sensex with these three stocks adding nearly half of the index’s gain. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 25 closed higher. Selling in Kotak Bank and HUL partially limited the rally. The day’s gains were also supported by expectations of a stimulus package in the US, which could put about $1,400 with every person in the country. This, in effect, is expected to lead to higher demand in the world’s largest economy, which will trickle to several parts of the world, economists said. Like in the last few sessions, Monday’s gains again rode on foreign fund buying, while domestic funds remained net sellers. End-of-the-session Data showed a net FPI buying at Rs 1,877 crore on Monday, compared to a net DII selling figure of Rs 505 crore. According to brokers, as the result season is progressing there’s sectoral rotation and stocks from new segments are finding favour with investors. For example, while FMCG stocks like ITC and HUL rallied soon after the Budget, these stocks are witnessing some correction now. They feel this trend could continue for a while.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-surges-for-6th-day-in-row-ends-above-51k-pts/articleshow/80756976.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Government to hold shiksha chaupal in each village||LUCKNOW: The government schools in the state are all set for a transformation before they reopen after 11 months of gap due to Covid-19 pandemic which hampered the teaching-learning process. In order to bring students back to the mainstream, the basic education department has decided to hold a 100-day ‘Prerna Gyanotsava’ campaign. As part of the campaign which will begin from the first day of school, the department will hold various activities to enhance the foundational learning skills among students from class 1 to 5. Government spokesperson on Monday said that class-wise and subject-wise learning material is being shared with teachers on their whatsapp groups as per the monthly calendar under the Mission Prerna ‘e-pathshala’. Teachers are instructed to encourage students to practice and solve lessons. This will also help establish communication between students and teachers. The spokesperson further said that under the Prerna Gyaotsava remedial teaching will be imparted to students. Teachers too will participate in training sessions. Post the 100-day remedial teaching, endline assessment (SAT- 3) will be held and each student will be given a report card in the presence of parents/guardians. To kick off the campaign, block education officers will hold meetings with the school head persons and prepare an action plan for shiksha chaupal. Each village and mohalla will see shiksha chaupal where teachers will interact with the parents, students and spread awareness on coronavirus, and will help students in completing their homework. Performing teachers will be honoured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-hold-shiksha-chaupal-in-each-village/articleshow/80757008.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Surat||Surat girl bags 46th rank in CA Intermediate exam||SURAT: A city student Priya Shah (18) secured 46th rank in India in the Chartered Accountant (CA) Intermediate exam result that was announced on Monday. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) declared the result of CA Intermediate and Foundation courses. Priya is the youngest of three siblings, who went for the highest qualification in accounting. Her eldest sister Krina had completed CA early this year and is working, while her elder sister Deshna is in the CA final. Priya, is currently studying in the second year B Com and planning to complete CA final with good score. She scored 623 marks out of 800. She had to prepare through online studies throughout the course. From this year, ICAI discontinued giving ranks to those students who cleared CA Foundation Exam. Majority of students who appeared in the last CA Foundation exam in December 2020 did not attend any class offline and their entire preparation was online. “I met the CA Foundation students for the first time today when they arrived to take their results. Their course started in April and the exam was conducted in December,” said Ravi Chhavchharia, a CA coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/city-girl-bags-46th-rank-in-ca-intermediate-exam/articleshow/80755077.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Patna||Nepal girl’s rape, murder: Forensic experts collect evidence||MOTIHARI: The forensic team on Monday visited Kundawa Chainpur and collected samples from the room in which the 12-year-old Nepal girl was raped and killed and the field where she was cremated by the accused to destroy evidence. East Champaran SP Navin Chandra Jha also visited the place and inquired from the locals about the accused Siyaram Sah and his son Vinay Sah in whose house the victim lived on rent with her parents for the last 7 years. The SIT formed for investigating the rape and murder case and the role of suspended Kundawa Chainpur SHO in suppressing the fact could not arrest the remaining nine accused in the case. New SHO Mithilesh Kumar said only the two accused have been arrested while others were absconding. Meanwhile, some relatives of the accused met the SP at Motihari on Monday and said innocent persons have been named in the case due to a land dispute. The incident took place on January 21, but the FIR was lodged on February 3 after the victim’s father approached Sikrahana SDPO Shivendra Kumar Anubhawi, who is also heading the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepal-girls-rape-murder-forensic-experts-collect-evidence/articleshow/80755253.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Vashi: Hotel owner’s son held for hit-and-run which killed two||NAVI MUMBAI: APMC police arrested Vashi resident Rohan Abbott (32) in the hit-and-run incident that killed two youths, sons of an ASI attached to LT Marg police station in Mumbai, on Palm Beach road, near APMC truck terminal, around 1.30am on Sunday. Abbott allegedly drove the Mercedes Benz car, involved in the accident. Investigating officer, sub-inspector Pankaj Mahajan said Rohan, from Sector 17, is the son of the owner of Abbott Hotel in Vashi. “As the accused escaped after abandoning his car, we got the address of the car owner from Panvel RTO. He claimed he had sold that car to Rohan. Though the transfer of vehicle took place, its registration in Rohan’s name was yet to be done. We got his address from the first owner and arrested him on Monday morning.” Senior inspector Vikas Ramugade said, “Rohan’s lawyer applied for bail, when we produced him before Vashi JMFC court at Belapur. We opposed his bail and sought police custody, but the magistrate granted him bail. He was booked under Sections 304A, 337, 338 and 279 of IPC, along with sections 134(a), 134(b) and 184 of Motor Vehicles Act for rash and negligent driving causing death.” Sameet Gamare (26), brother of deceased Akshay (28) and Sanket (24), alleged that “APMC police found empty liquor bottles in the car, which indicates that the accused may have been drunk while driving. Also, APMC police shielded the accused by arresting him after more than 24 hours. Hence, his blood test report will not show alcohol content”. Police, he added, had not invoked section 185 of Motor Vehicles Act for drunk driving against the accused, and only bailable sections were invoked, enabling his release on bail. DCP (zone-1) Suresh Mengade said, “When police searched the seized car they found a ‘sealed’ liquor bottle. No empty liquor bottles were not found. However, the accused’s blood test has been done at NMMC hospital in Vashi and the report is awaited.” Two passers-by who witnessed the accident told police the Mercedes was taking a left turn at the junction to head towards Sanpada when it came in front of the youths’ bike and the two vehicles collided. “The impact of the crash was so severe that the bike was flung 50 metres away and the brothers sustained severe injuries. Both were rushed to NMMC Hospital in Vashi, where they were declared brought dead on arrival,” Mahajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/hotel-owners-son-held-for-hit-and-run-which-killed-2/articleshow/80756190.cms||George Mendonca
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||VTA delegation submits memorandum to improve Gorewada Zoo facilities||Nagpur: A delegation of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) met Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park authorities and presented a memorandum with suggestions to improve visitors’ experience. In their meeting with Srinivasa Rao of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), members talked about steps which can be taken right from the entry of tourists to the management of animals inside. Tejinder Singh Renu, secretary of VTA, said. “Due to limited facilities, the Zoo Tour ends within an hour. To match facilities with the term added ‘International’ in the name; we need to start other important facilities as planned on topmost priority for Night Safari, African Safari, Bio-Park and Bird-Park, so that we justify the title. Indian Safari is very well planned, however, the number of chital needs to be added, and just four is too less compared to the size allotted, including increase in the number of sloth bears.”Very well planned, with good ambience, ample parking, comfortable buses, nice maintenance, good refreshment hall and likewise. The enclosure facility of both carnivores and herbivores are very well made and literally escalates the excitement level as we enter them through the huge sliding gates. The Online Booking facility is good and user friendly. Now a few suggestions for further improvement in the facility to attract more tourists with their repetitions in the future are as follow... Carnivores’ animals may please be radio collared or spotted — Without any doubt the main attraction of Indian Safari is our majestic tiger and leopards. Until we create facilities whereby a tourist doesn’t leave without having a good look at them, the craze may diminish soon. Hence their location should be traceable so that the bus can reach the spot and wait for a few minutes for a good view. The guide needs to be more professional and focused — The guide in the bus usually starts with details of the park, which is perfect. However, he needs to inform tourists of Covid protocols as people are seen flouting them in the air-conditioned bus, which is not good. Likewise, the guide should be serious and focused on his job, cheap jokes lower the esteem.Amusement Park may please be added — Since children are our main agents who’ll force their parents for repetitions, we need to have a good amusement park too. May be a small one, but it’s definitely required. Need some trick to attract carnivores near the bus — Usually in most international zoos, we see that the big cats are attracted towards the bus so that tourists can have a good look, something of this sort may be added.Yelling / teasing animals — Some signboards need to be portrayed even inside the bus to avoid intentional disturbance to animals by tourists. Boarding bus procedure should be digitalized with an area having shade — The manual process of standing in a queue even after booking online should be digitalized, uploading a copy of identity proof online can avoid unnecessary hassles. An appropriate canopy is required to avoid sun and rain.Better audio & CCTV cameras required in the bus — For the sake of safety and to monitor behaviour of the occupants, CCTVs may be provided in the bus. Although the bus has audio facility, it could be improved.No VIP culture please — It has been brought to our knowledge which we confirmed to ensure authenticity, that few front seats of the bus were blocked by the guide for some VIP family. This is too bad and shouldn’t be allowed at any cost. Such episodes give a bad name to the facility and cannot be entertained. Wearing of mask inside the bus should be mandatory — With the bus being air-conditioned during such a pandemic, wearing a mask should be mandatory for all. The guide should warn tourists for the safety of everybody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vta-delegation-submits-memorandum-to-improve-gorewada-zoo-facilities/articleshow/80771508.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Woman falls to death from first floor||PUNE: A 22-year-old arts graduate succumbed to severe head and spinal cord injuries after falling from the first-floor balcony of a building at Mohammadwadi on Monday. The incident occurred around 1.30am on Monday. The woman had moved to Pune from Parli in Beed district on January 30 to undertake a spoken English course. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Wanowrie police said they have registered an accidental death case. “The balcony was at a height of 15ft. We suspect it was a suicide. We are investigating the case,” Lagad said. The girl was staying with a friend. “The friend was on the ground floor spotted the woman in a badly injured state. The friend rushed her to a nearby hospital, where the doctors pronounced her dead,” Lagad said. Lagad said they were alerted by the hospital. “No suicide note was recovered. We are recording statements of her parents, friends and others to ascertain the probable cause of death. Her parents told us she was suffering from an ailment. We are verifying these details,” Lagad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-falls-to-death-from-first-floor/articleshow/80756034.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Birthday boy, pals cut cake on car, damage vehicle||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Monday booked seven persons, including the birthday boy, on the charges of cutting a cake on the bonnet of a car parked along the road and later damaging the vehicle. The incident occurred late on Saturday at Vithhal Park area in Bhosari. The car owner, Vinayak Shirke, has lodged a first information report with the police. An officer from the Bhosari police said Shirke had attached his car to a cab aggregator company. On Sunday, he had parked the car at an open space near his house. “Around 10pm, the suspects came there for celebration birthday of one of them. They kept the cake on the car’s bonnet and cut it,” the officer said. “While leaving the spot, they damaged Shirke’s car by breaking the window glasses. We have registered the offence and our probe is on,” the officer said. The Dehu Road police had last week arrested three men for celebrating birthday on the road and cutting the cake with a sword. In December, the Bhosari police arrested a man and booked his friend for cutting his birthday cake with a chopper knife on a public road on in Dapodi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/birthday-boy-pals-cut-cake-on-car-damage-vehicle/articleshow/80756055.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Water closure on Thursday||PUNE: Water supply will be shut in some parts of the city on Thursday to assist maintenance and repair works at various pumping stations.  Pashan, Aundh, Baner, Balewadi, Bopodi, Bavdhan, and areas on Sinhagad Road including Wadgaon, parts of Katraj, Kondhwa, among others, will not receive water. The PMC’s water supply department said maintenance and repair works were planned at Wadgaon Water Works and at Chatushrungi, Warje, SNDT pumping stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-closure-on-thursday/articleshow/80756051.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Best foot forward: Woman beats 23 men in 24-hour run||MUMBAI: It is always a dream for an amateur runner to win a race. And the joy doubles when you are the only female participant among 23 other men, and you win the race. It has been a commendable win for 44-year-old Preeti Lala, a yoga instructor and a social studies teacher to win the Ageas Federal Life Insurance 24-hour Stadium Run. The event was held at the University stadium and Preeti logged in a whopping 193.60 kms. The person who finished second, Parwinder Singh, was 39 kms behind her at 154kms. This is the first time a woman has won a 24-hr stadium run in India. Even across the globe, there are very few women who have won races against men in ultra marathon races. So far, only Apoorva Chaudhary has run more kms in a 24-hr run among Indian women. She covered 202.212 km during the 2019 IAU 24-hour World Championships held in Albi, France. Priyanka Bhatt had finished with a distance of 192.845 km in the same event. Preeti bettered Priyanka’s record. A 24-hr stadium run is typically run in a 400m athletic track with tents set up in the middle of the field providing athletes the chance for change of clothes or a brief period of rest (if needed). Preeti had participated in two 24-hr runs earlier but had not managed more than 150 kms over the time. Saturday (Febuary 6) was no different for Preeti, who went into the race with a simple task of staying on her feet for the maximum time. “Usually in a 24-hr run, there are constant announcements of what distance athletes have covered. I knew I was doing well,” said Preeti. “My concern was the time between 1 am and 4 am when sleep deprivation hits athletes. Luckily, it was not that bad for me this time. Though the night was humid, the cool weather in the early morning helped me and I was able to finish 100kms within 12 hours. Once I had 100km in my bag, I knew I would run, walk or crawl for another 50 kms easily,” she said. Not crawl, but she proudly ran for another 93.60 kms over the remaining 12 hours to set the stadium on fire. Preeti, for whom sports day in school meant a holiday, did not have any athletic ambitions growing up. “I was not slim, I weighed 67 kgs, wore size XLfor several years after my daughter (now 23) was born. But the importance of health was always on my mind. I started yoga and other activities,” she says. Preeti ran her first event, a 10-km race six years ago in Thane. Since then, she has participated in several half marathons, marathons, 12-hr runs and three 24-hr runs. The last of her runs producing the fairy tale result across sporting world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-foot-forward-woman-beats-23-men-in-24-hour-run/articleshow/80756086.cms||V Anand
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||‘Custom duty’ fraud: Nigerian national dupes woman of Rs 10 lakh, held||MUMBAI: Six months after an elderly woman was conned by a ‘Facebook friend’ of Rs 10.5 lakh, the police have uncovered a well-oiled racket and arrested a Nigerian national along with an Indian woman. The complainant had fallen for the oldest trick in the book-- she was told she would receive a gift parcel worth crores of rupees from overseas but would have to pay customs duty on it. Even at the time of his arrest, the Nigerian national, Prince Madukasi, was very much active on Facebook with fake accounts, swindling more people. “We have recovered 17 debit cards, 10 bank passbooks, nine cellphones, four local sim cards and two international sim cards from Madukasi. He is likely to have many more associates and our probe is on,” said investigating officer Kunal Kumbhar from Borivali police station. Last year, the complainant, who is in her fifties was befriended by a stranger on Facebook. They started chatting on the social media’s messenger app and gradually became friends. The man told her that he had sent her an expensive gift from abroad. Later, she received a call from a woman claiming to be a customs officer. The caller asked her to pay up the custom duty if she wanted to claim the gift. Between April and June 2020, the complainant paid Rs 10.5 lakh in installments as ‘custom duty’ to claim the gift. Most of the amount was immediately withdrawn in cash by the offenders. But the cops managed to track down the account holder of one of the bank accounts in which a payment was made. The woman led them to her friend, 22-year-old Heyo Meying, on whose behalf she had accepted the money. Meying was taken into custody. While probing further, the cops got hold of a phone number that was being used by Madukasi. “It was tough task to track the mastermind Madukasi. Such offenders usually close down bank accounts after receiving the money,” said the officer. He was nabbed from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/custom-duty-fraud-nigerian-natl-dupes-woman-of-rs-rs-10l-held/articleshow/80756850.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 9, 2021||Delhi||One in every 2 kids hospitalised with Covid has multi-organ involvement||NEW DELHI: When the Covid-19 pandemic started, it was believed children do not get severe symptoms even if they get infected by the coronavirus. That may not be true. A new research suggests that a large number of children who get hospitalised due to Covid-19 develop Multisystem-Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS) that can be fatal. MIS refers to a condition in which a patient has fever and inflammation in multiple organs, for example the heart, lungs and brain, and high inflammatory markers. Safdarjung Hospital received 41 Covid-19 patients who were in the age group of 0 to 12 years between April 1 and July 31 last year. A retrospective study of the clinical manifestations and outcomes in these patients, which has been published in the latest issue of the Journal of Tropical Paediatrics (JTP), shows that 20 (49%) of these children suffered from MIS. While the non-MIS children were mostly stable and required only supportive therapy, the study says, those suffering from MIS were sick and needed intensive critical care treatment. Seven (33%) out of 21 non-MIS-C cases required oxygen supplementation compared to 90% of MIS cases, the researchers found. Ventilator support was required in only one out of 21 non-MIS cases while 65% children suffering from MIS required ventilation at or during hospitalisation, the study says. The mortality among Covid-19-affected children who developed MIS was nearly 60%. According to the study, 12 out of 20 children suffering from MIS died despite all efforts. In the non-MIS category, the death rate was 1% (only one out of 21 children died). The research was conducted by Dr Rani Gera, Amitabh Singh, Nidhi Chopra, Harish Chellani and Shobhna Gupta of the paediatric and DR Balvinder Singh Arora of microbiology department of Safdarjung Hospital. Dr Ravindra Pandey from biostatistics department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences also contributed to it. Many of the children included in the study had pre-existing illnesses. The doctors said this could have led to high mortality. However, they have concluded that acute onset of fever and symptoms, such as seizures or altered sensorium, could be a prominent presentation of MIS and timely intervention could save lives. Dr Shamsher Dwivedee, chairman of neurosciences at VIMHANS Nayati super specialty hospital, said that such high incidence of MIS and mortality hasn’t been seen in children suffering from Covid-19 in high-income countries or even private hospitals in Delhi. “We need to explore the role of malnutrition in it. Since Safdarjung gets patients from all strata of the society, one needs to do a subset analysis to examine the influence of malnutrition in Covid-19-related MIS,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-in-every-2-kids-hospitalised-with-covid-has-multi-organ-involvement/articleshow/80756110.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Ring & rail: Two key plans to see rapid push||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority’s Urban Extension Road (UER)-II, touted as Delhi’s third ring road, will make travelling from the northern end of the capital to Indira Gandhi International Airport and other southern areas a breeze. After a decade-long delay, the project is set to finally take off. DDA handed over the project to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) as it was felt the latter was better equipped to handle work of this scale. While DDA officials are tight-lipped about the UER-II, sources said that a proposal has been prepared to tide over the fund requirement of Rs7,715.6 crore, with Rs4,000 crore being the viability gap funding required for work completion. The project, envisaged to ease congestion on the arterial roads of Delhi, has been delayed for almost a decade for various reasons, stuck, for instance, over the issue of funding for three years now. While it was earlier decided that DDA would hand over 125 acres along the road to NHAI, which the latter could monetise to generate funding, sources said that 350 acres could now be used for the purpose now, though a final decision is pending. The nearly 80-km road will start from NH-1 near Narela, cross NH-10 through Rohini and Dwarka, touch IGIA and NH-8 near Rajokri and end at NH-2 near Badarpur. While a 49-km section between NH-1 and NH-8 and Nelson Mandela Marg will be completed in Phase I, Urban Extension Road will be extended 11 km to Badarpur in Phase II. UER-II is part of the roads extension proposed in Master Plan for Delhi 2021. Land acquisition, particularly in areas like Mundka, Najafgarh, Dichaon Kalan, Kanjhawala, was a major problem. The other problem was large-scale encroachment on land through which the road was to pass. DDA managed to clear most of these encroachments and that is a reason the authority is keen that work should start quickly to prevent re-encroachments. Sources said NHAI wanted DDA to fund the project, but DDA felt that NHAI should instead put up toll barriers on the new road to recover the project cost. A source said that NHAI believed that if it collected toll for road usage, the project would be unviable. It was then suggested to NHAI that some land instead could be given to it to monetise. The land-owning agency followed this model when it gave Delhi Metro Rail Corporation land for commercial exploitation to fund the projects. DDA believes the land provided to NHAI along the road will rise in value once the road comes up and the highway body could then be able to monetise the land. It was decided by 2019-end that 125 acres of land would be handed over to NHAI, but the plan couldn’t fructify. Sources said that there were plans to transfer 350 acres of land later, but a final decision on opting for this model or choosing another funding model was yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ring-rail-2-key-plans-to-see-rapid-push/articleshow/80756067.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Construction work for Anand Vihar station of 82km Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor begins||NEW DELHI: Anand Vihar in east Delhi, already a big transport hub with a railway station, two Delhi Metro corridors and two inter-state bus terminals, will get an addition in the form of the underground station of the 82-km Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor. The construction of the station began recently. National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is building the RRTS corridor, disclosed it has commenced the construction of the Anand Vihar station. “Activities such as soil investigation, identification and diversions of utilities are under way. Tunnel boring machines are expected to arrive in the latter half of 2021,” an NCRTC spokesperson said. “We have designed the station to be seamlessly integrated with Delhi Metro’s Blue line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and Pink Line (Shiv Vihar-Majlis Park).” The station’s concourse-level entry will be adjoining Delhi Metro’s and it will have multi-modal integration with Anand Vihar Railway Station, Anand Vihar ISBT and UPSRTC’s Kaushambi Bus Adda also. This integration will be provided through walkways, lifts, escalators, foot bridges and underpasses. The platform of this station will be underground, while the concourse will be at the ground level. The spokesperson said that the construction of the Anand Vihar station was technologically challenging because the RRTS trains will pass beneath DMRC’s Blue Line corridor. Of the 22 RRTS stations on the Delhi-Meerut corridor, Anand Vihar is the only underground station on the 11.5-km stretch that is below ground. A typical underground Delhi Metro station is constructed two levels below the ground, with the platform usually located at a depth of 20 metres. The Anand Vihar RRTS station will be erected at a depth of only eight metres, which, NCRTC says, will allow safe, convenient and fast movement of commuters from Anand Vihar RRTS station to other modes of public transport and vice-versa. NCRTC has also commenced construction of the Sarai Kale Khan and New Ashok Nagar RRTS stations. A 1.3-km bridge over the Yamuna, almost parallel to the DND Flyway, will also be built. The bridge, which will have 32 piers and spans, will connect the Sarai Kale Khan RRTS station with New Ashok Nagar RRTS station. “The length of this bridge will be around 626 metres. “The well foundation work for the erection of this bridge has already started,” the spokesperson disclosed. “All the construction activities are being carried out as per the prescribed guidelines to avoid adverse impacts on the Yamuna floodplain,” the official added. “Various eco-friendly measures will be taken during the construction and the muck and debris generated will be disposed of systematically and no dumping will be carried out on the floodplain.” The spokesperson said that NCRTC was using the ‘building information modelling’ (BIM) technology to finalise its stations and structure designs. It was employed for the finalisation of the Yamuna bridge’s design too. “With the help of this technology, a 3D model of the bridge was created. The intricate details of the proposed structure help bring efficiency in the execution,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/construction-work-for-anand-vihar-station-of-82km-delhi-meerut-rrts-corridor-begins/articleshow/80756076.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Anna university to resume MTech courses, create more seats||CHENNAI: Two weeks after making a controversial announcement that it was suspending admissions to two centrally sponsored MTech courses, Anna University told the Madras high court on Monday that it would recommence the academic programmes. Nine supernumerary seats will be created in MTech Biotechnology and MTech Computational Biology, and those students will not be able to claim stipend of about Rs 12,000 to Rs 12,500 a month. The Centre, however, will offer the stipend to students admitted under its 49.5% quota of seats. The courses were suspended due to disagreement between the Tamil Nadu government and the Union government over the state’s 69% reservation or the Centre’s 49.5% reservation in admissions. When the state insisted on its quota policy, the Centre refused to fund the sponsored courses, leading to the university announcing cancellation of admissions to the courses. A prospective student, Chitra, then moved the court seeking resumption of admissions to the reputed courses – M Tech Biotechnology and M Tech Computational Biology. Her counsel A Saravanan submitted that resumption of admissions was imperative at the moment, as quantum of reservation could be argued separately.However, the compromise made by Anna University and the central government came not before Justice B Pugalendhi made a loaded query as to whether the Centre funded reservation or the MTech courses. Counsel for the university Vijayakumar said the court must take an undertaking from students being accommodated in the supernumerary seats that they would not claim stipend during the course period. “Paying stipend of Rs 12,000 a month for these nine students would be difficult as there are more than 2,000 post-graduate students studying without scholarship in the university," he said. This apart, approval must be obtained from AICTE for creation of additional nine seats, he added. Special government pleader E Manoharan, representing the Tamil Nadu government, pointed out that the UGC had made it very clear by its communication to all universities, deemed universities and other grant-in-aid institutions to follow the percentage of reservation as prescribed by the respective state governments, and added, “there is no difficulty for Anna University to comply with the rule of reservation.” Recording the submissions, Justice Pugalendhi directed counsel for AICTE to get instructions on obtaining approval for creation of additional 9 seats, and whether there is any prescribed cut off date for this PG biotechnology courses at Anna University. He then adjourned the hearing to February 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-to-resume-mtech-courses-create-more-seats/articleshow/80756840.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Probe finds suspended IPS guilty of indiscipline||LUCKNOW: Vigilance establishment of the UP police has found suspended SSP of Prayagraj, Abhishek Dixit, guilty of indiscipline. The report has been sent to the state government for further action. Dixit is also under the scanner for having assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Dixit, a 2006-batch IPS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, was suspended in August last year for his alleged involvement in corrupt practices and failure to manitain law and order. He was on deputation in Uttar Pradesh. Sources in vigilance establishment said Dixit was accused of transferring SHOs without following rules and did not conduct investigations ordered by the ADG, Prayagraj zone, despite several reminders. Sources said Dixit was not ordering removal of a stenographer despite an adverse entry by the district administration. Soon after Dixit took over as Prayagraj SSP, complaints were being made against him for not following instructions from police headquarters. Officials said he had not been carrying out any checking of banks and financial institutions. He did not ensure effective patrolling in the district and there was no reduction in pendency of cases, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/probe-finds-suspended-ips-guilty-of-indiscipline/articleshow/80757027.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: One arrested in black magic case||PUNE: A patrol team from the Chikhali police arrested a 40-year-old man on Sunday night before he could allegedly perform a ritual on a resident on the pretext of freeing his house from evil spirits. The suspect has been booked under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act. S P Deshmukh, sub-inspector, Chikhali police, told TOI, “We are probing whether the suspect had duped anyone on the pretext of eliminating evil spirits.” Deshmukh said that though the suspect did not dupe the man, he has been arrested for promoting black magic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-arrested-in-black-magic-case/articleshow/80756097.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Man strangles tailor in UPover poor fitting of his shirt||Lucknow: Enraged over the poor fitting of his shirt, a man strangled his elderly tailor to death in Rae Bareli on Sunday night. A tailor in Rae Bareli on late Sunday night. The victim’s son Abdul Naeem Khan claimed that his father Abdul Majid Khan (65) was allegedly strangled by one Saleem. “He was reportedly enraged over the poor fitting of his shirt that my father had had stitched,” he added. Saleem felw into anger after the two entered into a heated argument over the issue, say eye-witnesses. Giving details about the case, Rae Bareli SP Shlok Kumar said that post-mortem examination of Abdul Majid Khan could not reveal exact cause of death. “The viscera has been preserved for further examination,” he added. Kumar said that a probe was under way as to what exactly happened during the dispute between the deceased tailor and Saleem on the fateful day. “The law will take its course in the case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-strangles-tailor-in-upover-poor-fitting-of-his-shirt/articleshow/80757012.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Eight central jails in Maharashtra to get open air gyms soon||PUNE: The prisons department will soon set up open air gyms in eight central jails in the state to promote physical health of inmates. These central jails house more than 15,000 inmates and most of them participate in yoga, physical training, skill, literacy and other activities. “We have tied up with the sports department to start the open air gyms at Yerawada, Thane, Taloja, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Nagpur and Amravati central jails. There will be no such facility at the Arthur Road central jail in Mumbai because of space constraints. The open air gyms will soon be extended to other jails in the state,” additional director general of prisons Sunil Ramanand said on Monday. “In the traditional jails, the inmates lift weights and use dumbbells and other instruments for doing exercise in halls/rooms. These instruments can be used physically as weapons for committing an offence. In open air gyms, the instruments will be affixed on the ground and cannot be detached. Maintaining vigil will become easier for the jail staffers then,” Ramanand told TOI. The gyms will be set up with funds from the sports department funds on the lawns, gardens, court yards and in the open space of the jails. “The nature and number of instruments required for physical exercise will be decided in consultation with experts and jail officials. The gyms will become functional at the earliest and the central jails concerned will maintain the facilities,” he said. “The gyms will be opened for the convicts and undertrial prisoners. The jail staffers can also avail of the facilities. They can use the gyms as per the schedules, both in morning and evening hours. Our idea is to motivate the inmates and jail staffers towards physical exercise. The aim is increase their immunity,” Ramanand said. The authorities will initially start with one gym per jail. The number of the gyms will increase depending on the users’ response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-central-jails-in-stateto-get-open-air-gyms-soon/articleshow/80756093.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 9, 2021||Delhi||How abandoned kid blew lid off trafficking racket in Delhi||NEW DELHI: What started off as a patrol cop quizzing a nine-year-old child roaming aimlessly in Sector 8 market in Dwarka led to unearthing of a well-oiled human trafficking racket. A syndicate was found bringing children from remote villages in Jharkhand to Delhi on the pretext of studies and a better life, but was instead training them to steal mobile phones. The stolen phones, sources said, were shipped to Malda in West Bengal and many of them were smuggled to Bangladesh after tampering with the IMEI numbers. On average, this module earned Rs 5-6 lakh per month. The gang had even recruited “handlers” at a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 for taking care of the minors. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Meena said, “Till now, seven traffickers have been arrested from Delhi and Jharkhand and four children have been rescued in a fortnight-long operation led by SHO Rakesh Dadwal. Two dozen stolen high-end phones have been seized.” When the child was counselled to get details about his parents, he revealed the shocking story of the gang using him and other children to steal phones. He was then sent for counseling under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. He said a man named Vishal, who belonged to his native village Maharajpur in Sahibganj district of Jharkhand, brought him to Delhi on the pretext of providing him a job, but forced him into stealing phones. Based on the details given by the child, several places in Khayala and Nangloi were identified. Technical surveillance was mounted on around 10 numbers. As a result, another child aged about eight years was rescued and two men, identified as Sheikh Dildar and Bihari Chaudhary, were arrested. Further raids led to the arrest of two other traffickers, Amar Singh alias Tau and Kanhaiya Kumar. Two autorickshaws used to transport the children were seized from them. Probe revealed the racket was being run by Vishal Mehto, assisted by his aide Sunil and his relatives and family members in Jharkhand. Mehto fled Delhi after the raids. However, police arrested him from his native village and brought him back to Delhi. Subsequently, two more children were rescued from Bhajanpura. Two of his relatives, Mahender and Chandu, were also arrested. Police are now looking for a man named Sarekul from Malda who bought the phones from this gang. Mehto said the gang used children from poor backgrounds in the 7-12 age group as people wouldn’t suspect them. Even if caught, they were let off with counselling and a stint at a shelter home. The gang bore the legal expenses. The children would be sent to shopping centres and crowded weekly markets. After committing the thefts, the children would be brought back, given good food and chocolates by their handlers. Their families were sent Rs 25,000-30,000 every few months. Most of the arrested are in the age group of 25-35, except for Amar Singh, the gang’s auto driver who is 68. Police commissioner SN Shrivastava appreciated the team for its efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-abandoned-kid-blew-lid-off-trafficking-racket/articleshow/80756092.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Colleague who loaned money to sailor being questioned||MUMBAI: A colleague who had loaned money to the navy sailor who succumbed to burns after being abducted from Chennai and set on fire in a Palghar jungle last week, is being questioned for making several calls to the victim before he went missing. Surajkumar Dubey (26) was abducted from outside Chennai airport on January 30 by three armed men. He was held captive for three days and told to pay up Rs 10 lakh. He was taken to the jungle and set on fire on February 5. He sustained 90% burns and succumbed to injuries later in the day. Police investigations found that Dubey suffered huge losses in the share market. He had taken loans of over Rs 13 lakh. Around Rs 6 lakh of that was taken from a colleague, who was demanding the money but Dubey was avoiding him. Dubey, based at INS Agrani, Coimbatore, was on leave in his native town in Jharkhand from January 1. On January 30, when he left Jharkhand for Chennai, the colleague had called him many times about his travel plans. Police are also examining a Rs5,000 withdrawal out on Dubey's debit card from Chennai on February 1. A police team is in Chennai to check CCTV grabs from outside the airport. The navy has begun a parallel probe. Dubey’s two bank accounts, including a salary account in Mumbai, shows transactions of Rs 8.4 lakh. Meanwhile, Dubey was laid to rest on Monday at his village in Palamu in the presence of officers from navy, local administration and villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/colleague-who-loaned-money-to-sailor-being-questioned/articleshow/80756192.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi University to collaborate, share expertise with remote colleges, boost research||NEW DELHI: A college in the border area of Arunachal Pradesh’s Bomdila, another in Ladakh and an institute catering to the tribal population of Madhya Pradesh — Vidya Vistar (V2S) will now connect all of them, and many more, with Delhi University. Under the scheme, proposed by acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi and launched this year, DU colleges will collaborate with those in backward areas across the country to share their academic expertise and conduct joint research. Many DU colleges have already chalked out plans to share their lectures, laboratories and libraries, and will also conduct student exchange programmes and push for mutual research. DU colleges can choose their own partner institutes under V2S. “My vision for Delhi University”, Joshi told TOI, “is to open its door for others. We have started V2S, which will open up DU to colleges of remote areas. Already Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences has collaborated with a college in Bomdila in Arunachal Pradesh and Aurobindo College is collaborating with a college in Ladakh”. DU colleges will only have to choose a partner from a remote area and two institutes should be able to work together for research, Joshi pointed out during an exclusive interview. Balaram Pani, principal of Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, told TOI that the Bomdila college was chosen to “provide free education and expertise to the students of that region”. Pani added, “Our faculty members can teach them through online mode. We will also allow their faculty members to come here and use our laboratory for their research.” Provisions will also be made for visits of students from the Arunachal college. Hansraj College has chosen two colleges — Government College of Chamba, Himachal Pradesh and Government Degree College of Drass, Ladakh. Principal Rama Sharma said, “It is our duty to give back to the society. There are times when these colleges are not even aware of government policies. With collaboration, we can help upgrade these colleges.” Hansraj is keen on collaborating with many more colleges, she added. Many DU colleges are also looking at utilising these remote locations for research and giving exposure to their students. Vipin Kumar Aggarwal, principal of Aurobindo College that is partnering with Government College of Kargil, said they would send students to Kargil “so that they can understand the culture there”. The college will telecast its laboratory experiments, classes and seminars, he added. Aditi Mahavidyalaya is collaborating with Government College of Barwani district, Madhya Pradesh, “which caters to the tribal population of the region”, said principal Mamta Sharma. The college will share its library resources and also wants to conduct joint research programmes, bring out publications, and take up community development initiatives, she added. Kirori Mal College is hoping to collaborate with a college from Odisha’s Cuttack and another from Manipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-to-collaborate-share-expertise-with-remote-colleges-boost-research/articleshow/80756157.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 9, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Top officials queue up for the jab, says all’s well||BHOPAL: A majority of senior district officials, including collectors, commissioners and superintendents of police, got vaccinated on Monday as vaccination of frontline workers started in a bid to motivate other staffers. In state capital, Bhopal, vaccination of the frontline workers started with divisional commissioner Kavindra Kiyawat and district collector Avinash Lavania getting vaccinated. Health minister Prabhuram Chowdhary also visited the vaccination booth at the district collectorate. Likewise, in Jabalpur, it was district collector Karamveer Sharma who started the vaccination drive by getting vaccinated first. Sources said different officials have decided different dates for vaccination — one day, divisional commissioner will get vaccinated, and then the district SP will get vaccinated. In Rewa district, it were the divisional commissioner, IG police and Rewa district collector who got themselves vaccinated first. In Gwalior too, district officials started the vaccination drive. However, the district collector and other senior officials will get vaccinated on February 10. Despite these attempts, the overall vaccination turnout was low throughout the day as only 38 per cent vaccination turnout was reported in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/top-officials-queue-up-for-the-jab-says-alls-well/articleshow/80756147.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 9, 2021||Meerut||4 counterfeiters caught in Amroha||Amroha: Four people were arrested from Amroha on Sunday for their alleged involvement in printing fake currency notes, said city police.Police have seized from their possession 25 ATM cards, two cheques, four mobile phones, a printer, a note counting machine, a laptop and other equipment used to print counterfeit currency. They have also recovered fake Rs 500 notes of value Rs 7 lakh.According to Suniti, the Amroha superintendent of police, the accused have been identified as Najarul Hasan and Dr Nafees Ahmed of Kundarki police station area in Moradabad, as well as Arvind and Kamil from Amroha city. Police have registered a case against the arrested persons under sections 489A, 489B, 489C, 489D of IPC (all related to counterfeiting currency and punishment).The accused were arrested from Kanth bypass in Amroha. The SP said the accused also forged fake cheques. Police are interrogating the accused, against whom there are several cases in different police stations, and probing the extent of their network in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-counterfeiters-caught-in-amroha/articleshow/80756151.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Sisodia urges young UPSC aspirants to go after their dreams||New Delhi: “Along with knowledge and skills, one should be passionate about his/her dreams,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday in an interaction programme for Delhi school students aspiring to take the UPSC civil services examination.The programme gives them a chance to interact with young IAS/IPS officers every month. The officers share their experiences, strategies and insights about the exam preparation to help students develop a better understanding. Participants interacted for the second time with IPS officer Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (south west), and IAS officer Udit Prakash, director (education). On the second day of the programme, 75 students from classes IX to XII attended the interaction at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Rouse Avenue while more than 10,000 students watched it live on YouTube. “Don’t just study for marks, one should study to learn,” said Sisodia.Singh gave his four-fold mantra for success — focus, discipline, hard work and perseverance, while Prakash said Delhi government wanted to infuse confidence in students through these interactions and make them aim high. “There isn’t any difference between you and us. We were once in your place. With hard work and determination, you’ll be able to achieve your dreams and become an inspiration to many,” said Singh, whose mother teaches at a Delhi government school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-urges-young-upsc-aspirants-to-go-after-their-dreams/articleshow/80756130.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Health department faces challenge to vaccinate 26,000 in a day||LUCKNOW: With the addition of about 8,000 names to the list of healthcare workers, district health authorities now have a mammoth task of inoculating 26,415 beneficiaries with the vaccine against Covid-19 in the mop-up round on February 15. Of these beneficiaries, 25,573 will get their first dose and 842 their second dose. The number has increased because many hospitals and medical institutions, both private and government, had either not sent the data of their employees in time in December when enlisting was being done or had not submitted it in the right format. As a result, about 8,000 names could not be included in the list for vaccination. At the start of phase 1 vaccination drive for healthcare workers on January 16, district health authorities had said that the total number of beneficiaries is 51,000. However, about 80 private hospitals approached authorities on Saturday with the complaint that their employees—altogether 1,000—did not receive calls for vaccination in the first six rounds, hence their names should be included in the mop-up round. An investigation revealed that managements of these 80 hospitals had not submitted data in time. As a special provision, CoWin portal was opened to include their names for the mop-up round. As this news spread, healthcare workers in other hospitals who had not been called for vaccination till now started inquiring their managements about their names on the list. A review found that about 7,000 names from these institutions had not been included because data sent earlier was delayed or not in required format. “Now, we have decided to keep the portal open till February 12 to include names of these ‘left out’ healthcare workers,” said district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh. The big question is how health authorities will inoculate such a large number in a day. The district has 62 vaccine centres with 182 booths. If capacity is utilised to the fullest, 18,200 people can be vaccinated in a day. A senior officer said that on an average, 10% of beneficiaries are found unfit due to health issues, hence the actual target for the mop-up round will be around 23,000, which, however, is still a big number for a single day. Dr Singh said that the strategy to vaccinate all health workers will be discussed on Tuesday and Wednesday. He did not rule out the possibility of having another round for healthcare workers after February 15, but added that the state government’s decision will be final.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/health-dept-faces-challenge-to-vaccinate-26k-in-a-day/articleshow/80757110.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 9, 2021||Pune||Man found murdered in Gahunje||PUNE: An unidentified man, aged around 35 years, was found bludgeoned to death at the foothills of Ghorawadeshwar hill, near Talegaon Dabhade, on Monday morning. Bhaskar Jadhav, senior inspector, Talegaon Dabhade police, told TOI, “We did not find anything which could help us to ascertain the identity of the man, except the name ‘Rajesh Pal’ tattooed on his hand.” Jadhav said that the murder came to light around 7.30am on Monday when a morning walker noticed him lying unconscious behind the cricket stadium at Gahunje at the foothills of Ghorawadeshwar hill. “The victim was bludgeoning to death with stones,” Jadhav said. He said that police teams were trying to ascertain the victim’s identity. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said that police were questioning workers at construction sites in the area. “We are also conducting technical investigation,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-found-murdered-in-gahunje/articleshow/80756117.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Nursery admission: Edu dept seeks EWS seat data||New Delhi: Schools in Delhi are waiting for a schedule on nursery admissions from Delhi government even as they are being flooded with queries from parents.However, on Monday, the education department asked schools to provide their GPS coordinates and details of seats in nursery, KG and Class I for admissions under the economically weaker section (EWS) category, by February 15. Schools said the circular confirmed that the nursery admissions would take place this year. Parents were apprehensive that the admissions might be deferred further.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “The last we heard about nursery admissions was when CM made an announcement during the interaction with principals and private school authorities. We are also eagerly waiting for the schedule as we have been receiving a lot of queries from the parents.”Joshi added that the schedule should be declared soon so that when the academic session starts in April, the process would have been completed.“Schools already have their admission process online so it should not be a problem. Earlier by March, we would have completed admissions for the general category. It should not be further delayed,” added Joshi.Mount Abu Public, Rohini has also received several queries regarding nursery admissions. “We have been telling the parents that we are also waiting for the schedule from the government. We don’t know what is causing the delay,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of the school.Principals said that because of a centralised process, admissions for the economically weaker section/disadvantaged (EWS/DG) category could easily be started soon. Earlier, EWS admissions used to take place after the completion of admission process of the general category students. Since the 2016-17 academic session, EWS/DG admissions have gone online and become centralised.As per the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009, private schools have to mandatorily reserve 25% of the seats for EWS/DG category students.“District DDEs must ensure that the number of EWS/DG category seats disclosed by the schools in their entry level class(es) shall not be less than the highest number of seats in the entry level class in the previous four academic years,” stated the circular issued on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-admission-edu-dept-seeks-ews-seat-data/articleshow/80756098.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Flyovers to get protective paint||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) will soon apply anti-corrosive paint on railings, crash barriers and the underdeck of Sealdah flyover, Chetla bridge, Ultadanga flyover, Aurobindo Setu and Zeerut bridge. The authorities will also take up major repair works of the Baghajatin ROB and Kalighat Setu.Earlier, KMDA had conducted load capacity tests of most of the flyover and bridges under it across the city. Only Ambedkar bridge on EM Bypass hasn’t undergone the load test. It will be conducted soon, an official said.Officials said painting the flyover and bridges will provide a protective layer that will prevent corrosion on the bridges’ steel structure. The steel superstructure of Chetla Lock Gate bridge and Chitpore bridge, near Kolkata station, have been found to be heavily corroded beyond long-term repairs due to lack of proper maintenance. They will now be dismantled and reconstructed. The pillars of Kalighat Setu have also suffered some structural damage due to corrosion.The railing and under deck of Sealdah flyover and Aurobindo Setu will get the protective paint, after which both the elevated corridors will be strengthened further. Painting will be done on the inside surface area, crash barrier, wheel guard and railing on both flanks of Ultadanga flyover.KMDA is now selecting agencies to take up major repairs of Baghajatin ROB and short-term repairs for Kalighat Setu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyovers-to-get-protective-paint/articleshow/80756096.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Startup workforce in Gujarat shrinks 9% in 2020||AHMEDABAD: Shrinking workforce was a common phenomenon post lockdown and the trend was similar with startups too. The number of people employed by startups across Gujarat declined by 9% to 9,577 in 2020 from 10,539 in 2019, shows data compiled by the Union ministry of commerce and industry. Sumeet Mohanty, founder of Ahmedabad-based Phycolinc Technologies, said, “We stopped hiring soon after the lockdown because in environment sector, there was a visible slowdown. Growth is yet to pick up pace. We expect to expand our workforce further in the next financial year.” Another legal-tech startup based in Gujarat, Legalwiz, also restricted hiring in the pandemic year. “Since the lockdown, we restricted hiring activity for the time being. However, as our business began growing with greater digital adoption and uptakes for our services, recruitment picked up at our company,” said Shrijay Sheth, founder, Legalwiz, which recently raised Rs 3 crore. “Against the pre-pandemic period, our volumes have grown by at least 20% and with this, we are looking to double our workforce,” he said.  Incubators in Gujarat say that hampered growth during the pandemic did compel startups to either freeze hiring or contract their workforce. However, in the second half of 2020 and early 2021, most have resumed hiring, announcing plans to scale-up their workforce. International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate)-incubated event management startup Hubilo hired 130 employees in the second half of 2020. The hiring was done across divisions in major cities, including Ahmedabad. The startup intends to further continue to hire in 2021. Hiranmay Mahanta, CEO, iHub, a Government of Gujarat initiative, said, “Growth of startups was completely dependent on the sector. For instance, those in logistics, manufacturing, services and hospitality sector were impacted thanks to the lockdown. However, some of those in the fintech, health care and allied services and edu-tech sector grew exponentially well and that drove hiring further on.” Despite Covid-19 pandemic, states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh as well as Delhi witnessed an increase in employment by startups, the Union ministry data further shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/startup-workforce-in-gujarat-shrinks-9-in-2020/articleshow/80756857.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 9, 2021||Delhi||54% turnout on day 24 of vax, nearly 1.2 lakh people in Delhi have got the jab||NEW DELHI: After a turnout of 74.4% for Covid vaccination in Delhi last Monday, the count has remained below 55% for the past seven days despite inclusion of frontline workers among beneficiaries and addition of around 80 inoculation centres. On Monday, 9,740 of the 18,000 expected beneficiaries turned up to get the shot. The turnout was 54.1% as compared to 53.1% during the last vaccination session on Saturday. Only 11 adverse events were reported. District magistrate (East) Arun Kumar Mishra, who got the shot at a private hospital in Preet Vihar, said, “I received the information through Co-WIN application that my vaccination was scheduled for Monday. I am totally fine and did not report any adverse event.” He added, “People infected with Covid fought the infection and those who did not get infected had to tackle apprehension and anxiety. The vaccine is helping us fight novel coronavirus on all fronts. I appeal to everyone to get the shot.” East district has 12 vaccination sites where 622 people were vaccinated on Monday. The district has so far vaccinated 7,460 people. The highest vaccination was done in South district that inoculated 1,503 people, followed by Central and West districts giving the jab to 1,134 people each. The overall number of vaccinated people has now touched 1,19,308. The vaccination of frontline workers started on full-scale on Saturday after a two-day pilot run last week. In several vaccination centres, paramilitary and Delhi Police personnel, sanitation workers and government employees are turning up to get the vaccine. Several district magistrates have come forward for the drive to encourage other government employees. Senior officials have also appealed to every body to take the jab when their turn comes and assured them about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. The capital has reported negligible number of adverse events. Out of the 11 adverse events on Monday, Central district saw three events, followed by North West and West districts reporting two each. Four districts did not report any adverse event. In the first phase, 51 lakh people, including 2.5 lakh healthcare workers, 6 lakh frontline workers and over 42 lakh people either above 50 years of age or below 50 but with comorbidities, are to be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/54-turnout-on-day-24-of-vax-nearly-1-2-lakh-people-in-city-have-got-the-jab/articleshow/80756183.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 9, 2021||Allahabad||Couples take pledge of mutual love, trust||PRAYAGRAJ: The Sangam city witnessed a marriage ceremony with a message on Sunday, wherein two couples— Awinash and Anjali, Amit and Shiva- were tied in a nuptial knot. However, in place of ceremonial fire, the mantras or the traditional rituals was a ‘pledge’ which the couples took in presence of their parents, several social workers and eminent persons of the city. The marriage took place in a residential complex of Chatham lines locality of the city. The two couples chose each other as their life partner by breaking caste lines and without any religious rituals. Members of a students’ and social organisation, these youths took oath in the presence of intellectuals, social workers and their family members. Of the two couples, 27-year-old Awinash, a native of Domanpura village of Patherdewa, Deoria is a MTech in civil engineering from MNNIT, while his partner Anjali has done MCom from Allahabad University. “I am not against religion, but the age-old rituals associated with a marriage does not fit well into contemporary society. For a happy married life or for someone to get married, love is the only prerequisite and not caste, social status, dowry or any of such irrelevant practices put on display”, Awinash opined. He is the son of a retired maths teacher. “We are from different castes and our families have endorsed this relationship. I think that if the boy and the girl love each other, only then they should marry and for that it is not bad to spend some years together, knowing each other for better compatibility”. We, at the organisation, are against the customs that have come to be identified with most marriages. “The girl is not a commodity that her father has to give her as a ‘daan’ in a marriage”, said Amit. After taking a joint pledge of mutual love, trust, faith and equality, the couples also signed a document beneath the written format of the pledge and the same was counter-signed by some of the witnesses present at the ceremony. After the marriage, a concert was presented at the venue composed by eminent music composer Vivek Vishal and ‘Junoon-e-Mausiki’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/couples-take-pledge-of-mutual-love-trust/articleshow/80755050.cms||---
February 9, 2021||India||After Rajnath emotional appeal, Lok Sabha takes up President's address debate||NEW DELHI: After days of disruptions due to opposition protests, proceedings in Lok Sabha started on Monday after defence minister Rajnath Singh appealed to the members to abide by the tradition and allow debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s address. Making an emotional appeal to lawmakers from all parties to show respect for the President, Singh said, “Most of the members, in personal interactions, agree that traditions should not be broken… institutions should not be demeaned. Safeguarding the dignity of an institution is the responsibility of not one but all parties. Rajya Sabha has already concluded the discussion, why can’t we do it?’ Singh said. The defence minister also said members are free to express views over subjects of their choice, including the farm laws. “Let’s move on with the healthy and vibrant tradition of our country’s democracy,” Singh said and added, “We must not forget that even the President is part of Parliament and we all should show respect to him.” As House proceedings finally began, BJP MP from Hooghly in West Bengal Locket Chatterjee attacked the West Bengal government, citing how it has denied its people benefits of several central schemes due to political reasons. “If you want to do rajneeti (politics), do it with us and not with people,” she stressed. “Is Jai Sri Ram a slang? Mamata government insults Ram and Sita. They (Bengal government) are obsessed with appeasement politics. They practice politics for 30%,” she said adding that BJP will not allow the state turn into “East Pakistan.” “Mamata Banerjee cheated farmers of Bengal, who have been suffering for the past 10 years but she is silent and now for politics, she sent her MPs to Singhu border,” the BJP MP said. Earlier, while agreeing to initiate the debate, leader of Congress Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary said the opposition only wanted that there should be debate on farmers’ issues for two-four hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-rajnath-emotional-appeal-lok-sabha-takes-up-prez-address-debate/articleshow/80757595.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
February 9, 2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: 190 recoveries, 2041 patients left in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Tally of Covid-19 cases reached 256591 as 193 fresh positive cases were reported in the state on Monday. Apart from the fresh cases, three deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3823. The deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported from one each from Bhopal, Gwalior and Damoh districts of the state. On Monday new cases were reported only from 30 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Monday include Shivpuri, Vidisha, Narsinghpur, Satna, Balaghat, Neemuch, Shahdol, Katni, Chhatarpur, Anuppur, Shajapur, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Umaria, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Panna, Dindori, Burhanpur and Agar Malwa districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Bhopal where 74 tested positive, followed by Jabalpur where 29 tested positive and Indore where 19 tested positive. On the brighter side, 190 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recoveries to 250727. A total of 13489 samples were tested on Monday and out of it, 193 tested positive, thus a positive rate — which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Monday stood at 1.4%. As on February 8, there were 2041 active cases in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/190-recoveries-2041-patients-left-in-state/articleshow/80756179.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Meerut||Priyanka Gandhi to step up farm laws stir in UP||MEERUT: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will hold a series of ‘kisan sabhas’ in Uttar Pradesh to step up protests against the new farm laws. This comes in tandem with 'mahapanchayats' being held across several districts in western UP. According to party sources, Priyanka will hold the first such meeting in Saharanpur on February 10. In the next leg, she will hold similar ‘kisan sabhas’ in Meerut and Bijnor on February 13. Speaking to TOI, Naresh Saini, Congress MLA from Behat in Saharanpur, said, "During the visit, she (Priyanka)] would offer her prayers at Shakumbhari Mata temple and also visit a shrine. Later, she will hold a 'kisan sabha' in Chilkana area." Saini also claimed Priyanka's Saharanpur visit was earlier scheduled for February 8, for which permission was denied by the local administration. "The venue was later shifted outside the city limits," he said. Meanwhile, the local party unit in the region has begun its preparation for the visit. Priyanka Gandhi had recently visited Rampur, where she met family members of farmer Navreet Singh who died during the tractor rally violence in Delhi on Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/priyanka-gandhi-to-step-up-farm-laws-stir-with-kisan-sabhas-in-up/articleshow/80756186.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Meerut||13 families in Meerut zone holding on to ‘false hope’||Meerut: Sompal Singh hasn’t put down the phone since the tragedy struck. His son-in-law was working there, at Tapovan Hydropower project when the sudden deluge washed away everything. He hasn’t stopped calling him, despite getting the same automated reply, again and again. “I have forgotten the number of times I must have called his number. Every time there is one message, it’s switched off. I have even tried the helpline number issued from Jyotimath, but it didn’t help,” Singh said.Like Singh’s son-in-law, at least 12 others from Meerut zone are missing since Sunday morning. Most of them were in their early 20s.A contractor in Meerut, Saurabh Prajapati, who had sent 10 youths to the project, is restless. “There were 10 people working on the installation of a mobile phone transmission tower in Sarai Kota, a little ahead of Chamoli. I last spoke to them on Sunday morning when they were crossing a bridge that got washed away in the flash flood. There is no communication after that. All phones are switched off.” Prajapati’s brother-in-law was also among them. “I haven’t broken the news to the families. I am just giving them false hope that they were in a no-signal area,” Prajapati said.In Saharanpur’s Amheta village, three youths-- Rizwan, Majid and Abdul-- had left for Chamoli to work as painters in the under-construction hydroelectric plant on January 11. As soon as the news and videos of the flash flood arrived, families of all the three began frantically calling on the mobile phones of the youths. “I had spoken to my brother Majid hours before the accident. He got married last year, and has a 45 days old son. Majid’s wife is continuously looking for answers, some news on her husband. What should I tell her,” Majid's brother Zahid told TOI.Abdul’s wife, Heena, said, “I want nothing but his return. I somehow feel he is safe. But this uncertainty is very disturbing.”When contacted, Saharanpur’s district magistrate (DM) Akhilesh Singh said, “We are in contact with Chamoli administration and have assured the families of the three youths that all possible help will be extended to them. And the moment we get any information, it will be provided to them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/13-families-in-meerut-zone-holding-on-to-false-hope/articleshow/80756168.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 9, 2021||Meerut||Distribute uniforms, bags before schools reopen on Feb 10, districts told||Meerut: The Uttar Pradesh government has instructed all the districts to ensure that school bags, socks and uniforms are distributed among the students whose schools are set to open from February 10. Instructions have been given that if any lapse is found, disciplinary action will be taken against the officials concerned. “All the basic authorities in the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh have been asked to ensure that school bags, uniforms, shoes and socks are distributed to the students before they join school on February 10,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, managing director, school education, UP. Anand said instructions have been given to ensure that the distribution work is completed before the schools reopen so that no hurdle is there in the routine work. They are distributed free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/distribute-uniforms-bags-before-schools-reopen-on-feb-10-districts-told/articleshow/80756178.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 9, 2021||Chennai||The forgotten parent in the divorce story||CHENNAI: More than two years ago, Sathish* separated from his wife. It was also the last time he saw his children. Though his wife filed for divorce four months later and he asked for visitation rights, the formalities were completed one-and-a-half years later due to the pandemic. "I get to meet them once a week but the intervening years have been hell for me. They were told I left on work and felt abandoned, as they had no means of reaching out to me," says the 43-year-old. When divorce tears a family apart, children suffer the most. But few think about the pain and trauma a non-custodial parent goes through, especially if the one who has custody keeps away the child. Parental alienation, when a child becomes estranged from one due to the other parent’s actions or psychological manipulations, is a syndrome recognised by mental health professionals across the world. And it is a growing problem in a society where divorces are on the rise. At present, 1,24,150 cases are pending in family courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. "Every month nearly 400 cases are registered in family courts in Chennai," says lawyer Ram Santhanakrishnan. According to him, there are many causes of parental alienation. "When a divorce happens, the parents cut off ties with each other and sometimes even if visitation order is given, it may not be effectively implemented. Or one parent could be conscious that the child is more attached to the other parent and so tries to keep that parent away," says Santhanakrishnan. It has a devastating impact on the parent who is distanced from the child. With little or no access to children, a parent battles anxiety, depression, and develops low self-esteem. "The parent feels a sense of abandonment and rejection as they feel they have lost the child," says psychiatrist Dr N Rangarajan, who has seen many cases where one parent is denied custody and the other doesn’t let him/her visit. "The child grows up believing the other parent is abusive or dangerous and shouldn’t come home," he says. The lack of resources to help parents who are cut off, prompted Gazal Raina to set up support groups for non-custodial parents. "I separated from my husband in 2013 and got divorced in 2015 and that’s when I realised how tumultuous it can be to lose access to a child," says Gazal, who has had no contact with her son since she separated. "He was 16 then and could choose who he wanted to live or interact with and though I have tried to reach out, it’s been in vain," says Gazal. "It is a heart-breaking experience. While you can cope with divorce, it’s painful when your child shuns you. There is a lot of guilt and fear and you begin questioning yourself." So she started Bodhi, a support group for non-custodial parents, in Bengaluru, in 2016. Having moved to Chennai in 2017, she started a similar group, Milaap, in 2019. "It has 100 members across the world and we have weekly meetings where we discuss a variety of topics — be it co-parenting, remarriage, dating in the mid-40s, handling fear, or financial literacy," says Gazal, who has brought in lawyers, social workers and psychiatrists as mentors. "So, people can get legal advice, or psychological support. More importantly the group is a space where you meet others who have had similar experiences, and so are empathetic," says Gazal. The group also has a Facebook page and a YouTube channel. "Meeting people who are facing the same situation has been a source of comfort," says Sathish. Advocate Sudha Ramalingam says she often sees parents using children to settle scores. "There is a greater need for third party intervention in these matters. In many cases, families of the spouses don’t intervene, so there is no counselling within the family," she says. "So you need external agencies, such as professional counsellors, NGOs, or the court." People should realise it’s a child’s right to have both parents, says Sudha. "The child cannot divorce a father or mother, so you shouldn’t push the child to say he/she prefers one parent over the other as they will end up feeling guilty. Often, the child clings on to the parent he/she is living with as they don’t want to be the cause of anger if they say they like the other parent." That’s why courts advocate co-parenting. "It is still evolving, but not an alien concept anymore as the focus is on the welfare of the child," says Santhanakrishnan, who is also part of Milaap. And some, like 32-year-old Radha* are willing to give it a try. "We divorced by mutual consent and decided the our child should be able to meet both parents," says Radha. "We live in the same city, she lives with her father but meets me regularly and also stays over with me," she says. (*Names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-forgotten-parent-in-the-divorce-story/articleshow/80756185.cms||Priya Menon
February 9, 2021||Meerut||Man kill wife, minor daughter; walks to police station to surrender||MEERUT: A 29-year-old man, who runs a saloon in UP’s Baghpat, allegedly choked his wife and daughter to death on Monday morning, walked up to the nearest police station and surrendered. Police said the incident took place in Baghpat’s Gayatri Puram mohalla. A domestic feud led to the heinous crime. The accused, Gulfam, has a brain tumor, they added. Manish Mishra, additional SP, said, “The accused himself surrendered at the police station early Monday morning. He has been arrested. Soon after his surrender, police reached his house to find the bodies of his wife and four-year-old daughter. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem.” According to police sources, this was Gulfam's third marriage. His first two wives had abandoned him due to his ailment and unpredictable temper. His third wife, the sources said, was pregnant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-kill-wife-minor-daughter-walks-to-police-stn-to-surrender/articleshow/80756180.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 9, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Murdered woman’s head recovered from well||KANPUR: The head of a woman whose torso was recovered from Sarwal village in Asothar police area in Fatehpur district on February 6, was on Monday found in a well in Sewramau village in Ghazipur police area of the district. The woman’s headless body was found from a mustard field by the police. During investigation, the police had recovered a piece of paper with mention of a couple of mobile phone numbers from the pocket of the jeans of the woman. Based on which, subsequently, the police picked up a truck driver from Banda. On the basis of information provided by him, the police recovered the woman’s head from a well in Sewramau village on Monday. The police found surgical gloves from near the well, besides blood stain marks were also found close to the well, which were preserved by forensic experts for further investigation. The truck driver had revealed that the woman, who hailed from Raebareli had eloped with his relative Bhola Pandit of Sarwal village about three months ago. Initially everything was fine, but the woman had differences with Bhola over some issues. At present, Bhola along with the woman was living at Dado village of the district, police said. During the late night hours of February 5, Bhola brought her to Sarwal village and hacked her to death. They disposed of her torso in Sarwal village while head in Sewramau village. Exact motive behind the brutal killing of the woman is yet to be ascertained. The questioning of the truck driver to ascertain the same is continuing. Also, on the basis of inputs provided by him, we are in the process of zeroing in on the main accused Bhola and a few more suspects, who are still on run, police added. “On Monday, we have recovered the head from a well in Sewramau village and dispatched it to mortuary for autopsy. Things will become much clear once we would be able to arrest main accused Bhola,” said SWAT in-charge Vinod Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/murdered-womans-head-recovered-from-well/articleshow/80755538.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Meerut||Three leopards die in 12 days in Bijnor||BIJNOR: The carcass of a three-year-old leopardess was found at Hadakpur village in Bijnor’s Sherkot area on Saturday evening. It is the third leopard to be found dead in a span of 12 days in the district. M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer, said, “We had got a tip-off that a carcass of a leopard was lying in the bushes near Hadakpur village of Sherkot area. A post-mortem of the carcass revealed that it died of jaundice. A probe is on." The fact that three leopards died in quick succession is worrying foresters. Eleven days ago, a leopard was bludgeoned to death by villagers at Mauzampur Sadat village of Nagina Dehat after it attacked three teenagers. Another leopard succumbed to injuries last week after it was run over by some vehicle in Noorpur area. It had sustained severe head injuries. It was first treated in Bijnor by DFO Semmaran, who is also a veterinarian. Later, the injured animal was sent to Etawah Safari, where it succumbed to injuries. Forest authorities have been on alert in wildlife-rich Bijnor as leopard sightings increase during cane harvesting time, raising the risk of man-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-leopards-die-in-12-days-in-bijnor/articleshow/80756187.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Back in action: V K Sasikala roars politics, chants unity mantra||TIRUPATHUR: V K Sasikala started a new political journey on Monday, standing up to her supporters-turned-detractors and warning them against letting “the common enemy” capture the government. “I will be actively involved in politics,” Sasikala told reporters at Tirupathur. She said the government had closed the Jayalalithaa memorial because it was scared of her visiting the place. Never dropping her belligerent stance, she underscored the need for unity. “Amma (J Jayalalithaa) felt we should not let our common enemies divide us. And it is our duty to protect her dream. The movement that is the AIADMK should not collapse because of few people’s likes and dislikes,” Sasikala said. Starting from Bengaluru around 8am, Sasikala was on the highway till late night. Through the journey, AMMK cadres showered her car bearing an AIADMK flag with flowers and hailed her as ‘thyagathalaivi’ (the leader who sacrificed). On AIADMK’s complaint against her using the party flag, she said, “It shows their fear.” She said people knew why the memorials of Jayalalithaa and MGR remain shut. To questions if she would visit the party office and if there was a possibility of an AIADMK-AMMK merger, she said she would soon talk to journalists in detail. The return of Sasikala, who was officially released from the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on January 27, was delayed after she tested positive for Covid-19 and underwent treatment in a Bengaluru hospital and spent a week in isolation in a farmhouse in Devanahalli. “With the grace of the almighty and the blessings of my sister Puratchi Thalaivi Jayalalithaa, who lives in peoples’ hearts, I’ve recovered from Covid,” Sasikala said. Recalling a song from a popular MGR film ‘Anbukku naan adimai, Tamil panbukku naan adimai’, Sasikala said she was a slave to the affection of the cadres and people of Tamil Nadu. “But I am not scared of oppressive actions,” she said. Recalling Jayalalithaa’s statement that the AIADMK would continue to govern for 100 years, Sasikala said, “To achieve this, I will dedicate my life and soul for the development of the party. My family is the party and the party is my family.” The AIADMK had risen like a phoenix from the ashes whenever it faced problems. “The party will rise like a phoenix this time too,” she said. “We will win the election amidst several problems with the blessings of Amma,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/back-in-action-sasikala-roars-politics-chants-unity-mantra/articleshow/80756859.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Emails show Mirchi wanted to harm IPS ex-officer: Enforcement Directorate||MUMBAI: Emails of drug smuggler, the late Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi, have revealed that he wanted to “physically harm” controversial former IPS officer Rahul Rai Sur along with his family living abroad, and was taking the help of a Pakistani ISI officer to track their movements. Mirchi’s email (itsmemon@hotmail.com) data was retrieved from his computer’s hard-disk by Enforcement Directorate (ED), provided to the Indian government by Mirchi’s second wife, Heena. She was not on good terms with the late smuggler’s first wife, Hajra, since his death in 2013. The emails received and sent by Mirchi to the ISI officer, identified as Fayyaz Ali Khan, are part of a supplementary charge-sheet ED filed recently before the special court against Mirchi, Hajra, their sons Junaid and Asif, and DHFL promoters, brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan. The contents of the e-mails revealed that majority of narcotics-related cases were registered against Mirchi during the time Sur was heading the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of Mumbai Police as DCP between 1989-92. There were many cases against Mirchi, including drug-smuggling, and all files were with Sur but had gone missing, police sources said. The ED documents stated that in 1993 Mirchi left for Dubai, from where he continued his narcotics business. Mirchi was upset with Sur for targeting his narcotics business in Mumbai and had personal enmity against him. Sur went on deputation to United Nations (UN), New York, in 1997 and despite completion of his tenure there he did not return. In 2005, the government compulsorily retired Sur from the force due to his unauthorised absence from service. Mirchi’s email examination revealed that he found it difficult to target the Sur family as they were living in the UN compound. Mirchi took the help of Khan, who was an officer of Pakistan police service, to track Sur and his family’s movements. Khan used ISI sources and collected Sur’s family details, which he forwarded to Mirchi through his daughter, Nadiya. Khan also resolved income-tax issues relating to Nadiya’s Pakistan company Accord Brooks Pvt Ltd. ED documents stated that Khan retired as inspector general and moved to Dubai. Mirchi’s Imperial Suites hotel in Dubai sponsored Khan’s visa, they said. ED also recorded a statement of Mirchi’s associate to ascertain the facts. The witness confirmed to ED that Mirchi had once introduced Khan to him, stating that he was an ISI officer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/emails-show-mirchi-wanted-to-harm-ips-ex-officer-ed/articleshow/80756193.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Paperless Uttar Pradesh Budget on February 22||LUCKNOW: Finance minister Suresh Khanna will present the State Budget for the financial year 2021-22 at 11 am on February 22. Besides focussing on infra projects and creating more job avenues, this year’s budget is likely to give a boost to people’s welfare programmes of the Yogi government. Some special announcements for farmers might also be made, keeping in view the ongoing farmers’ strike against the new farm laws. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has already announced that the forthcoming budget would be paperless as was done by the Union government. It is in this background, the state government has sanctioned Rs 50,000 each to MLAs and MLCs for purchasing tabs. Thus, chances are that finance minister Suresh Khanna may read out the budget from a digital tab and create a history by not using the printed version. The state’s budget session would commence from February 18 with the joint address of governor Anandiben Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paperless-up-budget-on-feb-22/articleshow/80757124.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 9, 2021||Meerut||6 of UP family who went to earn money feared dead||LAKHIMPUR KHERI: Sree Krishna (45) wanted a decent wedding for his son, in which all the guests are taken to the marriage venue in cars. So he boarded a bus. His brother, Jagdish Prasad (40), his groom-to-be son, Raju, and his three nephews had also accompanied him to Tapovan Hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district in December. Residents of Lakhimpur Kheri’s Ichchanagar village, they were promised a sum of Rs 14,000 each every month. Food and stay was complementary. They were planning to save enough by April when the wedding was planned. All of them were working in the tunnel on Sunday. Chote Lal, Krishna’s younger brother, told TOI, “We all were happy. ‘Bhaiya’ called me up at 9am on Sunday and said that he would come back by the end of this month. But, after two hours, we came to know about the tragedy. His phone has been switched off since then.” “They all wanted to earn money for Raju’s marriage. It looks like we have lost everything now. We have been contacting people in Uttarakhand but there is no information about our family members.” Village head Santosh Raj, who reached Chamoli on Monday, told TOI, “I couldn’t see people in pain and decided to go to Uttarakhand. Here, I have been identifying bodies, which is even more painful. I have identified Krishna’s nephew Avdhesh’s body, but couldn’t gather courage to share this news with the family. There were other bodies about 1.5-km from the spot and all of them were stained in mud and mutilated. It is really difficult to identify them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/6-of-a-up-family-who-went-to-earn-money-for-a-wedding-feared-dead/articleshow/80756159.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Fresh Covid-19 cases below 100-mark in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The number of new cases reported in 24 hours in the state went below 100, while the total number of active cases went below 3,500 on Monday. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said only 70 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours which was the lowest in the eight months. He added that 504 persons recovered in the same duration. “This has brought the number of cases with active infection in the state to 3,442. However, the decline should not make people complacent towards the Covid-19 prevention protocols which is a life saver till the required herd immunity is achieved,” he said. Stating that the Covid tally reached 6,01,455, he added: “About 98% of the patients in the state have recovered, while all the active cases are being monitored either under home isolation or in hospitals.” He also said that the decline in the number of cases does not mean that the risk of infection has gone. “Four persons died of the complications caused by the pandemic in the past 24 hours, taking the number of total deaths due to Covid-19 to 8,691 which speaks for what the infection can do. Therefore, it is better to be safe than sorry,” he stated. Talking about the vaccination exercise, Prasad said that over 6.75 lakh persons have been immunized in the state and the next round will take place on February 11 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fresh-covid-19-cases-below-100-mark-in-up/articleshow/80757145.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cold winds to weaken; sun to make weather pleasant||LUCKNOW: Even as cold winds kept mercury levels below normal on Monday, the weatherman said that pleasant conditions will prevail in the coming days with rise in temperatures by 2-3 degrees due to decline in wind velocity. The maximum temperature on Monday was 24.7 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature was 8.6 degrees Celsius, both a unit below normal. Shallow fog was witnessed in the morning, while the rest of the day was sunny. On Tuesday, maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 26 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively with shallow to moderate fog in the morning hours and clear sky with bright sunshine thereafter. State Met director JP Gupta said that no significant change is expected in the weather till Tuesday, but thereafter, there will be a rise in temperature in the city by a couple of degrees because of a drop in wind velocity. Similar conditions would prevail in the rest of the state. The weather will be generally dry with shallow to moderate fog at some places in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cold-winds-to-weaken-sun-to-make-weather-pleasant/articleshow/80757149.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Man dies after ramming bike into barricade||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old man, who was out for a joyride along with his teenager friend on Saturday night, was killed after his motorcycle rammed the barricades at Jharoda border where farmers have been protesting for around two months. Police said that personnel deployed at the picket near Satyasundaram Colony had tried to wave at the rider, Ranvir, to alert him about the diversion, but he was at such high speed that he rammed the barricades. While Ranvir died on the spot, Himanshu (15) is recuperating at a hospital. According to police,since the farmers were protesting at the border, two layers of barricades have been erected to divert the traffic. “Following protocol blinkers were also installed at the barricades ,” said Santosh Meena, DCP, Dwarka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-dies-after-ramming-bike-into-barricade/articleshow/80756196.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Bhopal||Covid aftermath: MP board to come up with more exam centres||BHOPAL: After CBSE, the MP Board plans to increase the number of centres for board exams this year. However, there is still confusion about the centres in rural areas. Offficials told TOI that the centres during MP Board exam will be increased. “This was obvious when the corona pandemic is there. School education department is working on this. Soon, the notification in this regard will be issued," said the official. Officials said that the centres will be decided as per their availability. "We are working on this. We will try to make it possible so that students won't need to travel more," said the official. MPBSE has made several changes in the exam pattern. The syllabus for the same has been reduced by 30 per cent this year. Officials said that the question paper will feature three types of questions for board exams 2021. These will be MCQ, subjective and analytical questions. Students said that they have never appeared in the exam where OMR sheets were provided to attempt questions. "I do not know what exactly will be the pattern on which we will have to attempt the questions. School education department should provide proper training to the students so that there would no problem for us during the exams," said Anil Singh, a class 12 student. The biggest problem with the rural students. "I am told that there will be time limit also in which students will have to answer through OMR. We need to be trained before appearing in the final exams, said Mukul Sharma, a class 10 student. The format of the question paper has been changed this year to help the students cope with academic pressure, added the official. The board has decided to do away with the long-form questions and has introduced Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ). MPBSE decided to ask 30% MCQ in the high school and intermediate board examinations of the academic year 2020-2021. Overall, length of the answers has also been reduced as the long answer type questions will not be a part of the paper. The maximum number of marks for any question in the examination can be 4, as per the board. Information about the change in the examination pattern will be done through its social media account. Madhya Pradesh Education Department has shared the post that this time, 30 percent objective questions will be asked in the board examination, there will be no long answer questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-aftermath-state-board-to-come-up-with-more-exam-centres/articleshow/80756189.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 9, 2021||Meerut||23-year-old youth murdered in Bijnor, 7 cops suspended||BIJNOR: They fired five shots on Rachit Jaat, an LLB student, in a densely packed market in UP’s Bijnor, then lit cigarettes, waited, before turning back and pumping another two bullets on the 23-year-old. No one came forward. And when the police came, four of the five alleged shooters were waiting for them, patiently. Rachit was shot dead by the five youths-- all below 22 years-- in Jhalu village of Haldaur, Bijnor on Friday afternoon over an “old rivalry”. The fifth and the only accused who had left the crime scene was on Monday evening arrested from his home. On Sunday evening, two days since the brutal murder, an entire chowki consisting of seven policemen was suspended for alleged dereliction of duty. The action came after the family members, accompanied by a few right-wing activists and a BJP functionary called a ‘panchayat’ seeking justice for Rachit. The suspension came two days after the same batch of policemen were awarded Rs 10,000 for “cracking the case”. Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Dharamveer Singh said, “We have suspended seven police personnel including Haldaur station house officer Harishchand Joshi, chowki in-charge Kuldeep Rana, constables Rajneesh, Aash Mohammad, Aashish, Deepak Dhama and Bahoran for dereliction of duty.” The SP also said that police will slap stringent National Security Act (NSA) against all the accused. Meanwhile, heavy police force and two companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were deployed in Jhalu and neighbouring villages to maintain law and order. Inspector general (IG) of police, Ramit Sharma, too, visited the village to take stock of the situation. Terming the situation “normal”, the Bijnor SP said, “All the accused, Shariq, Shadab, Shahzaad, Shahbar and Asif, have been booked and arrested. NSA will also be slapped on them at the time of preparing a charge-sheet. We have deployed a police force and two companies of PAC to maintain the law and order situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-23-murdered-in-bijnor-7-cops-suspended-nsa-to-be-invoked-against-5-accused/articleshow/80756188.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 9, 2021||Surat||NAU to hold its convocation virtually today||Surat: Navsari Agricultural University (NAU) will hold its sixteenth annual convocation virtually in Navsari on Tuesday.Gujarat governor, Acharya Devvrat, the chancellor of the university, will preside over the function. Minister of agriculture, rural development and transport, R C Faldu, will be the guest of honour on this occasion, while Dr R C Agrawal, deputy director general (agricultural education), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi will deliver the convocation address as the chief guest. According to university officials, 690 students (461 graduates, 178 post graduates and 51 Ph.D) of NAU will be awarded degrees. The best teacher’s award and the best researcher award will also be given. NAU is imparting education in the field of agriculture and allied sciences and having 10 colleges under the jurisdiction of South Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nau-to-hold-its-convocation-virtually-today/articleshow/80755115.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Awards bloom at flower show finale||LUCKNOW: A number of participants were appreciated and awarded by Governor Anandiben Patel for exhibiting beautiful flowers, fresh fruits and vegetables at the three-day show at Raj Bhawan which culminated on Monday. The maximum awards were won by Raj Bhawan garden that got the title of ‘Chal Bejanti’ along with a cash prize of Rs 7,000 The award for best Rose flower was bagged by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, while for best vegetable grown in pots Mamta Sharma was awarded. The best garden prize went to Shashi Jain and Prashant Kumar while Yash bagged the award for the best terrace garden. A number of participants bagged awards in various categories. There were 1,332 participants that exhibited 5,028 flowers, vegetables and fruits. Governor Anadiben Patel appreciated the efforts of all the participants and said, “Gardening has always provided nourishment and happiness to mankind. Flowers have been regarded as the symbol of peace, happiness and harmony in Indian tradition.” She said small-time gardening is capable of providing financial support to people. Patel said the three-day exhibition is ending but the governor’s house garden will be opened for the public from 8am to 6pm between February 9-12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awards-bloom-at-flower-show-finale/articleshow/80757156.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahead of MCI check, 85 medical teachers transferred||AHMEDABAD: Ahead of the Medical Council of India’s inspection of PG courses, the state government on Monday transferred 85 professors and associate professors. Of the 85, 60 medical teachers were from BJ Medical College. The officials said the transfers were done to ensure that there was no reduction in postgraduate seats in the state. The officials said this was the common practice of the state government. They said whenever any inspection looms, mass transfers are effected. Even during the inspection of undergraduate courses, the government authorizes mass transfers. Once inspections are over, the government sends the teachers back to their original postings after a year. The officials said that six professors and assistant professors from pharmacology, radiology and TB departments were transferred to Bhavnagar Medical College. The officials said that due to the changes in rules, a postgraduate professor once transferred cannot be moved again for a year. The officials said that BJ Medical College has maximum seats and such large-scale transfers can definitely affect the seats. With 60 professors being transferred, the number of seats in BJ Medical College can be impacted. The officials said that the state has a severe shortage of medical staff in government colleges and so far it has been saving the number of seats in undergraduate and postgraduate courses with such transfers. Sources said that those who had worked during Covid times had been transferred while those who had not have been kept at the same posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahead-of-mci-check-85-med-teachers-transferred/articleshow/80756865.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Mind the ‘karai veshti’ colour code||CHENNAI: In Tamil Nadu, the badge of loyalty is not worn on the chest but on the ‘veshti’. The colours on the thin border of the white garment puts on display the wearer’s political identity. And so this  with the BJP campaigning big across TN, the party’s hues too are finding its way into the ‘karai veshti’ colour scheme. After a dull year because of the pandemic, the sale of ‘karai veshtis’ ahead of the assembly elections has set the cash registers ringing again for textile businesses. The most prominent ‘political veshtis’ are those with the black and red borders, or black, red and white borders, the DMK and the AIADMK. Apart from these traditional colours, the relatively new entrant BJP’s orange and green is also hiking sales this season. Usually, BJP workers sport saffron ‘veshtis’ and shirts or pure white in their meetings, but at the recently held meeting in which the national president of the party J P Nadda participated, participants were seen wearing white veshtis with an orange and green border. For party functionaries in the state, the ‘karai veshti’ is an everyday essential, but during polls it becomes the uniform for grassroots cadres as well. Sixty-year-old T Chinnaraj, a DMK cadre, feels a sense of pride and confidence whenever he wears the red and black border ‘veshti’. "I wear it every day, including to weddings. It is my uniform,’’ he said. "The thin white line is what differentiates the AIADMK from the DMK. That white line is our additional power,’’ said A Jayakumar, an AIADMK cadre. Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association secretary Ashraf Tayub says election sales are their focus now. "Traders start stocking up the garment in bulk, as almost everybody buys ‘veshtis’. The DMK and the AIADMK ‘veshtis’ are always the highest selling, but this year there is sale of other parties too,’’ he said. "These ‘veshtis’ are being made to order," said Tayub. Depending on the quality of the material, the ‘veshti’ may cost anywhere between `150 and `2,500. Bulk orders are placed by political parties keeping in mind the fence sitters, who switch over at the last minute. "This year I expect good sales, as there are daily reports of cadres switching over from one party to another,’’ he said. The distinguishing factor between the BJP and the Congress is the white line separating the orange and green. "Some BJP cadres want to have a border on saffron ‘veshtis’. They are even asking us if the lotus can be woven into the border, and it seems like a good idea,’’ said M Saravanan, a trader. In the absence of a clear colour code two BJP party workers at a campaign in Madurai last week were seen wearing white ‘veshtis’ with gold borders. "I couldn’t find a ‘veshti’ with the BJP colours so I settled for the best in my wardrobe to show my support for the party,’’ said T Chinnaraj, one of the two men. Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mind-the-karai-veshti-colour-code/articleshow/80756195.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Bhopal||Act against mafia, improve delivery of services: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Monday asked the district and divisional officials of administration and the police to carry out campaign against all kinds of mafia including those playing with lives of people by adulterating food articles. Addressing divisional commissioners, zonal inspector general of police (IGs), district collectors and superintendents of police from across the state through video conferencing, Chouhan said that officials need to put their best foot forward for rapid development of the state and if they don’t do it, they will be ‘sinning’ people of Madhya Pradesh. He said those doing excellent work on the ground would be appreciated, adding that he has no bias or prejudice and only wishes that officials deliver what is expected of them. He said there has been good progress in tracing the missing girls, and cyber crimes should also be checked in the same manner. DGP, Vivek Johri, said at the meeting that 25 people accused of raping girls under the age of 12 years have got capital punishment from courts in the last four years. The convicted people have gone in appeal and their cases are being constantly monitored. Persons involved in crimes against women and history sheeters are in the focus of police and legal action is being taken to deter them. The cases relating to girls missing from their homes were reviewed. It was informed at the meeting that under operation ‘Muskan’, 2,623 missing boys and girls were traced and sent home in the month of January 2021 itself. The chief minister praised the police for this achievement. The meeting was apprised that Betul, Ashoknagar, Hoshngabad and Sehore districts have done excellent work in this regard. It was also informed at the meeting that in the month of January, action against 695 criminals was taken in the month of January and 37 of them were detained under NSA. During the same period, 137 encroachments were removed and land worth Rs 13/94 was freed from illegal possession. Chouhan said, campaign against adulteration should be carried out with full force. It was informed during the conference that 48 cases were registered under the provisions of Food Safety Act and 46 persons were arrested. Among them 10 cases have been registered against NSA. Another 137 cases have been registered for black-marketing of food grains and ration. Eight people have been arrested under NSA for this. Chouhan asked the district collectors to check illegal mining and transportation of minerals. He said Bhopal division has taken a good initiative in this regard where check posts have been set up to check the vehicles transporting minerals, their legality and whether they are overloaded or not. Commissioner, Bhopal, Kavindra Kiyavat, told the meeting that revenue from mining of sand in Sehore district, which was Rs 9 crore in the month of December has gone up to Rs 20- crore in January. Indore has topped in the state in checking the illegal transportation of small minerals, the meeting was informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/act-against-mafia-improve-delivery-of-services-shivraj/articleshow/80756194.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Congress neta Ajay Rai says he faces life-threat from ganglord Ansari||VARANASI: Even as Congress-led Punjab government is fighting a legal battle in the Supreme Court against UP government over custody of mafia don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, former MLA and Congress functionary Ajay Rai has expressed life-threat from the ganglord. Rai told reporters in Varanasi on Sunday that the BJP government was putting his life in danger by overlooking court orders on providing proper security cover to him as he face serious life threat from Ansari, lodged in a Punjab jail, since he is the prime witness of the murder of his brother Awadhesh Rai. Ansari is an accused in the case. Addressing reporters at his residence, Rai said, “I had sent a letter to the chief minister for security cover as per court order as I am the prime witnessed in a murder case in which conviction of Mukhtar is sure. But, despite the court order, security cover, which was withdrawn due to unknown reasons, is not being given.” “It seems this government is protecting mafia dons like Mukhtar and all actions being taken against them are eyewash,” Rai alleged. “In the last hearing on January 27, I submitted an application in MP MLA court informing that my security cover had been withdrawn and I have serious life threat in appearing as prime witness. The MP MLA court had ordered SSP Varanasi to provide security cover, but nothing was provided,” said Rai. In my letter to the CM, I had said that I am finding it difficult to pursue the case fearlessly due to the threat, he added. In October 2020, Rai had targeted BJP MLA and Krishnanand Rai’s widow Alka Rai for writing a letter to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accusing her of shielding Mukhtar after Ropar jail authorities did not hand him over to UP Police for producing the don in court for hearing. “This BJP MLA is writing letters to Priyanka, but she should know Congress never backs any mafia. If BJP governments at centre and state are not able to bring Mukhtar from Punjab jail, it is their failure,” he added. Rai, who had got support of Mukhtar’s Qaumi Ekta Dal in 2014 parliamentary elections in which he contested against Prime Minister Modi, said he has just one security personnel given to former MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-neta-ajay-rai-says-he-faces-life-threat-from-ganglord-ansari/articleshow/80757135.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Agra||High alert in Kasganj, emergency control room setup for flood||AGRA: A day after the Uttarakhand tragedy claimed several lives, authorities conducted inspection and police were deployed around the banks of river Ganga in Kasganj. Fearing the possibility of flood, the district administration has issued a high alert. An emergency control room has been set up and helpline number have been issued. According to irrigation department officials, the distance between Haridwar and Kasganj is 310 kilometres. Water flow takes 62 hours to reach Kachla ghat in Kasganj from Haridwar. Kasganj district magistrate Chandra Prakash Singh said, “After getting the initial inputs from the state authorities, we have ordered to evacuate the low-lying areas along the banks of the river Ganga in the rural parts of Kasgnaj district. We are closely monitoring the situation. So far, the situation is under control.” “As a precautionary measure, we have set up an emergency control room for flood control. The helpline number is 8868016669. Police and irrigation department officials have been assigned duties around the riverbanks. People are being asked not to go into the river,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/high-alert-in-kasganj-emergency-control-room-setup-for-flood/articleshow/80755105.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Northern railway-Lucknow division gets Rs 512 crore for laying tracks||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow division of Northern Railway has been allotted Rs 462 crore to lay down 238.25 km long double track in eastern part of UP. Further, the northern railway zone also allotted Rs 50 crore from the recent budget for modernisation of Ayodhya railway station. NR was allotted Rs15,818.49 crore in Budget 2021-22, which was 35% higher than last year. Out of the total budget, a part was earmarked for doubling of rail track between Barabanki-Akbarpur which is 161 km and Jaunpur-Tanda stretch of 77.25 km. In the current financial year, Lucknow division laid down 18 km long track between Gauriganj and Jais of Raebareli-Amethi section for passenger and freight operations. Earlier, the railways got approval for doubling track between Amethi to Gauriganj (about 13 km) under Raebareli-Pratapgarh section in March 2020, while double track between Utrethia-Srirajnagar (29 km) was commissioned in April 2019. In January 2020, double-track electrification of Srirajnagar-Kundanganj (about 16 km) was commissioned. According to railway officials, apart from doubling track projects in eastern part of UP, by June 30, first phase of Ayodhya railway station construction is expected to be completed. The first phase includes grand station building with contemporary façade, improved platform, apron, circulating area and staff quarters. The allocated Rs 50 crore will help complete the job, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nr-lucknow-div-gets-rs-512-cr-for-laying-tracks/articleshow/80757151.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||In boost to realty, Delhi finance corp slashes home loan rate||NEW DELHI: After slashing the circle rates to boost the realty sector in the capital, Delhi government has reduced the home loan interest rate of Delhi Cooperative Housing Finance Corporation (DCHFC) from 7.45% to 6.75%. Delhi government recently cut the circle rates by 20% for the next six months. “CM Arvind Kejriwal has taken a historic decision to reduce the circle rates of residential, commercial and industrial properties by 20%... Following the CM’s decision, I directed DCHFC to reduce the interest rates as compared to private banks so that the common man can avail loans at cheaper rates to buy a house,” cooperative minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said. Rajesh Goyal, its chairman, said, the new rate would be “much lower than those offered by private banks. This will provide relief to Delhiites in instalments every month”. With the saved money, borrowers will be able to fulfil other needs of their families, he added. The corporation has been disbursing housing loans since 1982-83 to societies and individuals. It has so far disbursed over Rs 600 crore and currently has 3,000 loanees. The corporation is also planning to announce a more attractive housing loan scheme. “A scheme is being prepared keeping in focus middle and lower middle classes who aspire to own their own house but are unable to do so due to financial challenges,” Goyal said. After lowering the interest rate, the instalment per month will be Rs 760 per Rs 1 lakh, while it was Rs 803. Despite being decades old, the corporation has not been able to attract encouraging response. “We are trying to promote the schemes so that our aspiration for prosperity and welfare through promotion of housing for all, and better housing in Delhi in particular, is achieved,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-boost-to-realty-delhi-finance-corp-slashes-home-loan-rate/articleshow/80756212.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Want a healthy heart? Don’t skip breakfast, don’t snack after dinner||AHMEDABAD: “Eat breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince and dinner like a pauper,” says the old adage. A recent study by the students and faculty of NHL Municipal Medical College concurs with this wisdom as it found that missing breakfast and eating heavy meals close to bedtime at night could enhance the risk of a heart attack. Snacking after dinner, which is widely prevalent in Gujarati homes where people finish dinner between 7 and 8 pm, can up the risk of heart attack by 29%, the research carried out in over 420 people found. The profile of patients with cardiac issues underscored poor eating habits when all other factors like age, smoking/ tobacco consumption, BMI, etc were the same. The researchers suggested breakfast is the most important meal of the day and should have maximum calorie intake, while dinner should have least calories. It should be taken at least two hours before going to bed for a healthy heart life. The study titled ‘A casecontrol study on food frequency and meal pattern distribution in coronary artery disease patients attending tertiary care teaching hospitals’ was recently published in the Indian Journal of Community Medicine. The authors include Dr Siddharth Agrawal, Dr Dishant Upadhyay and Dr Aparajita Shukla from the Department of Community Medicine at NHL Medical College. ‘Calorie distribution more important than calorie intake’While the coronary artery disease (CAD) is getting common among the middle-aged population, a city-based study indicated that the difference between the cardiac and non-cardiac patients lie in how they treat their meals of the day - especially breakfast and dinner. The researchers argued that timely breakfast and a gap of at least two hours between dinner and going to bed can significantly reduce the risk of CAD. The study by Dr Siddharth Agrawal, Dr Dishant Upadhyay and Dr Aparajita Shukla from department of community medicine at NHL Medical College was recently published in the Indian Journal of Community Medicine. “Simply not skipping breakfast and reducing the calorie consumption during dinner could bring down the risk of getting a heart attack by nearly 20%,” said Dr Aparajita Shukla, head of department of community medicine. “Keeping a gap of two hours between meal and lying down to sleep could nearly half the risk of developing a heart attack. Modifying the timings of food intake and sleep habits can have major positive effect on your heart’s health.”  Dr Agrawal, lead author of the study, said that it might take more than a decade to realize the follies of a bad lifestyle. “The erratic food intake leads to elevated triglycerides, dyslipidemia (increased lipids in blood stream) and impaired glucose tolerance. Thus, men in early fifties and women in late fifties fall prey to cardiac issues,” he said.  Earlier studies indicated that about 9.7% of India’s urban adult population has CAD. Disturbance in body clock can be a major factor for CAD. The study took into consideration 420 patients from a government and a private hospital in the city. The patients were aged between 40 and 75 years, and mean age was 75 years. The results suggested that the individuals having less calorie intake during breakfast significantly increases the risk. ‘calorie distribution appears to be a more important marker of cardio metabolic health rather than the diet type or amount of total calories consumed daily,’ mentioned the study findings, adding that a long period before the first meal can lead to hypoglycemic state. If the glucose deficit is not compensated between 4 am to 10 am, it can cause metabolic disturbance, which can speed upbuilding of fat deposits on artery walls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/calorie-distribution-more-important-than-calorie-intake/articleshow/80756893.cms||Bharat Yagnik
February 9, 2021||Bhopal||Day 1 of second round: 4,300 get vaccine shots in Bhopal||BHOPAL: More than 4,337 frontline workers came forward to get inoculated against the coronavirus here on Monday. Most of the 3.31 lakh frontline workers to be vaccinated are based in the state capital. As many as 25,585 frontline workers have been identified and registered on the Co-Win application to get the coronavirus vaccine. On Monday, an ambitious target of 17,696 was planned by the health department. With over 80 session sites in the state capital, this was the highest single day turnout as vaccination shots were administered. The beneficiaries said that they do not have any kind of problem after taking the vaccine dose. Beneficiaries waiting for their turn to get the vaccine at the registration centre said that they have no doubt about the vaccine, according to a government press release. The frontline workers constitute officers, employees of police, revenue, urban bodies and panchayat institutions. In Bhopal, it includes 3,133 central government employees. The combined count of personnel from the state home guard, state police and state prison is 13,561. Besides, the urban development has uploaded a list of 8,378 people and revenue department has assessed 533 beneficiaries to get the vaccine. “There were no instances of any beneficiary refusing to be vaccinated over the choice of vaccine,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, here on Monday. Each session site got one vaccine type. In the case of Covaxin being administered, the beneficiary was mandated to sign a consent form, as per the DGCI guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/day-1-of-second-round-4-3k-get-the-vac-shots-in-bhopal/articleshow/80756216.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Court refuses bail to NE Delhi riot accused seen with a spatula||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court refused bail to a man seen holding a ‘palta’ (spatula) during the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020, though he claimed he was holding the spatula as he sold biryani for a living. Regarding the role of accused Shoaib, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat noted that the CCTV footage placed on record showed his presence in an “aggressive posture” and shouting with the spatula in his hands. The court stated, “The photographs of accused and of other accused persons are evident of the situation of their role in riots...In the bail application itself, it is contended that ‘palta’ is used by the applicant in preparing biryani. The bail application of many co-accused persons, who are seen with an aggressive posture and rioting, have been dismissed.” It also noted that additional sub-inspector Dharambir, the complainant, had also identified Shoaib, whose bail had been rejected thrice previously. Shoaib’s counsel sought his release on the ground that some of the co-accused had already been granted the reprieve. He stressed that his client was in the business of selling biryani and he hadn’t raised any communal slogans or taken part in rioting. “There is no recovery of the alleged ‘palta’ from the accused,” argued the counsel. The special public prosecutor opposed the bail plea saying the applicant could be seen holding a spatula in an aggressive manner. The prosecution further argued that the rioting incident pertained to stone-pelting and firing between the members of two communities. According to the court, Shoaib was part of an unlawful assembly, which in prosecution of a common object had committed the offence of rioting and firing gunshot injuries on the public persons and police officials. “Thus, every member of an unlawful assembly is deemed to be guilty of offence committed by every member of that assembly in prosecution of common object of that assembly,” it observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-refuses-bail-to-ne-delhi-riot-accused-seen-with-a-spatula/articleshow/80756231.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Main accused in fake call centre scam arrested||MUMBAI: The main accused in the fake call centre scam in Jamtara has been arrested on Monday. The accused has been identified as Badri Mandal. On the pretext of updating the KYC, the accused used to dupe people over the phone. Mandal had recently duped a 73-yead-old man, Anil Shah. The police said that Mandal had called up Shah and told him that he had to update his KYC. Without suspecting anything amiss, Shah provided all the details. A few minutes later, Rs 1.72 lakh was deducted from Shah’s account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/main-accused-in-fake-call-centre-scam-arrested/articleshow/80756256.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 45-year-old kills wife and her lover with axe||MUMBAI: A 45-year-old man allegedly axed to death his wife and her lover, who was also her brother-in-law, in their Saphale home on Sunday. The accused, Dilip Thakur, sat in front of the bodies of his wife Sangita (40) and her sister’s husband, Pandu Shravane (42), till villagers informed the Saphale police. Thakur and his wife had fought over her alleged affair with her sister’s husband, Shravane. On Sunday, Thakur, a farm labourer, returned home from work early. He found his wife and Shravane getting intimate. He picked up an axe and attacked them, killing them on the spot. After murdering them, he sat beside their bodies for a few hours till a neighbour who visited the house saw him and informed the police. He has been remanded to police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/45-yr-old-kills-wife-and-her-lover-with-axe/articleshow/80756250.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||125 fresh Covid cases, positivity rate under 1% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 125 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, while the death toll rose to 10,882 with three more fatalities, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.23%. The new cases were reported from 55,390 tests conducted the previous day, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The infection tally in the city rose to 6,36,160, authorities said. The active cases tally on Monday dropped to 1,096 from 1,112 the previous day. The total number of tests conducted the previous day included 42,524 RT-PCR tests and 12,866 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said. The city had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily incident count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. On Friday and Sunday, two deaths were reported in the national capital, same as on February 2, which was the lowest in the last 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/125-fresh-covid-cases-positivity-rate-under-1/articleshow/80756247.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya to get UP’s largest ‘pilgrimage’ railway station||LUCKNOW: Coinciding with the UP government’s ambitious project to develop Ayodhya as a big tourist destination, besides economic and religious activities, the Indian Railways is re-developing the holy town’s railway station to cater to one lakh passengers per day. The station will be developed in two phases. The first phase is expected to be completed by September and will include double-storied building, mela shed, circulating area, two foot overbridges, dormitory, sick rooms, escalators, elevator, food court, air-conditioned retiring room, LED billboards, furnished quarters of railway staff and other facilities. In the second phase, the Railways will develop a waiting and parking area for pilgrims in the southern part of station after acquiring land from the state government. After the completion of the first phase, the station could cater to 25,000 passengers on peak days like Dussehra, Ram Navami, Diwali, Chaudah Kosi and Chaurasi Kosi parikramas, but after the second phase’s completion, the station could handle four times more passengers. Sanjay Tripathi, the divisional railway manager of NR’s Lucknow division said, “After the completion of the project, Ayodhya will be the largest in the state to cater to one lakh passengers per day.” According to the Railway, close to Rs 35 crore were given for the project till November 2020 and additional Rs 50 crore was awarded in the recent budget. Since Ayodhya has double electrified rail track, the Indian Railways is further working to create a single circuit by collaborating Faizabad station, Acharya Narendra Dev Nagar station, Ayodhya station and Ramghat Halt station. Soon, the railway is likely to rename the Faizabad station as Ayodhya Cantt railway station for the circuit. The idea of creating one circuit is to handle a large fleet of trains coming from the southern and western part of India. Majority of pilgrims are expected to visit Ayodhya via train, although the city will also have a grand international airport close to the railway station. “It will be the largest station dedicated for pilgrims in UP. The station entrance dome will be structures inspired by Ram Janmabhoomi temple,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-to-get-ups-largest-pilgrimage-railway-station/articleshow/80757184.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||‘2/3rd consent of buyers must for changes in building plan under Maharashtra RERA’||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) has restrained a builder from making any changes to a sanctioned plan without following the provisions laid down under Section 14 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) which requires prior consent of two-thirds of the buyers. After issuing the order, MahaRERA member B D Kapadnis on January 28, directed the builder to pay the complainant 9% simple interest on the Rs 1 crore that was paid in April 2014 till handing over the possession of seven shops in a redevelopment project at D N Nagar in Andheri (W). The complainant, S R Prasad, had booked seven shops for a marine institute in the project and had paid a little over Rs 1 crore or almost 40% of the price and was promised possession by March 31, 2014, said his lawyer Nilesh Gala. Complaining that the builder was ‘unilaterally’ trying to modify the plan sanctioned by the BMC, which is in violation of Section 14 of RERA, Prasad sought orders to prevent any changes to plans, fixtures and fittings, and amenities. With possession delayed, Prasad also sought interest on his investment, which the RERA provides for at a rate which is 2% higher than that of State Bank of India. But the builder said the delay was for reasons beyond his control. The aviation authority, he said, had refused to give height clearance beyond 56min August 2013. The builder said that in 2006, Mhada gave approval for reconstruction of the housing society with 320 members and the commencement certificate was received the next year. Five buildings were demolished, said the builder’s lawyer Vidya Nair, and while one building was vacated, two others weren’t. The builder said as the shops could not be constructed, in 2015, the society approached the Bombay high court to seek enforcement of their development agreement. In October 2015, the HC referred the society-builder dispute to an arbitrator. The two parties agreed to get a new plan for 104 members after housing 216 others in the six buildings already constructed on the plot. The builder said that he had to pay Rs 80 crore as premium to amend the plans for the two buildings that were not vacated. “The project became commercially unviable due to the delay”, but the builder said he was ready to construct, if funds were available. He even offered to refund the money received for the shops or give two additional shops instead. Section 14 of RERA casts a liability on the promoter to complete the project as per the sanctioned plans and not make any alterations to the plan of an apartment or shop without the buyer’s consent. The builder cannot also modify the sanctioned plans for the building and common areas without written consent of two-third of allottees, other than the promoter, said the MahaRERA order that was issued last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2/3rd-consent-of-buyers-must-for-changes-in-bldg-plan-under-rera/articleshow/80756899.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Fish found dead in another barrage near Panchaganga||KOLHAPUR: A shoal of dead fish found at the Shirol barrage near the Panchaganga early on Monday morning has triggered fresh concern over river pollution, prompting the authorities concerned to launch a probe besides a clean-up drive. Barely a month ago, a similar incident had happened at the Terwad barrage, upstream of Shirol barrage. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray later directed the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board to seal the establishments releasing harmful waste and effluents into the river stream. The MPCB has issued show-cause notice to Shirol council as the waste water from the town continues to be released into the river untreated. Locals claim that the fish are dying because hazardous effluents from industries are carried in tankers and released into the river late at night. Sub-regional officer of MPCB, Prashant Gaikwad, said, “We have taken samples of the water and the dead fish from the site. The hyacinth could be one of the reasons for the fish death along the river stretch. We will start removing the hyacinth from Tuesday.” Activists from Shirol have demanded that water and power supply be stopped to Shirol town council offices because the administration has failed to stop the waste water from entering the Panchaganga river. Bandu Patil, an activist from nearby Herwad village, said stringent action should be taken against the river polluters instead of merely issuing show-cause notices. “There are no industries between the Terwad and Shirol stretch of the river, but fish deaths have been reported.” Acting on the CM’s directive a month back, the MPCB had issued closure notice to the textile processing units from Ichalkaranji which release harmful chemicals into the river stream. The plan drafted by Kolhapur Zilla Parishad to treat waste water from major towns and villages along the river stretch still remains on paper, mainly due to want of funds. The outlay of various projects is over Rs 230 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fish-found-dead-in-another-barrage-near-panchaganga/articleshow/80755161.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kochi||Catholic Church to soon set up its first crematorium in Kerala||THRISSUR: The first gas-based crematorium of Catholic Church will soon come up in Thrissur, making it clear that it has permanently accepted cremation. Sources in Thrissur archdiocese said the church will prefer burial wherever feasible, but will permit cremation if there are constraints. Though the Vatican had given its sanction for cremation in certain circumstances much earlier, most church denominations in Kerala were reluctant to adopt it. But, the rise in Covid deaths and the need to adhere to Covid protocols may have forced the Church and laity to renounce their objections against cremation temporarily. The protests from residents against burial of Covid patients in some cemeteries, located close to residential areas, had aggravated issues, said sources. The decision is to set up a crematorium and cremation will become an acceptable form of funeral among Catholic Church members in Kerala, said archdiocese pastoral council secretary Mary Regina. There were some initial objections from several laity members as they felt it went against traditional beliefs. But, archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath cleared all apprehensions citing theological and Canonical texts. Archdiocese leadership also conducted several sensitisation programmes among various sections in the church to create a consensus on cremation, she said. Land shortage to set up new cemeteries close to the church was also a key reason that forced the church to permanently accept cremation as an alternative method. The foundation stone for the crematorium was laid at the campus of Damian Institute, run by Thrissur Archdiocese, at Mulayam on Monday. The foundation stone was laid by chief whip K Rajan and archbishop Thazhath. Auxiliary bishop Mar Tony Neelamkavil blessed the stone. Interestingly, Irinjalakuda diocese is planning to set up a permanent crematorium. Bishop Mar Pauly Kannookadan said the diocese is planning it at Aroormuzhi, near Athirappilly. “We are awaiting clearance from government departments,” he said. According to the archdiocese’s spokesperson, 29 Christians, who had died of Covid, were cremated at Damian Institute. Bodies of some followers, who were Covid patients, were cremated at different locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/catholic-church-to-soon-set-up-its-first-crematorium-in-thrissur/articleshow/80756254.cms||T Ramavarman
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Two hectares of forest land on Sus hill gutted in fire on Saturday||PUNE: About two hectares of forest land on Sus hill were gutted in a fire on Saturday evening. The hill is home to barking deer, wild pigs and many varieties of birds. Personnel from the Paud forest range, NGO workers and students doused the fire. Range forest officer Popatrao Kapse said, “We found that the fire was lit in a private property adjacent to the forest area. After getting a call, our team immediately rushed to the site equipped with two blowers and doused the fire within an hour. But we had lost two hectares of forest area.” Kapse said the fire did not affect wildlife. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest, Pune division, said, “We have made a comprehensive night patrolling plan for each forest range.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-hectares-of-forest-land-on-sus-hill-gutted-in-fire-on-saturday/articleshow/80756248.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Group attacks three men over old rivalry, damages car||Ludhiana: A group of assailants attacked three car-borne men near Isa Nagri Pulley of Old City on Monday afternoon owing to an old rivalry. The accused intercepted the trio, vandalised their car and attacked them. Two of the victims rushed inside a nearby liquor vend to escape, but the accused followed them. The victims threw liquor bottles on the attackers, who pelted them with bricks. Later, the accused escaped from the spot and the police were informed.The victims have been identified as Pargat Singh and his friend Indermohan Singh, both residents of Islamgunj. While they have suffered injuries, their friend Mehandi escaped unhurt. In his statement to the police, Pargat Singh said he and his friends had gone to the district courts for the hearing of a case. He said the accused, who had also come there for the hearing of another case, started staring at them, but they ignored and left for their homes in their car. He added that when they reached near Isa Nagri Pulley, the accused intercepted them and brandished a sharp-edged weapon. “They vandalised our car with a blunt weapon. And when we alighted, they launched an attack. Indermohan and I rushed inside a liquor vend, but the accused started throwing bricks and we retaliated with liquor bottles,” he said. Dhrampal Sharma, a liquor vend worker, said, “Suddenly a group of people attacked a car and its occupants. Two men entered the shop and started throwing liquor bottles at the accused. I got scared and rushed out and called the police.”Division 3 SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said accused—identified as Lotta, Saggar, Hira, Raja, Gopi, all residents of Isa Nagri and Garry of Manjit Nagar— had an old rivalry with the complainant. In June last, both groups had attacked each other and a murder bid case was also registered. The SHO added that the police were recording statements of the victims to lodge an FIR and also scanning CCTVs installed near the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/group-attacks-three-men-over-old-rivalry-damages-car/articleshow/80755189.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Cop booked for leaving weapon with colleague||Ludhiana: A year after his service rifle and 25 bullets were charred in a fire that broke out at a tent outside an EVM strong room at Punjab Agricultural University, police booked head constable Dharampal on Sunday. Dharampal was on EVMs’ security duty at PAU. He had gone home after leaving his weapon and ammunition with a colleague instead of handing them over to the police station.Investigating officer ASI Gian Singh said, “Head constable Dharampal and ASI Gurbaksh Singh were on security duty of EVMs stored at PAU. A tent was installed near the EVM store, where cops stayed. Early on February 20, 2020, the tent caught fire due to a short-circuit. In the fire, an SLR rifle, 25 bullets, three cots and a pedestal fan were gutted.”After the incident, a committee was formed to investigate it.During investigation, Dharampal said as he had to go home, he handed over the rifle, bullets and other stuff to ASI Gurbaksh Singh. When he returned, he learned about the fire.ASI Gurbakhsh Singh said he along with the PAU employees tried to douse the blaze, but to no avail. ASI Gian Singh said, “The committee report stated that no cop can give the charge of weapon to another cop. The head constable was supposed to hand over the weapon and ammunition to the police station concerned and not to his colleague. Therefore, Dharampal was at fault. On the basis of the report, a case under section 30 (contravention of license or rule) of the Arms Act has been lodged against Dharampal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cop-booked-for-leaving-weapon-with-colleague/articleshow/80755205.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Court calls for ATR in Mishra case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court directed Delhi Police to file an action taken report (ATR) on a plea seeking FIR against BJP functionary Kapil Mishra for allegedly making provocative speeches in February, 2020. “Let ATR be called from DCP concerned on March 9, 2021 on the complaint given,” said metropolitan magistrate Himanshu Raman Singh in an order passed on January 29. The plea filed by activist Harsh Mander, through his counsel Sarim Naved, alleged that Mishra’s role was “integral to incitement of violence” in northeast Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-calls-for-atr-in-mishra-case/articleshow/80756269.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Former Congress MLA from Malegaon resigns from party||NASHIK: In a jolt to Congress in north Maharashtra, one of the prominent Muslim faces of the party, Aasif Shaikh Rasheed, on Monday tendered his resignation. The former MLA from Malegaon Central constituency sent his resignation to the new state Congress chief Nana Patole. “I have tendered my resignation owing to personal reasons,” Rasheed told TOI, refusing to share the reasons behind his decision. AIMIM leader Mufti Mohammad Ismail Abdul Khalique had defeated Rasheed in the last assembly elections to wrest the Malegaon Central seat from Congress. Sources in Malegaon Congress claimed that Rasheed is apparently unhappy with the leadership as he was overlooked in the state Congress committee that the party announced few days back. “He is a prominent face of the party who has been associated with Congress for over two decades. He is disappointed that his name did not figure in the panel,” said a Rasheed loyalist. Rasheed’s family has been the mainstay of Congress not only in Malegaon, but also in parts of North Maharashtra that have significant voters from the minority community. His mother, Taheera, is the mayor of Malegaon city and his father had been the legislator from that constituency in the past. “My future will be decided within the next fortnight. I will be discussing the issue with my supporters and the voters of my constituency,” Rasheed added, stating that his option to float a political outfit will also be deliberated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/former-cong-mla-from-malegaon-resigns-from-party/articleshow/80755191.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: 21-year old arrested on charge of stalking girl||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Sunday arrested a youth(21) on the charge of sexually harassing and stalking a girl (17) near her school on February 6. The police said the youth stalked the girl and passed lewd comments about her and her mother. As per a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, the suspect grabbed theformer’s hand and harassed her. He further hit her when she told him to leave her alone. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/21-year-old-arrested-on-charge-of-stalking-girl/articleshow/80756246.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Samples of 250 students collected as 5 teachers test +ve||Ludhiana: A day after five teachers of Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, tested positive for Covid-19, the health department on Monday did sampling of as many as 250 students of the school.Health department officials said out of the 51 teachers at the school, five had tested positive for the virus. Samples of another 350 students will be collected over the next two days.The number of teachers of various government schools of the district testing positive in little over four weeks is 35, while one teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan succumbed to the infection. In the same school, 27 students were tested positive after some teachers contracted the virus.Confirming that more teachers have tested positive, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said the five teachers testing positive on Sunday night are from Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal. All of them are females and asymptomatic, and they are being home-quarantined.Health department officials said as per the standard operating procedure (SOP), contact tracing of the infected teachers is in progress and samples of all the teachers of the school are being collected. Samples of students are also being collected for testing.The officials further said after the sampling, the school could be closed for a few days for sanitising the infrastructure. On Saturday, sample of a 39-year-old male teacher of Government High School, Bhundari was also declared positive, while the previous day, sample of a 46-year-old female teacher of Government Primary School on Barota Road was found to be positive, they said.A health department officer revealed that they had sought a meeting with the district education officer (DEO) to work out a micro-plan to check the spread of disease in the schools, but the meeting was postponed. He said they have the list of teachers of government schools and their sampling would be done to identify and isolate the positive cases to check the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/samples-of-250-students-collected-as-5-teachers-test-ve/articleshow/80755210.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Cop booked for leaving weapon with colleague||Ludhiana: A year after his service rifle and 25 bullets were charred in a fire that broke out at a tent outside an EVM strong room at Punjab Agricultural University, police booked head constable Dharampal on Sunday. Dharampal was on EVMs’ security duty at PAU. He had gone home after leaving his weapon and ammunition with a colleague instead of handing them over to the police station.Investigating officer ASI Gian Singh said, “Head constable Dharampal and ASI Gurbaksh Singh were on security duty of EVMs stored at PAU. A tent was installed near the EVM store, where cops stayed. Early on February 20, 2020, the tent caught fire due to a short-circuit. In the fire, an SLR rifle, 25 bullets, three cots and a pedestal fan were gutted.”After the incident, a committee was formed to investigate it.During investigation, Dharampal said as he had to go home, he handed over the rifle, bullets and other stuff to ASI Gurbaksh Singh. When he returned, he learned about the fire.ASI Gurbakhsh Singh said he along with the PAU employees tried to douse the blaze, but to no avail. ASI Gian Singh said, “The committee report stated that no cop can give the charge of weapon to another cop. The head constable was supposed to hand over the weapon and ammunition to the police station concerned and not to his colleague. Therefore, Dharampal was at fault. On the basis of the report, a case under section 30 (contravention of license or rule) of the Arms Act has been lodged against Dharampal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cop-booked-for-leaving-weapon-with-colleague/articleshow/80755216.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Masks to be part of uniform in new normal||Kolkata: Gearing up to welcome back a section of students, some school authorities in the city are planning to introduce face masks with the school logo in the uniform. Birla High School has already decided on a standard mask with a logo as part of the uniform in the new academic session. The move aims at dissuading students from wearing “interesting” masks that can cause distraction in the class. “I can imagine Superman and Spiderman masks on the campus once we reopen. We will have to standardize masks as part of the uniform once we are through with the initial hiccups of reopening,” said the principal Loveleen Saigal. Apart from ensuring that the masks are of a certain quality and meet safety standards, school principals believe the school logo will add to the students’ pride and make them wear it all the time in the class. “We will have uniform masks with our logo in the coming academic session. We couldn’t do it right now because we are getting ready for the reopening,” said Sujoy Biswas, head of Rammohun Mission School. Some schools like La Martiniere that had earlier introduced a standardized school bag are also discussing if a uniform masks can be brought in from the next session. “Uniformity is essential for school discipline,” said the principal of La Martiniere for Girls, Rupkatha Sarkar. In some schools, mask-making competitions have started and the best one will be selected for adoption as part of the uniform. The competitions are over at the junior level and now the seniors will be asked to participate after their exams are over. “The best design by the juniors can be selected for the junior school while the ones made by the seniors can be used for the senior school. We have to add the logo to make it official. We will take the help of doctors to finalize the material, with which the school masks will be made,” said Lakshmipat Singhania Academy’s director, Meena Kak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/masks-to-be-part-of-uniform-in-new-normal/articleshow/80756312.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 9, 2021||Pune||Puneites wake up to coldest morning after over 40 days||PUNE: The city experienced its coldest morning in over 40 days on Monday with the minimum temperature plunging below the 10C-mark. Nashik, Nagpur and Pune were the three coldest stations in the state on Monday. The minimum temperature in Shivajinagar was 9.6C. Nashik was the coldest city in the state at 9.2C, followed Nagpur (9.4C). In Lohegaon, the minimum temperature was 12.4C. These minimums were barely a couple of degrees higher than those in North India locations such as Delhi and Chandigarh. A Met department official said cold and dry northerly winds had already begun penetrating into parts of Maharashtra since February 5. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier forecast that the minimum temperatures in the state would fall till February 8 and rise thereafter. “The minimum temperature is likely to stay more or less the same on Tuesday, after which it is likely to gradually rise. On February 10 (Thursday), the minimum temperature is likely to be around 11C. It will continue to rise thereafter till 15C by February 14,” an IMD official said. An IMD forecast on Monday stated that there could be a gradual rise in the minimums over central and west India by 2-4C after 24 hours. Most locations in Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha on Monday recorded below normal minimums. A Skymet Weather Services update on Monday stated that cold wave conditions were witnessed over parts of Vidarbha. IMD data showed that night temperatures in Amravati, Akola, Nagpur, Chandrapur, Gondia and Brahmapuri were 4-5C lower than normal. Madhya Maharashtra, which includes cities such as Pune, Nashik, Solapur, Satara, Sangl and Kolhapur, witnessed minimum temperatures 1-3C below normal on Monday. So far, the lowest minimums Pune has experienced since December 2020 include 8.1C on December 22 and 8.3C on December 23. Monday’s minimum temperature was among the lowest for Pune this winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-wake-up-to-coldest-morning-after-over-40-days/articleshow/80756263.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Three of Latur family killed, two hurt as SUV crashes into tractor-trolley near Bhigwan||PUNE: Three members of a family from Latur died and two others suffered serious injuries after a speeding sports utility vehicle rammed a sugar cane-laden tractor trolley at Dalaj village near Bhigwan in Indapur taluka on the Pune-Solapur highway on Sunday night. The Bhigwan police said the SUV (sports utility vehicle) and the tractor-trolley were heading towards Solapur from Pune. Based on circumstances, the police said the SUV driver might have failed to sight the tractor-trolley in time and rammed it at a high speed. The three victims of the accident have been identified as Geeta Arun Mane (36), Mukund Arun Mane (25) and Arun Baburao Mane (45). Sakshi Arun Mane (18) and Mahadev Rakhmaji Netake (56) suffered serious injuries and were admitted to a hospital at Indapur, the police said. All of them are from Latur. Assistant inspector Jeevan Mane said, “The Mane family runs a business in Latur and came to Pune on Sunday to shop for an impending marriage ceremony in their family. The accident occurred when they were going back to Latur.” He said, “We do not exactly know how the accident occurred but prima facie it is suspected that the driver of the SUV failed to locate the tractor trolley moving ahead of him in the night,” he said. All the five injured persons were rushed to a hospital at Bhigwan, where three were declared dead on arrival, he said. The assistant inspector said the tractor driver, Gorakh Malhari Bidbaug (60), of Malshiras in Solapur district informed the police about the accident. The tractor had picked up sugar cane from a farm in Indapur taluka and was heading towards a sugar mill. He said the SUV got stuck in the trolley and it became difficult to rescue the trapped injured persons. The police then summoned a heavy-duty crane to the spot and separated both the vehicles .The rescue operation continued for an hour and the vehicular movement on the highway was halted for an hour, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-of-latur-family-killed-two-hurt-as-suv-crashes-into-tractor-trolley-near-bhigwan/articleshow/80756258.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Another Chinese fraud: Three pull off Rs 50 crore scam, held||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad police on Monday busted an investment racket promoted by two Chinese nationals and arrested three Indians from Delhi who were working for the foreigners. The accused allegedly collected Rs 50 crore from 20,000 investors across India by promising a return 4.5 times the amount invested in 90 days. VC Sajjanar, Cyberabad police commissioner, said Uday Pratap, Rajesh Sharma, both from Gurugram, and Nitesh Kumar Kothari of Delhi, were arrested, while their Chinese employers — Zhang Hongwei alias Peter and Peng Guowei — are on the run. “The accused created different WhatsApp groups across the country and advertised a scheme, Shared BK/Sharing Economy, where they invited investments through different plans by assuring a return 4.5 times the deposit in 90 days,” Sajjanar said. To gain confidence of investors, the accused paid the promised returns to investors, for a time. After attracting more investments from the same customers, they duped them by not returning the money. Police said Nitesh and Rajesh, who were involved in developing mobile applications (apps), were also directors of Adstuck Consulting Pvt Ltd. Peng had appointed Uday as consultant for Telecom Value Added and Advertising Services in India. They had been working together since 2016. Uday, Peng, Nitesh, and Rajesh had acquired Mobicentric Technologies Pvt Ltd. Uday was given the signing authority for Mobicentric and Adstruck Consulting in 2017. Later, these companies were acquired by Hong Kong-based companies —Flash Wave, Unistar, and Eternal Galaxy. However, Peng continued to work as director for Flash Wave, Unistar, and Eternal Galaxy. Last year, Zhang, owner of Panda Oversea (Asia) Pvt Ltd, had bought a stake in Flash Wave. Following this, Uday had been reporting to Zhang and Peng. In January 2020, Peng left India and did not return due to travel restrictions on passengers coming to India from China. The two Chinese nationals with the support of Uday invited investments through apps claiming they were doing a business by operating shared bike app and started cheating people after contacting them through Skype and WhatsApp. The accused were associated with six different registered companies and police, during the verification, found that the addresses given by them with the Registrar of Companies (ROC) at Pune, Delhi, Kanpur, and Bengaluru were fake. “Investigation revealed the deposits made by the investors have been credited to bank accounts of the fraudulent Indian companies registered with payment gateway through various Chinese websites,’’ the Cyberabad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-chinese-fraud-3-pull-off-rs-50-cr-scam-held/articleshow/80756916.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Civic defence DG now appointed as CRPF ADG||MUMBAI: Rashmi Shukla, director general (civil defence), has been appointed as the additional director general (ADG) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). An IPS officer of the 1988 batch, she was earlier state intelligence commissioner during the tenure of Devendra Fadnavis. After Uddhav Thackeray took over the reins in November 2019, Shukla was completely sidelined. She was expecting a plum assignment, but was posted in the civil defence wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/civic-defence-dg-now-appointed-as-crpf-adg/articleshow/80756302.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena & BJP continue war of words over CM’s post||MUMBAI: The spat between former allies Shiv Sena and BJP over their parting of ways continued on Monday with the Shiv Sena releasing a 2019 video clip of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis stating at a press conference that if the two parties came back to power, there would be equal sharing of posts and responsibilities. The Sena released the clip late on Sunday night, hours after Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement in Malwan that the BJP had not promised the Sena the CM’s post. At the inauguration of a private medical college constructed by Narayan Rane in Sindhudurg on Sunday, Shah denied he had promised to Sena president Uddhav Thackeray that the chief ministership would be kept rotational between the BJP and the Sena after the 2019 assembly elections. “I don’t make promises in closed rooms. Whatever I do, I do it openly,” Shah had said. In the video shared by the Sena, Fadnavis had further said that in case of any confusion, the final decision would be taken by Amit Shah and Uddhav Thackeray. When TOI asked Fadnavis about the clip, he said, “That is a video from a press conference. It’s about the share in government. Shah referred to the post of CM. It was neither decided nor mentioned there. Thackeray himself has claimed that Fadnavis didn’t know and that it was a talk between him and Shah. Then how will I say that in the press conference? What Sena has claimed about the CM’s post is a blatant lie. They found the opportunity in numbers and they went for it. Pure political opportunism.” Shiv Sena Member of Parliament and former Union minister Arvind Sawant said that Shah had taken a year-and-a-half to claim that he had not made any promise on sharing the chief minister’s post, and that raised suspicion. “Uddhav Thackeray spoke about it on several occasions, including in the state legislature, but Shah remained silent. After the assembly election results, Shah went to Haryana for government formation talks but remained silent on the political developments in Maharashtra,” Sawant said, adding that “the Thackeray family is known for honouring promises they have made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-bjp-continue-war-of-words-over-cms-post/articleshow/80756278.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cop shows courage under fire to save 4||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police constable single-handedly rescued four people, including a 91-year-old man, after a residential building in Greater Kailash of south Delhi caught fire on Sunday afternoon. The four rescued people, including an elderly couple, are doing fine. The fire was probably caused by sparking in an electrical appliance. The rescued people were identified as 91-year-old Shamsher Bahadur Bhatnagar, his 85-year-old wife Lalit Behl and another couple, Anurag Bhartiya (51) and his wife Sonika (46), all of them residents of N-170, Greater Kailash. While the Bhartiyas lived on the first floor, the elderly couple stayed on the third floor. The second floor of the house was vacant. The fire was reported around 12.15pm when locals spotted flames erupting from the house. After the information was received at Greater Kailash police station, a team rushed to the house. By then, constable Vikram had already reached there and alerted the fire department and his seniors. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said Vikram found that the road that led to the house had an iron gate, which was locked. “Displaying presence of mind and without wasting any time, Vikram took a hammer from a shop nearby and broke the lock of the gate so that fire tenders could reach the spot. Without worrying for his life, he entered the house and disconnected the PNG supply,” he added. Vikram was informed by the public that two senior citizens were stranded on the terrace as they could not find their way down the stairs. “The constable entered the building and reached the terrace to evacuate both the senior citizens. While he lifted Behl on his shoulders, he directed Bhatnagar towards the exit. He also helped the Bhartiyas stuck on the first floor exit the house in time,” said Thakur. The constable took less than 15 minutes to rescue all the four occupants of the house. Meanwhile, two fire tenders reached the spot to douse the fire. Senior police officers said that while the cause of the fire was yet to be established, it appeared that a spark from an electrical appliance being used in the house started the blaze. A senior police officer said none of the occupants of the house were injured. A case has been registered to probe the incident. Joint commissioner Suvashis Choudhary tweeted: "Such colleagues make us and the entire @DelhiPolice proud. We are recommending his name to @CPDelhi for an out of turn promotion."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-shows-courage-under-fire-to-save-4/articleshow/80756297.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kochi||Farmers hit by unusual climate change||Kochi: The unusual changes in weather have landed the farmer community in a spot again this year. The unprecedented rainfall in January has caused huge destruction of crops for many individual farmers, for both commercial and individual cultivation. Farmers most affected by these rains were mostly from the Western Ghats region. Marayoor, the village in Idukki which borders Tamil Nadu, witnessed unusual climate for more than two months leading to large-scale damage of crops, including vegetables and sugarcane. Locals said that from the last week of December, Marayoor experienced mist and it lasted till January-end. Marayoor is considered as a rain shadow area and main crops are sugarcane, arecanut and vegetables. Climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil explains the phenomenon as Sleet (rain containing some ice as when the snow melts as it falls). “As per the available details, such climate has not been experienced in the village yet. It shows that the climate of the state was changed,” he said. “Last January, the state had experienced an extremely chilly climate. But this year, the state witnessed heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the first week of January. These aspects showed that our climate has changed to another dimension,” said Cholayil. K V Manoj, a farmer in Kanthalloor said, “I grow sugarcane in four acres. I have incurred huge loss due to the unexpected climate. Due to the mist in the environment, jaggery production had to be stopped for nearly one month, leading to losses.” Agricultural assistant at Marayoor Krishi Bhavan Angel C Roy said, “The change in climate caused large-scale crop loss in the region. The misty weather has affected the growth of some crops while some others were totally destroyed. The vegetable farmers have lost one crop season due to the climate. Among sugar farmers, the yield will be less in the next harvest.” Jithesh Cheruvallil, a resident of Kanthalloor, said most of the farmers didn’t join the crop insurance scheme as they didn’t expect such a weather change. “Now, the village is experiencing extremely cool climate at night while it is pretty hot during day time. Kanthalloor is experiencing such extreme weather for the first time,” he said. In Palakkad too, paddy farmers say that the January rains led to destruction of the entire crop. “We were all set to harvest when the sudden rains flooded the fields. We didn’t even get hay. We just got about 9kg of paddy when we get about 170kg per acre for this traditional variety,” said Surya Prakash, an organic farmer in Sreekrishnapuram panchayat. Interestingly, in Alappuzha, the sudden rains saved the crop. “It is not harvest season here. Our season is Feb-March because there had been a delay. There is an increase in salinity as water overflowed over the Thottappally spillway because of a technical fault there. The farmers were apprehensive that this will bring losses to their crop. The January rainfall has helped reduce the salinity. However, there is growing apprehension that summer rains could cause damage. These days we are having some heavy spells in March-April. Then, not much rains in May-June and the next spell is in July-August,” said agriculture scientist K Padmakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/farmers-hit-by-unusual-climate-change/articleshow/80756284.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||City’s unity rally in support of farmers||Ludhiana: Civil society members took out a rally in support of farmers in the city on Monday. Holding placards of ‘No Farmer, No Food’, ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, the protesters demanded repealing of the three farm laws. Shivam Arora, a businessman who was part of the protest, said the rally started from a gurdwara in Sarabha Nagar after prayers and reached a church, from where it went to Holika market, where Muslims had set up a water stall for them, and it culminated at Durga Mata Temple in Sarabha Nagar. He added that the rally was held in support of farmers and against the propaganda of branding protesters as anti-nationals. “We want to spread the message of Bhagat Singh that humanity should prevail in the country,” said Arora. A protester said the rally showed that every community in Punjab was together in support of farmers. Doctors, engineers, lawyers and students marched together. The rally was held on a week day to show that people can take out time for the cause.A woman protester said whatever was happening with the farmers was wrong. She added that they would continue to stand with them till the Centre repealed the laws.Protesters, including women, youth, elderly and children, raised slogans like ‘Desh Todna Band Karo’, ‘Saada Bhaichaara Zindabad’, ‘Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Isai, Aapas Mein Hain Bhai Bhai, ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zindabad’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-unity-rally-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/80755234.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||3-year-old falls off first floor of labour quarter||Ludhiana: A 3-year-old girl received injuries after she fell from the first floor of a labour quarter in Dhandari Kalan on Monday. As she fell on the road, a car jammed on the brakes in time to avoid running over her.The injured girl has been identified as Sakshi, of Surjeet Nagar, Dhandari Kalan. Her father, Vijay Kumar, is a factory worker and her mother, Bindu, had died six months ago. She has three siblings.Vijay said, “After my wife passed away, neighbours would look after my children while I was at my workplace. Around 1pm on Monday, I received a call from a neighbour, who said Sakshi had fallen off the building. I rushed back home and she was taken to a hospital.” Vijay added, “Sakshi along with other children was playing on the first floor. As a car was crossing by the area, Sakshi came near the terrace boundary to see it. Suddenly, she lost her balance and fell off the terrace. The driver of the car slammed on the brakes in time, else it would have run over her.”Sakshi has sustained injuries on her head and face. Her condition is stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-year-old-falls-off-first-floor-of-labour-quarter/articleshow/80755223.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kochi||Nuals to gamify its 5-year LLB curriculum||Kochi: National University of Advanced Legal Studies (Nuals) is all set to gamify its five-year LLB curriculum. The process will be carried out under the guidance of gamification expert Manu Melwin Joy, assistant professor of school of management studies (SMS), Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). Gamification is the application of game-design elements and principles in non-game contexts. An agreement was signed between Manu and Mini S, faculty of Nuals, on Friday at Cusat. K N Madhusoodanan, vice-chancellor of Cusat and K C Sunny, vice-chancellor of Nuals were among those present. According to varsity authorities, this will be the first initiative in the country to integrate gamification into the curriculum of a course offered by a university. “The gamification of learning is an educational approach to motivate students to learn by using video game design and game elements in learning environments. The goal is to maximize enjoyment and engagement through capturing the interest of learners and inspiring them to continue learning. A good gamification strategy with high levels of engagement will lead to an increase in recall and retention,” Manu said. The objective of the consultancy is to integrate game elements and design techniques into the existing curriculum of the five-year LLB course of Nuals and make it extremely engaging for students to ensure excellent learning outcomes. The fee for the four-month consultancy is Rs 2.4 lakh. The entire curriculum of the five years will be mapped similar to a game where students will move from one level to another once they acquire and display the knowledge and skills required in each level. Just like the storyline in a game, students will be given a narrative like ‘be the voice of the voiceless or be the saviour of legal system of the country’ that motivates them to learn at their best. “For example, in the first year, a student will assume the character or avatar of an advocate in a lower-level court. He/she will be given a case and the student should collect evidence to solve the case from the different subjects and assignments provided throughout the year. So, all the topics from subjects such as political science, English, principles of economics, etc, will be contextualized and made relevant using the case at hand. Once the student gathers enough evidence to win the case, he will move to the next level. In the final year, they will be battling a case in the Supreme Court and the knowledge and skills needed to win the case will be an aggregation of all the knowledge and skills acquired during the five years,” Manu said. Through an instant feedback and reward system, students will be given feedback with the help of a learning management system (LMS) wherein they will see their live progress in winning the case, very much like a game. “All the activities will be integrated to trigger the game elements of competition and collaboration, considering the mass popularity of massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) like PUBG. Different championships in terms of different skills and competencies to be acquired will be conducted and all the inputs will be fed into the long-term evaluation system,” Manu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nuals-to-gamify-its-5-year-llb-curriculum/articleshow/80755236.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana issues order to kick in EWS reservations||HYDERABAD: Telangana government on Monday issued orders for implementing 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the state-run educational institutions and government recruitments. Issuing the GO (No. 33), chief secretary Somesh Kumar said the necessary guidelines for implementing the quota would be released by the general administration department and education department. With the 10% EWS quota, reservation for various categories in Telangana goes up to 60%. The state government is already implementing 50% quota for SCs, STs, BCs and Muslim minorities. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier said the new quota would come into force while continuing the reservations to those who have already been enjoying the benefits as it is. “The government will create supernumerary seats and posts in the educational institutions and government departments to ensure that the present quota does not get affected,” a senior government official said. The CM is expected to hold a meeting with senior officials on creation of supernumerary posts and seats in a week. The new GO said: “The constitutional amendment provides reservation for EWS in higher educational institutions, including private institutions, whether aided or unaided by the state, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in Article 30 of the Constitution and also provides reservations for them in posts in initial appointments in services under the state.” Though the Centre had announced 10% reservation for EWS in January 2019 by bringing in a constitutional amendment (103rd amendment), Telangana had chosen to wait to implement the quota in view of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Later, it had decided to not implement the EWS quota due to political reasons. However, KCR took everybody by surprise last month by announcing his government’s decision to implement 10% reservation for EWS. Official sources said though admissions in various courses such as engineering, medical and other professional courses were over, youngsters will stand to gain through EWS quota in the state government’s recruitments. The government announced that it would fill 50,000 vacancies in various departments. Interestingly, the state government announced its decision after some upper caste communities like Reddys, Brahmins, Velamas and Kamma organisations had threatened agitation on the issue and even planned a public meeting in Warangal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-issues-order-to-kick-in-ews-reservations/articleshow/80756924.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC rings in major changes at Kalkaji Temple||NEW DELHI: What began as a dispute over the rights of a woman member of the priestly family to conduct puja sewa in Kalkaji Mandir in south Delhi culminated on Monday with Delhi High Court ordering a major clean-up of the complex, while appointing receivers to take stock of the daily donations that run into several lakhs of rupees. Delhi High Court secured the right of the woman petitioner, Kamlesh Sharma, to conduct prayers in the temple but through a male nominee as per mandir traditions. It rejected the stand of the current priests that a woman could not be allowed to oversee the prayer ceremony. The contending priests and the woman are legal heirs of the chief priest. Justice Pratibha M Singh directed that the priest quarters within the temple be vacated so that the woman’s nominee could occupy it during the month when it was her rotation (bari) to conduct the prayers in the temple. The court also ordered the immediate removal of hoardings around the temple precincts and directed all 38 donation boxes to be locked and the keys retained by the court receivers. The boxes are to be opened only in the presence of the receivers and two representatives of the feuding legal heirs. When the amount in the boxes is counted, one-sixth of it is to be given to Sharma, and the remainder deposited in the safe custody of the court’s bank account. While making the Shri Kalkaji Mandir Prabhandak Sudhar Committee, the managing panel, a party to the case, the court asked it to file an affidavit explaining how the puja sewa ceremonies in the temple came under the control of one faction of priests. The court has asked for details of the quantum of daily offerings and thali dakshina controlled by the priests, and noted that Rs10 lakh was collected in this fashion every weekday, going up to Rs20 lakh on weekends. “A full account of all offerings received until February 24 shall be filed before this court. All CCTV cameras are to be made operational and the footage to remain in the custody of the receivers,” justice Singh directed. The conflict arose over the various factions of the legal heirs of the main priest claiming the rights to conduct puja sewa, share the offerings and the revenues from other sources, including tehbazari rights (hawking licences). The dispute unearthed some disturbing facts, prompting the court to order a deeper scrutiny by a court-appointed local commissioner, who, in turn, reported there was no accounting of the donated money and misuse of puja rights and that only five of the eight CCTV cameras in the temple worked. The high court noted that the offerings at the temple were substantial and, therefore, it was necessary to have a detailed account of the collections, even as it issued directions to ensure proper accountability and smooth functioning of the popular mandir. “The local commissioner’s report shows that Kalkaji Mandir appears to have come under the control of one faction, which is running it like a commercial enterprise,” justice Singh noted. “It is disconcerting that the rights to perform puja in a mandir are being put to auction and third parties are conducting such ceremonies. There are various hoardings at the temple and commercial advertisements of businesses. The hoardings are prominent, one being right at the entrance of the temple. The nature of these businesses and who is running them is not known.” As per the court’s interim order, Kamlesh Sharma, the female petitioner, has been allowed to appoint Rakesh Bhardwaj as the priest when it is her family’s turn to manage the pujas and the offerings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-rings-in-major-changes-at-kalkaji-temple/articleshow/80756307.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid claims life of 65-year-old man||Ludhiana: A 65-year-old man of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 29 residents tested positive on Monday.As per the local media bulletin, the deceased was a resident of MIG flats and had diabetes and chronic kidney disease. He breathed his last at CMC Hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally has risen to 1,007 and that of outsiders stood at 483.To date, 6,16,835 persons have been tested.Of the 29 new cases, 12 were from flu corner, one contact of a positive patient, six from OPD, six through tracing process and four healthcare workers. Two cases from outside Ludhiana also tested positive here. The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,092 and that of outsiders 3,976.So far, 24,745 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.83% of the total cases.There are 337 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-life-of-65-year-old-man/articleshow/80755226.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Churchill Bros stay on top with another goalless draw||Churchill Brothers FC continued to occupy the top spot in the I-League after a goalless draw against Real Kashmir FC at the newly-inaugurated Kishore Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata on Monday. With three consecutive draws – two of which were goalless – Churchill have now failed to put it across any of the second-placed teams and will be wary that Real Kashmir and Mohammedan Sporting can both overtake them, should they win their game in hand. For now, coach Fernando Varela will take the point. So easily, this could have gone wrong for Churchill. Fielding a weakened side, thanks to several injuries, Churchill struggled to contain their opponents whose speed and quick pressing caused problems at the start. For most part, Real Kashmir, with captain Danish Farooq and Dipanda Dicka, looked more likely to score. Churchill, though, had the best chance to surge ahead and it came against the run of play. The match was just 11 minutes old when the former champions showed just why they can be dangerous. Real Kashmir lost the ball close to the byline at the other end. Kingslee Fernandes somehow wriggled his way out and passed the ball to Shubert Pereira, who quickly found Bazie Armand. The captain released the ball to Luka Majcen at the halfway mark and it was here that they sensed a real opportunity. With Real Kashmir desperately tracking back, Majcen did well to make a run and then find Hafis Mohammed on the left. He took a touch and was all alone with goalkeeper Mithun Samanta, but hammered the ball straight into the goalkeeper. That was a narrow escape for Real Kashmir and they were not troubled again. At the other end, though, there were chances for Real Kashmir to take more than a point from this game. Two minutes after the change of ends, Haroon Amiri’s long throw-in was flicked on by Farooq towards the far post. The ball fell to Dipanda Dicka, who hit the side-netting from close range. There was another chance. It was Farooq again who created the opportunity with a through ball for Dicka but the highest goalscorer from last season was slow to react. With chances few and far between for Churchill, coach Varela introduced Clayvin Zuniga, the team’s highest goal scorer. He tried but couldn’t really trouble the rival goalkeeper. Churchill are now on top with 13 points from seven matches. Real Kashmir and Mohammedan Sporting are next with 10 points from six games and will look to occupy the top spot when action resumes next weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-bros-stay-on-top-with-another-goalless-draw/articleshow/80757643.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand rivers dotted with over 40 hydroelectric plants||DEHRADUN: The flash flood that claimed several lives in Chamoli on Sunday has brought the hydropower plant projects of Uttarakhand under the lens. Experts believe that the over-exploitation of rivers in the fragile Himalayan ecosystem is leading to several catastrophes. At present, several hydel projects — with a cumulative capacity of around 2594.85 MW — are operational in Uttarakhand. In fact, India’s first hydro-power station was commissioned at Galogi near Mussoorie in 1907. The station still remains functional. #UttarakhandDisaster | Dehradun-based Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) says, "A landslide scar at an eleva… https://t.co/AsY33QECPM— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1612840771000The rivers and basins in the state are dotted with 43 micro hydel projects. Between 2005-10, the state gave nod to the construction of over a dozen hydroelectric projects (HEPs). The state also has 17 major HEPs — including the one involving India's tallest dam in Tehri on the Bhagirathi, Maneri Bhali HEP (Stage I and II), Chilla HEP, and Chibro HEP, among others. In the past, locals and activists have protested against the Vishnugad-Pipalkoti HEP on the Alaknanda. Earlier, an expert committee of the Supreme Court (SC) on Kedarnath deluge of 2013 had also warned not to construct any hydropower plant in the upper Himalayas but the warning was largely ignored. The SC committee had warned that the ‘river-bed profile’ across the major HEPs of Uttarakhand has changed significantly, suggesting the possibility of disasters in future. “Neglecting all warnings of the experts, rampant construction was carried out in the sensitive zones even after the 2013 Kedarnath deluge. Notably, two dozen hydropower plants of Uttarakhand were rejected by the Supreme Court after the expert panel report,” said Hemant Dhyani, member of the high-powered committee (HPC) appointed by the Supreme Court for the Char Dham All-Weather Project. Seven years ago, the Kedarnath expert committee in its report had warned about the excessive exploitation of vulnerable regions and the need to re-study and re-evaluate the HEPs of Uttarakhand. The report also objected to HEPs at an altitude of over 2000 metres. The report, a copy of which is with TOI, read, “Potential threat of landslide, cloudburst, subsidence, flash floods has increased tremendously in the past few years and many critical zones need immediate attention as pointed out by the Geological Survey of India.” Ravi Chopra, who chaired the Kedarnath committee and is also chair of the SC-appointed HPC on Char Dham project, said, “The dams in Dhauliganga valley should not have been built, which included Tapovan-Vishnugad which was damaged on Sunday and Rishiganga project which was swept away. We had recommended that no dam in the high Himalayas, be built as these are highly sensitive zones.” The committee had concluded in its 2013 report, “Existing and under construction hydro-power projects in Uttarakhand have led to several deleterious environmental impacts. Among the significant impacts are on the river ecosystem, forest and terrestrial biodiversity, geological environment and social infrastructure.” The study also mentioned that a lot of anthropogenic pressure due to different activities related to HEPs was alarming and needed checks. It read, “The committee strongly recommends that a detailed study of the impacts of the hydropower projects in terms of deforestation/tunnelling/blasting/reservoir formation of hydrogeology of the area should be carried out.” “It is now time that those who ‘approve’ and those who ‘execute’ such environmentally-sensitive projects be held ‘personally’ accountable for any such disasters,” said Chopra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-rivers-dotted-with-over-40-hydroelectric-plants/articleshow/80755246.cms||Shivani Azad
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||ZPs and MPPs to be given funds like gram panchayats||HYDERABAD: Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said rural local bodies would be strengthened and would be made more active in the rural development. He said the Zilla Parishads (ZPs) and Mandal Praja Parishads (MPP) would be given funds like the gram panchayats and they would be assigned fixed responsibilities. He also made it clear that ZP and MPPs would be allocated funds in the state’s budget for 2021-2022 financial year. He said the New Panchayat Raj Act had empowered the gram panchayats with the power to utilize their funds totally without taking any permission from the mandal and district level officials.  “We have incorporated conditions in the new Act for the gram panchayats to spend their funds totally. But in some places, for more than Rs 2 Lakh worth works, the old rule of taking permission from the mandal officers is being implemented. This is against the new Act. The Gram Panchayats have every right to spend funds for the needs of their villages. No one should interfere in this. On this matter, the official should clarify once again,” KCR said. The CM held a review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Monday on measures to be taken to strengthen the local bodies. “The Finance Commission is releasing funds directly to the gram panchayats and municipalities. Every month gram panchayats are being released Rs 308 crore and municipalities Rs 148 Crore. Since there is no dearth of funds, programmes like Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi are successfully implemented. Villages have now dump yards, Tractors, Plant nurseries and Vaikunta Dhams. In a similar way, special funds from the finance commission would be released to Zilla and Mandal Parishads. If these funds are linked with the MNREGA more funds can be accrued,” the CM said. He sought suggestions from theofficials on what kind of responsibility should be given to ZP and mandal level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zps-and-mpps-to-be-given-funds-like-gram-panchayats/articleshow/80756927.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No new Covid-19 cases in 8 districts||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 43 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday. With this, the coronavirus tally in the state reached 96,536. No new infections were reported from eight hill districts in the last 24 hours. According to the health department, the recovery rate in Uttarakhand reached 95.9% after 142 new recoveries were recorded from across the state on Monday. With this, the total recoveries in the state reached 92,696. Also, three more fatalities took the toll of the virus to 1,671. “The sample positivity rate dropped to 4.4%, almost 1% less than what was recorded last month. The death rate, however, increased to 1.73%,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, Uttarakhand has tested around 22 lakh samples. Meanwhile, the second phase of vaccination started in the state on Monday. A total of 100 vaccination sessions were held across the state. In these sessions, 4,247 identified beneficiaries were inoculated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-no-new-covid-19-cases-in-8-districts/articleshow/80755259.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Bogus billing racket: More firms under scanner||Ludhiana: After the Rs 427 crore bogus billing racket came to light, several other firms besides the 32 owned by main accused Gurbax Lal alias Happy Nagpal have come under the scanner. According to sources, several firms located on Gill Road, Vishwkarma Chowk and Miller Ganj are being monitored by both CGST and state GST (SGST) departments. Most of these firms deal in iron, steel and scrap. Some of the firms are suspected to have adopted similar modus operandi as Nagpal. They were giving away fake bills of various goods by offering discounted GST rate. Investigations conducted by the CGST also revealed that addresses where some of the fake firms owned by the main accused were registered were non-existent. The slew of tax frauds has enraged the business community, which suspects the involvement of department officials. Rajkumar Singla, president, Fastener Suppliers Association of Ludhiana said, “Every day, there is news about new tax fraud case. It is really shocking that all cases involve such huge amounts that it is impossible to believe that such rackets are possible without the connivance of tax department officials. Recently, there have been several arrests in tax evasion and bogus billing cases but even this has failed to deter fraudsters.”Saying that such malpractices would not step till strict action was taken against government officials colluding with fraudsters, Singla rued that the Vigilance probe into corruption by officials has stopped. Meanwhile, businessmen of Gill Road area, where this fresh case and others were reported, are feeling apprehensive. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, a businessman from Overlock Road Area said, “Some bad elements are spoiling the name of the entire business community of Gill Road area by indulging in mischievous acts like bogus billing. We constantly fear that innocent businessmen may end up suffering because of their actions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bogus-billing-racket-more-firms-under-scanner/articleshow/80755256.cms||Mohit Behl
February 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Former sarpanch found murdered in Jalna||AURANGABAD: Jalna police on Monday found the body of a former sarpanch of the Pahegaon village — who had been missing since Sunday morning — near a pond in New Sevli village. The deceased, Ramesh Shleke (50), was an active member of the Shiv Sena. The body and car were completely charred, but based on the chassis number of the vehicle and wallet found near the car, the police concluded that the deceased was Shelke. Learning about the incident, former Sena minister Arjun Khotkar rushed to the spot and demanded that the police detect the case at the earliest. Jalna superintendent of police Vinayak Deshmukh told TOI, “We are probing the case from all angles, including if people close to the deceased were involved in the murder. Preliminary probe has revealed that Shelke was at loggerheads with some of his relatives over a property-related issue.” He added, “Two people, including Shelke’s brother, have been detained for questioning. The person was missing since Sunday and there was a missing report filed by his family. Spot panchanama of the blood stains found near the crime scene indicate that the victim’s head was smashed with stone outside the car and later he was put in the car before the vehicle was set on fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/former-sarpanch-found-murdered-in-jalna/articleshow/80755237.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Health dept recommends sampling of all teachers and students||Ludhiana: District health officials have asked the DEO to take measures for sampling of all the teachers and students for Covid 19. The sampling will start with the teachers and the students will be tested later after the consent of parents. District education officer (DEO) elementary and senior secondary held a meeting with civil surgeon Sukhjivan Kakkar on Monday to discuss precautions to be taken in view of Covid-19. The civil surgeon said, “We held a meeting with officials of the district education department, who were told that all schools, including public, private and aided, have to undergo sampling. They also have to cooperate during testing. All tests would be conducted by designated teams of the health department to stop the spread of infection. We have recommended RT-PCR testing for both teachers and students.”Kakkar added, “Teams have been constituted according to areas and a schedule will be made wherein schools will be informed in advance so that they can hold the students back. Else, students will be scared and will not go for testing.” He urged parents to motivate children to undergo testing in view of the number of positive cases being reported from schools. The deputy commissioner has also instructed the education department to follow guidelines and cooperate with health teams. Plans have been chalked out and the education department is sharing data.DEO Rajinder Kaur said, “ In the meeting of the district development committee, the health department asked for lists of teachers and students of private and public schools for testing. Dr Ramesh, district epidemiologist, is looking after this. We will provide them with everything they require.”She said teachers will be tested first, after which students will be convinced. Health department teams reach schools whenever a teacher or student is found positive. “We have shared the data of over 1,000 government schools of the city with the civil surgeon,” the DEO added.Won't allow testing without parents’ consent: Principal CBSE city coordinator and principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School said, “There is no such testing going on in private schools. However, whosoever is unwell has to undergo testing and a few students found unwell have been told to study from home. We will only allow the health department after taking consent of parents as even polio drops are given to students after their consent. But we will comply with whatever the department says.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-recommends-sampling-of-all-teachers-and-students/articleshow/80755245.cms||Mehak Jain
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana’s first Kisan Rail off to Bengal with turmeric||HYDERABAD: In an initiative to assist the farm sector by providing cost effective transportation, the South Central Railway (SCR) started its first Kisan Rail in Telangana from Warangal station in Secunderabad division on Monday. The service has been started in Telangana after successful implementation of Kisan Rails in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. The first Kisan Rail from Telangana has been loaded with 230 tons of dry turmeric in 10 parcel vans (VPs) and is being transported to Barasat station of Sealdah division in West Bengal. According to SCR, the Union government has started the concept of operating Kisan Rails for boosting the income of the farm sector, while providing a hassle-free, safe and fast transport services for the marketing of agriculture sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-first-kisan-rail-off-to-bengal-with-turmeric/articleshow/80756925.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Surat||Major fire breaks out at a powerloom unit, no casualty||SURAT: A major fire broke out at the powerloom unit located at Ashwani Kumar Road on Monday afternoon. No casualty was reported. Sources in the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that the fire broke out at about 2.45pm at four-storey Vasundhara industries located on plot number 1-8 at Ashwani Kumar Road. The fire broke out on the ground floor due to short circuit in the electric metre box. Sources said that about six fire tenders from Varachha and Kapodara were rushed to the industrial estate on Monday afternoon. It took about two hours for the fire tenders to douse the fire. Fire officials said that more than 16,000 metres of polyester fabric kept in the ground floor and about 8,000 pieces of saris were reduced to ashes due to the major fire. A fire officer said, “The workers in the unit had gone on the top floor following the major fire. The fire was reported due to the short circuit incident in the electricity metre box. The workers were safely rescued after dousing the fire. Nobody was hurt or injured in the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/major-fire-breaks-out-at-a-powerloom-unit-no-casualty/articleshow/80755303.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Nizamabad man’s body stuck in Saudi for 100 days, wife moves HC||HYDERABAD: Having waited patiently for 100 days for her husband’s mortal remains to be sent from Saudi Arabia, a woman from Nizamabad has approached Telangana high court seeking its intervention and repatriation of the body of Vontari Narsa Reddy. Narsa Reddy died in a mishap at his workplace in Saudi Arabia on November 1, 2020. His wife Vontari Laxmi of Sirnapally village in Indalwai mandal has made several representations to the authorities, including MEA. The family has also made requests to the Indian embassy in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and Telangana governments but has got no response yet. With the help of Pravasi Mithra Labour Union (PMLU), she filed the petition in the court. “He had been working in Saudi Arabia for the last seven years and died while on duty. We have got no response either from the employer or the authorities on sending his body back to Nizamabad. We are going through a lot of trauma waiting for his body to arrive,” mother Sathyamma said. Narsa Reddy’s wife Laxmi, sister Shobha and other family members travelled to Hyderabad from Nizamabad and submitted a petition to the Protector of Emigrants (PoE), ministry of external affairs, at the office in Secunderabad, seeking immediate help to send his body back to the state. Anguished by the family’s plight, Swadesh Parikipandala, president of PMLU, approached human rights activist and advocate P Shashi Kiran, who filed the writ plea in the high court on February 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nzb-mans-body-stuck-in-saudi-for-100-days-wife-moves-hc/articleshow/80756929.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Clip art: How farmers are boosting support||NEW DELHI: Standing in front of a table loaded with medicines and daily use products at Singhu border, Amrik Singh, a farmer from Lopol village in Moga district, was seen shooting a video on Monday making an appeal to people in Punjab to join the farmers’ protest. “A peaceful protest is going on here and all items of need are available. Don’t believe in rumours about lathi charge by the police force deployed here. It is the need of the hour and every youth should participate in the protest,” said Amrik, while sharing the video on social media. While a large number of people have joined the protest in the past 15 days, the farmers say they want to make their agitation stronger. “After the tractor parade on January 26 turned violent, many farmers left for home as their families were worried. After an appeal by our leaders, many soon returned, but there is fear among a section of them due to rumours about violence. The news of police barricading has added fuel to the fire. As we want to make the protest bigger than ever, we are taking many steps to encourage participation of more people,” said Amrik. He has been uploading at least two videos daily for the last four days. When the government suspended the internet in the area, some farmers rode off on their motorbikes to find a place where network was available for dissemination of information. Post January 26, the protest has become more organised and mohalla committees have been set up in each village to motivate people to go to the border. The committees are maintaining records of each new protester for better coordination. “Drawing inspiration from the campaigns of political parties, the committee members have started conducting door-to-door visits in each village of Punjab. The members tell each family they meet that there is no need to fear as the worst has passed. We inform them how our lives will be affected if the black laws are not withdrawn,” said Amrit Lal from Badhni village. Balwinder Singh, another farmer, said, “Earlier, scores of people would come to the border on tractor-trolleys, bicycles and other private vehicles. There was no proper record of people joining the protest or returning home. However, the newly-constituted committees have prepared a proper schedule. When a set of farmers returns, another group takes its place. The aim behind this exercise is to make sure that our numbers do not decrease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clip-art-how-farmers-are-boosting-support/articleshow/80756317.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Six LGP cylinders in parked truck explode at Mira Road, one injured||MUMBAI: Six LPG cylinders stored in a truck parked on private land near Shivar Garden in Mira Road exploded early on Monday. A bystander sustained minor injuries. Three fire engines were pressed into service. It took over an hour to bring the flames under control. The private land is rented for parking. Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) fire brigade personnel said the cause of the explosion is under investigation. Three trucks loaded with filled cylinders were parked there. The LPG distributors have been called for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-lgp-cylinders-in-parked-truck-explode-at-mira-road-1-injured/articleshow/80756311.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||15 file nominations for IAS Association election||Thiruvananthapuram: About 15 officers of various seniorities have submitted nominations for upcoming elections to IAS association scheduled on February 14. It is learnt that a panel led by senior IAS officer and chairman and managing director of Kerala transport development finance corporation (KTDFC) B Ashok is likely to be elected unopposed, except for the position of the treasurer. While Ashok is likely to be unanimously elected as president of the association, Kerala state industrial development corporation (KSIDC) managing director M G Rajamanickam is likely to be elected as the secretary. The elections are taking place through an online platform. The new managing committee is to take charge on Sunday during the AGM of the association, registered as a society since 2014. In the case of treasurer, for which officer on special duty in charge of secretary (finance resources) G R Gokul is a nominee, a contest is likely as another officer, Swagath Ranveerchand Bhandari who is currently on sabbatical, has also given nomination, it is learnt. The nominees for other posts include employment director S Chithra (assistant treasurer), executive director of KSIDC NSK Umesh (joint secretary) and district collector of Kannur T V Subhash (joint secretary). An eight-member team including disaster management commissioner A Kowsigan, Kollam district collector B Abdul Nazar, Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan, social justice director Sheeba George, KTDC managing director V R Krishna Teja, district development commissioner, Thiruvananthapuram Vinay Goel, sub-collector of Kozhikode Priyanka G R and sub-collector of Thalassery Anukumari for the executive committee. Apart from the central IAS association, Kerala association is one of the few formally registered and active state IAS associations. Among the 148 members of the association, as many as 103 members have the voting rights as the clearance of dues of the membership fee has been made as the prerequisite for becoming an “eligible voter” in the election. Even though the association was functioning in an informal manner much earlier, it was registered as a society in October 2013. Since then, the association has been acting as a pressure group on service matters concerning the IAS fraternity and on issues concerning the individual members of the service. The immediate priority of the association would be to ensure the residential apartments for the IAS officers in the 2.30 acres allotted in the capital. The association would also request the government to post a welfare officer for all-India services officers. Also on the top of requirements is the charge allowance for the officers while holding multiple charges and providing professional and legal support to the members in service-related matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/15-file-nominations-for-ias-association-election/articleshow/80756309.cms||KP Saikiran
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Scribes’ seek money to keep mum on illegal work, one held||MUMBAI: Officials of Vakola police station on Sunday arrested a 47-year-old man in an alleged case of extortion after he and two of his accomplices allegedly demanded Rs 1 lakh ransom from a civil contractor, the police said. The accused, Allwyn Narohna, was arrested when he came to collect Rs20,000 from Dashrat Chavan, which was part of the ransom money the three had demanded, to refrain from reporting the illegal construction to the municipal corporation and also to avoid publishing on social media about the illegal construction work that he had allegedly undertaken in and around the Santacruz locality, according to the police. Narohna met Chavan with his two accomplices—Rupesh Ravidone and Dinesh Waghmare who are still wanted—in December. The three had posed as journalists and had demanded the money after learning that Chavan had taken up a project for extension work of a house owned by Chandrakant Jadhav at Jamblipada in Santacruz (east).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scribes-seek-money-to-keep-mum-on-illegal-work-one-held/articleshow/80756332.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man gets back Rs 21 lakh lost in online fraud||RAJKOT: A city-based businessman got back Rs 21 lakh within just a fortnight of falling prey to an online fraud while transacting business with a Chinese company. Sandeep Sanklecha, who is engaged in international trading of air cooling system spar parts, had been doing business with Chinese firm Zhongshan Silk Import and Export Group based in Guangdong. Through several transactions, he had transferred Rs 21 lakh to the Chinese firm on January 20. However, when he called up the company next day seeking confirmation of the payment, Sanklecha was told that they had not received the money. Suspecting cyber fraud, Sanklecha immediately approached the Rajkot cyber-crime police station, which found that the Chinese company’s official email id was hacked and an email from a similar id was sent to Sanklecha’s firm asking them to transfer the amount to a new bank account. This bank account was that of Novo Banco in Portugal’s capital Lisbon. The cyber-crime sleuths immediately contacted this bank and requested them to stop the payment and refund the amount to the businessman as it was an online fraud. “On February 5, Sanklecha, who lives in Avanti Park on 150 ft Ring Road, received the full amount in his account. We acted on his information swiftly and detected the online fraud,” police official said. Police have cautioned businessmen engaged in international trade to be extra vigilant about such frauds and double check the authenticity of the firms. Businessmen have been requested to check through Indian trade portal to verify if the particular firm is engaged in import-export business with India or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-bizman-gets-back-rs-2ll-lost-in-online-fraud/articleshow/80755078.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarkashi: Three held with 12.9 gram smack||UTTARKASHI: Three men were held with 15.9 gram smack from Uttarkashi town on Sunday night, said superintendent of police (SP) Manikant Mishra in a press conference on Monday. While addressing media persons, the SP said, “On the basis of a tip off, the police conducted an operation on Sunday night. During checking, the police team arrested three people with 15.9 gram smack." He said, “The accused were identified as Usman Khan, Shaukeen and Shoyab Ali, all residents of Haridwar. They have all been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. We are conducting further investigation to secure more information regarding the drug nexus.” The police team, which nabbed the accused persons, will be rewarded with an amount of Rs 2,500, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-held-with-12-9-gram-smack/articleshow/80755284.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Five held for demanding Rs 9 lakh from doctor||MUMBAI: A gang of five have been arrested for threatening an ayurvedic doctor and his brother and demanding Rs 9 lakh from him on Monday. The accused have been identified as Guddu Ramzan Ali, Mohammed Ali Shaikh, Mohammed Zuhar, Kalim Khan and Umrao Khan. In his complaint, the victim, Dr. Mohammed Shaikh, said that the accused had threatened and extorted Rs 6 lakh from him. The accused then again demanded Rs 9 lakh from the victim. Dr. Shaikh then lodged a complaint with the cops. The crime branch, unit 3, laid a trap and arrested the accused. The cops said that there are 35 cases registered against the gang leader, Guddu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-held-for-demanding-rs-9l-from-doc/articleshow/80756339.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||As mercury rises, spectre of mosquitoes looms again in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With temperatures starting to rise, mosquitoes are back in action. Domestic breeding checkers have found 102 cases of positive breeding in households where fines and notices have been issued. Of the 102 positive breeding cases, 37 were detected in North Delhi Municipal Corporation areas, 55 in south and 10 in east Delhi. The weekly vector-borne disease report issued by the three municipal corporations on Monday stated that 177 notices had been issued for mosquito-genic conditions and prosecutions launched in 16 cases. The report highlighted that the first dengue case this year was reported last week, while malaria and chikungunya count remained zero till the first week of February. “Mosquitoes prefer environment above 30 degrees Celsius. Once the temperature lowers to about 20 degrees, they become less active, and do not function below 10 degrees. Now, when the outdoor temperature will start to fall, they will try to get inside houses in the evenings,” a public health official said. A civic official said their teams found that the most positive breeding sites were indoors rather than outdoors. “Besides keeping the doors and the windows closed during the evenings, people should also periodically check for potential indoor breeding sites,” the official added. The analysis of annual mosquito breeding data from the three civic bodies showed that peri-domestic containers, such as money plant, vase, flower and bird pots, accounted for the largest chunk of breeding sites cases (38%), while the domestic water storage containers came second at 33%. Desert cooler and over-head tanks came at the third and fourth spot, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-mercury-rises-spectre-of-mosquitoes-looms-again/articleshow/80756347.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||From car to cab, parents eye safe commute options||Souvik Ghosh will take leave from work on Friday when his son’s school reopens for in-person classes almost after a year. He will drop his son who is in the tenth standard and then fetch him from his north Kolkata school in a taxi because he does not want him to travel in a bus or a pool car. Simran Chopra is anxious about her son attending classes after almost a year but she has decided to trust the school on the safety measures the authorities have claimed they have taken. But she won’t take any chances and send her son to school in their own car instead of public transport. Mallika Sengupta and her husband Saikat are contemplating with the idea of hiring a chauffeur to ferry their son to school and back as both are working. The week which will mark the reopening of senior section in many schools rekindling hope of a restart after almost a year of closure due to the pandemic, has begun on an anxious note for thousands of parents across the city. Most parents have been busy figuring out ways on how to send their kids to school on February 12 in safest possible way. While some have decided to take lave from work to ferry their child to school and back, others have been making calls to their car pool drivers enquiring how many children will they be ferrying on Friday. A lot of working parents with a vehicle at their disposal are toying with the idea of hiring a chauffeur. “Sending my son to school in a crowded public bus or pool car will defeat the entire purpose of all safety measures in schools. Since the school is located at a distance from our residence I cannot let him take the taxi alone. So, I have decided to take leave from work on Friday,” said Souvik Ghosh, an employee of a private firm. While schools have assured parents of all the safety measures recommended by the government, the commute from home to school and back is still a problem area for parents. “Both of us are working and it might not be possible to take leave for more than a couple of days. We must plan long term because this situation is going to prevail, so we are thinking of hiring a chauffeur to drop and pick our son from school,” said Mallika Sengupta, whose son is in the ninth standard of a school off EM Bypass. Many parents are calling up their old pool car drivers to know if they are going to provide the service and the safety measures they are going to take. “In most schools only, students of classes X and XII have bene called which means the pressure on pool cars will be much less. I have assured our pool car driver that I will pay him extra money if he promises not to ferry more than two students in his car. He has agreed,” said Sukla Debnath whose son is in the tenth standard in a Park Circus school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-car-to-cab-parents-eye-safe-commute-options/articleshow/80756330.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||BJP attacks Maharashtra govt, seeks CBI probe in murder case||MUMBAI: BJP’s Ranchi unit on Monday criticized the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government for “covering up the killing of sadhus” in Palghar in June and urged the Centre to initiate a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the sailor’s murder in the same area. BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das said the party wanted a thorough probe into Dubey’s murder. BJP leader Ram Kadam had earlier said that there was lawlessness in the state and demanded justice for the family of the murdered sailor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-demands-cbi-probe/articleshow/80756949.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Food for thought: Local women lend a hand||NEW DELHI: After a few supposed “local residents” staged a protest at Singhu border a few days ago demanding that the farmers vacate the road, a few women were found coming forward to extend their support to the protest. The women, who are local residents, said they were helping prepare food at the site. Khushi, a 25-year-old resident of Narela, has been coming to Singhu border for the past four days. While chopping vegetables, she said, “I was very sad when I saw farmers being blamed for the violence. In what smacks of a conspiracy, a few people staged a protest here asking the farmers to leave. I decided to come here daily to show solidarity with the farmers. My family supports my decision to do sewa here.” Nagina Shah, who lives in Singhu village, said, “My husband is a labourer and we understand the pain and struggle of farmers. Without farmers, there will be no food. When I’m here, my in-laws take care of my four children.” Shah comes around 9am and usually leaves by 5pm. “The farmers have been feeding scores of locals for over two months without any bias. It is our duty to help them in their fight for justice. They also give us food to take home for our family,” she said. Roshni Mishra (45), who was preparing food at a langar, said, “A section of people have been spreading rumours that the protest by farmers is causing inconvenience to locals, who want them to leave. These people never objected in the last two months. Farmers sow enough food for themselves. Without them, we will die of hunger. It is disheartening that farmers are camping on the road braving cold and rain to fight for their rights. Moved by their plight, I started coming here last week.” Amarjeet Singh, a farmer from Punjab, said, “Some people living in the adjoining villages have been helping us prepare food. We are happy that they are supporting us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/food-for-thought-local-women-lend-a-hand/articleshow/80756345.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 9, 2021||Goa||FC Goa snatch a draw from jaws of defeat against Mumbai City||Too bad if you missed this one. A terrific fightback, a stunning goal and a late, late equaliser from Ishan Pandita saw FC Goa hold Mumbai City FC 3-3 in a stunning Indian Super League (ISL) encounter at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Monday. With Goa and Mumbai locking horns, you would always expect beautiful football. With Sergio Lobera, former coach of Goa, at the other end, there would definitely be drama. And this match lived up to the big expectations. Mumbai stunned Goa with two quick goals from Hugo Boumous and Adam Le Fondre inside the first 25 minutes. But Goa fought back, and it all started with a wonderful long-range strike from Glan Martins just before the break. Igor Angulo levelled terms for Goa in the 51st minute but Rowllin Borges changed the tide with a close tap in in the final minute of regulation time. However, there was more to come. Again, it was Pandita who rescued Goa with a stunning header in the fifth minute of added time. The forward who has had stints in Spain now has three goals to his name in just 21 minutes of ISL football across six games. Dropping points, however, won’t hurt Mumbai as they guaranteed themselves a place in the play-offs with 34 points from 16 games. The fifth straight draw helped Goa regain their third spot in the standings with 23 points from 16 outings. Mumbai have been the team with most goals in the first session and Goa needed to weather that early storm. The teams with similar styles of play had equal number of ball possession in the opening minutes. Mumbai looked more determined to score with Adam Le Fondre and Hugo Boumous coming close. They finally got the breakthrough in the 20th minute with help from Edu Bedia. The Goa captain was returning after serving a suspension and lost the ball at the edge of the opponent’s box. Le Fondre got hold of the ball and sent it through for Boumous, who was unmarked at the centre. The French attacker stormed into the rival box, rounded off goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh with ease and scored. Mumbai played with confidence after the opener. They had scored the most goals through set pieces and took their tally to 14, five minutes later. They knew Goa had conceded 12 of their 16 goals through set pieces and exposed them again. Bipin Singh’s corner sailed over the Goa defence and found Hernan Santana, whose header was blocked by Dheeraj with a reflex save, but the ball fell straight to Le Fondre who was allowed time and space to head home. Goa were rattled with two goals in the span of five minutes and tried hard to regroup defensively. They did have a chance when Seriton Fernandes floated the ball in the box but Amrinder Singh parried away Angulo’s header. Goa did pull one back before the break as Glan’s venomous strike from distance had no answer from Amrinder, easily the best goalkeeper in ISL at the moment. Goa started the second half with more intent as Glan moved deeper in midfield to allow Edu move up behind Angulo. But it was Alberto Noguera’s seventh assist that allowed the Spanish forward to head in Goa’s second. With 10 minutes remaining, Rowllin was in disbelief as he missed a sitter. Soon, he made amends, giving finishing touches to a free-kick from Boumous. Goa coach Juan Ferrando brought in Pandita at that moment and it paid off as the super sub headed in a cross from Edu to keep Goa’s nine-match unbeaten run intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-snatch-a-draw-from-jaws-of-defeat-against-mumbai-city/articleshow/80757659.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Friends shoot ‘fun video’ of jump from Vidyasagar Setu, one feared drowned||KOLKATA: A 22-year-old youth is feared to have drowned in the Hooghly on Sunday afternoon while attempting a dangerous stunt by jumping off the Vidyasagar Setu deck, which was recorded on a cellphone camera. The chilling video taken by his friends from atop the bridge shows Zakir Sardar jumping off and hitting the water 200 ft below. Unlike his friend Md Dasdagir Alam, who had jumped moments earlier and resurfaced after entering the water, Zakir did not. Crucial time was lost as Dasdagir did not disclose to the river traffic police that Zakir was missing after a fisherman’s boat rescued him from mid-river handed him to the cops. It was only after Zakir’s father lodged a missing person’s complaint with at the Hastings police station on Monday morning and cops got hold of the video that they learnt Zakir had also jumped off the bridge the previous afternoon. Till late on Monday morning, attempts to trace him by the Disaster Management Group divers proved futile. The answer to Zakir’s accident lies in the video that showed him strike the water sideways unlike Dasdagir, who dived in vertically. Divers said Zakir might have had suffered fractures in the impact with the water surface and damaged internal organs when he hit the water horizontally, and might have had lost consciousness. A resident of Tiljala in southeast Kolkata, Zakir, Dasdagir and three others reached the second Hooghly bridge on bikes, parked them near the kerb on the central section, where the deck is at the highest point from the river and then attempted the stunt. In the video, the friends are heard urging a somewhat nervous Zakir to leap after cheering Dasdagir’s confident jump. When Zakir did not surface after the jump, the friends were heard frantically asking Dasdagir, who was still in the water, to look for him. The video ended abruptly as the youths on the bridge fled in panic. Cops are questioning the youths to check if there was a bet involved that prompted Zakir to take the fatal jump and why they did not alert police. Dasdagir, a resident of G J Khan Road, is an autorickshaw driver. He claimed they wanted to shoot a “fun video” and had performed stunts earlier as well, including one off Howrah bridge that had been recorded by his friends. Neither his family nor that of others had any clue about the thrill-seeking misadventure that they indulged in. In the past, people have jumped off Howrah bridge, which is at a lesser height over the water than Vidyasagar Setu. Most of them have been suicide attempts. A couple of years ago, Kolkata Port Trust that maintains the bridge fixed a high fence along the railing to discourage such attempts. There is no such barrier on Vidyasagar Setu. The incident has raised some disturbing questions over how the site on the bridge, less than 1 km from state secretariat Nabanna, was unguarded. Police are also looking at whether there was any negligence or delay on the part of river traffic police in launching rescue operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friends-shoot-fun-video-of-jump-from-vidyasagar-setu-1-feared-drowned/articleshow/80756379.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Additional police force withdrawn from borders as situation calms down||NEW DELHI: With no major trouble having been reported from farmers’ protest sites in the past few days, the Delhi Police top brass has decided to withdraw additional personnel deployed from across the city at the border points of the capital. The personnel have been instructed to go back to their respective units and districts. Sources say the decision has been taken as day-to-day functioning of the police force was being heavily impacted. Investigating officers couldn’t even go to court for trials and proceedings, they said. In an order issued by special commissioner Muktesh Chander, it was said the additional staff would go back to their respective districts or units with effect from Tuesday. All districts where additional force is deployed were directed to relieve the force mobilised from Delhi Police by 6pm on Monday and the personnel would report to their respective district/units for further duties. The order also mentioned that the districts concerned might mobilise additional force from their own resources to augment police arrangements during any farmers’ rally in their respective districts. On the Republic Day, farmers, protesting at Delhi’s borders against three central farm laws and demanding their repeal, were allowed to take out tractor rallies on pre-decided routes. However, several groups broke away from these routes, prompting clashes with police at different points across the city. Many protesters reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them hoisted a religious flag on its ramparts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/additional-police-force-withdrawn-from-borders-as-situation-calms-down/articleshow/80756377.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||147 cops, including PSI who managed shelter homes, take the jab||Nagpur: Police sub-inspector Priti Kulmethe of crime branch, who worked tirelessly to help the migrants during the lockdown, was among the 10 officers who took the Covid vaccine on the second day of vaccination programme at police hospital in Takli.The second day witnessed a 50% turnout with 147 out of 290 personnel who received messages taking the Covishield vaccine shot. On the first day, around 55 out of 200, including 17 cops, were administered the vaccine.Kulmethe was part of the crime branch which looked after management of shelter homes where the migrants were housed during the first lockdown phase. Crime branch was roped in as some of the migrants were turning violent. The sub-inspector toiled round-the-clock to look after requirements of the migrants, especially women and children. She was also instrumental in arranging various materials for the women with the help of social workers and also sponsored them on many occasions. “We had a challenge to take up a social cause and kept duty ahead of health concern,” she said.A city girl turned officer Kulmethe said she felt no uneasiness after taking the jab. “We waited in the emergency lounge in case there was any side-effect but had no uncomfortable feeling,’ said the dynamic young officer.Chief medical officer of police hospital, Dr Sandeep Shinde, said the personnel were repeatedly being informed through wireless about the ongoing vaccine drive. “We have also given information about the timing for the coming days,” he said.On the second day, there was no Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) was reported at the police hospital centre where healthcare workers from Gittikhadan Colony area were administered the jab. “Police hospital is also catering to the general public as it’s a designated Covid centre. There had been no reported AEFI,” said Dr Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/147-cops-including-psi-who-managed-shelter-homes-take-the-jab/articleshow/80755306.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 9, 2021||Thane||Thane: Bunty-Babli couple con trader of Rs 4 lakh||THANE: A trader from Thane was allegedly duped of Rs 4 lakh by a couple who sold him a fake gold necklace on Sunday. The accused seem to have taken inspiration from a Bollywood flick, Bunty aur Babli. “The accused had approached the victim saying that they had a necklace that was unearthed from their ancestral property in Gujarat. They then told him that they were selling the necklace at a price that was lower than the market rate as they faced financial problems,” said API Arvind Wulvi from Wagle Estate police station. The accused first tricked the trader by showing him real gold beads. After the victim checked that they were authentic, he agreed to purchase the necklace. — Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/bunty-babli-couple-con-trader-of-rs-4l/articleshow/80756351.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||‘Clear fee arrears before sending kids to school’||Kolkata: Now that schools are re-opening their campuses, authorities have started debating whether to allow kids of parents, who have not paid fees, to attend physical classes or not. Many are sending out “one last reminder” to guardians— whose children have already been removed from online classes—to clear their dues to avoid “a scene on campus on the day of re-opening”. Most schools have decided to set the clearance deadline for February 15 by which all arrears should be paid before the students are sent to school. While maximum institutes are starting with classes X and XII and then moving to classes IX and XI, the authorities pointed out that they were being forced to be more lenient towards the board-year students given that they were about to appear for their exams. While almost nothing can be done for the outgoing Class XII students, except stopping them from attending lab practicals and doubt-clearing sessions on the campus, teachers said it would be an “inhuman” approach. But, they said, schools had decided not to handle other classes leniently. Parents would have to understand the importance of clearing dues before using the physical infrastructure of the school, authorities said. While drawing up a list of defaulters from classes IX to XII, administrations at most schools found some had not paid even for 2019-20 session. “In a circular, we are making it clear parents have time till February 15 to clear dues that have accumulated up to December 31. We are giving them time till March 31 to clear the rest,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls High School. Of the students in classes X and XII, 25%-28% are defaulters there. At South Point, students of classes X and XII will come in first, followed by IX and XI for their annual exams. “They will have to clear their dues before coming back to the campus,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson for South Point and MP Birla Foundation. A large number of parents at Adamas International School staged an agitation in front of the SDO office on Monday, saying they were not being charged as per the HC order. “We have been asked to pay 50% of food and transport charges, neither of which has been used during the pandemic,” said Sumit Agarwal, a parent. But the school reasoned, “We have to pay the salaries of transport and kitchen staff.” Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, is framing a “last” circular for defaulting parents. “We expect parents to clear their dues and then send their children. We have given them many concessions and kept extending deadlines,” he said. This was echoed by DPS Newtown principal, Sonali Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clear-fee-arrears-before-sending-kids-to-school/articleshow/80756348.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 9, 2021||Delhi||50-year-old stabbed to death in central Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 50-year-old man was stabbed to death at his rented accommodation in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar on Monday. The wife of the deceased, Shiv Kumar, has claimed that a thief entered the house and stabbed him. However, police said the intruder angle seemed unlikely. A PCR call was received at 2.30am about a person being stabbed by a thief. Police reached the spot and found Kumar lying on a bed with stab wound near the neck. A source revealed that his wife was the prime suspect in the case. “We suspect his wife in connivance with two others got Kumar killed. The suspects have been identified and raids are on to nab them,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-year-old-stabbed-to-death-in-central-delhi/articleshow/80756374.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Over 55,000 engineering seats vacant in Maharashtra, pharmacy draws many||PUNE: As many as 55,444 seats (44.7%) of the over 1.23 lakh seats in the first-year engineering courses across the state remained vacant at the end of the Centralised Admission Process for the academic year 2020-21. Last year, of the 1,27,537 seats in engineering colleges, there were 62,086 vacancies. Only 6% seats were vacant in pharmacy this year and 32% seats in management degree programmes, data released by the state Common Entrance Test Cell indicated. DV Jadhav, joint director of Directorate of Technical Education for Pune region, said, “Students have been preferring computer science and information technology streams over others. Most companies are placing students who have sound software skills and this means fewer students are choosing core streams like mechanical or civil engineering.” Amol Suryavanshi, who teaches at the mechanical engineering department of Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, said students’ preferences keep changing every few years. “In a few years, the automobile industry will pick up and with so much talk about electric vehicles and EV giants like Tesla’s entry in India, there will be a market for mechanical students soon. But, such students should know basic programming language and basic electronics. The future is about multidisciplinary engineers,” Suryavanshi said. Kuldip Charak, director of faculty of management, MBA & MCA, Navsahyadri Group of Institutes, said the high vacancies are due to the delay at the beginning of the admission process in the state. “Many states and even deemed universities within Maharashtra had completed admissions before ours began. Admissions in rural and semi-rural belts have been fewer than last year. The process of admission was cumbersome for the students. The state should have accepted the All-India Council for Technical Education’s notification which permitted admissions to management institutes without CET based on last year’s graduation marks when many students were unable to appear for various CETs,” he added. Ramdas Zol, president of Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas, said this is a good time for pharmacy education as there were 7,000 more applications this year when compared with last year. It showed that interest is high, he added. “Secondly, this year, the DTE reduced the eligibility criteria from 50% marks and 45% marks in standard XII for general and reserved category students to 45% and 40% respectively. Moreover, the entire talk around Covid-19 vaccination has led to students thinking of careers in pharmaceuticals. Even IT companies are recruiting students from pharmacy and the job possibility has increased leading to more admissions,” Zol added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-55k-engg-seats-vacant-in-state-pharmacy-draws-many/articleshow/80756366.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: From today, schools to tell kids, parents of campus dos and don’ts||KOLKATA: Most schools are about to hold intense counselling sessions from Tuesday for both parents and students about the do’s and don’ts on the premises once campuses re-open on Friday. Some schools registered students for such sessions on Monday. With just three days to go, schools also finalized their Covid “task force” on Monday. They started their hourly drills so that nothing is left to chance. Every minute of school time has been rationed with war like alacrity. Sanitisation and fogging of every nook and cranny, changed and distanced seating arrangements in the designated classrooms, sealing off water coolers so that there is no crowding near them, getting batches of new housekeeping staff to take position for hourly cleaning of toilets are some of the physical changes that are being done in every school of the city under strict supervision of the administration. “It’s a challenge and we have to take it head on and we are ready,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Children of Class XII and their parents of South Point School registered on Monday for a detailed counselling session to be given on Tuesday by teachers. “They will be told about what they can do and what they cannot, once they are on campus. They will have to adhere to each step. Though it’s their old campus, these are changed times,” explained Krishna Damani. Most schools have finalised the Covid task force that will be continuously doing the rounds of the lobbies, toilets and all other places that are being opened up to students. Take the case of DPS Ruby Park and DPS New Town. In both these schools, the teams have started doing the drill. “We are dealing with children after all, who will be made to go through a difficult situation where they cannot loiter, cannot gather in groups, need to wash hands frequently, keep masks on. Our team will keep an eye on all this and encourage students along the way,” said Sonali Sen, principal of DPS New Town. Most schools have employed additional housekeeping staff who are being made to clean toilets on an hourly basis even these are not being used, just to get them into the habit. At Nava Nalanda School, principal Arijit Mitra is daily supervising sanitising and fogging. “We are going to have short hours so that children are on campus for intense teaching for shorter duration. They will be let off before lunch break,” he said. Schools have also decided to start with 15 minutes to half an hour of counselling on campus everyday before class starts. This is replacing assembly. “During this time they will be told that even when outside the school, they should keep safe distance with others because they must remember that they might otherwise become potential carriers of the deadly virus,” said Loveleen Saigal, principal of Birla High School. Each boy has been given details about which staircase to take to reach his classroom. This school and Lakshmipat Singhania Academy have circulated videos of preparedness among parents, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-today-schools-to-tell-kids-parents-of-campus-dos-and-donts/articleshow/80756365.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Nal Stop flyover work speeds up, may be ready by August||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has expedited the construction of the Nal Stop double-decker flyover, aiming to complete it in the next six months. MahaMetro said it has completed 30% of the civil work on the two-tier facility, which would carry both the Metro rail (top tier) and the vehicular traffic. Officials said they aim to complete the remaining two-thirds by August. The vehicular tier of the flyover would be supported by the same pillars that would support the Metro viaduct. MahaMetro said it moved to constructing the ramps and the central portion of the flyover. The vehicular tier will comprise separate, 6.1-metre wide, two-lane wings on both sides of the pillar. One wing would carry traffic from Paud Phata towards Deccan Gymkhana, while the other wing would carry vehicles from the other side. A MahaMetro official said there would be adequate space for buses and other vehicles to travel, as well as footpaths for pedestrians, on the flyover,. Recently, MahaMetro and Pune Municipal Corporation officials and local representatives held a meeting to discuss the execution of the project. Hemant Sonavane, general manager (public relations) of MahaMetro, said, “After inspection, we decided to provide at least 4 metres for the carriageway and 1.6 metres for the footpath on both wings. The landing of the ramps will be designed accordingly. In fact more space will be available in the carriageway in parts.” Apart from the carriageway, MahaMetro is also moving underground utility lines as a part of the project. PMC has approved the project and is also providing financial assistance. A MahaMetro official said the work would gather pace in the next few days. “The construction of the ramps is a crucial part of the project, considering the huge traffic flow on this road through the day. We will work in coordination with the civic administration and traffic police to execute traffic management plans to ensure minimum hardship to commuters,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nal-stop-flyover-work-speeds-up-may-be-ready-by-august/articleshow/80756353.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 9, 2021||Salem||Chennai meets only 18% of day’s vaccine target||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 464 cases and four deaths to the state Covid-19 registry on Monday, when 8,619 people volunteered to take the vaccine. There were 4,354 people still seeking treatment while the case tally moved to 8,42,261 and death toll to 12,387. Until 7pm on Monday, 5,947 healthcare providers, 1,384 frontline workers and 1,288 police personnel took the vaccine. With this, 1,74,749 people have taken their first dose of vaccine against Covid-19. In absolute numbers, Chennai vaccinated 1,197 people – 18% of its capacity to vaccinate 6,700 people in 65 vaccination centres on Monday. Coimbatore followed with 748 people vaccinated against a target of 1,600. Aranthangi health district vaccinated just 13 people against its capacity to vaccinate 1,300. Dindugal and Tirupattur vaccinated 25 people each though they had a capacity to vaccinate 1,100 people. In the past three weeks, Coimbatore has inoculated 12,039 against its capacity to vaccinate 14,100 people. Of this, 11,821 were healthcare providers, 133 family welfare officers and 85 were police personnel. Salem and the Nilgiris have vaccinated nearly 60% of their capacities, but other districts have achieved less than 50% of their targets. In six districts – Aranthangi, Vellore, Ranipet, Pudukottai, Tenkasi and Tiruvannamalai — at least 90% of the targeted population did not show up. The state health department, which had written to the Centre seeking permission to vaccinate the elderly and vulnerable groups, is awaiting reply. “We have asked the state election commission to share the list of people above 50 years. We are awaiting the data,” said Dr K Vinay Kumar, joint commissioner of immunisation. On Monday, Chennai reported two deaths, followed by one each in Ranipet and Tirunelveli. Barring Tenkasi, all other districts reported cases. With 143 new cases, Chennai topped the fresh cases table, followed by Coimbatore (49). All other districts reported less than 30 cases and 23 districts reported cases in single digit. Together, the 11 northern districts had 250 fresh cases and three deaths. This included 215 cases and two deaths in the Chennai region – Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. While the west reported 120 cases, the ten southern and central districts reported 49 and 44 fresh infections each. The southern districts reported one death. In the past 24 hours, 495 people were discharged taking the total recoveries in the state to 8,25,520. While Chennai still had 1,551 active cases, Coimbatore came next with 455 infections. Perambalur had five people under treatment, four other districts had less than 20 active cases. While Kallakurichi had nine patients, Ramanathapuram had 10, Tuticorin 12 and Ariyalur 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/city-meets-only-18-of-days-vaccine-target/articleshow/80764148.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Erode||Chennai meets only 18% of day’s vaccine target||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 464 cases and four deaths to the state Covid-19 registry on Monday, when 8,619 people volunteered to take the vaccine. There were 4,354 people still seeking treatment while the case tally moved to 8,42,261 and death toll to 12,387. Until 7pm on Monday, 5,947 healthcare providers, 1,384 frontline workers and 1,288 police personnel took the vaccine. With this, 1,74,749 people have taken their first dose of vaccine against Covid-19. In absolute numbers, Chennai vaccinated 1,197 people – 18% of its capacity to vaccinate 6,700 people in 65 vaccination centres on Monday. Coimbatore followed with 748 people vaccinated against a target of 1,600. Aranthangi health district vaccinated just 13 people against its capacity to vaccinate 1,300. Dindugal and Tirupattur vaccinated 25 people each though they had a capacity to vaccinate 1,100 people. In the past three weeks, Coimbatore has inoculated 12,039 against its capacity to vaccinate 14,100 people. Of this, 11,821 were healthcare providers, 133 family welfare officers and 85 were police personnel. Salem and the Nilgiris have vaccinated nearly 60% of their capacities, but other districts have achieved less than 50% of their targets. In six districts – Aranthangi, Vellore, Ranipet, Pudukottai, Tenkasi and Tiruvannamalai — at least 90% of the targeted population did not show up. The state health department, which had written to the Centre seeking permission to vaccinate the elderly and vulnerable groups, is awaiting reply. “We have asked the state election commission to share the list of people above 50 years. We are awaiting the data,” said Dr K Vinay Kumar, joint commissioner of immunisation. On Monday, Chennai reported two deaths, followed by one each in Ranipet and Tirunelveli. Barring Tenkasi, all other districts reported cases. With 143 new cases, Chennai topped the fresh cases table, followed by Coimbatore (49). All other districts reported less than 30 cases and 23 districts reported cases in single digit. Together, the 11 northern districts had 250 fresh cases and three deaths. This included 215 cases and two deaths in the Chennai region – Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. While the west reported 120 cases, the ten southern and central districts reported 49 and 44 fresh infections each. The southern districts reported one death. In the past 24 hours, 495 people were discharged taking the total recoveries in the state to 8,25,520. While Chennai still had 1,551 active cases, Coimbatore came next with 455 infections. Perambalur had five people under treatment, four other districts had less than 20 active cases. While Kallakurichi had nine patients, Ramanathapuram had 10, Tuticorin 12 and Ariyalur 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/city-meets-only-18-of-days-vaccine-target/articleshow/80764147.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Locals urge collector to rename village||ed:saju Coimbatore: As many as 40 residents of Karunya Nagar, a tribal village in Maduvarayapuram panchayat, petitioned the collector on Monday, urging him to restore the original name of the village - Nalloor Vayal. In 1986, when Karunya University started functioning, university authorities had named the campus Karunya Nagar, said Devaraj, a resident. “In panchayat records and government documents in 1992, all places under pin code 641114 are shown as Nalloor Vayal. However, now government documents show that our patta lands and houses are in Karunya Nagar. But the area never belonged to the university and has been our property for years,” he said. The new name crept into government records in 1995, when the post office was renamed Karunya Nagar post office. “Soon, government departments, including the transport corporation, changed name boards. Canara Bank changed its branch name. The highways department and police also adapted the name,” said Devaraj. “Thus, Nalloor Vayal disappeared.” Documents like Aadhaar card, ration card, voter ID and even passport have Karunya Nagar instead of Nalloor Vayal, Devaraj said. “Nalloor Vayal, a part of our tribal culture and tradition, has been lost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/locals-urge-collector-to-rename-village/articleshow/80756955.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC denies plea challenging fees paid to BMC’s counsel||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday rejected a petition filed by a man who challenged the “huge sums of money” paid as legal fees by the civic administration to senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who the BMC had engaged to oppose a plea filed by actor Knagana Ranaut against the demolition at her bungalow in Bandra in September 2020. The HC said, “What fees should be charged by senior advocates and advocate on record, cannot be decided by the court.” It also said, “It is just like any private client. Government entity can appoint senior counsel. It’s BMC’s decision as to which matter is important or petty.” Sharad Yadav, the petitioner said he was a public-spirited person and RTI activist. He questioned Chinoy’s appointment and the Rs 82.5 lakh fees paid to him by BMC in a “petty matter”. Yadav received the fee details under the RTI Act. He sought orders to strip Chinoy of his ‘senior advocate’ designation. At this, bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said, “We do not understand why such petitions are filed....” Yadav sought a CBI probe and “prosecution of the offenders”, alleging “loss to the exchequer”. His argument was BMC lost the petition filed by Ranaut and thus Chinoy should return the fee. The HC asked how the counsel can be at fault for the decision. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC said the civic body has a right to decide who to appoint as a counsel. A reasoned order will be available later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-denies-plea-challenging-fees-paid-to-bmcs-counsel/articleshow/80756964.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai meets only 18% of day’s vaccine target||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 464 cases and four deaths to the state Covid-19 registry on Monday, when 8,619 people volunteered to take the vaccine. There were 4,354 people still seeking treatment while the case tally moved to 8,42,261 and death toll to 12,387. Until 7pm on Monday, 5,947 healthcare providers, 1,384 frontline workers and 1,288 police personnel took the vaccine. With this, 1,74,749 people have taken their first dose of vaccine against Covid-19. In absolute numbers, Chennai vaccinated 1,197 people – 18% of its capacity to vaccinate 6,700 people in 65 vaccination centres on Monday. Coimbatore followed with 748 people vaccinated against a target of 1,600. Aranthangi health district vaccinated just 13 people against its capacity to vaccinate 1,300. Dindugal and Tirupattur vaccinated 25 people each though they had a capacity to vaccinate 1,100 people. In the past three weeks, Coimbatore has inoculated 12,039 against its capacity to vaccinate 14,100 people. Of this, 11,821 were healthcare providers, 133 family welfare officers and 85 were police personnel. Salem and the Nilgiris have vaccinated nearly 60% of their capacities, but other districts have achieved less than 50% of their targets. In six districts – Aranthangi, Vellore, Ranipet, Pudukottai, Tenkasi and Tiruvannamalai — at least 90% of the targeted population did not show up. The state health department, which had written to the Centre seeking permission to vaccinate the elderly and vulnerable groups, is awaiting reply. “We have asked the state election commission to share the list of people above 50 years. We are awaiting the data,” said Dr K Vinay Kumar, joint commissioner of immunisation. On Monday, Chennai reported two deaths, followed by one each in Ranipet and Tirunelveli. Barring Tenkasi, all other districts reported cases. With 143 new cases, Chennai topped the fresh cases table, followed by Coimbatore (49). All other districts reported less than 30 cases and 23 districts reported cases in single digit. Together, the 11 northern districts had 250 fresh cases and three deaths. This included 215 cases and two deaths in the Chennai region – Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. While the west reported 120 cases, the ten southern and central districts reported 49 and 44 fresh infections each. The southern districts reported one death. In the past 24 hours, 495 people were discharged taking the total recoveries in the state to 8,25,520. While Chennai still had 1,551 active cases, Coimbatore came next with 455 infections. Perambalur had five people under treatment, four other districts had less than 20 active cases. While Kallakurichi had nine patients, Ramanathapuram had 10, Tuticorin 12 and Ariyalur 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-meets-only-18-of-days-vaccine-target/articleshow/80756368.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||STD V-VIII reopen, but only 10% kids back on campus||Nagpur: Only 10% of the city’s middle school section came back on the reopening day on Monday, a sharp contrast to the over 30% who were present in rural schools when they had reopened on January 27. Even within the city, there was a stark difference in attendance figures between private and civic-body run schools. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) schools recorded a strong 34% attendance with over 2,300 of their students back on campus. Chinaman Vanjari, district education officer, said that things will improve slightly. “Overall, it was a good day considering that it’s the first day for city schools. In rural areas, we have seen attendance figures zooming as parents get more comfortable and realize that ample care is being taken in schools,” said Vanjari. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh), said students seemed excited to be back on campus. “Right from STD V-VIII, there was almost a festive kind of feeling among students. This, of course, with adhering to physical distancing norms. We had set up a mobile phone in the classroom so that the lecture could be broadcast live for those who are unable to attend,” said Tiwari.While NMC gave the green signal for reopening of middle schools under the jurisdiction from Monday, those in rural areas started from January 27 itself. The stunning response to schools reopening there has taken even the education officials by surprise. Within a week of reopening, the number of STD V-VIII students attending school has almost doubled. Vanjari said, “In rural areas, nearly 33,000 students were present on day one. On February 4, we had 60,000 students back in school.”While the ‘doubling time’ for rural Nagpur has indeed been phenomenal, the rising attendance trend is visible across Maharashtra. While the latest state level attendance report was not available till the time of filing of this report, a senior education official told TOI that the rise was ‘encouraging’. “It’s like word of mouth publicity is working for us. We have always said that schools are safe as all precautions are being taken,” said the official. STATISTICS (Only for STD V-VIII & within city limits)Students: 227,305Present: 22,208Schools: 992Reopened: 953Teachers: 5,228Present: 4,754Teachers undergone RTPCR tests: 5,038Teachers tested positive: 20Total non-teaching staff: 2,317Non-teaching staff undergone RTPCR tests: 1,969Tested positive: 14 Trecorded just 10% of attendance after reopening on Monday. About 30% of rura||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-v-viii-reopen-but-only-10-kids-back-on-campus/articleshow/80755312.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||City shivers at 9.4 deg C, cold wave to stay in Vidarbha for 3 days||Nagpur: Sudden drop in mercury has brought the chills back in the city. Minimum temperature on Monday was 9.4 degree C which, for the first time, dropped to single digit this year. The minimum temperature was 5 degrees below normal. Other parts of Vidarbha also reported below normal temperatures.Earlier this winter season, minimum temperature in single digit was recorded only once on December 21, 2020, when mercury had dropped to 8.6 degree C in the city. After experiencing above normal temperature for almost the entire January, Nagpurians are getting a cold wave feel since February 5. According to India Meteorological Department, Vidarbha would witness further decrease in minimum temperature in the next couple of days. The northerly winds are the main reason behind the drop in temperature. The present cold wave is going to stay at least for the next 3-4 days, said sources. “Nagpur, parts of Chhattisgarh and parts of Madhya Pradesh experienced showers in first week of February. This has brought the cold wave back,” said an IMD official.Along with Nagpur, Gondia and Bhandara also reported 5 degree below normal temperature on Monday confirming that the cold wave is widespread in East Vidarbha. Amravati, Yavatmal and other parts of the region are also witnessing cool weather, but conditions are not like cold wave in these districts. In first week of February, a confluence zone was formed due to the merging of dry and cold winds from northwest direction. It brought rains for Nagpur and east Vidarbha. The weather activities then took a shift towards the eastern side and the weather started turning dry. Now, the entire Vidarbha region has no visible cloud cover over it and the influence of the northwestern cool winds is dominating to bring colder mornings and evenings for the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-shivers-at-9-4-deg-c-cold-wave-to-stay-in-vidarbha-for-3-days/articleshow/80755321.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Tigress starves to death in Wardha forest div||Nagpur: A five-year-old tigress died due to “starvation” at Bramhanwada in the Arvi forest range on Monday. This is the seventh tiger death in Maharashtra in the last 39 days.“The carcass was found deep inside the forest by the patrolling staff. All the body parts of the tigress were intact, and hence poaching has been ruled out. There are also no villages nearby,” said assistant conservator of forests (ACF) BN Thakur, Wardha.Thakur said, “There were no injuries on the body of the animal and also no direct or indirect evidence to show that it died in a territorial fight. During the post-mortem, it was found that the tigress’s stomach was empty, indicating it had not consumed food for days. The carcass was putrefied and four days old but only a final post-mortem report will reveal the exact cause of the death.”However, Wardha NGOs questioned the starvation theory as there were 14-15 cattle kills in the area in the past. The last cattle kill was observed on January 14. “The forest officials should also look into the poisoning angle,” they said.The tigress was cremated as per the NTCA protocol in the presence of former honorary wildlife wardens of Wardha, Sanjay Ingle Teegaonkar and Koushal Mishra, both representatives of PCCF (wildlife) and NTCA.On January 1, four tigers were found poisoned in Umred-Karhandla-Poani Wildlife Sanctuary, one tiger was found dead in Sipna division in Melghat on January 21, while another in Bhadrawati range on January 27 and the latest in Arvi range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-starves-to-death-in-wardha-forest-div/articleshow/80755326.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 9, 2021||Trichy||Religious politics won’t work in TN, says Udhayanidhi Stalin||TRICHY: The DMK under the leadership of M K Stalin will regain the lost rights of the state and will be a government satisfying people’s demands in the first 100 days, said DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin on his second day of campaigning in Karur district on Monday. He said people have high hopes on Stalin and a frightened chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami woke up after a long slumber and waived farm loans. He said Prime Minister NarendraModi won throughout the country in general elections, but Tamil Nadu was the only exception as religious politics doesn’t work in this state. The administrative rights of the state have been pledged by AIADMK to the Centre, but it could not get Rs 15,000 crore, the state’s due. Questioning the government for rolling out Pongal gift of Rs 2,000 which should have been given during Diwali when the effect of Covid-19 was much worse, he said the move was made keeping an eye on the upcoming election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/religious-politics-wont-work-in-tn-says-udhayanidhi/articleshow/80756954.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Accused goon absconding, rape survivor reeling under fear||Nagpur: A 23-year-old rape survivor, who had lodged rape complaint against gangster Junaid Khan, is facing life threat as the dreaded goon is yet to be nabbed even after 21 days of filing the FIR. Khan, who has several offences including MCOCA against him, is learnt to have vowed to teach the complainant a lesson as his wife too was made a co-accused in the case. Sources stated police are well aware of the fact about Khan’s wide network base across different cities including Rajasthan where the survivor stayed. City police chief Amitesh Kumar and zonal DCP Vinita Sahu are monitoring the chase on a day-to-day basis and several teams have been pressed into action to nab Khan. Senior inspector Gajanan Kalyankar of Gittikhadan police station said, “Manual intelligence and technical details about Khan are being gathered.” The survivor, based in Rajasthan, had come to city in the second week of January this year to meet the gangster’s wife who had been her friend for several years. She had come to city to seek her help to mortgage a property. The survivor was staying at her friend’s residence where Khan had raped her in the early hours of January 18 last month. An offence was registered against Khan at Gittikhadan police station on the following day. Police had also made Khan’s wife and his friend as co-accused in the case as they were also present at the home. Though Khan’s wife and his friend were arrested, the gangster has remained elusive from the police dragnet despite several attempts being made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/accused-goon-absconding-rape-survivor-reeling-under-fear/articleshow/80755331.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Presidency to let students use library from March||Kolkata: Students from next month would be able to borrow books from the library after requisitioning them in advance, Presidency University officials assured the representatives of Presidency University Students’ Union who staged a day-long protest outside the campus on Monday. The officials also promised to meet the students on February 20 to discuss their demands and take measures to ensure they could study without any hindrance. Dean of students Arun Maity, who spoke to the students multiple times through the day, declined to comment but a senior official said some of the demands were met. “Those who want to borrow books from the library will be able to do so from next month but they will have to requisition them in advance. The procedure will be laid out soon. We will also sanitise the two hostels and the campus regularly,” said the official. The union members presented 11 demands, including reopening of libraries and labs, free vaccination for university stakeholders, resumption of field work, more time to complete UG 1 and PG 1 syllabuses and sanitization of hostels and campus. “The university authorities have accepted a couple of demands and promised a discussion on February 20,” said Debnil Dutta, a CR. Students at other colleges and universities have also been raising their concern over labs not reopening. “Students are suffering as they cannot use labs and libraries,” said Soumi Ghosh, a student at Rajabazar Science College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presidency-to-let-students-use-library-from-march/articleshow/80756371.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 9, 2021||Pune||Nod to civic body’s plan to form edu panel||Pune: The civic body has finally received the general body’s approval to form its education committee, albeit after a delay of around a year. Elected representatives of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be part of the 13-member committee, which will control around 200 schools and nearly 80,000 students. “The formation of the new committee will be a big relief for the civic education system. This will be helpful, particularly when the schools are reopening after remaining closed for long due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house in the PMC. PMC officials said names of the committee members would be declared soon. On Monday, the civic administration received the in-principle approval to its proposa l earlier tabled before the law department. It was then placed before the all-party committee in 2019. PMC officials said the proposal was tabled before the general body in October last year, but the final decision could not be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nod-to-civic-bodys-plan-to-form-edu-panel/articleshow/80756372.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Cops detain 2,600 repeat offenders in city since last Jan||Chennai: The city police have from January 2020 to February 7, 2021, apprehended about 2,614 criminals including 89 in January this year, and ahead of the state assembly , are monitoring about 3,705 classified criminals. History-sheeters hell bent on disrupting law and order are particularly under the radar and police have obtained arrest warrants whenever required from the courts concerned. Among those arrested last year are Nagendran, 45, who was charged with various offences including murder for hire and kidnapping businessmen, ‘inscription’ Ravi, 41, and 38-year-old Radhakrishnan. This year, notorious criminals such as ‘Kalvettu’ Ravi, ‘Ceasing’ Raja, Radha alias Radhakrishnan, Ennore Dhanasekaran, ‘Kakka Thoppu’ Balaji, ‘Arcot’ Suresh, ‘Madurai’ Senthil and ‘Thoppai’ Ganesan are among those nabbed. In the run-up to the assembly election, police are particularly trying to arrest absconding criminals. On the orders of police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, police are also monitoring those indirectly involved in criminal activities. A senior police officer said appropriate action has been taken under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to keep a close watch on rowdies and new offenders who disturb the peace of the public. Apart from the 3,705 offenders being monitored to prevent them from committing crimes through probation, 120 people have already been arrested and jailed for violating the affidavit. Accordingly, the bail of 158 offenders has been cancelled and they continue to remain in prisons under judicial custody. A total of 571 people have been jailed under the stringent Goondas Act since January 1 last year for various offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-detain-2600-repeat-offenders-in-city-since-last-jan/articleshow/80756376.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||ITI admissions round for SSC pupils till February 15||Pune: Students who have applied for Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) after passing the secondary school certificate supplementary exam have time till February 15 to confirm their admissions. The merit list of the new applicants was announced on Monday, and those who have received the institute of their choice, can confirm their admissions. This will be a special admission round only for the new applicants conducted by the state Directorate of Vocational Education and Training.So far, a total of 1.3 lakh admissions in private and government ITI was completed at the end of the regular rounds in Maharashtra. The Covid-19 has reduced the number of applications and admissions to ITI this year, director of DVET, Deependra Singh Kushwaha, said. The students were given an opportunity to fill new forms and also the current students could make changes in their forms till February 7 while the merit list was announced on Monday evening.Khushwaha said all the seats were being filled through the centralised admission process and all the institutes were told to disclose their vacancy list on the admissions portal to start the fresh round. “No students can take admission offline and at the institute’s level. They will have to undergo the online centralised process only to get admission to ITIs,” Khushwaha.The admissions will be held for the posts that are vacant in the institutes. This will also be the last chance for admissions, Khushwaha said. The students whose names will appear in the merit list will get a chance till February 15 to confirm their admissions. Those who have any doubts in the process can visit the nearest ITI to clarify their doubts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/iti-admissions-round-for-ssc-pupils-till-february-15/articleshow/80756370.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||AAT the heart of Covid: Protein level determines prevalence||MUMBAI: Deficiency in a particular human protein, more common in Europe and the US than in Asia, could explain why coronavirus is not spreading as fast in Asian countries. Scientists from the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani, West Bengal, have found a reason for the slower spread of a mutant of coronavirus in Asia compared to the West. The team has explained how higher levels of a human protein – neutrophil elastase – helps the virus to enter the human cell, multiply and also spread faster from infected individuals. This protein is kept in check by the biological system, which produces another protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT). AAT deficiency leads to higher levels of neutrophil elastase in cells, which in turn helps in faster spread of the virus. This deficiency is known to be much higher in Europe and America than among Asians. The study has been published in the journal, Infection, Genetics and Evolution. The team led by Nidhan Biswas and Partha Majumder observed that the rate of spread of the mutant virus – D614G – has been non-uniform across regions. The researchers say that, “…in order to reach 50% relative frequency, the 614G subtype took significantly longer time in East Asia (5.5 months) compared to Europe (2.15 months) as well as North-America (2.83 months).” “Many were speculating why coronavirus spreads differentially across geographies. The most popular speculation was the higher temperature in Asia was not congenial to its spread. We believed the cause had to be biological, rather than physical or social,” said Majumder. The researchers linked the differential spread to an additional cleavage site created by the D614G mutant virus, for entry into the human cell. “The creation of this additional ‘gate’ by the mutation does not suffice for actual entry, but it needs to be opened by a human protein, in this case, the neutrophil elastase. This protein is available in plenty in the lungs. Higher this protein’s level in the individual, the additional ‘gate’ opens up in a larger number of cells. Thus, the mutant coronavirus enters more cells, enabling it to copy itself faster and spread faster too,” said Majumder. While neutrophil elastase is useful for keeping some types of bacteria at bay, it also causes tissue damage and impairs lung function and therefore, needs to be kept in check. “The AAT protein helps in controlling the levels of neutrophil elastase. However, some naturally-occurring mutations in the AAT-producing gene results in deficiency of the AAT protein. This deficiency is known to be much higher in the Caucasians of Europe and America than among Asians,” said Majumder. “While we used AAT deficiency data from East Asia, along with North America and Europe, for the study, considering the pace at which the coronavirus is spreading, the numbers are representative of other Asian regions too, including India.” As per their data, AAT deficiency is the least in East Asian countries – 8 per 1,000 individuals in Malaysia, 5.4 per 1,000 in South Korea, 2.5 in Singapore. On the other hand, 67.3 in per 1,000 individuals in Spain are AAT deficient, 34.6 in the UK and 51.9 in France and in the US it is prevalent in 29 individuals among 1,000. The researchers said this finding along with social factors may explain the differential spread of the mutant virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aat-the-heart-of-covid-protein-level-determines-prevalence/articleshow/80756381.cms||Yogita Rao
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||City co to erect tallest mast to hoist tricolour in J&K||Nagpur: Solar Industries, a corporate group from Nagpur, will be erecting the tallest mast to hoist the tricolour in Jammu and Kashmir. The company, on behest of the Army, has taken up the assignment for setting up a 100 feet long pole to hoist the national flag at Gulmarg in the Union Territory. This is also billed to be tallest flag in the entire Jammu and Kashmir. Solar Industries has fast emerged as one of the major private players in making ammunition for the defence forces. Recently, it became the first private company to bag a contract to make the latest multimodal grenades for the Army, apart from successfully test firing Pinaka rockets. The group is headed by Satyanarayan Nuwal, who started the business with manufacturing commercial explosives.The 100 feet flag, which will be put up at the Gulmarg ski resort, is also expected to emerge as a tourist attraction eventually.The foundation stone for the flag was laid by the Army on Monday at the hands of general officer commanding (GOC) of the Dagger Division Major General Virendra Vats, in the presence of two senior officials of the company. The winter culture festival was also held after a gap of two years at Gulmarg. Movie actors Vidya Balan, Arbaz Khan and Siddharth Roy Kapoor took part in it.“The Army was looking for a private company to set up the 100 feet pole, to which Solar Industries promptly responded,” said an official here.“The pole is expected to erected by April. Earlier, it was planned to start the work in January itself. However, it need a strong foundation on a solid base. This could not be done due to heavy snowfall in the area,” said an official of the company. The work would being as soon as the snow melts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-co-to-erect-tallest-mast-to-hoist-tricolour-in-jk/articleshow/80755353.cms||Shishir Arya
February 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar cabinet expansion at 12.30pm today||PATNA: Ending speculation over the cabinet expansion of the Nitish Kumar government, officials confirmed on Monday evening that the much-awaited event would take place at 12.30 pm on Tuesday at Raj Bhawan. Sources claimed that 17 new ministers might be administered oath by governor Phagu Chauhan, out of whom nine are likely to be from BJP and eight from JD(U). Names from JD (U) doing the rounds include former ministers Shrawan Kumar, Maheshwar Hazari and Leshi Singh. The sources further said JD (U) is also likely to induct a Muslim face, Bahujan Samaj Party’s lone MLA in Bihar, Mohammad Zama Khan, who recently joined JD (U). BJP, according to sources, has put forth names of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin and MLA Neeraj Kumar Bablu, Bankipore MLA Nitin Nabin and former minister Shahnawaz Hussain among others. With this, the Nitish cabinet is likely to see the debut of two Muslim faces. The sources claimed that BJP kept two seats, while JD (U) has kept one seat vacant from their respective quota. As per the strength of the cabinet, a maximum of 23 more ministers can be inducted. Following the victory of NDA in the assembly election held in October-November, last year, Nitish was sworn-in along with 14 other ministers on November 14. However, Mewalal Choudhary had to resign three days later, leaving 13 ministers in the cabinet apart from CM Nitish, out of which seven are from BJP, four from JD (U) and one each from HAM (S) and VIP. The state capital was already abuzz with rumours of expansion of the cabinet early on Monday evening, fuelling speculation in political corridors. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswan told TOI that the saffron party had submitted its list of proposed ministers for the cabinet expansion. “We have submitted the list. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad also met the CM at the latter’s residence earlier in the day. The cabinet expansion should happen now,” Jaiswal said. Earlier in the day, Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of the foundation laying ceremony of the up-gradation of the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) that cabinet expansion will happen as soon as he receives the list from BJP. “Jab aa jayga, tab ho jayega (It will happen when it will come),” Nitish told reporters on a query on cabinet expansion. Last Saturday, BJP state president Dr Jaiswal had told reporters at Bettiah in West Champaran that cabinet expansion will be done before the budget session. The budget session of Bihar Vidhan Sabha is scheduled to begin from February 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-cabinet-expansion-today/articleshow/80756385.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 9, 2021||Pune||Aspirants of agri courses get relief||Pune: Candidates allotted colleges in the CAP for agricultural courses but face difficulty in admission due to their inability to upload documents must be allowed admission if they have the original documents with them at the time of admission, Maharashtra Common Entrance Cell has said. The notification on February 5, said, “If the candidate has not uploaded the documents as per the information mentioned in the admission allotment letter, but if the original documents required by the candidate are available at the time of admission, they should be admitted. Admission should not be revoked saying that documents have not been uploaded or have been uploaded in the wrong place. Colleges should keep the original documents until the approval of the Admissions Regulatory Authority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aspirants-of-agri-courses-get-relief/articleshow/80756378.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Trichy||Apartments hit as compost from recycled waste piles on||TRICHY: While Trichy Corporation is insisting apartment and gated communities to recycle waste on their own, those who have adopted such methods are finding it difficult to dispose of the manure (compost) produced from it. Tonnes of manure have stagnated as there are no takers and with no help from the corporation, owners said that they feel discouraged for taking up the waste recycling. A gated community with 70 units in Ariyamangalam zone is recycling its waste on their own by using a couple of green bins (waste decomposing bins) bought at a cost of Rs 1.50 lakh. However, for the past few months, there is no taker for the compost. The apartment dwellers, apart from using the manure for terrace and public gardens are left with at least one tonne of manure. “The compost has been accumulating for the past three months. When the civic body insists us to recycle the waste, there should be guidance or solution to dispose of the manure too,” an in-charge of a gated community said. Around 10% of the total recyclable waste generated can be converted as manure in two to three weeks. An apartment that generates 1,000kg of waste per month can generate around 100kg of manure in the same period, but to maintain and store such quantities, the apartments lack space and human resources. Corporation sources said that the civic body is also finding it difficult to dispose of the manure produced in the 31 compost centres across the city. “We will help the gated communities to sell their compost,” a source with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/apartments-hit-as-compost-from-recycled-waste-piles-on/articleshow/80756966.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Religious politics won’t work in TN, says Udhayanidhi||Trichy: The DMK under the leadership of M K Stalin will regain the lost rights of the state and will be a government satisfying people’s demands in the first 100 days, said DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin on his second day of campaigning in Karur district on Monday. He said people have high hopes on Stalin and a frightened chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami woke up after a long slumber and waived farmloans. He said Prime Minister NarendraModi won throughout the country in general elections, but Tamil Nadu was the only exception as religious politics doesn’t work in this state. The administrative rights of the state have been pledged byAIADMK to the Centre, but it could not get Rs 15,000 crore, the state’s due. Questioning the government for rolling out Pongal gift of Rs 2,000 which should have been given during Diwali when the effect of Covid-19 was much worse, he said the move was made keeping an eye on the upcoming election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/religious-politics-wont-work-in-tn-says-udhayanidhi/articleshow/80756971.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Locals urge collector to rename village||COIMBATORE: As many as 40 residents of Karunya Nagar, a tribal village in Maduvarayapuram panchayat, petitioned the collector on Monday, urging him to restore the original name of the village - Nalloor Vayal. In 1986, when Karunya University started functioning, university authorities had named the campus Karunya Nagar, said Devaraj, a resident. “In panchayat records and government documents in 1992, all places under pin code 641114 are shown as Nalloor Vayal. However, now government documents show that our patta lands and houses are in Karunya Nagar. But the area never belonged to the university and has been our property for years,” he said. The new name crept into government records in 1995, when the post office was renamed Karunya Nagar post office. “Soon, government departments, including the transport corporation, changed name boards. Canara Bank changed its branch name. The highways department and police also adapted the name,” said Devaraj. “Thus, Nalloor Vayal disappeared.” Documents like Aadhaar card, ration card, voter ID and even passport have Karunya Nagar instead of Nalloor Vayal, Devaraj said. “Nalloor Vayal, a part of our tribal culture and tradition, has been lost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/locals-urge-collector-to-rename-village/articleshow/80756970.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Genome sequencing of Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha||Nagpur: The state health department has decided to conduct genome sequencing of random Covid-19 positive samples in some districts of Vidarbha where the rate of new cases has been high in the last one month or so.Health minister Rajesh Tope declared this after meeting with the central health committee which visited Vidarbha and reviewed the present Covid situation in the past two days. A three-member committee appointed by the central health ministry visited Amravati on Sunday and Nagpur on Monday. Dr Sujit Kumar Singh, director of Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP), Dr Sanket Kulkarni, deputy director, and Dr Rajnish Kaushik took review of the Covid situation in Nagpur division with special focus on death rate in Bhandara and Chandrapur. As cases are increasing suddenly in districts like Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Chandrapur and Bhandara, the team reviewed the tracing, testing and treatment protocol in these districts. Considering that the sudden spike might be due to some new strain of Covid-19, the state has decided to conduct genome sequencing of select positive samples. This could decode if there is some other strain of virus present in these districts. “The central team reviewed the treatment protocol in Vidarbha and suggested some corrections so that we can control death rate,” said a senior official from GMCH who attended the review meeting held in Nagpur. Team members asked the municipal health department to improve contact tracing and conduct more tests in Nagpur. As far as other districts are concerned, they suggested the respective district health officers to train the local health workers in ICU monitoring and ventilator handling. The committee also reported their observation about the increasing sample positivity rate in Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal and Bhandara districts. They suggested increasing daily tests in these districts. Expert panel also asked the local health officials to study the treatment protocol in private Covid hospitals where death rate is very less or very high as compared to the government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/genome-sequencing-of-covid-19-patients-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80755338.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Man nabbed for making hoax bomb call in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A person was taken into custody by RGI airport police on Monday for allegedly making hoax calls, threatening to blow up a popular sports facility near the airport. The store got the hoax call three days back. The caller demanded Rs 1 crore and said that he will blow up the facility if not paid on time. Police immediately reached the spot and took anti-sabbotage measures. No bomb was found in the area. Based on the telephone number of the caller, cops took a man into custody and are questioning him. It is learnt that the accused was in drunken state when he made the phone call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-nabbed-for-making-hoax-bomb-call/articleshow/80756386.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||BJP workers want Maharashtra govt to amend RTE rules to keep out fake beneficiaries||PUNE: The city unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded a change in the state’s policy in the 25% reservation scheme for admissions to private schools under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. A letter of their demands was submitted by BJP workers to education commissioner Vishal Solanki on Monday. Solanki said the matter has been taken up by the RTE in-charge in Maharashtra to study the rules from other states and its feasibility to be adopted in Maharashtra. On February, 5, TOI had reported that three schools had presented over 100 cases with proof of documents of students who belong to well-to-do families taking admission under RTE. The Pune ZP was approached by at least five more schools with similar complaints. The demand letter was submitted by Sunil Mane, BJP Pune secretary, along with other party workers. Solaki said, “We will take this up and tell the department to study steps taken by other states order to curb the misuse. We will take a policy decision once the report by the expert committee is submitted.” Mane’s letter sought action against the parents who have misused the law must be taken immediately. “In Karnataka, there is bifurcation even in the 25% quota seats for SC, ST, girls and boys separately, reserved category, low income category and minority students. But, in Maharashtra, these seats are randomly filled based on applications. Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu have similar rules for effective implementation. Maharashtra should study these changes,” the letter added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-workers-want-maha-govt-to-amend-rte-rules-to-keep-out-fake-beneficiaries/articleshow/80756387.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Rajkot||Collector ensures warriors take vaccine||RAJKOT: Faced with resistance from certain section of frontline workers like sweepers, peons and anganwadi workers, in taking the Covid-19 vaccine, the Surendranagar collector on Monday took it upon himself to counsel the workers. Surendranagar district collector K Rajesh held a meeting with frontline workers of Patdi town and counselled them into taking the vaccine giving examples of his own family. Nearly 1,200 sweepers of Surendranagar district, who were supposed to take the Covid-19 vaccine shots by January 31, had expressed reluctance in taking it. As a result only 300 had been vaccinated. The news of death of one sweeper in Vadodara allegedly after taking the vaccine added fuel to the misconception, said Rajesh. “The workers hesitated because of rumours and unauthentic information in circulation on social media about vaccine’s side effects. I gave them example of my father who is having a co-morbid condition. I have a stock of vaccines, but I can’t give him because he is not a frontline worker. I requested them to take the shots because they are frontline workers and the government is giving providing them this vaccine on a priority basis and free of charge,” Rajesh told TOI. According to Rajesh, after his persuasion, the workers have agreed to take the vaccine. “We don’t know about the new strain. Our frontline workers are an important part of the chain. They are exposed to the virus more that others. We need to vaccinate them to break the chain of virus.” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/collector-ensures-warriors-take-vaccine/articleshow/80755378.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Construction of building at CMCH inaugurated||COIMBATORE: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated the construction of a new building at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital through video conferencing on Monday. The seven-storey building will house advanced operation theatre complexes, burn ward, general ward and high-tech imaging equipment. It will come up on the entrance of the GH’s first gate on Trichy Road, where mortuary and casualty blocks functioned. Construction is expected to be completed by mid-2022. The 2.22 lakh sqft building will be constructed at a cost of Rs 110 crore. The equipment will be worth Rs 189.79 crore. The Japan International Cooperation Agency will fund 85% of the project cost. The building will have advanced Japanese medical technology like hybrid operation theatre system and interventional radiology. The fund will be a loan for 40 years, where 10 years is grace period. The interest rate is 0.3%. The remaining 15% is borne by the state government. CMCH, along with GRH Madurai and Kilpauk Medical College in Chennai, are the three tertiary care hospitals being upgraded under the project. The building will have nine operation theatres and two hybrid operating theatres, said dean in charge Dr P Kalidas. “The hybrid theatre will have advanced imaging devices like MRI and CT scans. All surgeries, including transplants, buns, reconstructive surgery, orthopaedics and gastroenterology will be conducted.” The building will also have an intensive care unit, step down ICU, post-operative care unit, anaesthesia care unit, emergency ward, and an endoscopy suite. “Equipment will be procured through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation,” said the dean. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani attended the bhumi puja function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/construction-of-building-at-cmch-inaugurated/articleshow/80756977.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Traders call Bharat bandh on 26th against GST||Nagpur: Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) have decided to observe Bharat trade bandh on February 26 against goods and services tax (GST) introduced by the Narendra Modi government. The decision was taken in a conference of trade leaders across the country, held in Nagpur. CAIT is the apex body of several trade associations in the country. All India Transport Welfare Association (AITWA), the premier transport body of the country, has supported the bandh and has decided to stage road blockades on major highways on that day.CAIT national president BC Bhartia and secretary general Praveen Khandelwal told the media that GST was one of the most complex taxation systems in the world, which had resulted into untold misery for traders."The current system of GST has become a maze of compliances without tangible benefits to the stakeholders. The trade leaders across the country were of a unanimous view that both central and state governments had failed to respond to the problems of traders regarding the tax," said Bhartia.He further said that the GST Council had not only introduced various anomalies and distortions in ‘One Nation-One Tax’ principle of GST but had not taken any step to simplify the GST system. "The only aim of the GST Council is to get more revenue and to burden the traders with more compliance without considering the ground realties," he added.Khandelwal said that in a growing consumer economy like India, trade can't survive without quick innovations and diversifications in product's profile as per changing demands of markets. GST lacks the mechanism to take into account the product innovations due to the complicated tax structure.The two trade leaders said that neither the central nor the state government had bothered to consult the traders regarding GST so far. "GST should be simplified to the extent that even a small trader operating his business in a remote area could be able to pay the tax without any external help," they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-call-bharat-bandh-on-26th-against-gst/articleshow/80755373.cms||Ashish Roy
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Videos of ganja peddler being thrashed by gang goes viral||COIMBATORE: Two videos of a 23-year-old ganja peddler, who was kidnapped from his house at Rathinapuri in a car by a four-member gang on January 25, being thrashed fatally by a four-member gang near Mettupalayam went viral on Monday. The videos were retrieved by police from the mobile phone of one of the accused. R Manikandan, 23, from Nallampalayam Road at Rathinapuri, was working as an electrician. Police said Manikandan was kidnapped from his house by a four-member gang at 11.30am on January 25. Manikandan was found with severe head injuries near Mettupalayam on January 27 and was admitted in a hospital. He was discharged on January 28 but re-admitted in a private hospital on January 29 as he developed severe pain. On Thursday, Manikandan died without responding to treatment. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Manikandan was a ganja peddler and was in love with a woman at Rathinapuri. A few months ago, Manikandan was arrested and remanded in judicial custody for ganja sales. During the period, the woman married another man. After getting bail, Manikandan threatened the woman’s husband Suresh to break the marriage. On January 25, Suresh and his friends kidnapped Manikandan from his house. In one of the videos, Manikandan was seen being forced to kiss the foot of one of the kidnappers. In another, he was found beaten severely inside a car by the gang. The Mettupalayam police registered a murder case against Suresh and his friends. On Monday, police detained Rajagopal, a driver from Thirumangalam in Madurai, and seized an SUV (sports utility vehicle) used for kidnapping Manikandan. Police retrieved the two videos from Rajagopal’s mobile phone that went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/videos-of-ganja-peddler-being-thrashed-by-gang-goes-viral/articleshow/80756983.cms||A Subburaj
February 9, 2021||Thane||Pay heed to Covid review: CM to Nagpur and Amravati||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed the Nagpur and Amravati divisional commissioners to take note of the issues raised by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) team from Delhi that has been visiting hospitals across the state to review the Covid-19 situation. Thackeray held a meeting via videoconference with the NCDC director Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh and the team members, who had visited LTMG and SevenHills hospitals in Mumbai and a Thane hospital last week. On Sunday, the three-member team went to Amravati Civil Hospital and on Monday, Nagpur. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, who attended the meeting, said that the state will carry out a genomic sequence study of patients in areas identified by the team as having high Covid positivity rate. State officials said that daily caseload in eight districts has suddenly shot up and the central team had suggested carrying out a genomic study in these areas to identify mutant variants. The team has reported high positivity rates in rural areas of Vidarbha, especially in Amravati, Nandurbar Akola, Yavatmal and Bhandara districts. The local administration will be instructed to ensure effective use of tracking, testing and treatment methods. Last week, the Centre decided to send NCDC teams to Maharashtra and Kerala to review the ground situation, work with the state health departments and recommend public health interventions to contain the pandemic. Kerala contributes 40% of the new cases reported in the country and Maharashtra 24%. Thackeray, however, maintained that due to the measures undertaken by the state government, the number of new Covid patients is on the decline in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/pay-heed-to-covid-review-cm-to-nagpur-and-amravati/articleshow/80762622.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Noida||13k screened, most have skin, respiratory disorders||Noida: Nearly 13,000 patients have been screened so far in five Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Mela (MJAM) held every Sunday since January 10. Out of the 12,888 patients, 20% (2,589) patients have been detected with skin disease followed by 18% (2,342)patients with respiratory disorders, 7% (1,242)with gastro problems and 4% (495) with diabetes. Air pollution and cold weather are the main reasons cited for the increasing number of patients suffering from skin and respiratory disorders. Meanwhile, 12 children have been detected with malnutrition, 470 people have been detected with hypertension, 301 with liver-related problems, 182 with anaemia, two with cancer and 16 with Hepatitis B.  “The Jan Arogya Mela could not be organised last year post-February due to Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, it was started this year from January 10. So far, we have screened 12,888 people in the district over five Sundays across 33 PHCs which include 15 in urban and 18 in rural areas. Maximum patients were detected with skin related problems while at second number were patients with respiratory disorders at 18%. Mostly these cases have been related to air pollution and cold weather as people in rural areas are more exposed to extreme weather conditions with open fields etc.,” said Dr Rajesh Sharma, the district malaria officer (DMO) handling the fair.  Sharma adds that due guidelines and medication have been provided to those detected with skin and respiratory disorders such as moisturizing the skin with oil or lotion and avoiding dust and polluted air. “Many who are smokers have been given counselling while asthmatic patients have been strictly directed to ensure protection from smoke and dust,” he said.  While 2,002 people were examined at Covid help desks set up for the purpose, 1,299 people were tested with rapid antigen tests. None came positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/13k-screened-most-have-skin-respiratory-disorders/articleshow/80756987.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
February 9, 2021||Madurai||PIL: Conduct detailed study on impact of wind turbines on birds||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea which sought to conduct a detailed study on the impact of wind turbines on birds in order to prevent bird deaths due to the turbines. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Soundarya, a law graduate from Madurai. The petitioner stated that lakhs of migratory birds are seen in the state, but a large number of these die as a result of collision with the windmill turbines and high voltage transmission lines. The wind turbines are also placed in the migratory route of the birds without following the norms. Soundarya stated that the secretary to the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change had issued a notification to the states and Union territories issuing several guidelines including not to place such turbines in the migratory routes and to paint the tip of the turbine blades in orange colour to avoid bird deaths. This apart, the ministry had also published a report titled ‘Eco-friendly measures to mitigate impacts of linear infrastructure on wildlife’ where several recommendations were issued to prevent the birds death due to high voltage transmission lines. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. She also sought to conduct a study about migratory birds before setting up wind turbines in a particular location and also sought to paint the tips of wind turbine blades in orange colour as per the guidelines or in black colour as per recommendations of ornithologists. She further sought to adapt the recommendations of the ministry given in a report to modify the design of high voltage transmission lines to prevent bird deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pil-conduct-detailed-study-on-impact-of-wind-turbines-on-birds/articleshow/80756984.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Couple caught with 23kg ganja get 10 years RI||CHENNAI: A special court for trial of cases under the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act has sentenced a couple to 10 years rigorous imprisonment after finding them guilty of smuggling and peddling ganja in the city. The couple were arrested by the Thuraipakkam police two years ago after they were caught in possession of 23kg of ganja. According to the prosecution, P Chidamabaram and C Nagajothi were found in possession of 23kg of ganja on Choolaimanagar Main Road after they were intercepted on September 21, 2019, based on a tip. The two were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. Despite arguments by the defendants’ counsel to disprove the case, additional district judge V Thenmozhe, after going through the submitted evidence and arguments, held the duo guilty under sections of the NDPS Act and sentenced them to 10 years rigorous imprisonment on two counts, to be served concurrently. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh each on the two. If they fail to pay the fine, they are to serve six more months in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/couple-caught-with-23kg-ganja-get-10-years-ri/articleshow/80756394.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Trichy||OFT union leader injured after stray bull collides with bike, dies||TRICHY: The employees union leader of the Ordnance Factory of Tiruchchirappalli (OFT), M Saravanan, 45, who was grievously injured in an accident after the two-wheeler in which he was travelling, bumped into a stray bull on January 29, died on Sunday after failing to respond to treatment. The accident has once again brought to the fore the issue of stray cattle menace on the city roads, that is resulting in several fatal and non-fatal accidents. Saravanan, president of the OFT employees union along with the general secretary of the association B Srinivasalu, was travelling towards the factory on January 29 on the two-wheeler with Saravanan riding pillion. When the vehicle was passing through the Jail corner locality, it collided with a bull that suddenly came on to the road. While Srinivasalu escaped, Saravanan, who was not wearing a helmet, sustained severe head injuries. After being hospitalised for more than a week, Saravanan died on Sunday. “We were told that the bull that had crashed into our vehicle had caused 2-3 such accidents in the same spot near Central prison,” Srinivasalu told TOI. While several complaints have already been filed with the corporation, police and district administration, no action has been taken so far. “The corporation is not cooperating enough. Although we impounded a few cattle, the civic body is yet to do its role. We will raise the issue in the road safety meeting,” a senior official with the city traffic police wing said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/oft-union-leader-injured-after-stray-bull-collides-with-bike-dies/articleshow/80756979.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Opposition flays ruling party over PMC’s online general body meeting||PUNE: The corporators of opposition parties in the municipal corporation on Monday staged a dharna at the mayor’s office and shouted slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over not convening the general body meeting in person despite the state government’s order. “The state government has issued directives to conduct the meeting in person. But even then the BJP leaders and the mayor conducted the meeting online. It appears that the ruling party wants to hide something and doesn’t want to share details about the money spent on nCoV mitigation. So, they are not holding the general body meeting offline,” said the agitating corporators of the Congress, NCP and the Shiv Sena. Chetan Tupe, the city unit chief of the NCP, said, “We have cooperated with the ruling party of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). We did not press for in-person general body (GB) meeting for over eight months now. But now things have improved and the state, too, has given go-ahead to conduct the GB. Not following the state’s directive means something fishy is happening and the ruling party is trying to hide it.” Claiming that the rules for conducting the general body meeting were being followed, mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The meeting was announced before the state government’s order came. That notice was about online meeting and so it was not conducted offline. The next meeting will be conducted as per the state government’s directives.” Mohol said if any urgent meeting had to be conducted, steps such as publishing notice in newspapers are a must. GB is one of the highest decision-making authorities at the Pune Municipal Corporation. All the policy decisions are taken after the final approval from this body. This meeting should be held at least once a month.  If a corporator remains absent for three consecutive general body meetings, his/her membership can be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oppn-flays-ruling-party-over-pmcs-online-gb-meeting/articleshow/80756390.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Pay heed to Covid review: CM to Nagpur and Amravati||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed the Nagpur and Amravati divisional commissioners to take note of the issues raised by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) team from Delhi that has been visiting hospitals across the state to review the Covid-19 situation. Thackeray held a meeting via videoconference with the NCDC director Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh and the team members, who had visited LTMG and SevenHills hospitals in Mumbai and a Thane hospital last week. On Sunday, the three-member team went to Amravati Civil Hospital and on Monday, Nagpur. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, who attended the meeting, said that the state will carry out a genomic sequence study of patients in areas identified by the team as having high Covid positivity rate. State officials said that daily caseload in eight districts has suddenly shot up and the central team had suggested carrying out a genomic study in these areas to identify mutant variants. The team has reported high positivity rates in rural areas of Vidarbha, especially in Amravati, Nandurbar Akola, Yavatmal and Bhandara districts. The local administration will be instructed to ensure effective use of tracking, testing and treatment methods. Last week, the Centre decided to send NCDC teams to Maharashtra and Kerala to review the ground situation, work with the state health departments and recommend public health interventions to contain the pandemic. Kerala contributes 40% of the new cases reported in the country and Maharashtra 24%. Thackeray, however, maintained that due to the measures undertaken by the state government, the number of new Covid patients is on the decline in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pay-heed-to-covid-review-cm-to-nagpur-and-amravati/articleshow/80756398.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Spurt in fire accidents due to spike in power consumption||HYDERABAD: Four fire accidents are being reported everyday, on an average, in Hyderabad alone since February. As per Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services department officials, since February 1, 40 incidents were reported and five of them were major ones. All the fire accidents occurred due to short-circuit. Authorities as well as police has warned establishments to take precautions emphasising that from January to May most number of fire accidents are reported every year .“Post winter, consumption of electricity increases and there is more load on electrical appliances. Fluctuations or any source heat starts combustion,” regional fire officer, central region, V Papaiah said. “Firefighters go beyond their routine to douse fire, especially when an accident happens in congested areas. On February 7, even tops cops started clapping when we doused a fire within an hour in Sultan Bazar,” district fire officer, Hyderabad, M Srinivasa Reddy said, adding “we are getting minimum four rescue calls everyday.” Another fire official said schools, which were re-opening, should ensure electric cables were in good condition. “On February 4, more than 20 students escaped a mishap,” the official said. In Rangareddy and neighbouring districts, similar conditions prevail. A stall selling clothes caught fire at KPHB Colony on Sunday, while elsewhere an air-conditioner’s external unit in an apartment complex on Road Number 10, Jubilee Hills caught fire. Fortunately no causalities or injuries were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spurt-in-fire-accidents-due-to-spike-in-power-consumption/articleshow/80756393.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Everything being sold to corporates:Pondy CM||Tiruvarur: Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy on Monday while responding to a question on the ruling BJP-led Union government at the Centre said that nothing will be left for governance if everything is sold out to corporate companies. He was in Tiruvarur to attend the marriage function of former Puducherry minister V Pethaperumal’s son on Monday. “Everything Prime Minister Modi government does is anti-people. How can we run a government after privatizing everything? We should give importance to both public and private sectors for the development of the economy. Priority was given for public sector enterprises when Congress party was in power. But the ruling BJP government has mortgaged everything,” he said. When reporters asked about poll alliance, he said that the poll alliance cannot be decided now. “The DMK leader and Congress party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi will decide on that once the election date is announced. So, I cannot comment on this,” he said. Both the Congress and the DMK were working together to ensure that the communal forces should not take a root in Puducherry, he added said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/everything-being-sold-to-corporatespondy-cm/articleshow/80756980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Goa||Quota upsets poll aspirants in Sanguem||Poinguinim: In Sanguem, outgoing councillors have criticised the ‘faulty’ reservation of wards for the upcoming municipal elections. The councillors said the wards that have been reserved for ST hardly have any ST population. In contrast, those wards with sizeable ST population have not been reserved. Upset with the reservation of wards carried out for the forthcoming municipal elections, affected councillors and aspirants have threatened to seek legal remedy to get authorities to change the status of the wards reserved for scheduled tribes and women under Sanguem Municipal Council (SMC). Former SMC chairperson Romualdo Fernandes, whose ward has now been reserved for ST, complained that the voters from ST community are minuscule in his ward. Similarly, the ward presently represented by Fauzia Shaikh is now reserved for OBC general. Even veteran councillor Sanjay Raikar, who has been serving in the SMC for almost 40 consecutive years, will now be denied a chance to contest from his ward as it has been reserved for women. Similar is the case of BJP youth leader Supraj Tari, whose chances are disrupted, as ward no. 9 from which he was to contest has it is now reserved for OBC women. “While the last SMC elections had seen wards 3, 5 and 7 being reserved for women, the councillors had anticipated that wards 4, 6 and 8 would now be reserved for women. Instead, the government has announced wards 3, 8, and 9 as reserved for women for the upcoming elections, which is not fair,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quota-upsets-poll-aspirants-in-sanguem/articleshow/80757358.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Budget to help all sections, says Smriti Irani||NEW DELHI: Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani on Monday said by providing free ration to the poor, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured nobody slept hungry during the critical pandemic time. Speaking at a discussion organised on the budget by Delhi BJP in association with PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Irani said, “The development of all the sections of the society and regions have been cared for. It will strengthen the foundation of the country in every field.” Inthe past six years, the country had progressed in all the sectors, including education, health, transport and railways due to farsightedness of the Centre, she added. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, leader of opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and several other party members attended the function. “There was lot of confusion about tackling of this unprecedented epidemic, but the government handled the situation with great aplomb and finesse, so much so that today India is number two exporter of PPE kit in the world,” she claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/budget-to-help-all-sections-says-irani/articleshow/80756389.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: KMC postpones eviction drive against illegal hawkers||KOLHAPUR: Hundreds of hawkers staged a protest at Shivaji Chowk on Monday that forced the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) to put its eviction drive on hold. Around 10 days ago, the KMC had issued an ultimatum to the hawkers, mainly those around temples and hospitals, asking them to move to hawking zones or face eviction. Accordingly, the eviction drive was to be carried out around Mahalaxmi temple on Monday. The KMC officials cited an order of the Bombay high court, issued two years ago, which banned all hawking activities in 100m-radius of Mahalaxmi temple for taking the action. There are over 200 vendors inside the restricted zone around Mahalaxmi temple. Pandit Pawar, head of anti-encroachment department of the KMC, said, “The hawkers were not there at their place in the morning as they were protesting at Shivaji Chowk. We therefore halted the action. Now, we will demarcate the restricted zone and hawking zone surrounding the temple. We will start the drive from Tuesday as per the directions from the civic administrator.” The KMC is also going to carry out eviction of the hawkers who do not have biometric cards. “Those surveyed but do not have cards issued by the KMC will be asked to get the card from the estate department and till then they will not be allowed to do business,” Pawar added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-postpones-eviction-drive-against-illegal-hawkers/articleshow/80755393.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Fake doctor found MBBS & MD certificates online, practised in Andhra Pradesh hospitals||HYDERABAD: KPHB police arrested a fake doctor, who worked in a few hospitals in Andhra Pradesh by submitting fake MBBS and MD certificates. The accused, Mangum Kiran Kumar is a resident of Visakhapatnam. He misused one Dr Kiran Kumar Mukku’s education certificates. Recently, when Kiran applied for upgradation of his PAN card, he got a reply from Income Tax officials informing him that there are two PANs in his name. “I immediately approached KPHB police, who investigated and found that a person in AP was misusing my documents,’’ Kiran said. According to police, the accused, Mangum was working as a compounder in an Ayurvedic clinic in Kancharapalem till 2013. In the year 2016, while he was searching on the internet for fake education documents, he came across two MBBS & MD certificates of Kiran. “Since the names were similar, the accused created fake certificates by making few changes,’’ said police. With the help of these certificates, the accused later fraudulently obtained Aadhar and PAN cards in the name of Kiran. He was paid Rs 80,000 for a few months by a hospital in Srikakulam. As they started to suspect him, he left the job without informing the hospital authorities. Later, he worked in two different hospitals in Andhra Pradesh. KPHB police seized fake education certificates, fake PAN and Aadhar cards from the accused. When Kiran applied for upgradation of his PAN card, he got a reply from Income Tax officials that there are two PANs in his name. He immediately approached the police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-doc-found-mbbs-md-certs-online-practised-in-ap-hospitals/articleshow/80756409.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Colleges open doors to first year students||COIMBATORE: Following the state government’s direction, most of the colleges and universities in the district reopened for first year students on Monday. College managements have decided to focus on practicals for the next few weeks. “As we were focusing only on theory subjects during the online classes, we have decided to focus on practical classes. Teachers have been instructed to conduct practical classes even after the working hours so that it could be completed within a couple of weeks,” said K Chitra, principal of Government Arts College. The college management has informed students about safety measures likes wearing face masks and ensuring physical distance between them. Physical education staff are monitoring it. “We have started admitting students in the college hostel and are planning to fill not more than 80% of the hostel capacity. The rest of the students will be lodged in government hostels,” Chitra added. An official from a private engineering college in the city said, “We are planning to conduct at least six practical session for a class in a day and as soon as the lessons are completed, examination will be conducted for them before starting the same procedure for other classes. We have prepared timetable till April. Only 30 students will be accommodated at a time in a lab.” “After completing practicals, we will start theory classes. We will conduct online and offline theory classes as we do not want to compel students to visit the college. On the first day, the footfall of students was not more than 15%. But it is expected to increase,” the official said. Hindusthan College of Arts and Science will be opened in a phased manner, principal A Ponnusamy said. “Third year students started attending offline classes only from Wednesday. As practical examination for the previous semester was postponed, we are planning to conduct practical sessions and examination as soon as the college is reopened, before starting the theory portions.” An official from the Government Arts College for Women said that more than 80% of the students attended the college on the first day. “As the college was started in this academic year, works are going on to set up labs within a month. We have seven employees, including principal and five professors. The remaining 22 posts are expected to be filled within a week,” he added. The institutions were opened for final and second year students in December after closing in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/colleges-open-doors-to-first-year-students/articleshow/80756991.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Rare diseases: Many fight untold battle||HYDERABAD: Beyond common diseases, Telangana has recorded a wide gamut of sparingly understood ‘rare diseases’ – each affecting between 50 and 10,000 people — too. As per records, while Thalassemia and sickle cell anaemia are among the more prevalent rare diseases, those like Congenital Insensitivity to Pain with Anhidrosis (CIPA), Friedreich’s Ataxia, Multiple Sclerosis, Lysosomal Storage Disorder, Spinal Muscular Atrophy, Aplastic Anaemia, Muscular Dystrophy and Sweet Syndrome, too are found in several patients. Ahead of Rare Diseases Day — to be observed this month — Syed Sanaullah, member of the management committee of the Indian Organization of Rare Diseases (IORD) said there are nearly 70 known cases of CIPA in Telangana. In fact, Sanaullah’s four-year-old daughter suffers from Congenital Insensitivity to Pain — a disease where a patient is unable to feel any pain, even a broken bone or crushed hand. The family became aware of the disorder when she started chewing off her finger tips. “It was when we saw her chewing her already bleeding fingers that we realised she is unable to feel any pain. We kept her finger bandaged to prevent her from chewing on it. But usually, by the time parents realise it is a disease, some damage is done,” Sanaullah said, adding, “These diseases require multiple visits to specialists before they are diagnosed. Most of these diseases do not have any medications and the ones which have are usually extremely costly.” Multiple Sclerosis has less than 100 known cases in the state. In such cases, doctors say, a patient who is completely normal while going to sleep might wake up unable to move next day. The next attack could be waking up blind or unable to speak. MS is a disorder of the central nervous system. “My illness progressed in four years,” Wahed Ghouri, 40, said about his rare disease, Ataxia. “I went from being normal to completely dependent. I suffer from slurry speech and can’t even button a shirt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rare-diseases-many-fight-untold-battle/articleshow/80756407.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 9, 2021||Pune||Bombay HC suspends ayurveda doctor’s jail term, grants bail||PUNE: The Bombay high court has suspended a Pune sessions court’s 10-year jail sentence to an ayurveda practitioner and granted him bail till his appeal against the conviction is finally disposed of. On September 29 last year, the Pune court had convicted and sentenced Sachin Hari Deshpande (applicant in present matter) with Jitendra Suresh Shimpi, both ayurveda practitioners, to 10 years in jail and fined Rs2.5 lakh each for culpable homicide not amounting to murder following the death of a pregnant woman in the hospital owned by Shimpi at Kiwale in May 2012. The high court granted bail to Shimpi on January 21 this year, following which Deshpande’s lawyer Aniket Ujjwal Nikam moved a plea seeking similar relief for his client. Shimpi and Deshpande, having BAMS and MS in shalyatantra (general surgery) qualifications, performed caesarean and tubectomy surgeries on Rajashree Anil Jagtap (22) on May 1, 2012. “This despite the two not having an MS qualification in gynaecology and obstetrics,” the prosecution argued. Post-surgery, the woman suffered from excessive bleeding and had to be shifted to another hospital, where she passed away on May 2, 2012. Justice Sandeep K Shinde of the high court said on February 3, “It is to be ascertained from the evidence whether the post-caesarean death of Rajashree was due to a medical negligence i.e. doctors had failed in discharging the duty of care owed by them to Rajashree or whether the appellant (being not qualified to perform caesarean) had knowledge that his act was likely to cause her death.” The bench said the tenor of the expert panel member’s evidence, relied on by the prosecution, suggested “negligence on the part of the accused while performing the operation”, but the evidence by another prosecution witness, also a doctor, suggested that the surgery was “properly” done. The bench also noted that the applicant did not misuse the bail relief during the pendency of the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hc-suspends-ayurveda-docs-jail-term-grants-bail/articleshow/80756395.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Follow reservation policy while recruiting doctors for mini clinics, court tells state||MADURAI: Disposing of a petition which challenged the recruitment of medical officers for the mini clinics in the state, the Madras high court has directed the state government to follow reservation policy as far as possible in the recruitment process. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by G V Vairam Santhosh, an advocate from Madurai district, challenging the GO passed by the state government by which, sanction was accorded for an additional 1,335 posts of medical officers to the mini clinics with them being recruited on a contractual basis, by way of interview method. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the as per the earlier GO, there has to be redeployment. He submitted that the rule of reservation has been given a go by during this recruitment process. The state submitted that this is in addition to the earlier GO, which deals with 665 posts. Therefore, there is no question of making employment through outsourcing. The appointments, being contractual, the earlier procedure as ordered by this court would be followed. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the question as to whether the redeployment should be made first and thereafter, recruitment to be made, are in the realm of the administrators. “Though the appointments are being made on contractual basis, we direct the authorities to ensure that the minimum requirement of reservation is satisfied,” the judges observed. The judges also made it clear that the appointments, being contractual, need not continue for long. If the state is of the view that the clinics are going to run for a longer run, they shall not wait for one year and a decision will have to be taken within a period of six months from the date of receipt of a copy of this order, as to whether the scheme is going to be for a longer run or a shorter run. The judges said that if it is for a longer run, recruitment on a permanent basis will have to be done, instead of continuing the contract period even during the one year period and thereafter. The appointment orders will have to make it clear that they are purely temporary and contractual in nature, said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/follow-reservation-policy-while-recruiting-doctors-for-mini-clinics-court-tells-state/articleshow/80756992.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC extends protection for lawyer-couple||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday extended the protection accorded to a lawyer-couple who were allegedly harassed by police with several FIRs and with calls to join investigators at remote police stations in the state. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy extended the stay order issued earlier till April this year. The couple — PV Nagamani and Gattu Vaman Rao — told the bench that their ordeals started ever since they filed a PIL seeking probe into the alleged lock-up death of Seelam Rangaiah in Karimnagar last year. Advocate general BS Prasad assured the court that he would ensure that a physical copy of the counter is served to the petitioner. The case was posted to April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-extends-protection-for-lawyer-couple/articleshow/80756396.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Security guard held for molesting 12-year-old girl||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Sunday arrested a 60-year-old security guard on the charge of molesting a 12-year-old girl while she was playing in a housing society in Undri at 10.30am on Monday. The girl is a Class VI student. The security guard has been working for the housing society for a little over two months, a police officer said. Sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure said the guard was on duty at the time of the incident. “The girl was playing with a dog and passing by the club house of the society when the security guard molested her on finding her alone,” he said. “The panicked girl returned to her residence and broke into tears. She shared the details of the incident with her mother, who, in turn, alerted her neighbours. They detained the guard at the spot,”Kapure said. “The girl’s mother contacted the police station on telephone and gave details of the incident. A police team visited the society and took the security guard into custody. The girl is the lone witness in the case. She is not known to the security guard,” the officer said. The guard was arrested under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/security-guard-held-for-molesting-12-yr-old-girl/articleshow/80756399.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Trichy||BJP tried to conceal facts on Keeladi: M K Stalin||MADURAI/TRICHY: The BJP is an anti-Tamil party, which had tried to conceal the facts on the 3,000-year-old civilization at Keeladi in Sivaganga district, the pride of the Tamil people, said DMK president M K Stalin adding that it wanted only the votes of the Tamil people. Speaking in Sivaganga as part of the DMK’s ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ campaign on Monday, he said that superintending archaeologist of the ASI Amarnath Ramakrishna, who was instrumental in revealing the important facts about Keeladi, was transferred to prevent the glory of Keeladi from being revealed. The next man sent by the ASI, Sriraman, did not do his job wholeheartedly and the BJP government forgot about Keeladi. It took protests and litigations to resume the work at the site. The BJP is not interested in it. “It does not want to showcase the pride of the Tamil culture, but wants the votes of the Tamil people,” he said. The BJP is using the corrupt AIADMK government to get what it wants. The AIADMK has not the power to seek its rights from the BJP or to oppose it. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam are more concerned about proving their might to each other. They have not been able to get the GST dues from the central government. Palaniswami who has supported the farm laws does not have any right to speak about the farmers, he said. Later, speaking at a wedding of a party functionary at Gandharvakottai in Pudukottai district, Stalin made fun of V K Sasikala’s journey to Chennai. “We do not know what is going to happen next as a person has started from Bengaluru with an AIADMK flag on the car. Only god knows what will happen next, said Stalin adding a Tamil phrase ‘yaam ariyen paraparame’, which means all the happenings are the creation of god. He said that DMK will be the ruling party in the next three months and they should aim for winning all the 234 seats in the state. “I am sound arrogant. But I could say this based on my interaction with people who are desperate to throw AIADMK out of power,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-is-anti-tamil-it-tried-to-conceal-facts-on-keeladi-stalin/articleshow/80756990.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||NHAI floated IMS tender 20 mnths before handing of land||Nagpur: Even before the precious 44.4 acres of railway land at Ajni was handed over to the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA) by the Nagpur Central Railway and even as an MoU was not signed between RLDA and NHAI, the latter floated tenders for the Inter Modal Station (IMS) at Ajni.According to papers with TOI, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) floated tender for IMS on February 27, 2019, but the MoU between Indian Railways, represented by RLDA, and NHAI was signed on March 6, 2019, in Nagpur. Even as the MoU was signed between the two parties, RLDA was not handed over the Ajni land.This fact has come to light through information received under the RTI Act by one Wasudev Mishra, in which the Railway Board letter (September 26, 2019) states that RLDA needs to be entrusted with 44.4 acres of Ajni land for Phase-I. This means that the land was not handed over to the RLDA even after six months of signing the MoU.Mishra says the Nagpur Central Railway did not supply the entire details of the land given to RLDA as sought in the application. “This shows that there is more to the deal which both the NHAI and railways are hiding,” he alleged.Anjani Kumar, member (projects), RLDA, Delhi, told TOI that the Ajni land was handed over to the RLDA four months ago. This means the Ajni land was handed over to the RLDA somewhere in November, but tender for the IMS was floated on February 27, 2019, almost 20 months before the land was handed over to the RLDA.On how the tender was floated by the NHAI when the railway land was not handed over to the RLDA, Kumar said, “It was done on the basis of an MoU between the railways and highways ministries wherein both the NHAI & RLDA moved in their directions to see the project get going.”Kumar said evaluation and feasibility of the land and project details have been worked out but as he was out on an official tour to Kerala, it could be given only after Thursday.However, green activist Jaydeep Das said, “The chronology of events occurring in the build-up to IMS creation does not augur well when it comes to motives behind the project. A national body floating tender even before entering into an MOU and that too with someone who does not have possession raises doubts. It seems that rules are only for the general public and government agencies can hit them for a six.”“How can RLDA lease railway land unless entrusted by railways? RLDA had no power or authority to enter into an MoU on February 27, 2019, with NHAI and lease out 44 acres of land. Therefore, the MoU itself is illegal,” Das said.GREENS FIND FLAWS* NHAI, the user agency for IMS, Ajni, floats tender on February 27, 2019* MoU between Indian Railways and highways ministries signed on March 6, 2019* Till September 26, 2019, railway land at Ajni not handed over to RLDA* RLDA admits Ajni land was handed over four months ago* Railways fail to provide detailed evaluation of proposed project||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-floated-ims-tender-20-mnths-before-handing-of-land/articleshow/80755398.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM backs farm laws, says MSP will not be abolished||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday supported the new farm laws enacted by the Centre, saying the move was not aimed at abolishing minimum support price (MSP). He said farmers in few states who have doubts about the new farm laws will soon get convinced following mutual discussions. “Talks are going on and the farmers are being told that MSP will never be abolished. The new farm laws will allow farmers to sell their produce wherever they want. It is in the interest of the farmers,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of an official programme here. The CM said confusion over the farm laws is being removed through talks. “If there are some doubts in some states about deviation from the old practices, we are hopeful that everyone will be convinced through talks at some point of time. I am fully assured that the new laws are not against anyone,” he said. He added the new farm laws are not an issue in Bihar. “We had abolished Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in 2006 and made farmers independent. The procurement, thereafter, is for everyone to see. This year also, the progress of procurement is quite good. We have always worked in the interest of the farmers and ensured that no one faces any problem,” Nitish said. He added, “However, if farmers in states like Punjab and Haryana have some apprehensions about changes in the old practices, the Centre is willing to explain everything to them. Hence, we are hopeful that all such doubts will be gradually cleared and protesting farmers will be convinced.” The NDA government in Bihar had abolished the APMC Act in 2006 with an aim to weed out middlemen or the Bazar Samitis in procurement to ensure that farmers fetch genuine revenue for their yields. Later, the Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) was introduced for procurement of paddy at MSP. As per the data of cooperative department, around 27 lakh metric tonne of paddy produced in last kharif (monsoon) season had been procured from 3,70,949 farmers through PACS in all 38 districts till date. However, some farmer associations in Bihar are not convinced with the abolition of APMC. “Farmers in Bihar are forced to sell their produce at much lower prices than the MSP despite abolition of APMC. For instance, most farmers sold maize at Rs 900- Rs 1,000 per quintal in October-November last year, even though the MSP for the same was around Rs 1,750 per quintal. Similarly, farmers are forced to sell paddy at Rs 1,100-1,300 in the open market as the PACS in most areas are either not procuring or are slow,” said Ashok Kumar Singh, general secretary of Bihar Rajya Kisan Sabha. He added the farmers are forced to do resort to distress sell to ensure that their yield is not damaged and they are able to pay their financial dues on time. “Farmer associations in Bihar are also against the three new farm laws and they want restoration of APMC Act,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-backs-farm-laws-says-msp-will-not-be-abolished/articleshow/80756401.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||International, NIOS boards bring students back for exams||KOLKATA: After spending a gruelling two hours trying to ‘comprehend’ English comprehension, it was molten cheese they smelt. Soon, gloved and masked canteen staff were approaching their desks with ‘alu’ rolls that also had a fair quantity of cheese inside. While most girls resisted the urge, the boys couldn’t resist digging into the potato and cheese filled rolls. It was nearly a year since they had been to school, after all. This was a scene at a school on the northern suburbs of Kolkata where a batch of students appeared for their International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) Class-X Board examinations on Monday. None of them had attended a single physical class in Class-X. Most had hardly even stepped out of their homes in the last 11-odd months due to the pandemic. The same was true for children in other schools in Kolkata where the IGCSE Boards began from Monday. “They are children and most have spent years romping around the campus during better times. It was natural for them to feel strange on entering the premises after so long and that too with severe restrictions. Some children pointed out changes that had taken place to the buildings over the last several months to their parents who accompanied them till the main gates,” a teacher of a school in south Kolkata said. For schools, these children gave an indication of what to expect when regular classes start for senior students in a week’s time. Restricting movement of students and ensuring social distancing will be a tough task as numbers go up. Meanwhile, secondary and higher secondary examinations of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) are also underway at centres across the country. The NIOS is holding its delayed examinations now. The examinations started on January 22 and will continue till February 15. These examinations were supposed to happen in October and are being held now. The practical examinations are over and these were held between January 15 and 25. An official communication from NIOS said, “The Class-XII examinations were supposed to take place in October 2020, but were delayed. The delay was allowed because of the ongoing Covid situation.” NIOS 12th vocational examinations will be held from February 5 to 26, as per the official communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/intl-nios-boards-bring-students-back-for-exams/articleshow/80756412.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Classes on, but most teachers still not back||HYDERABAD: More than a week after resumption of physical classes — for students of class 9 and above — majority of teachers and faculty working in junior, degree and technical colleges in the state are yet to join duties. This, as managements are only using the services of a limited staff. Worse, teachers say that their salary dues too have not been cleared for the last 9 to 10 months and they are continuing to reel under the ‘no work, no pay’ rule. “I was hoping that the management will start paying full salaries from February, but looks like there are not going to use all the faculty any time soon,” said one of them employed with a college near Ramoji Film City. The faculty member said that the college has been paying teachers on a an hourly basis since April 2020. “The only solution to this problem is making biometric attendance compulsory for staff,” he added. The situation at private junior colleges and schools is worse, claim teachers, with about 70% of them yet to be asked to re-join duties. “I don’t even know whether I am still on the rolls of the college or not. When I went to college today to ask authroities why they had not asked me to rejoin duty,I was not even allowed inside. I got to know that a junior lecturer (JL) is taking the classes in my place,” said, B Thirumalesh, who has 18 years of experience as a chemistry lecturer. According to him, many colleges are using the services of JLs instead of calling in senior faculty. Thirumalesh, who is also vice president of the Telangana Lectures JAC, said that he has been surviving on credit card and hand loans so far. “But I am not sure how long I can continue without a regular pay. About 4,000 of the 6,000 faculty working in corporate junior colleges in the state are still jobless,” he added. The members of Telangana Engineering College Managements Association, meanwhile, said that they will be using the services of all faculty once attendance percentage improves. “We might not be paying full salaries, but the majority of faculty are getting paid at least 50% of their salaries for conducting virtual classes. Once physical classes start with full strength, services of all faculty will be needed,” said Gautam Rao, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/classes-on-but-most-teachers-still-not-back/articleshow/80756416.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Second dose not from February 13 in Mumbai but ‘delay not an issue’||MUMBAI: The city will not start administering the second dose of vaccine on February 13, civic authorities said on Monday. The second dose is supposed to be given after a minimum of 28 days, but how strictly should the recommended timeframe be followed has been a subject of scientific debate. The state, meanwhile, finished vaccinating over 5 lakh recipients, including 4.68 lakh healthcare workers and 41,453 frontline workers. Civic officials said they may start giving the second dose sometime after February 15 or February 16, claiming it was more about logistics and streamlining of the ongoing drive. “We won’t start the second dose immediately on February 13, which is 28 days since the drive kickstarted on January 16. The norms are to give them in a minimum gap of 28 days, but a few days here and there shouldn’t be an issue,” said AMC Suresh Kakani. He said the city is also expected to receive additional doses of Covishield this week. The city has vaccinated 82,884 healthcare as well as frontline workers of the nearly four lakh registered as on Monday. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, said they are trying to administer at least the first dose to healthcare workers before starting the second dose. “World over, there are discussions and studies showing that a wider gap between two doses may not be an issue. We don’t think there should be any concerns of efficacy if the second dose rollout is delayed by a few days,” she said. For the second dose too, messages would be sent out to recipients and sessions planned. On Monday, the city saw a 83% turnout as 7,133 beneficiaries took the vaccine out of 8,550 intended. Importantly, the footfall of frontline workers saw an uptick. Of the 3,150 intended for the day, 2,631 took the vaccine. Dr Gomare said police officials, staffers from collector’s office and civic departments are among those coming forward. On Monday, 4,502 out of 5,400 healthcare workers took the vaccine. Officials said walk-ins continue to be the preferred mode. In Maharashtra, vaccination of 5,08,746 was completed on Monday, of which 4,68,293 are health workers and 41,453 frontliners. On Monday, 36,266 were vaccinated, of which 22,200 were healthcare workers, a big dip from previous days when nearly 40,000 were vaccinated . While officials don’t see this as a sign of hesitancy, members of the medical community feel there is an element of reluctance. On Monday, 14,066 frontliners took the jabs, up from 12,000 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2nd-dose-not-from-feb-13-in-city-but-delay-not-an-issue/articleshow/80756434.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Tasked with saving greens, forest rangers need help||NEW DELHI: The capital’s forest guards and rangers not only suffer from shortage of personnel, but also face threats to their lives while removing encroachments from green spaces. Those who patrol the ridge have written to the forest department multiple times detailing accounts of attacks from locals. Range Forest Officer Satyendra Prakash in a complaint to Deputy Conservator of Forests (South) in 2019 recalled how he received death threats from locals while trying to remove an encroachment in the southern ridge near Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. Prakash complained that while patrolling on September 12, 2019, he found an illegal encroachment next to a cemetery. The encroachers were asked to remove it immediately as it was a notified reserve forest and an FIR would also be lodged against them. “After I returned to my office, around 200 people came there and started threatening me. I also got threatening calls on my personal number from unknown people claiming that they belonged to some political outfit and if I raised any objection again, they would kill me,” added the letter. The officer sought protection through an armed PSO from Delhi Police. A few months earlier, Balbir Singh, a deputy range officer in Mehrauli range, suffered a similar fate. However, he was physically assaulted too. He said he had gone to Fatehpur Beri to remove an encroachment. But the encroacher not only verbally abused him, but also punched him in his chest and pushed him into a pit. “Two hours after the physical assault, I started experiencing difficulty in breathing and severe pain in my chest. Forest guard Rajesh Singh then called the police, who took me to a trauma centre for treatment,” Singh mentioned in his complaint, adding that he be transferred from the south division to west as his life was under threat from the land mafia. Neeraj Kumar, a forest guard in Najafgarh range, filed a complaint at Najafgarh police station for physical assault during an inspection in Jharoda village. He said not only did a father-son duo assault him, but they snatched his mobile phone and ID card. He was later surrounded by 10-15 people from the neighbourhood and asked to change his statement. The forest and wildlife department said field staff would be provided uniforms this year. Vehicles had also been provided for quick getaways. “The number of staff is increasing, which will help those on the ground. We have recruited 211 forest guards and 11 wildlife guards. All of them will have uniforms and motorcycles,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tasked-with-saving-greens-forest-rangers-need-help/articleshow/80756427.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Int’l, NIOS boards bring students back for exams||Kolkata: After spending a gruelling two hours trying to ‘comprehend’ English comprehension, it was molten cheese they smelt. Soon, gloved and masked canteen staff were approaching their desks with ‘alu’ rolls that also had a fair quantity of cheese inside. While most girls resisted the urge, the boys couldn’t resist digging into the potato and cheese filled rolls. It was nearly a year since they had been to school, after all. This was a scene at a school on the northern suburbs of Kolkata where a batch of students appeared for their International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) Class-X Board examinations on Monday. None of them had attended a single physical class in Class-X. Most had hardly even stepped out of their homes in the last 11-odd months due to the pandemic. The same was true for children in other schools in Kolkata where the IGCSE Boards began from Monday. “They are children and most have spent years romping around the campus during better times. It was natural for them to feel strange on entering the premises after so long and that too with severe restrictions. Some children pointed out changes that had taken place to the buildings over the last several months to their parents who accompanied them till the main gates,” a teacher of a school in south Kolkata said. For schools, these children gave an indication of what to expect when regular classes start for senior students in a week’s time. Restricting movement of students and ensuring social distancing will be a tough task as numbers go up. Meanwhile, secondary and higher secondary examinations of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) are also underway at centres across the country. The NIOS is holding its delayed examinations now. The examinations started on January 22 and will continue till February 15. These examinations were supposed to happen in October and are being held now. The practical examinations are over and these were held between January 15 and 25. An official communication from NIOS said, “The Class-XII examinations were supposed to take place in October 2020, but were delayed. The delay was allowed because of the ongoing Covid situation.” NIOS 12th vocational examinations will be held from February 5 to 26, as per the official communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/intl-nios-boards-bring-students-back-for-exams/articleshow/80756422.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB seals six commercial properties||Secunderabad: As many as six commercial properties at Bowenpally in Secunderabad Cantonment were sealed by the SCB tax department for non-payment of property tax. The drive to seal the commercial properties began on Monday. According to SCB tax department superintendent, K V Ramana Rao, the tax wing had issued notices to the commercial property owners and gave them six months time to pay the tax. “On day-one, we sealed six commercial units for defaulting nearly Rs eight lakh,” Rao said.  Meanwhile, few defaulters rushed to SCB main office and paid the pending property tax to the tune of Rs three to five lakh. “Defaulters have to pay their pending property tax immediately to avoid sealing and heavy penalties,” urged the SCB official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-seals-six-commercial-properties/articleshow/80756418.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Agra||3 detained for involvement in repackaging expired drugs for sale from Agra, Mathura||AGRA: In a major drive against spurious drugs being sold openly in the market, Agra police along with officials of food safety and drug administration raided a firm here on Monday and detained two persons for allegedly repackaging expired drugs by wiping out original expiry dates and affixing new ones for resale. Police have also detained one more person from Mathura for providing space in his company for packaging such spurious medicines. The expired drug which was found at the firm for repackaging was Pregabalin+Nortriptyline, which is used in the treatment of neuropathic pain. Agra SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod told TOI, a firm located at Satyam Palace under jurisdiction of Sikandra police station was raided at noon and the firm's owner and his brother were detained for questioning. Pramod said that during interrogation, they told police about the company in Mathura, where they allegedly used to repackage the expired drugs after removing the original date with thinner (nail polish remover). Since the raid was still going on, the exact quantity of seizure of medicines and other things will be revealed later, he added. Drug inspector, Agra, Naresh Mohan Deepak, said a team of drug inspectors from various districts, including Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Firozabad and Mathura, were formed by UP Drug Licensing and Controlling Authority Ajay Kumar Jain as initial tip-off was received of spurious drug racket being operated from Agra. He said preliminary investigations revealed that the distributors have no manufacturing licence and the name which was mentioned at the strip as “manufactured by” was from Himachal Pradesh. The company, which was disclosed by the firm's brothers, was also raided in Mathura and a machine worth Rs 50 lakh, which was used for printing new dates on these spurious medicines was sealed. Mathura’s drug inspector Anil K Anand told TOI that the company which was providing space for printing dates on expired medicines there has a licence of food supplements. “We have found the same medicine strips in a packaging machine as scrap along with 250 empty strips,” he said, adding that the questioning of the company owner is under process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-detained-for-involvement-in-repackagingexpired-drugs-for-sale-from-agra-mathura/articleshow/80755407.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Only 51% of Class IX and XI students attend school in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Only 51% of the Class IX and XI students in the district attended the schools that reopened for them on Monday. An official with the school education department said that of the 85,970 students in classes IX and XI in 632 high and higher secondary schools in the district, only 44,463 attended classes on the first day. Some private schools functioned only for half day. “Some government schools that have sufficient manpower and infrastructure are conducting classes for IX, X, XI and XII students six days a week by accommodating 25 students in a classroom. Other schools are conducting classes on alternate days,” the official said. The students were allowed inside schools after temperature was checked and they used hand sanitizers and face masks. Teachers were deployed to monitor that all Covid-19 guidelines were followed. Only those Class IX and XI students, who submitted consent letters from their parents, were allowed to attend classes, said headmistress of CCMA Government Girls Higher Secondary School R Moniarasi. “Teachers will counsel students about the precautionary measures to be taken. We have deployed teachers to ensure that the students follow the Covid-19 norms.” The government higher secondary school at Ashokapuram has six sections, each with more than 50 students, said a teacher. “As it is difficult to accommodate everyone, we have split each section into two based on gender. They will visit the school on alternate days. Boys will attend classes on Monday and girls will visit on Tuesday.” Officials had directed teachers not to compel students to visit schools. “So, we are taking online classes separately for those whose are not attending class,” a teacher said. A Kousalya, a Class XI student, said she prefers in-school teaching. “I could not concentrate in online classes due to disturbances in my home. I was waiting for schools to reopen,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-51-of-class-ix-and-xi-students-attend-school-in-dist/articleshow/80756995.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 9, 2021||Surat||CSS to come out with gory accident facts||SURAT: Centre for Social Studies (CSS) will be coming out with a fact-finding report on the tragic accident on January 19 near Kim crossroad where 15 migrants were crushed by a truck in their sleep. CSS has formed a fact-finding committee of nine members to identify the reasons that caused the accident and what can be done to prevent such incidents in the future. The committee will make its first report public after preliminary study. The committee includes Kiran Desai, director of CSS; Hemant Shah, economist; Vipul Pandya, of Bandhkam Mazdoor Sangathan; Krishnakant Chauhan, a social worker; Kirti Patel, retired labour department official; Uttam Parmar, activist; Shantilal Mina and Denis Macwan, both from Prayas Centre for Labour Research and Action; and Sanjay Patel of Aajeevika Bureau. “It is unacceptable that migrant workers coming from different parts of the country are living in such a condition. So many people die while sleeping on the pavement is tragic,” said Kiran Desai. “The primary focus of the fact-finding committee is to attempt to understand why the workers are being forced to live like this. We will focus on a sociological angle,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/css-to-come-out-with-gory-accident-facts/articleshow/80755422.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Man gets bail, Madras HC directs him to pay Rs 1 lakh||MADURAI: The Madras high court has granted bail to a man who was in possession of banned tobacco products on condition that he should deposit Rs 1 lakh to Cancer Institute in Chennai. The court was hearing the petition filed by Ashok Kumar Jain who was arrested by the South Gate police in Madurai district on December 10, 2020. The government advocate submitted that the petitioner was found in illegal possession of 395 pockets of banned tobacco products and the same was recovered by the police. He also submitted that 14 previous cases are pending against the petitioner. Taking into account the facts and circumstances, justice M Nirmal Kumar granted bail to the petitioner on condition that the petitioner should pay a non refundable deposit of Rs 1 lakh to the Cancer Institute at Adyar in Chennai. The judge also directed the petitioner to appear before the police everyday at 10.30am for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-gets-bail-hc-directs-him-to-pay-rs-1l/articleshow/80756994.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: 54,000 visited Amma mini clinics in two months||CHENNAI: Around 54,000 patients have visited Amma mini clinics for medical examination since they were opened around two months ago. The clinics, where a doctor, nurse and a helper are present, help the urban poor save Rs 50-Rs 100 per visit that they pay the neighbourhood doctor for getting their blood pressure checked or their joint pain examined. For serious ailments and further follow-ups, patients are referred to the nearest primary health centre (PHC) or government hospital. The clinics also check sugar level for diabetic patients. Cutting out-of-pocket expenditure on health is imporant for low-income groups and considering that, this initiative is good, said professor Jothi K Sivagnanam, head of department of economics, University of Madras. A senior Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) official in the health wing said they had around 150 PHCs in the city; the idea is to have a health facility in each of the 200 wards in the city. “That is the lacuna we are trying to address by bringing in mini-clinics,” the official said. Visit by TOI to the mini clinics in different areas offered unique experiences. For instance, the clinic on the Besant Nagar beach promenade is visited by fishermen who return from the sea after an overnight expedition. In Triplicane and RA Puram areas, senior citizens line up to get their knee and back pains checked. “They feel happy to get a check-up from a doctor free of cost,” said a doctor at one of the clinics. Some get their skin conditions checked here as well. P Viswanathan, 65, says he came to know about the clinic from his neighbours. “I come to the Amma clinic every week to check for body pain and get medicines for blood pressure. I usually spend Rs 100 at a neighbourbood clinic for getting the same check-up,” said the Mandaveli resident. The clinics are also smartly located, in the vicinity of slum and low-income group pockets of the city. Most clinics are on main roads, near existing facilities of the corporation such as schools and Amma canteens. The residents TOI spoke to at the clinics, however, say that awareness among residents about the facility was still poor. The corporation needs to conduct more awareness campaigns in localities, while TOI found there were no major signboards leading up to the clinics. Professor Sivagnanam said in areas where government fails, the private sector fills in. “So it is important for this government service to remain efficient and provide high quality service. If either of the two weakens, people will shift to private services,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/54000-visited-amma-mini-clinics-in-two-months/articleshow/80756417.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||48-day elephant camp at Thekkampatti kicks off||COIMBATORE: The annual elephant rejuvenation camp at Thekkampatti was inaugurated on Monday by municipal administration minister S P Velumani, HR and CE minister Sevur S Ramachandran and environment and forest minister Dindigul C Sreenivasan. Twenty-six elephants from 23 temples and three mutts across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry arrived for the 48-day rejuvenation camp. While 21 are from temples and three from mutts in Tamil Nadu, two elephants are from temples in Puducherry. Last year, 28 elephants participated. “Two elephants—from Thiruparakundram and Thirukadaiyur temple— who usually attend the camp did not come this year,” an official said. This was also the first year when two elephants—Premi and Andal—came from the same temple—Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam. For 22-year-old Premi, this was the first time to attend the camp at Thekkampatti. For the next 48 days, the elephants will receive 24x7 monitoring by veterinarians—special diet and medication to sort out health issues, plus activities in the 9-acre camp. Many elephants who come with diabetes, obesity and foot wounds will receive medications for the wounds, dressing, etc., and a protein rich diet to regulate diabetes and control obesity. Besides medication, the elephants will be given time to socialize with each other, be taken on a 5-km walk daily to be physically fit and active and will be allowed to take a shower bath on the banks of the Bhavani twice a day. Each elephant has come with her mahout and an assistant mahout. Public will be allowed to enter and see the camp from behind the barricades but must maintain pandemic restrictions like social distancing and wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/48-day-elephant-camp-at-thekkampatti-kicks-off/articleshow/80756996.cms||---
February 9, 2021||India||VK Singh’s LAC remark ‘unwitting confession’: China||NEW DELHI: Union minister Gen (retd) V K’s Singh remark that India has crossed LAC more often than China turned into a convenient stick for Beijing to attack India with on Monday as it described India’s alleged transgressions as the root cause of the current border tensions. In response to a question, which the Chinese foreign ministry claimed was raised after the daily press conference, spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Singh’s remarks were an “unwitting confession” by the Indian side. Both sides have blamed each other for the 10-month-old military stand-off with the government having held all along, and as it informed Parliament last week, that the Chinese since April/May last year have made several attempts to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC in the western sector. India continues to maintain that the Indian troops are fully familiar with the LAC alignment and, as the ministry of external affairs has said earlier, abide by it scrupulously. The Chinese seemed to make full use of the opportunity as the spokesperson said that, for a long time, the Indian side had conducted “frequent acts of trespass” in the border area in an attempt to encroach on China’s territory and “constantly created disputes and frictions, which is the root cause of the tensions at the China-India border”. “We urge the Indian side to follow through on the consensus, agreements and treaties it reached with China, and uphold peace and stability in the border region with concrete actions,” added Wang. Speaking in Madurai, Singh had made the remarks attributed to him while emphasising that the border with China remained undemarcated. “Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” he was quoted as saying. Although tensions have eased on the ground, there has been little progress in the many rounds of diplomatic and military talks for disengagement and de-escalation along the border. According to the government, while the Indian forces have responded appropriately to Chinese adventurism, it has also been conveyed to Beijing that China’s unilateral actions that disturbed peace along the LAC are unacceptable. While the MEA remained silent on the issue, Singh drew flak for his remarks also on social media with strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney saying that it will only provide grist to China’s propaganda mill. “In the absence of a credible Indian military option to evict Chinese forces from the key strategic heights they occupied last April in a stealth operation that caught India napping, such bravado reflects continuing efforts to obfuscate the loss of areas," he posted on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vk-singhs-lac-remark-unwitting-confession-china/articleshow/80757663.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Wild cat sighted near RGIA, no trace of leopard||HYDERABAD: The camera traps set up in the premises of Hyderabad international airport showed images of a jungle cat lurking in the area on Sunday night. The department installed camera traps after request from the airport officials, who maintained that the leopard lurking in the area after a CCTV footage showed a wild cat. The airport officials also maintained that there was killing of wild boars in the vicinity. However, on analysing the footage for over 20 days and manually tracking the movement of the big cat, the forest department officials said they did not find any signs of a leopard in the airport premises. “The camera traps captured wild boars, hare dogs and one jungle cat. We also found footage of dogs feeding of wild boar carcass after we left the kill in the same place to see if the leopard will return for the prey. But we just found some dogs feeding on the dead animal at night. The wild cat in the CCTV footage could be some jungle cat and not a leopard,” said Shamshabad forest range officer Shyam Kumar. The forest officials once again confirmed that no signs of pug marks of the leopard were seen in the entire area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wild-cat-sighted-near-rgia-no-trace-of-leopard/articleshow/80756430.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Agra||Five-year-old girl raped by neighbour in Mainpuri||AGRA: A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour who worked with her father in his fields in Mainpuri’s Bewar area. The police have registered an FIR and arrested the accused. According to police, the accused Nanhe Babu slept in the little girl’s house on February 5 and sexually assaulted her. The girl was referred to Safai medical college by a local medical facility after providing her initial treatment. Bhogaon circle officer Amar Bahadur Singh said that the FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the girl’s father and the matter is being investigated. The accused has been remanded to judicial custody, Singh added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-year-old-girl-raped-by-neighbour-in-mainpuri/articleshow/80755421.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops crack down on bikers for modifying silencers in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The city traffic police have gotten tougher on two-wheeler riders who modify their vehicles to create deafening sounds and trigger noise pollution. Instead of merely fining the vehicle owners, police have started sending notices to mechanics and auto mobile shops to stop selling silencers. In January, the traffic police booked 1,134 cases against violators for modifying company-fitted silencers. As part of the national road safety month, traffic cops are conducting awareness and counselling sessions to educate the public about the consequences of violating traffic rules. In one of the awareness campaigns, additional commissioner of police, Anil Kumar said modification of silencers can cause serious health issues. “Any silencer or vehicle that emits sound level above 65 decibels can be injurious to public health and if the decibel level touches 75, it might cause hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases, especially to senior citizens. Anyone who violates the law shall be punished under section 190 of the Motor Vehicles Act. We are booking cases and issuing notices to the auto mobile shops and mechanics who are modifying silencers,” said Kumar. In one of the awareness campaigns, additional commissioner of police (traffic), Anil Kumar said modification of silencers can cause serious health issues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-crack-down-on-bikers-for-modifying-silencers/articleshow/80756421.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Shiv Sena workers booked for blackening BJP leader||KOLHAPUR: Pandharpur police in Solapur district have registered various offences against Shiv Sena workers, who allegedly blackened the face of a BJP leader and threatened him. A separate offence has also been registered against the BJP leader for making some remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. BJP leader Shirish Katekar had made some remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his speech when the party had launched statewide agitation against power bills on Friday. Angered by Katekar’s remarks, a group of Shiv Sena activists had allegedly threw ink on his body, offered and him bangles. Katekar was rescued by some policemen. Katekar then went home but was taken to a hospital when he had some problem with eyes. He lodged a complaint against Shiv Sena workers in the night. Earlier, Katekar was booked under section 505 of Indian Penal Code (Statements conducing to public mischief). The incident had caused tension in Pandharpur as the video became viral on social media. On Monday morning, around 25 activists of Shiv Sena were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sena-workers-booked-for-blackening-bjp-leader/articleshow/80755418.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Amravati division reports 55% of 726 new cases in a day||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 scenario in Amravati division is turning worrisome with daily increase in number of cases as well as in the sample positivity rate. On Monday, Amravati district reported record 235 new cases in a day even as only 417 Covid-19 tests were conducted. In Yavatmal, 78 samples tested positive out of 302 while Buldhana added 58 new cases out of 304 samples on Monday. Overall, Vidarbha reported 726 new cases on Monday, with Amravati division accounting 55% of these cases (394). Number of under-treatment patients in the division is also more than that in Nagpur. Akola district in Amravati division has more than 800 patients under treatment while Amravati district has more than 600 cases, followed by Yavatmal (447) and Buldhana (350). On the other hand, three districts in Nagpur division — Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli have less than 100 patients under treatment. The sudden increase in new cases and under-treatment patients has alerted the health administration in Amravati division. The day saw 634 recoveries in Vidarbha. Now, out of total 2,78,393 patients detected in the region so far, 2,65,104 have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 95.2%, while state’s rate is 95.7% and national 97.2%. The region reported 11 deaths on Monday. These included Nagpur (5), Wardha (2), Yavatmal (2), Amravati (1), and Buldhana (1), taking the Covid-19 toll of Vidarbha to 7,039. In Nagpur district, city reported two deaths, rural one while two patients who were referred from other state/districts died during treatment in the city. The case fatality rate of the region is 2.52% which is now equal to state’s average but way more than national average of 1.43%. Day’s 726 cases came from Nagpur (279), Amravati (235), Yavatmal (78), Buldhana (58), Wardha (25), Akola (16), Bhandara (11), Chandrapur (10), Washim (7), Gondia (5), and Gadchiroli (2). The 634 recoveries on Monday came from Nagpur (271), Amravati (89), Yavatmal (86), Buldhana (49), Wardha (40), Bhandara (24), Akola (22), Gondia (18), Chandrapur (15), Washim (12), and Gadchiroli (8). Wardha: With two deaths, the Covid toll reached 313. After 25 new cases, the caseload is now 10,353. On Monday, 40 were discharged and recoveries reached 9,672. At present, 368 patients are under treatment. Amravati: An addition of 235 cases on Monday showed that the virus was on the upswing in the district. One death took the toll to 424. There were 89 recoveries, leaving 608 active cases. Yavatmal: The district recorded two deaths, taking the toll to 437. There were 78 new cases and 86 recoveries. Currently there are 448 patients under treatment. Chandrapur: There were 10 new cases and 15 recoveries on Monday, leaving 93 active patients in district. There was no death reported during the day and death toll was stable at 392. Akola: The district reported 16 new cases on Monday out of the 113 tests done in a day, which means 14% samples tested positive. The caseload reached 11,854 while recoveries touched 10,714 after 22 patients recovered in a day. No death was reported on Monday and the toll remained at 338. Now, 802 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Out of the 304 reports received in the last 24 hours, 58 came positive, for sample positivity rate of near 20%. The Covid count reached 14,377. Recoveries reached 13,854 after 49 patients got discharge during the day. A senior citizen died on Monday, taking the Covid toll of district to 173. Now, 350 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported seven new cases and 12 recoveries on Monday. The caseload reached 7,242, including 6,963 recoveries and 155 deaths. Now, 123 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: With 11 new cases, 24 recoveries and no death on Monday, Bhandara’s Covid count reached 13,318, including 12,880 recoveries and 324 deaths, leaving 114 patients under treatment. Gondia: Five new cases and 18 recoveries were reported in Gondia. The district has seen 14,260 cases, 13,998 recoveries and 183 deaths so far. Only 79 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Only two new cases were reported while eight patients recovered in the district on Monday. No death was reported for the 8th day. The caseload is 9,389, including 9,250 recoveries and 105 deaths. Only 34 patients are under treatment in Gadchiroli, which is the lowest in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-divn-reports-55-of-726-new-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/80756461.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 536 crore hydro & solar power project gets BMC’s nod||MUMBAI: The BMC’s standing committee on Monday approved a Rs 536 crore hydro and solar power project to generate 100 megawatt power at its Vaitarna dam. Officials said that the plant will help the BMC save at least Rs 24 crore every year on electricity bills. Apart from this,, the BMC also appointed contractors to mitigate 58 flooding spots. Tenders to the tune of Rs 190 crore for flooding spots mitigation contracts were floated. BMC officials said 20 megawatt will be generated annually from the hydro power plant and 80 megawatt from the floating solar power plant. Officials said the BMC would be the first civic body in the country in hybrid energy generation. “In terms of units, the two projects will generate about 208 million units per year and save about Rs 24.18 crore a year in electricity costs. The construction is likely to be completed in a couple of years. The power will be supplied to state-run power agencies. In lieu of that, the BMC will get an adjustment in the electricity bills it has to pay,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-536cr-hydro-solar-power-project-gets-bmcs-nod/articleshow/80757002.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||A year on, wait for restoration of North Chennai lake gets longer||CHENNAI: Wait for restoration of Devikulam lake in North Chennai is dragging on with government agencies passing the buck. The waterbody, which was once a drinking water source for Thiruvottiyur residents, had turned into a garbage dumping site. Taking suo motu cognizance of news reports that highlighted the issue, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in March 2020 constituted a joint-committee to inspect and submit an action-taken report. Acting on it, Southern Railway recently told the committee that it had engaged earthmovers to remove garbage on one end of the lake but said unless Greater Chennai Corporation cleared waste accumulated in the culvert, it will not be able to proceed with restoration work. Railway had proposed to construct a compound wall, clean surrounding areas and strengthen the embankment. Tenders will be called on priority once GCC finishes desilting, railways said in its letter written to the civic body. Admitting this, NGT southern zone, in hearing on February 3, directed GCC and the state highways department, which built the culvert, to clean it up soon so that water can flow easily into Buckingham Canal. Before the next hearing scheduled for March 25, GCC is expected to submit its status report on cleaning and clearing encroachment. Residents, meanwhile, complained that focus has shifted to the north side of the lake when the actual problem was on the southern side, which is spread across 80 acres. Ennore High Road bifurcates the lake. “People residing on the south side of the road even used bury bodies near the lake. Only recently, the corporation asked people to stop using it as a burial site and refused to issue death certificates for those buried here,” said Jamal, who resides near the railway colony there. Government agencies had no clue of how to restore the south side of the lake, he said, adding that since NGT intervened, they have shed light on just the north end and blame each other for clearing it. In response, a GCC official said waste was collected from bunds and disposed of as per norms. “Desilting work will begin soon,” he said, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-year-on-wait-for-restoration-of-n-chennai-lake-gets-longer/articleshow/80756454.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Nashik Municipal Corporation to digitalise all key papers||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), following the recent fire at its headquarters (Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan), has started the process to digitalise and preserve all the important documents. The Information & Technology (IT) department of the civic body has asked the town planning and the birth and death certificates departments to preserve their documents through digitalisation. The IT department has already provided jumbo scanning machines to the town planning department and medium-sized scanners to the birth and death certificates departments in all the six divisions of the civic body.  “We had recently scanned around 70,000 major documents related to the TDR, lay-outs, maps and other major documents through an agency under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Now, we are in the process of scanning or digitalising other major documents related to the town planning department,” Rajendra Aher, executive engineer of NMC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-digitalise-all-key-papers/articleshow/80755437.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tragedy: Hope in hearts & prayer on lips, families wait, watch rescue work||RAINI VILLAGE (CHAMOLI): As rescue personnel try to evacuate almost 35 workers stuck inside a tunnel at the site of the Tapovan-Vishnugad project of NTPC that suffered heavy damages in Sunday’s flash floods, trepidation and tension hangs in the air outside. The mood is made all the more sombre since relatives of those who are stuck inside – for over 36 hours now – are there at the site, fervently praying that their loved ones are safe. Oblivious of the muck and slush that the flash floods left behind and the sharp winter chill, 58-year-old Pal Chand looks at the 950 metre-long tunnel --which a joint team of ITBP, NDRF, SDRF and Army personnel has been trying to enter since Sunday evening – with hope in his eyes and a prayer on his lips. Read AlsoUttarakhand: 171 still missing, rescue teams race against timeOver 500 rescue personnel from state, disaster and defence forces are racing against time to rescue the 34 workers — and there could be more — believed trapped inside a 1.6-km-long debris-filled tunnel of the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. The flooded DhauligangaThe tunnel is filled to the brim with slush but Chand is hopeful there will be a breakthrough soon. His son, Vineet Saini, who is an engineer with NTPC, is among those who are stuck inside. The worried father says that as soon as he heard the news of the disaster, he left his home at Amroha in Uttar Pradesh. “We reached here around 3 am as soon we came to know of the mishap. My heart is sinking with every passing minute but I am hopeful that I will be reunited with my son and he will emerge safe and sound,” he said, tears brimming in his eyes. Read AlsoNo new hydel units on Ganga, said govt in 2019Even as dams are being discussed afresh after the glacier disaster in Uttarakhand, the Centre had taken a decision during PM Narendra Modi’s first term itself not to take up any new hydro-electric project on river Ganga and its tributaries in the state.Pradeep Shah, a driver with the hydropower company, recalls how the engineers and other workers got trapped inside the tunnel. “Everything happened in a matter of seconds. I was standing on top of the construction site when I saw a huge wave of water coming from behind. I shouted and even blew loud whistles but within seconds, around 13 workers as well as the engineers were tossed up by the water and washed inside one of the four gates of the tunnel.” Read AlsoUttarakhand tragedy: Locals do their bit to keep morale high at disaster siteVillagers from nearby areas are trying to motivate rescue personnel who are on a mission to trace around 35 people stuck inside a tunnel at NTPC hydropower site in Tapovan. They are providing them cooked food, other edibles and serving tea.Some of the workers, who were outside when the flash floods came, had a narrow escape. Vinod Kumar, a worker, says he can’t stop thanking his stars. “I was engaged in my work when I heard someone shouting, ‘Site khaali karo jaldi (Vacate the site immediately). I instantly scrambled for safety. A couple of stones and debris hit me from behind but I did not look back. It is only by the grace of God that I managed to escape in the nick of time.” Read AlsoUttarakhand glacier burst: Inside a flooded tunnel, a hero, his team and an agonising 7 hoursDEHRADUN: For one brief moment after a cascade of silt and mud descended on the tunnel he had been working in and blocked its opening, Vijendra Kumar felt helpless. But the 50-year-old senior foreman had 11 other men to look out for. For three years, he had led the work on Tunnel Number 2 of NTPC’sAs rescue personnel try to reach those trapped, family members say they are hopeful that their loved ones, too, will emerge from the tunnel soon. Sati Bisht, whose brother Padminder Bisht, a supervisor at the project site, is among those stuck in the tunnel, told TOI, “As soon as I came to know of the incident, I cam here from Pipalkoti which is a two hours’ drive from Tapovan. I am staying put till I see my brother again.” Read AlsoLandslide, not glacier, led to flash flood in Rishiganga river: IIRS reportContrary to the initial claims that a glacier burst caused flash floods in Tapovan area of Chamoli district on Sunday, a fresh satellite assessment done by the Dehradun-based Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), which is part of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), has indicated thatWatch Uttarakhand glacier burst: 197 still missing, NDRF, ITBP teams intensify relief operations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hope-in-hearts-and-prayer-on-lips-family-members-of-those-stuck-in-tunnel-after-flash-floods-in-chamoli-wait-outside-watch-rescue-efforts/articleshow/80755459.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Register 8 acres in Kolkata firm’s name: HC||HYDERABAD: A division bench of Telangana high court comprising Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar has directed the state government and its joint sub-registrar-cum-tahsildar of Serilingampally to register eight acres and seven kuntas of land in survey No. 78 of Hafeezpet in favour of Kolkata-based Kraft Alloy company within 10 days from now. The bench also imposed costs of Rs 50,000 on the state and its authorities and directed them to pay it to the petitioner for causing needless mental agony to the petitioners within four weeks. The bench brushed aside all claims of land being a state land, and said that this land falls within private land and the state has no power to include this land in the prohibited list. The bench also found fault with the state and its authorities for making repeated claims over such land parcels in certain survey numbers in Hafeezpet despite losing six rounds of litigation that went to the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-register-8-acres-in-kol-firms-name/articleshow/80756438.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Aspirants lobby for SCB nominated post in Delhi||SECUNDERABAD: With the term of elected members of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) coming to an end on February 10 and all eyes fixed on the nominated post to be appointed by the SCB, representatives of the BJP are making a beeline in front of the BJP central office and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) office in Delhi to file nomination papers. Aspirants have also met the BJP high command in Delhi, including national party chief JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and union defence minister Rajnath Singh, and submitted their credentials. The aspirant has to be a civilian and a registered voter in Cantonment. According to sources, nearly eight to 10 aspirants from the Secunderabad Cantonment are in the race for the post. Former SCB vice- presidents including Jampana Pratap and J Rama Krishna are in the race while the name of former minister Vijaya Ramarao is also doing the rounds. Highly-placed sources in the BJP said that although many aspirants from the party are eyeing the post, the final decision lies with the BJP high command and one name will be recommended for the nominated post, after taking into consideration various parameters like experience in politics and credentials. “I have urged the BJP high command to recommend my name as I have already worked as a civilian nominated member between 2003 and 2006 and was elected four times as ward member,” said former SCB vice-president J Pratap, who met Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and other senior BJP leaders in Delhi. Pratap had recently joined the BJP. As per the Cantonment Act, once the current SCB body is dissolved, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has to appoint a civilian nominated member. President, Cantonment Board, Cantonment CEO, a civilian nominated member and one defence official have to run the Cantonment Board and convene board meetings. The panel will continue till MoD issues a notification for Cantonment board elections. SCB CEO B Ajith Reddy will shortlist the names of the aspirants and forward them to the Directorate General Defence Estates (DGDE), Delhi, following which the MoD finalises one name. The announcement of the name is expected after February 15, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aspirants-lobby-for-scb-nominated-post-in-delhi/articleshow/80756450.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||IRDAI panel bats for index linked insurance products||HYDERABAD: At a time when the markets have been volatile and interest rates stressed, index-linked insurance products (ILIPs) can emerge as an alternative or complementary option to the current conventional guaranteed products and ULIPs (unit-linked insurance products) for insurance players to ward off balance sheet risks, said an Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) panel. Batting for index-linked products, the working group (WG) report on ILIPs said, “The relevance of ILIP is further enhanced, in the current context of volatile investment markets leading to the customer preference for guarantees and which has therefore possibly resulted in the current industry practice of selling significant amount of guaranteed products (including annuities and savings products) with plausible increased balance sheet risk for the insurers.” The ILIP working group report was uploaded on the IRDAI website on Monday. ILIPs are insurance products where returns are linked to benchmark indices such as government bonds or equity indices such as Sensex or Nifty or commodity index or one or more combinations of these. Having received multiple requests from insurance companies seeking permission to offer index linked products, IRDAI had set up a working group to examine various aspects of index linked products in life insurance segment in September last year. The six-member working group, led by Dinesh Pant, appointed actuary of LIC of India, examined the need for index-linked products in India and how it will better serve the needs of customers in comparison to traditional savings products. The WG, in its report, has stated that ILIP can emerge as a new category of products that fits in between traditional products (where features can appear less transparent) and the unit linked products (ULIP) where transparency is higher but the investment risks are completely borne by the policyholders. Stating that ILIP, in certain forms and shapes, can lead to complexity at the back-end, the panel decided to recommend different variants of a product structure, starting from the ones which are simple (linked to fixed/G-Sec income). In each product, the insurer can offer multiple variants and under variant-1, the products will simpler where benefits are linked to just one single index, whereas in variant-2 and above, benefits can be linked to combination of indices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-panel-bats-for-index-linked-insurance-products/articleshow/80756458.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Mayor poll: Staff to follow Covid norms||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Monday issued an appeal to staff members to follow Covid-19 guidelines by wearing a mask and ensuring social distancing before entering the GHMC council hall while the procedure to elect the corporation’s mayor and deputy mayor is underway. Members who are eligible to vote will have to reach the council hall at 10:45 am on February 11 and the mayoral election for Greater Hyderabad will begin at 11 am. “Covid-19 testing a day before is not mandatory; they do not need to produce a test report at the council. But they have to follow basic rules, which include wearing a mask,” said a GHMC official. All political parties have also been warned against organising camps with elected party representatives, either directly or indirectly, by the state election commission (SEC). “There shall not be any canvassing or campaigning 48 hours prior to the hour fixed for election. Violation shall invite suitable prosecution or action,” read a statement issued by the GHMC.“On February 9, we will hold a meeting with political party representatives and inform them about the procedure of the elections,” the statement read. While Hyderabad district collector Sweta Mohanty was appointed presiding officer (PO), Sandeep Kumar Sultania, secretary to government (energy department), was appointed the observer. The special meeting should have quorum and if only one candidate is proposed as mayor, there will be no election and the candidate will be declared as elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-poll-staff-to-follow-covid-norms/articleshow/80756463.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Three years after sky museum plan in South Bombay, minister reminds BMC to throw it open||MUMBAI: Three years after BMC formed a panel to decide on artefacts to be displayed at the city’s only museum in the sky at Breach Candy, the museum to be opened on the upper floors of JK House Building remains closed. Mumbai City guardian minister Aslam Shaikh has demanded that the museum be opened to the public and asked BMC chief Iqbal Chahal to revoke the building’s occupation certificate (OC) if there is further delay in handing over the museum to BMC. “After three years, the museum has not been opened for public and it seems that the private owner is using the property instead of handing it over to BMC... If there is any delay on the part of the owners to hand over the museum to BMC, then the building’s OC must be revoked since this amounts to violation of OC conditions,” Shaikh said in a letter to Chahal. A Raymond spokesperson however said that the museum would open as planned and there was a delay due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Civic officials said an MoU was signed between BMC and Raymond in 2016 for the museum between 15th and 18th floors of the tower — an area of 26,500 sq ft. “...JK House museum would be open to the public as planned. After the last inspections done by BMC, there were some furnishing and fixture jobs to be carried out for the said museum that got impacted due to the pandemic... As the situation normalises the pending finishing jobs will be expedited. The inventory of the museum will cover a mix of items related to textile exhibits and personal collection of artefacts and memorabilia,” a Raymond spokesperson said. Chahal did not respond to a query from TOI. Besides artefacts that Raymond will provide, exhibits will be brought from other sources in the new museum, said a senior civic official. “BMC will collect all revenue from the museum while maintenance costs will be borne by Raymond. The museum will be kept open for public viewing all weekdays, 10am to 5pm,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-years-after-sky-museum-plan-in-sobo-minister-reminds-bmc-to-throw-it-open/articleshow/80756504.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Man fined Rs 62,000 for cutting down 40-year-old tree in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Telangana state forest department slapped a fine of Rs 62,075 on a man for felling a 40-year-old neem tree near his house in Saidabad on Monday. The officials swung into action after being alerted by an eighth standard student who noticed that the huge tree in his locality went missing overnight. “The man, G Santosh Reddy had cut the tree, saying it was obstructing construction of his new house”, a forest department official said. “The boy called the forest department’s toll-free number (1800 425 5364) after he noticed that a huge tree was cut. He identified himself as a ‘Green Brigadier’ and requested that action be taken against those responsible for cutting the tree,” said Hyderabad district forest officer M Joji. Officials informed that Reddy, who paid the fine amount, also tried to destroy the evidence by trying to burn the branches and the entire trunk of the tree in the night to avoid any suspicion. The forest department officials congratulated the boy for acting responsibly. There are two categories of trees that fall under exempted and non-exempted category. For both the categories, one must apply for permission before felling them via the Telangana forest management information system (TGFMIS) website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-fined-rs-62k-for-cutting-down-40-yr-old-tree/articleshow/80756452.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||‘Water supply to stay unaffected’||The disaster in Uttarakhand will no longer affect the water supply in Delhi, a DJB official said. “On Sunday, we were told that the dam operations after the disaster may affect water supply in Delhi through Muradnagar’s Gangnahar, but the UP irrigation department has withdrawn its alert,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-supply-to-stay-unaffected/articleshow/80756464.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Agra||Dodging police, over 200 farmers of Agra reach Ghazipur border||AGRA: At least 200 farmers from Agra region reached Ghazipur border on Sunday by boarding buses and other private vehicles. Following legal notices issued by police and administration, farmer leaders in Agra region have decided to intensify protest against the three farm laws. Over 12 committees have been constituted by farm unions to “spread awareness against the three farm laws” in rural areas. Farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar who reached Ghazipur border on Sunday night said, “Defying all odds, over 200 farmers from different parts of Agra district reached Ghazipur border on Sunday evening. We had made arrangements for two private buses and 15 cars to reach the protest site. Several farmers reached by public transport. We have come here to mark support for Rakesh Tikait in the fight against the three farm laws.” Farmer’s associations have made a week-wise roster plan to ensure participation in the protest. A batch of farmers will stay at Ghazipur border for one week and then another batch will leave for the protest site. Bharatiya Kisan Union has started making arrangements of tents for farmers of each district to stay at the protest site. BKU leadership has directed district presidents to ensure supply of food grains and daily need items at the protest site. BKU’s Agra district president, Rajveer Lawaniya said, “Despite legal notices being issued by police and administration on instructions of the state government, farmers from Agra district continue to participate in farmers' protests. We will see, how many notices they can issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dodging-police-over-200-farmers-of-agra-reach-ghazipur-border/articleshow/80755466.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid toll declines to lowest in 291 days||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a significant dip in Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Monday. A total of 2,216 cases and 15 fatalities were reported by the state, while the city reported 399 new cases and three deaths. Maharashtra reported the lowest fatalities in 291 days since April 23, 2020 (14 deaths), while deaths in Mumbai were lowest in 35 days. The total caseload of the state stood at 20,46,287 and 51,325 deaths, while the total cases in the city were 3,12,280 and 11,395 deaths. Of the three deaths in Mumbai, all were men who had comorbidities and were above the age of 60 years. Although Mumbai’s weekly death rate has dropped under 2%, maximum fatalities are seen among those above the age of 50 years. Meanwhile, Mumbai Metropolitan Region crossed the seven-lakh mark for Covid cases. A total of 705 cases were added in the region on Monday taking the total tally to 7,00,539. The region reported five deaths taking the total fatalities to 19,635.Within MMR, 56 positive cases were reported from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, taking the total Covid count to 53,511. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,094. PCMC areas reported 36 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 28,990. With no death reported on Monday, the death toll remained at 628. The recovery rate has improved to 96.9%. Active cases in the state and the city dropped further on Monday. There are a total of 34,720 active cases in the state of which 5,338 are in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-covid-toll-declines-to-lowest-in-291-days/articleshow/80756478.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||G Kishan Reddy urges Telangana CM to resume MMTS services||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday wrote a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao seeking resumption of MMTS services in the city. In a one-page letter, Reddy said that in view of the growing demand for public transport post Covid-19, the state government should initiate discussions with the railway department to resume MMTS services as per the required guidelines. The minister said that as metro rail and RTC buses are already running in the city, it would be good to have MMTS too. “MMTS is available transport service for the people with low cost for long distance,” he said. The Union minister said that people in the city, especially the poor, are suffering due to lack of MMTS services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-reddyurges-kcr-to-resume-mmts-services/articleshow/80756480.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Teen is first in Mumbai to get heart transplant this year||MUMBAI: A 15-year-old boy suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition that can lead to heart failure, and had lost his elder brother to the same ailment, recently underwent a heart transplant after the family of a 45-year-old businessman donated his organs. It was facilitated the city’s third organ donation and the first paediatric transplant of the year. The donor suffered brain death. His family members were counselled by medical teams at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, where the heart transplant also took place. The recipient, a Class 10 student, was wait-listed for a cardiac transplant since last year. “I lost my elder son when he was 13 due to dilated cardiomyopathy,” said the boy’s father. Dr Dhananjay Malankar, cardiac surgeon, who led the team, said, “The young patient was admitted with us as his heart failure worsened. The donor family’s act of giving helped breathe new life into our young recipient”. “Worldwide, 5000 heart transplants are performed annually, of which about 500 are done on children,” said Dr Swati Garekar, senior consultant, paediatric cardiology at Fortis. The teenager will be able to appear for his board exam this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-is-first-in-city-to-get-heart-transplant-this-yr/articleshow/80754682.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Nashik division’s revenue collection better than last year||NASHIK: Divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Monday informed that despite problems due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the collection of revenue across all five districts of Nashik division is better than last year. The five districts have collected a revenue of Rs 376 crore — Rs 15 crore more than last year’s collection. “The district administration is responsible for collection of revenue — basically from land and minor minerals. Considering the Covid-19 situation the stress was laid to ensure that maximum revenue was garnered from minor minerals and we were successful in achieving the same,” said Game. It should be noted that the best performance in land revenue collection was put up by Nandurbar district that achieved 97% (Rs 10.78 crore) target. It was followed by Dhule district that achieved a target of 81% (Rs 19.61 crore). In case of minor minerals Jalgaon district collected Rs 67.51 crore (64%), while Nashik district collected Rs 80.67 crore (57%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/divns-revenue-collection-better-than-last-year/articleshow/80755476.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 9, 2021||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate Purvanchal Expressway in April: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the construction of Purvanchal Expressway is going on at a fast pace and efforts are being made to complete it at the earliest so that it can be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April. The CM inspected the ongoing construction of the six-lane Purvanchal Expressway in Mubarakpur area of Azamgarh and Dharwarkala of Kasimabad area in Ghazipur district on Monday morning. After taking stock of the progress, Yogi said, “The work is going on at a fast pace. Ensure the construction is completed by March 31 and the expressway can be fully ready by April 15 for inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” “The expressway will pave the way for industrialisation of east UP. Once the expressway gets functional, we will set up industrial clusters that will provide employment opportunities to the youth,” Yogi added. Addressing small public meetings at both places, Yogi said, “The construction had started in 2018 and it will become functional in April 2021, which is earlier than the deadline. It is a big achievement that the Purvanchal Expressway is being completed in three years despite the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. This model of development of our government is drawing praise from across the country and the world.” The Chief Minister directed the local administrations to develop MSME clusters along the expressway to boost manufacturing and services and create employment opportunities for youths locally. Along with the expressway, we are also focusing on completion of Azamgarh-Varanasi national highway-22 widening project for overall development of Azamgarh, he added. “Azamgarh had a bad reputation till four years ago. People from here found it difficult to get accommodation on rent in other cities, but the situation has changed in four years and Azamgarh is now becoming a model of development,” Yogi said. Earlier, following a night stay in Varanasi, CM went to Dharwarkala of Kasimabad area in Ghazipur to inspect the expressway work and discussed issues with officials. He addressed the Jan Samvad programme and left for Azamgarh after a 40-minute stay. In Azamgarh, his chopper landed at Mojrapur area of Mubarakpur, where Yogi inspected the expressway and underpass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-modi-will-inaugurate-purvanchal-expressway-in-april-cm/articleshow/80755474.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 9, 2021||Goa||Farmers must involve youth in agriculture: Goa CM||BICHOLIM: Farmers need to initiate their children into agriculture, said chief minister Pramod Sawant, while addressing the farmers at the Krishi Mela in Sakhali. He said this is important for Goa to attain self-sufficiency. “There is a need for the youth to work for agriculture. The farmers should take a step forward as the government is trying its best to improve the agricultural scenario in the state. The state should not rely upon outside vegetable and should become self-sustained,” Sawant said, calling upon farmers to ensure that they get their krishi card made to get benefits of the various government schemes. At the Krishi Mela, local farmers displayed their products ranging from fruits to vegetables to saplings and food items and agricultural instruments. On the same day, BJP’s Goa desk in charge CT Ravi met Mayem constituency workers and interacted with them. He told the workers that under PM Narendra Modi’s leadership, the government is working to implement various schemes to bring prosperity to every household. Ravi appealed to the workers to spread the message to every household by taking the government’s plans from door to door.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-must-involve-youth-in-agriculture-cm/articleshow/80757362.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 5 usage charge on toilets raises stink with poor||NEW DELHI: Having used the community toilet in the locality for free so far, the residents of Indira Camp, a slum cluster in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj, were aghast to find the maintaining agency demanding Rs 5 per use from them. Prodded by the residents, the area’s municipal councillor, Abhishek Dutt, met municipal officials and discovered that paid use of such facilities was incorporated into the policy on the upkeep and maintenance of community and public toilets when it was modified last November. “I visited the site and confirmed this,” said Dutt. “The point is that people living in the jhuggi clusters cannot afford to pay Rs 5 for every visit to the toilet complex. I checked with other wards and the situation is the same there too.” The Congress councillor added, “The irony is that the community toilets in my ward were constructed under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and aimed at dissuading people from defecating in the open. Now if they are charged money, the slum dwellers return to using the open areas for this. If South Delhi Municipal Corporation doesn’t have financial resources to maintain these facilities, they must for alternatives.” An official of SDMC’s department of environment management services (DEMS) confirmed that the policy for maintenance and upkeep of public toilets, approved in 2019, was modified in 2020. “We are collecting maintenance charges as per this modified policy, which says that if the concessionaire does not provide advertisement on toilet blocks, then they can be allowed to charge Rs5 for the use of toilet, though the urinal use is free,” the official said. He also explained, “NGOs, market associations or private companies, invited to oversee the community toilets, are allowed to display advertisements and generate revenue. But in cases where there is no space for advertisement available, they have to generate revenues by charging users.” However, Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, claimed no money was being charged for toilets in the jhuggi clusters. “We amended the modified policy to ensure this. So, if people or councillors still have problems they can come to us,” he reassured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-5-usage-charge-on-toilets-raises-stink-with-poor/articleshow/80756500.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 9, 2021||Trichy||49 new Covid-19 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 44 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 49 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. The lone casualty in the region was a 74-year old man from Tirunelveli. Admitted to a private hospital in Chennai, he died on Sunday. Meanwhile, the central region on Monday reported 44 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,328, which include 435 active cases. There were no deaths in the region as it maintained the toll at 946. Kanyakumari recorded 16 fresh cases, the highest in the southern region. Tenkasi recorded zero cases, followed by Sivagangai (1), Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram (2 each), Theni and Dindigul (4 each), Tirunelveli (6), and Madurai and Virudhunagar (7 each). The number of active cases has dropped to 432 with all the districts recording less than 100 cases for the second straight day. Kanyakumari (91) recorded the highest, followed by Madurai (90), Dindigul (59) and Tirunelveli (58). The other districts recorded less than 33 cases each – Ramanathapuram (10), Tuticorin (12), Sivagangai (21), Tenkasi (28), Virudhunagar (31) and Theni (32). In the central TN, Trichy recorded 18 cases, the highest in the region pushing its tally to 14,785, which include 109 active cases. Thanjavur reported 13 fresh cases, but the district is still on top in the number of total cases -- 17,818, which include 149 active cases. Thanjavur is on top in terms of active cases, death toll and recoveries too. All other districts have fresh cases in single digits only. Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur registered one fresh case each, while Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur reported four cases each and Pudukkottai two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/49-new-cases-in-south-tn-44-in-central-dists/articleshow/80763961.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Madurai||49 new Covid-19 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 44 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 49 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. The lone casualty in the region was a 74-year old man from Tirunelveli. Admitted to a private hospital in Chennai, he died on Sunday. Meanwhile, the central region on Monday reported 44 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,328, which include 435 active cases. There were no deaths in the region as it maintained the toll at 946. Kanyakumari recorded 16 fresh cases, the highest in the southern region. Tenkasi recorded zero cases, followed by Sivagangai (1), Tuticorin and Ramanathapuram (2 each), Theni and Dindigul (4 each), Tirunelveli (6), and Madurai and Virudhunagar (7 each). The number of active cases has dropped to 432 with all the districts recording less than 100 cases for the second straight day. Kanyakumari (91) recorded the highest, followed by Madurai (90), Dindigul (59) and Tirunelveli (58). The other districts recorded less than 33 cases each – Ramanathapuram (10), Tuticorin (12), Sivagangai (21), Tenkasi (28), Virudhunagar (31) and Theni (32). In the central TN, Trichy recorded 18 cases, the highest in the region pushing its tally to 14,785, which include 109 active cases. Thanjavur reported 13 fresh cases, but the district is still on top in the number of total cases -- 17,818, which include 149 active cases. Thanjavur is on top in terms of active cases, death toll and recoveries too. All other districts have fresh cases in single digits only. Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur registered one fresh case each, while Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur reported four cases each and Pudukkottai two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/49-new-cases-in-south-tn-44-in-central-dists/articleshow/80757007.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Victims’ parents move on, survivor’s feel shortchanged||NAGPUR: Exactly a month after the January 9 tragedy, parents of the 10 premature babies seemed to have accepted their fate and moved on with no complaints or demands coming forward since the incident. On the other hand, parents of the seven babies who survived the blaze at the Bhandara district general hospital’s Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) have shown resentment, especially after watching the 10 parents turn “lakhpati” within days. Most of the parents are farm labourer and never had such large sums in their accounts. “We are yet to decide what to do with the money,” said one of the parents from Ursala village. On Monday, the governor’s office confirmed it remitted Rs2lakh as ex gratia promised during his visit to Bhandara last month. This indicates that the Rs2lakh approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is yet to be deposited into the accounts of the 10 beneficiaries. So far, the 10 aggrieved families have received 8.25 lakh, including Rs5lakh from the state government, Rs one lakh cash from the Shiv Sena, Rs20,000 from the Congress and Rs5,000 from am NGO. “Their kids died and they got good money. Our kids survived but what about their future and the mental harassment we faced,” said a parent of the survivor baby. These seven parents had been complaining that they have been dumped while the government and district administration has focused only on the parents of the 10 babies who died in the incident. “We too have gone through similar trauma and mental harassment. In fact, after the incident, the hospital administration used us and our seven babies to wash its sins of being responsible for the death of the 10 babies. We haven’t been offered any monetary aid,” they had told TOI. Umesh Chachere and Dinesh Khandate, parents of two survivors, told TOI that they had got a letter drafted by a village teacher requesting some financial help from the government for their kids as well. “We don’t know whom to give the letter. I had handed it over to Khandate but he hasn’t confirmed if it was submitted or not,” said Chachere. Acting civil surgeon Dr Piyush Jakkal said that though there were rumours about the seven parents wanting compensation, no demand was made. “Till date, I haven’t received any request or demand from the parents or their relatives. But there were talks,” he said. MSMTA demands revocation of action The Maharashtra state medical teachers’ association (MSMTA) has written to the public health department minister Rajesh Tope demanding rollback of the transfer, termination and suspension of all the five doctors and nurses of Bhandara district general hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, additional CS Dr Sunita Badhe and three others faced the music for the January 9 fire at the SNCU. New CS to take charge on Wednesday Former deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr Riyaz Farooqui, who has been appointed as the civil surgeon of Bhandara District General Hospital, would take charge on February 10. It was expected that Dr Farooqui would take charge on Monday. He told TOI that he would be assuming charge on Wednesday. Incumbent Dr Pramod Khandate was suspended and transferred to Wardha as punishment for the January 9 fire at the SNCU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/victims-parents-move-on-survivors-feel-shortchanged/articleshow/80756474.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||MLAs have constitutional rights: Arvind||Hyderabad: Nizamabad MP D Arvind on Monday said he will complain to governor Tamilisai Soundararjan on the remarks of chief minister KCR during the TRS legislature meeting on Sunday. “How can KCR threaten MLAs during the meeting. They have constitutional right to elect their leader,” the BJP MP said. Stating that the CM’s comments were constitutional, he said the CM and TRS brass were apprehensive that they were losing the battle and don’t want people to focus on issues hence were resorting to political drama. He expressed confidence that even if KCR is the CM candidate in 2023 assembly polls, BJP will defeat the pink party. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlas-have-constitutional-rights-arvind/articleshow/80756471.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||RRR project to be revived, Telangana to bear 50% cost of land acquisition||HYDERABAD: The Rs 13,000 crore regional ring road (RRR) project that will improve connectivity between outer ring road (ORR) and at least a dozen important urban clusters including Gajwel, the assembly constituency represented by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, is being put back on the track of development. The state government has agreed to share at least 50% cost towards land acquisition to execute the project. Acquisition of land alone is likely to cost over Rs 500 crore. The revival of the project assumes significance as this is one of the projects closely monitored by KCR. Two years ago, the Union transport and highways ministry had raised queries over the financial viability of the Rs 13,000 crore regional ring road plan submitted by the Telangana government. The Union ministry had asked the state government to get a fresh study conducted again on the ring road project and incorporate details of how the state plans to recover the huge investment that would be made to develop the 330 km regional ring road. In its communication to the state government, the Centre had stated that the detailed project report sent to it by the state government failed to show an efficient formula and road map of recovering the investment. The ministry had gone to the extent of stating that even if toll tax is collected for 30 years, it may not be sufficient to even pay the interest on the principle amount to be invested on construction of the 330 km ring road. Officials in the Roads and Buildings department told TOI that the state government has been submitting replies and details to every query raised by the ministry. “It’s a positive sign that the prestigious regional ring road project will be developed with central funding. The state government has agreed to share some of the cost of land acquisition,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rrr-project-to-be-revived-t-to-bear-50-cost-of-land-acquisition/articleshow/80756485.cms||Roushan Ali
February 9, 2021||Madurai||MLA takes up LED vehicle campaign||MADURAI: Taking a step further to the phrase ‘actions speak louder than words’, Madurai Central DMK MLA PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan has taken up an LED vehicle campaign to display to people in his constituency how he spent just over Rs 12 crore allotted for them. Thiagarajan has so far spent Rs 12.70 crore by fulfilling 150 works in his constituency using the member of legislative assembly local area development fund (MLALAD). This includes constructing buildings for 11 ICDS and compound walls for another two. He has also used the funds for 40 borewells to meet the residents’ drinking water needs and provided 50 tar-paved roads and 21 paver block roads. “It is like watching evening movies. It is interesting to see that so many things have been done in this constituency,” said S Kumaraguru of Petchiammanpadithurai. The MLA plans to spend the remaining amount on additional projects before his term ends. Ramesh, a resident of Thaikkal street, said that even women in his house have started discussing what they saw on the LED screen. “Government claims that they have done a lot for the people in many ways. But usually, we elect our local representative to get things done in our local area. It is satisfying to see that the funds have been utilized properly for the works,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mla-takes-up-led-vehicle-campaign/articleshow/80757013.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Mayor, MC face heat from BJP over door-to-door garbage lifting||Ludhiana: After discontinuation of the contract with the private firm A2Z, which the municipal corporation had engaged for door-to-door lifting of garbage in the city, mayor Balkar Sandhu and the municipal corporation officials have started facing the heat from the rivals. Earlier on Monday, mayor Sandhu conducted a meeting with municipal corporation officials and some legal experts to decide on the next course of action. Interestingly, the details of the discussions were not known. BJP’s district president Pushpinder Singhal said that, “This entire episode clearly exposes the working of the municipal corporation, Ludhiana. When the company had given ultimatum in December that it would end its contract with the MC in February due to some problems, why no steps were taken either to solve the differences with the company and if a resolution was not possible, then why no fresh tenders were called to award the contract to someone else. If the company has quit the agreement due to delays in receiving payments or likewise other related things, then it’s very shocking as even after earning such huge revenues how come the MC failed to make the payment for the work being done by this company. Why no all-party meeting was called to discuss this crucial issue and why closed door meetings are taking place now?” Singhal added that, “The sub-contractor, who is working under A2Z, is connected with the ruling party and now they want to award the contract to this sub-contractor in clear violation of the rules. In case any fraud of this type happens, the BJP will not sit silent and we will teach them a lesson.” Singhal also warned that if the civic body officials did not resolve this issue at the earliest, then the entire city would soon be flooded with garbage as 11 tonne of garbage was being generated daily in the city. He added that if proper collection and disposal does not takes place, then it would lead to a huge problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayor-mc-face-heat-from-bjp-over-door-to-door-garbage-lifting/articleshow/80755489.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Governor launches free breakfast for Raj Bhavan students, workers||HYDERABAD: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday inaugurated a free breakfast scheme for Raj Bhavan school students and sanitation workers. About 500 students will be provided breakfast every day. After serving the breakfast to the children, the governor sat along with them to have the food. “Providing breakfast with nutrients is necessary for the schoolgoing children and their all-round development. I felt this (providing nutritious breakfast) is important during this pandemic period to improve their immunity and help them grow better physically and mentally as well as help them to do better in academics,” she said. Referring to some studies, the governor said a majority of children have potato chips and junk food which are not healthy. She said the children must get required nutrients, vitamins and minerals in their food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-launches-free-breakfast-for-raj-bhavan-students-workers/articleshow/80756497.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||At 29%, Maharashtra lags in drop in active cases in one month||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has seen the lowest drop in active Covid-19 cases in the last one month compared to most states. Data from the Union health ministry showed that while other states have seen 45% to 80% decline in active cases between January and February, Maharashtra recorded a fall of only 29%—from 52,276 on January 8 to 37,213 on February 8. Bihar saw the steepest dip of 87% with its active cases dipping from 4,261 to 533. Rajasthan too saw a decline of 80%; active cases were down from 7,468 to 1,464. Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat saw a 72% and 76% drop in active cases. Uttar Pradesh, which has been carrying out the highest volume of tests among states, also saw a fall of 67%. States that saw less than 50% drop in active cases were Karnataka (35%), Tamil Nadu (42%) and West Bengal (43%). In Maharashtra, nine to 10 districts are recording a high positivity rate, indicative of high transmission and fewer tests being done. Districts like Nandurbar, Nanded, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara and Ratnagiri were among those conducting less than 140 tests per million. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the government, said that Maharashtra is the most urbanised state in the country and there is huge mobility between districts for economic activities. “It is true that cases continue to be reported from big urban hubs like Mumbai, Pune, Thane or peri-urban areas which spreads to rural areas subsequently,” he said, adding that since people have also stopped following Covid-appropriate behaviour, the transmission cycle continues. In response to an economic survey report where Maharashtra’s handling of the Covid situation was criticised, the state had said that even though there were 290 patients per million population in Maharashtra, Kerala had over 2,000 active patients. “In Maharashtra, especially in big cities like Mumbai and Pune, the number of passengers coming from other countries is much higher. Moreover, population density is higher than other states,” the state government had said earlier. Dr Salunkhe said that there were serious doubts about testing and data reporting in other states. “It’s difficult to accept that states like UP and Bihar have better reporting and public health systems. The Centre must look at their numbers closely,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-29-maha-lags-in-drop-in-active-cases-in-1-month/articleshow/80756516.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Take action against KCR: Cong urges guv||Hyderabad: Congress MLC T Jeevan Reddy on Monday urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and chief secretary Somesh Kumar to look into the derogatory comment made by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao stating ‘CM’s post is like footwear’. “Order an inquiry and initiate legal action for undermining the Constitution,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-action-against-kcr-cong-urges-guv/articleshow/80756508.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Elections for Ludhiana Club on Feb 13||Ludhiana: Elections for city’s Ludhiana Club will be held on February 13 on the club premises. Like city’s other clubs, this one too has two groups fighting elections against each other, one is led by Brij Mohan Gupta and the other group by Kewal Chabra. Meanwhile, in what can be termed as an upper hand for the Chabra group ahead of the elections, three candidates from the group have got elected unopposed after no rival filed nomination against them till the last date of filing the nominations, which was February 6. Those who have been elected unopposed include Vijay Goyal as joint secretary, Vijay Gaba as mess secretary and Sanjay Kapoor, who has been elected cultural-cum-sports secretary of the club. Candidates left in the election battle include Kewal Chabra and Brij Mohan Gupta for the post of president, Manmohan Singh Chauhan and Vinod Kumar Diwan for the post of vice-president. For the post of general secretary, KL Arora and Umesh Wadhwa are up against each other. For the post of bar secretary Ishar Gupta and Rajesh Mago are contesting and for the post of finance secretary Rakesh Gupta and Gurdeep Makkar are there. Besides these posts, there are eight posts of executive members for which 10 candidates are in the race. The elections will be held between 10am and 5pm and only those members will be allowed to cast votes who have cleared their dues up to December 31, 2020. Meanwhile, a large number of members of the club are demanding changes in the club and have resentment against some of the office-bearers who are being continuously elected in the managing committee for years, but have done nothing for the club. These members are discreetly running a campaign to elect the new faces this time and already they have started conducting a round of meetings with other members and prominent personalities of the city to chalk out their plan of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/elections-for-ludhiana-club-on-feb-13/articleshow/80755502.cms||Mohit Behl
February 9, 2021||Pune||Two sites in Pune Municipal Corporation limits start inoculating frontline workers||PUNE: Two vaccination centres at Kamala Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi hospitals started vaccinating frontline workers, mainly Pune municipal employees attached with the Dhole Patil Road ward office, with healthcare workers from Monday. A total of 20 employees took the shot on the first day of the drive. Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department, said, “Initially, we want to cover only the PMC employees attached with Dhole Patil Road ward office. Slowly, we will include employees with other ward offices as well.” With this, areas in the Pune municipal limits kept their forward march with 97% vaccinations on Monday as the Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas stayed below the 60%-mark for the second session. With this, the immunisation for the day stood at 68% in the Pune Metropolitan Region, marginally lower than the Saturday’s 69%. A total of 3,886 beneficiaries — 3,225 healthcare workers and 661 frontliners — took the Covid shot on Monday against the day’s target of 5,700 beneficiaries. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and rural parts, the region’s other two administrative segments, registered 58% and 50% turnout, respectively In the Pimpri Chinchwad areas, as many as 596 healthcare workers and 157 frontline workers took the shot on Monday. “The response is increasing among frontline workers,” Pavan Salve, additional health chief, PCMC, said. Salve said to achieve the February 20 deadline of completing the healthcare workers’ vaccination, they had increased the number of target beneficiaries. A total of 1.90 lakh priority workers have registered for the vaccination in the PMR. This includes 1.06 lakh healthcare and 84,150 frontline workers. Simultaneously vaccinating both the groups require 3.80 lakh doses while the PMR has only 2.20 lakh doses. “We will get the required number of doses for the Pune region soon,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director, state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-sites-in-pmc-limits-start-inoculating-frontline-workers/articleshow/80756511.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 9, 2021||Rajkot||Total bandh observed in Mundra, partial in Mandvi||RAJKOT: A total bandh was observed in Mundra town, while there was partial closure in Mandvi town of Kutch district over deaths of two youths in police custody. All shops and establishments in Mundra remained closed on Monday. Even internal streets bore a deserted look throughout the day. Three youths from Samaghogha village near Mundra town were picked up by police on January 12 over suspicion of theft and they were allegedly tortured in custody. One of the youths, Arjan Gadhvi died before reaching hospital on January 19, while the second, Harjog Gadhvi succumbed to injuries in a hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday (February 7) last after three weeks in treatment. Total eight persons including seven cops and former sarpanch of Samaghogha village Jayveirsinh Jadeja have been booked for murder. Two cops inspector J A Padhiyar and GRD constable Viral Joshi have been arrested, while other accused are still at large. In a fresh twist to the case, leaders of the Gadhvi community have alleged that former sarpanch Jadeja wanted possession of the village land on which the deceased were cultivating. They further alleged that police acted on behalf of the Jadeja and illegally detained the three youths. They claimed that Jadeja too tortured the two deceased in the police lock-up in Mundra police station. On Monday, over 5,000 people had gathered at Samaghogha village to express their solidarity with families of the victims of alleged police brutality. During the bandh call given by the leader of Gadhvi community, prayers were held and pictures of the accused cops were burnt. Community members also demanded immediate arrest of accused who are still absconding. Body of Harjog that arrived in the village on Monday noon was accepted by his family after the intervention of senior police and revenue officials. Vijay Gadhvi, a community leader said, “We wanted to send a message to the administration that the victims are not alone. We put three demands before the administration that they should provide protection to the witnesses, in this case, protect our agriculture land so that nobody can take possession forcefully and provide compensation to the victim’s family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/total-bandh-observed-in-mundra-partial-in-mandvi/articleshow/80754704.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: UK production house representative held in porn film racket||MUMBAI: City crime branch probing the porn film production racket arrested Umesh Kamat, a representative of UK-based production house Kenrin, on Monday. He is the seventh person to be arrested in this case. Police officials said Kamat is accused of uploading at least seven to eight porn videos shot by arrested model and actor Gehena Vasisth on social media app Hotshot. Vasisth, who was arrested on Sunday, reportedly told the police she had sold seven to eight movies to Kamat who in turn sent these to the UK production house, which then uploaded these on Hotshot. Vasisth’s legal team has denied the charges and said she made only erotic movies. Meanwhile, police have also summoned three more in-house production representatives for questioning in the case. Police say they have also stumbled upon the involvement of some more models, lesser known female actors as well as a few production houses which had edited and uploaded the porn films shot by the gang on mobile apps and various websites. Last Thursday, Mumbai crime branch’s property cell had raided Green Park bungalow at Madh Island in Malad and arrested five persons—Yasmin Beg Khan alias Rowa, Pratibha Nalawade, Monu Joshi, Bhanusuryam Thakur and Mohammed Asif alias Saify. Khan was alleedly the producer and director, Saify the cameraman, Nalawade graphic designer, Joshi actor and Thakur an assistant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uk-production-house-rep-held-in-porn-film-racket/articleshow/80755500.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 9, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Health department mulls drive at police dispensaries||PUNE: State immunization officer DN Patil on Monday said the health department was considering to start Covid-19 vaccination of police personnel at police medical dispensaries . He, however, clarified that conducting mixed sessions of healthcare and frontline workers was the only option for faster coverage for now. Principal secretary, state health department, Pradeep Vyas confirmed that there were plans to start vaccination in police medical dispensaries for police. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said he had recently suggested to the PMC about holding sessions in police medical dispensaries. “These dispensaries have all the police personnel attached with them. These personnel can be easily vaccinated there, instead of going to other session sites. This will ensure quicker coverage,” he said. District immunization officer Sachin Edake told TOI, “If police medical dispensaries are willing, they could be allowed to start the sessions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-dept-mulls-drive-at-police-dispensaries/articleshow/80756553.cms||Neha Madaan
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Teachers meet guv, seek help||Hyderabad: The members of Telangana Schools Technical Colleges Employees Association (TSTCEA) on Monday met governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted a representation requesting her to intervene and ensure that teachers are paid salary dues. They also highlighted other issues such as termination of faculty during the pandemic, the release of ex-gratia to teachers who died of Covid-19, need for formation of a separate board to look after the welfare of teachers working in private institutes. “No one was bothered even when teachers died by suicide due to financial issues. About five lakh private employees (teachers, faculty working at junior and technical colleges, and non-teaching staff) are struggling to survive since the past 10 months, but no one came to our rescue,” said A Santosh Kumar, president, TSTCEA, adding that they have submitted representations to several officials from the education department and universities, but their issues remain unresolved. He said that meeting governor is their last hope. The TSTCEA said there was a need to provide job security to staff working in private institutes and pay them a year’s salary as per the UGC, AICTE and PCI regulations. They also asked for implementation of institution-wise group insurance scheme providing accident and health coverage. Employees working in technical colleges also demanded provision of maternity leave of six months to women employees as per the Indian government gazette notification March 27, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-meet-guv-seek-help/articleshow/80756514.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Solar system saves furnace oil usage||MADURAI: The solar-powered hot water system established on the Aavin Madurai campus has been helping the unit to cut 200 litres of furnace oil a day, thereby reducing the cost on fuel and environmental pollution. The unit was set up in 2019 on 1.5 acres on the campus. The hot water generated by the system is used to heat milk for pasteurization. Around 2 lakh litres of milk is pasteurized a day using the solar system. During night an alternative source is used for heating milk. Officials from the engineering wing said that a zero liquid discharge system for waste water recycling will be set up at a cost of Rs 11 crore. Biogas produced from the unit will be used for heating milk during night and on rainy days. A gas fueled hot water generator will be installed for the purpose, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/solar-system-saves-furnace-oil-usage/articleshow/80757020.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Madurai||To reduce emission levels, Madurai Aavin shifts to LPG heating system||MADURAI: Residents of Anna Nagar and KK Nagar in the city will feel a marked difference in the quality of air as Madurai Aavin, located in the residential area, is converting the fuel in its heating system to LPG from furnace oil. The conversion at a cost of Rs 27 lakh, is expected to be completed in a few weeks. The move will reduce emission of various harmful gases such as carbon-di-oxide, nitrous oxide, sulphur oxides and carbon monoxide by preventing the use of 4,500 litres of furnace oil a day. Burnt furnace oil releases 6-7% of its mass as harmful gases, officials said. Officials from Aavin said that the unit was inaugurated on a 34.5-acre plot in 1967 when it was not a residential area. Later, the area around the unit has turned a posh residential locality people started complaining about the polluted air. Subsequently, the pollution control board issued notices to stop burning furnace oil. Officials said LPG will improve efficiency as there is no need to shut down the heating equipment to clean carbon sediments. Various measures brought in to enhance efficiency have helped the unit improve its profit margin in the last few years. “The profit of the unit was increased from Rs 7-8 lakh a day to around Rs 10 lakh a day during the time of the last one year. Initiatives such as conversion to gas and zero liquid discharge system will increase the operation cost, but the administration is happy to be environment friendly,” said an official. Heat is required for various processes such as converting milk into milk powder, in the preparation of ghee, milk peda, washing cans and milk trays using hot water. The unit has an automated ghee filling system having a capacity of packing around 75 tonnes a month. It is a major supplier of ghee for various food business operators, who give importance to quality. It has sent around 100 tonnes of ghee to Tirupati temple for making laddus, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/to-reduce-emission-levels-madurai-aavin-shifts-to-lpg-heating-system/articleshow/80757016.cms||V Devanathan
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||Minor girl raped at gunpoint by youth, 20, in Shahjahanpur||PILIBHIT: A 20-year-old youth was on Monday booked for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl at gunpoint in a village under Nigohi police station of Shahjahanpur district. The crime took place around 11 pm on February 4, but it was reported on Monday, said police, adding that they had sent the girl to the district government hospital for a medical examination. Nigohi police station SHO Manohar Singh said the girl had gone out to answer nature’s call when the accused from a native village dragged her to a lonely place and raped her at gunpoint, and threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anyone. The accused was booked under sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the appropriate section of the Pocso Act, said the SHO, adding that they would arrest the accused soon. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-raped-at-gunpoint-by-youth-20-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80754697.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 9, 2021||Agra||Businessman partner, 2 others arrested for killing, burning hospital owner||AGRA: Dispute over a share in a private hospital led to the murder of a man, whose body was found inside an SUV in Aligarh last week. Police on Monday arrested three people in connection with murder of businessman Mahinder Singh (28), who ran a private hospital in partnership with Yogesh Mathuriya in Atrauli. Police said after the two had a fallout due to a dispute in their partnership, Mathuriya planned Singh’s killing along with two accomplices— Devendra and Ajay. They invited Singh for a drink and then hammered him to death. The killers then tried to set the body and his vehicle afire but did not succeed as the SUV did not catch fire. Shubham Patel, SP (rural), told TOI that Mathuriya had paid an advance of Rs 10,000 to his associates for killing his business partner and had promised to give them more money after the murder. However, he had not specified the balance payments. The SP said, the suspects have been remanded to judicial custody under IPC section 302 (murder), 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 34 (done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). The SP said that the hammer which was used for killing Singh has also been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/biz-partner-2-others-arrested-for-killing-burning-hosp-owner/articleshow/80755506.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Stamp duty collection dips in January after rate hike||NAGPUR: Stamp duty collection has taken a dip as the rate is being rolled back to the normal level by slowly withdrawing the post Covid incentive. The duty is paid on registration of sale deeds after purchase of real estate and it is borne by the buyer. A fall in collection means reduction in realty transactions. In a bid to help the real estate sector that was hit badly by the pandemic, the state government reduced stamp duty rate to 3% from 6% in September last year. It was applicable till December 31. The plan was to slowly rollback the cut. From January 1 to March 31, the rate is 4%. Regular rate of 6% will be charged from April this year. Stamp duty collections had improved soon after the cut. The property registration in September doubled to 6,500 deeds as against 3,000-odd in August last year. The stamp duty collection. however, improved only by Rs5 crore reaching Rs40 crore. The number of deeds getting registered increased steadily with moderate improvement in amount collected as duty too. There was a sharp increase in December last year when the 3% duty was applicable. More than 14,000 deeds were registered bringing in Rs172 crore as stamp duty. This was an increase of 43% and 66% in terms of deeds registered and duty paid, respectively. There was a quick decline in January when the 4% stamp duty rate came into effect. The number of deeds getting registered came down to 10,000 with Rs57 crore of stamp duty collections. As against a growth of 66% in December, the January collections fell by 66%. Figures for February are yet to be compiled. There was a similar trend in the Nagpur rural. The collection had reached a high at Rs36 crore in December. This was more than double than the earlier month’s collection. In January the collection fell to Rs16 crore. In the meantime, the state government increased the targets which were eased considering the pandemic. From Rs430 crore it was taken to Rs700 crore for Nagpur urban in December. Sources say it is exceptional to hike the target in middle of the year. This was done considering the higher collections when rates were down so that government’s requirement for funds could be met too. The collections that had exceeded the earlier target now lag by 33% of the new estimates. The revised target for 2020 is lower by Rs80 crore as compared to that for 2019. In Nagpur rural, over 83% of the revised targets have been met. Builders say this means that tax collection is better when the rates are low. A similar hike is expected in March, the last month for 4% rate following which it may fall. Gaurav Agrawala from the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai), Nagpur branch said, “The low rates had spurred activity. Even the government stands to gain in the form of GST if construction activity gets a push.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stamp-duty-collection-dips-in-january-after-rate-hike/articleshow/80756524.cms||Shishir Arya
February 9, 2021||Vadodara||Three-child norm does in BJP MLA’s son||VADODARA: Two independents, including BJP MLA Madhu Shrivastava’s son, for the VadodaraMunicipal Corporation (VMC) polls found themselves at the receiving end of the three-child rule as their candidatures were rejected on Monday. Unruly scenes were witnessed at the office of the returning officer in the district panchayat office after the nomination of Shrivastava’s son Dipak was turned down. Dipak was a BJP councillor in the last term, but he was not given a ticket this time as BJP decided not to choose relatives of leaders.The decision did not go down well with Madhu and Dipak, who claimed that exceptions were made to the policy. Madhu wanted Dipak to contest from ward 15 and make him support BJP later. BJP candidate from ward 15 Ashish Joshi, who is a close confidante of ward 15 corporator in the last term and Dabhoi BJP MLA Shailesh Mehta, raised objection to Dipak’s candidature saying that he had three children. Apart from a battery of lawyers of the BJP, prominent criminal lawyer Hitesh Gupta argued forJoshi. Gupta told TOI that there was ample evidence to prove that Dipak had three children. He said that Dipak had given one child in adoption to none other than his father Madhu to ensure he officially had only two children. In wake of Joshi’s complaint, the election officer of ward 15 asked the birth and death registrar to come with the records. The records revealed that Dipak was the father of three children born in 2012, 2017 and 2020. Of these, the name ofthe father of the daughter born in 2017 was changed to that of Madhu Shrivastava after he adopted the girl child. When it was evident that Dipak would not contest the polls, his supporters created a ruckus and a glass of the partition of the cabin of the election officer was broken. Madhu put up a brave face after the order and said that his son would work for the party outside ward 15. Another independentcandidate from ward 9, Viren Rami, who was a corporator from Rashtriya SamajPaksha (RSP), but fell out with RSP strongman Rajesh Ayare, also lost his candidature due to the three-child norm. Rami had one child from his first wife, who was also holding custody of the child after divorce. He remarried and had two children from his second wife. The issue was raised before the election officer, who sought a clarification from Rami who admitted that he had three children.“The election officer explained that while my case may be genuine, others may undergo divorce just to contest polls if they had three children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-child-norm-does-in-bjp-mlas-son/articleshow/80755221.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Nellore village snubs polls over SEC stand on unanimous wins||Nellore:Villagers in Nellore district’s Kampasamudram decided to boycott the panchayat polls in protest against state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s remarks over unanimous polls. All eight candidates who had filed nominations, withdrew them on Monday. With all candidates retracting on the last day for withdrawals, the SEC had to call off the election and now has to issue a fresh notification. Meanwhile, the villagers have passed an unanimous resolution not to contest elections till Ramesh Kumar was in office. The village falls under Marripadu mandal in Atmakur constituency, represented by industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy. The villagers had congregated near the panchayat office on Monday to deliberate over picking one candidate for sarpanch. “After a lengthy discussion, we have unanimously resolved against contesting polls in protest against SEC Ramesh Kumar’s decision not to allow unanimous elections,” announced village elder G Peda Vengaiah. He said they have actually met to go for unanimous election by holding discussions with all the contestants for development of the village in a peaceful environment. “The SEC’s remarks have came up for discussion and we decided to boycott the election in protest against the decision to curb unanimous elections,” said M Venkateswarlu, a contestant. The eight runners for sarpach who withdrew their papers were joined by 19 candidates in the fray for 10 ward member posts. While two candidates were in the race in each of the nine wards, a lone candidate was in the fray for the fourth ward in the village. However, all of them have submitted their papers to seeking withdrawal from the elections. The returning officer confirmed the withdrawal of nominations by all the candidates including for the sarpanch post and ward members posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nellore-village-snubs-polls-over-sec-stand-on-unanimous-wins/articleshow/80755165.cms||Samdani MN
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Man, 65, arrested for sexual assault on girl||MADURAI: The district police have arrested a 65-year-old man from a village near Othakadai on Sunday for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl. The accused was identified as P Karuthan, 65, from Mayandipatti near Poosaripatti. Police said that the girl child was playing near her house on Saturday evening when the accused lured the girl with chocolate to a cattle shed next to his house and sexually assaulted her. The incident came to light when the girl complained of pain. When her mother asked her what had happened, she narrated the ordeal. Based on a complaint from her mother a case was registered with the Othakadai police station under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. In another incident, a 40-year-old man was arrested under Pocso Act for watching and downloading child pornography on his mobile phone. The accused was identified as G Ayyanar, 40, Vedarpuliangulam near Thenpalanji village. Police sources said that he had been watching child pornography on his mobile for months last year and also circulated it on social media groups with his friends. Based on an alert from the national centre for missing and exploited children, the anti-human traffic wing of Madurai rural police took up an inquiry. The police traced the man using his mobile number. He was arrested and sent to jail on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-65-arrested-for-sexual-assault-on-girl-8/articleshow/80757073.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Shetti: Let panchayats hold meets||KOLHAPUR: The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana has demanded that the government should allow village panchayats to hold gram sabhas so that the villagers can pass a resolution opposing the farm laws. The farmers outfit is planning to get the resolution passed in the gram sabhas as the next step of the agitation for repealing of the three farm laws. According to farmers, the farm laws will dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system given to the produce through agriculture produce market committees and help corporates monopolise the farm sector and snatch away their right to seek justice in case of dispute. Raju Shetti, president of the outfit and former Member of Parliament, said, “Gram sabhas are the parliament of the village and each villager is a member. The farmers will pass the resolution, appealing the Supreme Court, President of India to repeal the farm laws. However, due to the social distancing rules owing to the ongoing pandemic, the gram sabhas have been banned by the state government. We want the ban to be lifted as early as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-let-panchayats-hold-meets/articleshow/80755529.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Victory mashaal gets grand reception||HYDERABAD: The ‘victory mashaal’ (flaming torch) lighted at the National War Memorial in Delhi has arrived in Hyderabad on its southern leg of its journey. The nation is celebrating ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh,’ the golden jubilee of the victory of Indian armed forces in the Indo-Pakistan war of 1971, and as part of it the victory mashaal was accorded a grand reception at the War Memorial, Artillery Centre here, on Monday. It was received by Lieutenant Colonel Narsinga Rao, gallantry awardee of 1971 war, Lieutenant General KR Rao (retd) and Brigadier Jaydeep Yadav, Commandant, Artillery Centre, with full military honours. At a solemn ceremony, the 1971 war veterans and senior officers laid wreaths in honour of the sacrifice of the gallant warriors. During its last mile run, the torch was carried by outstanding sportspersons who have been Arjuna and Dronacharya awardees, recruits, NCC cadets and schoolchildren to Makhan Singh Stadium in the city for display. Tricolour balloons were released followed by an audio-video narration of the 1971 war and a band display. Speaking on the occasion, Major General RK Singh, General Officer Commanding, Telangana and Andhra Sub Area, said a mega state-level function would be held at Veerula Sainik Smark, Secunderabad, on February 11. It would be attended by governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Citizens can pay homage to the victory mashaal during the function at the Parade Ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/victory-mashaal-gets-grand-reception/articleshow/80756523.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 9, 2021||Amaravati||CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s nod to resume halted infra projects in Amaravati||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has finally given his clearance for the halted works in Amaravati. The officials have been directed to resume work on Seed Access road besides laying a four-lane road adjacent to the flood bank from Undavalli to Velagapudi. The chief minister held a review meeting on key projects under Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA) and Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday. Officials presented a detailed proposal of expansion of Karakatta (flood bank) road into a four lane road with a budget estimate of Rs 150 crore. The chief minister said this road is crucial for the development of Amaravati region and directed the officials to start the work without further delay. This would provide better connectivity for the people to reach Velagapudi secretariat and assembly from Vijayawada. The existing road is also used by the chief minister for his convoy to reach the secretariat and assembly. Former chief minister and opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu had used this road earlier and he resides by the side of this road on the banks of river Krishna. Besides this road, the chief minister also asked the officials to resume works on the Seed Access road connecting Amaravati with Chennai-Kolkata national highway. The six-lane road is completed between Venkatapalem and Dondapadu providing connectivity to secretariat and assembly at Velagapudi and the high court at Nelapadu. The chief minister asked the officials to complete the pending works of this road and provide connecting roads to other pending projects including the Happynest housing project. He also instructed AMRDA officials to take up unfinished works in Amaravati, including the apartments for All India Service officers, elected representatives and employees. On Visakhapatnam development, the chief minister reviewed proposals of the project in 13.59 acres along the coastline in the city. The previous government had given this land to Lulu group for lease at nominal price for 33 years. He also reviewed some proposals which are intended to increase the revenue to the government and can become prestigious projects to the city. National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd (NBCC) and APIIC have explained the details of the proposals to the chief minister. NBCC has estimated that construction of commercial plazas and residential complexes will bring in at least Rs 1,450 crore net income to the government. Municipal and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana, principal advisor to chief minister Nilam Sawhney, CCLA special chief secretary Neerab Kumar Prasad, municipal and urban development principal secretary Y Srilakshmi, revenue principal secretary Usharani, AMRDA commissioner P Lakshmi Narasimham and other officials were present at the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cms-nod-to-resume-halted-infra-projects-in-amaravati/articleshow/80755283.cms||Gopi Dara
February 9, 2021||Goa||Mining dependants give Goa CM time till March 15 to restart operations||PANAJI: Mining dependants on Monday threatened to park their trucks and machinery in front of chief minister Pramod Sawant’s official residence at Altinho, Panaji, on March 16, if the decision to resume operations is not taken by March 15. Over 2,000 mining dependants held a peaceful rally in Panaji to mark the completion of three years of mining closure. The rally began from the KTC bus stand at Patto and culminated at Azad Maidan, Panaji. The protesters said that even after three years of mining activities coming to a standstill in the state, and numerous assurances made by both the central and the state government, they don’t see any hope for restarting of the sector. Nobody is heeding our demands, the government is only holding meetings with mining companies, they said. Recalling the assurance given to them in February 2019 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of restarting mining in Goa, president of Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF), Puti Gaonkar said, “We observe this day as a black day and want to remind the government that despite assurances mining activities are yet to restart.” Mining in Goa came to a halt in March 2018 after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 leases in the state. “If the government does not take the decision to restart mining activities by March 15, we will sit outside the CM’s official residence on March 16,” Gaonkar said, adding that on March 16 they will park all the 6,000 mining trucks, 1,000 machinery equipment outside the CM’s residence. Gaonkar demanded that the state government take care of the livelihood of the mining dependent. There are around 7,000 direct employees of mining companies itself, he said. “We will tell the chief minister that he should pay the loans of the mining dependants through the government,” Gaonkar said, adding that not a single penny of the money collected from e-auctioning was spent on mining dependants. The GMPF president said that they have told the state government to bring an amendment to the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987, extending the validity of mining leases for 50 years from 1987 instead of 1961. “If this amendment is done then mining activities will continue till 2037 in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-dependants-give-cm-time-till-march-15-to-restart-operations/articleshow/80757033.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Hamlet bids adieu to its favourite teacher||VISAKHAPATNAM: Students of MPP School in Malluguda, a small hamlet in Vizinagaram district, bade an emotional farewell to their favourite teacher who has been transferred to another village. The entire village came together to arrange a send-off to Narendra G, who is said to have improved the academic standards among students in the village. Teary-eyed, villagers carried Narendra on their shoulders in a traditional musical procession around the village and washed his feet before felicitating him. However, things did not begin easy for Narendra when he took up his duty in Malluguda in 2011. At the time, he was the only teacher for five years at the school, which was operating from a thatched hut, before the government sanctioned another teacher’s post. Speaking to TOI, Narendra said that absenteeism was commonplace among students during his initial days. “It took months to get the students back on track and since then, enrolment gradually increased. I made sure there were no dropouts in the village. For my stint, major credit goes to the villagers. When two cyclones swept the school hut away, they built it back themselves. Finally in 2019, the local ITDA officials sanctioned funds which were used to construct an asbestos-roof for the school building,” he said. The outgoing teacher said he was fortunate to receive the love and admiration from the students as well as the villagers. “The emotional farewell validates my work and inspires me to keep going,” he said. Narendra took to teaching as a profession inspired by his elder brother who is also a teacher. Tadangi Anand, a local, said that students and villagers got attached to Narendra due to his determination to improve education in the village and his personality. “He consistently worked towards improving educational standards in the village in the last 10 years and there has been a clear improvement. Everyone got emotional and were weeping at his departure,” said Anand. A former student of Narendra’s, Kandraka Chandra Rao, said the teacher was like an elder brother who developed a conducive learning environment. “Apart from regular classroom work, he encouraged and prepared the students for various competitive examinations, and engaged them in extracurricular activities,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribal-hamlet-bids-hearty-adieu-to-its-favourite-teacher/articleshow/80754962.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 9, 2021||Goa||AAP calls Goa CM a puppet of Delhi bosses||PANAJI: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has castigated chief minister Pramod Sawant for his assurance to Amit Shah that work on Mollem projects would be completed despite opposition from the people of Goa. The party called him a puppet of the BJP’s central high command for not listening to the people of Goa. AAP spokesperson Surel Tilve said the chief minister’s assurance to Shah was a proof that he does not listen to Goans but to his party bosses who are backing the project. “Goans have been objecting to the projects for so long now, but the chief minister is refusing to listen to them,” Tilve said. He called the chief minister’s launch of the Bird Festival at Mollem a “total farce when in reality the chief minister is conniving to destroy the wild life in Mollem”. He alleged that such festivals are organised only to waste public money and help the BJP cronies and friends make some money under the guise of doing something at such farcical festivals. He appealed to the chief minister to listen to the people now as they protest against coal, protection of Mhadei river and Mollem wild life sanctuary and not be a mere puppet of BJP’s Delhi bosses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-calls-cm-a-puppet-of-delhi-bosses/articleshow/80757366.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Min challenges court decision||Vijayawada: Panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy on Monday challenged the AP high court orders regrading the restraining orders passed by state election commission (SEC). A single-bench judge on Sunday had heard the house motion petition filed by the minister and given him partial relief. Justice DVSS Somayajulu set aside the order restraining the minister at home but upheld the order to restrict his access to the media till the polls are over. Reddy, in his petition, stated that stopping him from addressing the media comes under violation of freedom of speech. He also said the orders will cause problems in performing his day-to-day duties as a minister. The minister stated that he only spoke about the orders passed by SEC on unanimous elections.Reddy’s counsel pleaded to take up the issue on high priority. Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami said the matter will be heard on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/min-challenges-court-decision/articleshow/80755209.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man sets woman ablaze, both die||MUMBAI: Meghwadi police registered a case against Vijay Khambe for setting a woman on fire on Saturday. Khambe died after the 28-year-old victim held onto him at Gandhi Nagar in Jogeshwari (E). The woman died on Monday after she was hospitalised on Saturday. Police said her family rejected his marriage proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-sets-woman-ablaze-both-die/articleshow/80756543.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Universities gear up for reopening hostels, PG students, scholars to get back first||HYDERABAD: Osmania University (OU) and Kakatiya University (KU) are all set to reopen hostels for research scholars and post-graduate (PG) students from the third week of February. The decision was taken by both the universities following a meeting held with principals of all campus and constituent colleges. “We are reopening hostels from February 16. Students will be permitted within the hostels only after they present a Covid-19 negative report not more than 48 hours before they arrive at the hostel. Only 4,000 students will be allowed to return for now to maintain social distancing norms,” said G Srinivas, chief warden, OU. The OU has asked students to submit Rs 5,000 as an advance fee towards the hostel and mess in addition to Rs 240 towards academic renewal. The KU has similar plans of allowing only research scholars and PG students for now. “Hostel facility depends on renewals registered by students. Currently, the university is sanitizing the whole premises as we will be expecting many students from neighbouring districts,” said a faculty member from the university. Hostels are being reopened as semester exams in state universities are expected to commence from March first week. The JNTUH hostels reopened on February 1 and are set to welcome the next set of students by February 15. “Total 520 students had returned to hostels in the first batch and are set to return once their exams conclude on February 13. In the next batch, we are expecting second-year students to join hostels with all Covid-19 precautions,” said Prof Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/univs-gear-up-for-reopening-hostels-pg-students-scholars-to-get-back-first/articleshow/80764572.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Three bike riders die in two separate accidents||CHENNAI: Three two-wheeler riders died in two different accidents at Minjur-Nemilicherry Outer Ring Road and Perumbakkam on Sunday evening. Police said 45-year-old Velu, of Perumullaivoyal village, was riding pillion with his friend Senthil, 36, of Gandhi Nagar, Veechur. They were on their way to meet a friend when a speeding van collided with their vehicle head-on. The duo fell down and sustained severe head injuries. Passerby informed police, who sent them to a government hospital in Minjur, where they were declared brought dead. Police have sent their bodies for postmortem. Search is on for the van driver, who fled the spot, despite attempts by bystanders to stop him. In another accident at Perumbakkam, a biker died after being knocked down by a water tanker on Sunday evening. The victim Sekar, 46, was a resident of Gangai Amman Koil Street, Perumbakkam. The man was on his way to Nungampalayam to have tea when the accident took place. When he reached the Perumbakkam-Kamarajar Salai junction, a speeding truck hit him from behind. In the impact, Sekar lost control of his vehicle and was thrown on to the road. He subsequently came under the rear wheels of the vehicle and died on the spot. Police initially suspected the truck driver, Surendran, 44, of Pallikaranai, to be drunk and subjected him to an alcohol test, but the results were negative. While police think he could have dozed off behind the wheels, the truck driver claimed the brakes had a technical fault. The St Thomas Mount traffic investigation police registered a case of causing death due to negligence and arrested him. Following the accidentm the residents protested saying the speeding trucks on the stretch was an everyday threat to other motorists. They urged the policemen to bring the trucks under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-bike-riders-die-in-two-separate-accidents/articleshow/80756525.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Ooty-Kalhatty ghat road open for tourists||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Ooty- Kalhatti ghat road, which was closed for descending tourist vehicles since October 2018 after a major accident, was reopened for light vehicles on Monday. The decision was taken by the Nilgiris SP, V Sasi Mohan after a consultation with the district administration. Earlier, a representation was made to the SP by residents of Masinagudi area who wanted the ghat road to be reopened for tourist vehicles. The road has been closed for tourist vehicles for the past two years due to a number of accidents that occurred on the ghat section of the road. However, locally registered vehicles were allowed to ply on the road. With 36 hairpin bends, this is one of the steepest and challenging roads in the Nilgiris. The stretch had seen the most number of accidents in the past. After a joint inspection on the stretch conducted by officials from various departments including the police and regional transport office and highways, the road was opened for tourists on Monday with improved safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-kalhatty-ghat-road-open-for-tourists/articleshow/80757096.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Illegal resort at Kurumbarpadi locked and sealed||UDHAGAMANDALAM: An illegal resort with 15 buildings comprising 22 rooms located at Kurumbarpadi on the Coonoor-Mettupalayam road was locked and sealed by the officials of the Burliar panchayat on Monday. According to Raman, block development officer, a portion of the construction in the resort was built in 2004 under the license for dwelling houses issued by the Burliar panchayat. Later in 2009, more units were added to the building and commercial activities were started as resorts. A swimming pool has also been developed blocking a natural stream running alongside. Raman said, “The management of the illegal resort is yet to get approval from Hill Area Development Authority (HACA). Their application to HACA in 2013 is still pending.” He added, “The action of locking and sealing the private resort is taken under the instruction of the district administration.” According to the official, a notice was served to the management of the resort three days ago giving them 48 hours to close the resort. However, on Monday, the officials of the Burliar panchayat locked and sealed the resort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/illegal-resort-at-kurumbarpadi-locked-and-sealed/articleshow/80757087.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Director of public health takes first Covaxin jab in Telangana, rollout from today||HYDERABAD: Dr Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana, became the first person in the state to take Covaxin on Monday. The Bharat Biotech-developed vaccine, which had so far not been introduced in the state, will be rolled out from Tuesday onwards at vaccination sites. “The interest seen for Covaxin is encouraging. It is being introduced from Tuesday. The vaccine doses have been sent to districts,” said Rao, speaking to TOI. Meanwhile, on Monday, a total of 19,923 frontline workers were administered Covid vaccine. Frontline workers including police personnel, staff of panchayati raj and municipal administration department as well as central armed forces are being administered the vaccine currently in the ongoing second phase of the vaccination programme. About 41% of targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated. The total target for Monday was 51,500. With the latest numbers, the state has reached the cumulative target of 38% of vaccination target so far, covering 2.28 lakh beneficiaries. Of these 35,360 were frontline workers. The vaccination drive was conducted through 584 sessions. Five minor cases of adverse effects following immunization (AEFI) were reported on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/director-of-public-health-takes-first-covaxin-jab-in-state-rollout-from-today/articleshow/80756530.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Edappadi K Palanisamy will be back as CM: SP Velumani||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Municipal administration minister SP Velumani said Edappadi K Palanisamy would come back as chief minister of Tamil Nadu in the 2021- assembly election. Velumani was here to inaugurate 15 completed development projects at the cost of Rs 6.53 crore and to launch at least four new development projects at the cost of Rs 15.59 crore in the Nilgiris. He also launched the distribution of welfare measures costing Rs 11.87 crore to as many as 3,852 beneficiaries from the district. Speaking on the occasion, held at RCTC building in Ooty, the minister said that at the cost of Rs 75 crore under Jal Jeevan Mission at least 52,023 houses in 585 villages located in the 35 panchayats in the hill district will be benefitted. The scheme is underway in the Nilgiris. He pointed out that in the past 10 years the drinking water supply in the state has increased from 4,990 MLD to 7,550 MLD. Velumani also took into consideration of the request of the Nilgiris collector J.Innocent Divya that sought speedy sanction of proposals costing Rs 74 crore for housing projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-will-be-back-as-cm-velumani/articleshow/80757070.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Trichy||Vaccination for police personnel kics-off||MADURAI/TRICHY: Covid-19 vaccination drive for city police personnel commenced on Monday in Trichy and Madurai districts. Commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganathan took the shot of Covishield at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said that roughly around 100 vaccinations will be done in a day. “Those who are aged more than 50 years and those with comorbid conditions will be given priority,” Sinha said. A consent form has been taken from each of the police personnel before giving the shot. There are 3,000 police personnel in the city police unit including reserve police. All of them will be vaccinated in a month’s time, Sinha said. Loganthan said that the Trichy city police have listed 1,824 police personnel from their force for the vaccination drive. The personnel have been allotted five centres – MGMGH, primary health centres at Periyamilaguparai, Subramaniapuram, East Boulevard road and Woraiyur. The department has assigned a police officer each as liaison officers. Officials have taken the personnel who recovered from Covid-19 also into account for the vaccination. On apprehensions over the effect of the vaccines, Loganathan said that doctors have been asked to disseminate awareness among the personnel and to allay the fears. Sources said that Trichy district covered 6,876 frontline healthcare workers and frontline workers including in Trichy so far. Vaccination in Madurai rural police started a few days ago with some police personnel in Melur range taking the shots. District police superintendent Sujit Kumar took it on Monday. Around 1,900 personnel and officials will take the jab in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vaccination-for-police-personnel-kics-off/articleshow/80763785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Vaccination for police personnel kics-off||MADURAI/TRICHY: Covid-19 vaccination drive for city police personnel commenced on Monday in Trichy and Madurai districts. Commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganathan took the shot of Covishield at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said that roughly around 100 vaccinations will be done in a day. “Those who are aged more than 50 years and those with comorbid conditions will be given priority,” Sinha said. A consent form has been taken from each of the police personnel before giving the shot. There are 3,000 police personnel in the city police unit including reserve police. All of them will be vaccinated in a month’s time, Sinha said. Loganthan said that the Trichy city police have listed 1,824 police personnel from their force for the vaccination drive. The personnel have been allotted five centres – MGMGH, primary health centres at Periyamilaguparai, Subramaniapuram, East Boulevard road and Woraiyur. The department has assigned a police officer each as liaison officers. Officials have taken the personnel who recovered from Covid-19 also into account for the vaccination. On apprehensions over the effect of the vaccines, Loganathan said that doctors have been asked to disseminate awareness among the personnel and to allay the fears. Sources said that Trichy district covered 6,876 frontline healthcare workers and frontline workers including in Trichy so far. Vaccination in Madurai rural police started a few days ago with some police personnel in Melur range taking the shots. District police superintendent Sujit Kumar took it on Monday. Around 1,900 personnel and officials will take the jab in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vaccination-for-police-personnel-kics-off/articleshow/80757097.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Ensure locals get gainful employment through Sagarmala project: CM||Edited_270 wordsPanaji: Reviewing the progress made under the Sagarmala project, chief minister Pramod Sawant urged all the departments which have a stake in the project to ensure that Goan youth find gainful employment through the flagship programme.Sawant instructed all the stakeholders and the departments to focus and develop courses that would provide training to youth in the state including school dropouts to make them self sufficient and earn their livelihood. He also emphasised on achieving 100% employment for ITI students and asked the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship to ensure that ITI trainees have a proper work culture. Sawant issued the directions at a meeting where the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship and different stakeholders discussed and reviewed the action taken report of the meeting of State Skill Development Mission (SSDM). The main agenda of the meeting was to review the progress of the different stakeholders of the project including Mormugao Port Trust, Goa Shipyard Ltd, department of fisheries, Rural Development Agency and captain of ports participated in the meeting. The deputy captain of ports said that nine coastal passenger jetties are being redeveloped under Sagarmala and that 137 passenger vessels have been registered in the state. MPT’s superintendent engineer said that a dedicated berth is provided at MPT for cruise vessels and passenger vessels and that a new international cruise terminal has been proposed to handle domestic and international cruise operations. Sawant directed the stakeholders to utilise all the available resources to train as many Goan youth as possible so that they are suitably employed. The chief minister also urged departments to improve inter-departmental coordination to avoid “redundant efforts”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-locals-get-gainful-employment-through-sagarmala-project-cm/articleshow/80757088.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Rajkot||Congress loses one seat in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Congress lost one seat even before the election are held for the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC). Meanwhile, drama over scrutiny of nominations continued at the old and new collector offices on Monday. The returning officer disqualified Congress’s candidate Bharat Shiyal nominated from ward 1 and Naran Savseta of ward 4. Savseta was disqualified because he had three children and Shiyal’s form got rejected because of technical reasons. There was a mistake in the mandate issued to him by Congress. Ashok Dangar, Congress city president told TOI, “There was some mistake in mandate issued to Shiyal, so his form got rejected. However, the dummy candidate Savseta has been chosen. We will contest polls on 71 seats.” Aggressive support continued to create scene outside the collector office as both BJP and Congress’s party leaders argued with scrutiny officers over their rival’s candidature. Ex-MLA Indranil Rajguru alleged, “There was a pressure from the BJP on the scrutiny officers to reject Congress candidate’s form.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-loses-one-seat-in-rajkot/articleshow/80755549.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Trichy||6 men steal construction materials, arrested||COIMBATORE: Police on Monday arrested six men for stealing construction material on Trichy Road in the city. According to the Ramanthapuram police, the six accused were identified as Kabarkhan, 33, from Kottaipudur; A Sharukhan, 23, from Podanur; M Abdul Kadar alias Rohit, 28, from Kottaipudur; B Peer Mohammad, 23, from Ukkadam; S Mohammed Thariq, 20, from Kottaimedu; and M Balamurugan, 20, from Pullukadu near Ukkadam. They were arrested based on a complaint filed by the public relations officer of KNR Constructions Limited, A Raja, on Sunday. In his complaint, Raja said his company was involved in constructing a flyover on Trichy Road. He said construction materials worth Rs 40,000 were stolen from the construction site. The Ramanathapuram police registered a case and arrested the six men involved in the theft on Monday. Police seized the stolen construction materials. The arrested men were produced before a judicial magistrate on Monday night and later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-men-steal-construction-materials-arrested/articleshow/80762385.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Ensure locals get jobs through Sagarmala project: Goa CM||PANAJI: Reviewing the progress made under the Sagarmala project, chief minister Pramod Sawant urged all the departments which have a stake in the project to ensure that Goan youth find gainful employment through the flagship programme. Sawant instructed all the stakeholders and the departments to focus and develop courses that would provide training to youth in the state including school dropouts to make them self-sufficient and earn their livelihood. He also emphasised on achieving 100% employment for ITI students and asked the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship to ensure that ITI trainees have a proper work culture. Sawant issued the directions at a meeting where the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship and different stakeholders discussed and reviewed the action taken report of the meeting of State Skill Development Mission (SSDM). The main agenda of the meeting was to review the progress of the different stakeholders of the project including Mormugao Port Trust, Goa Shipyard Ltd, department of fisheries, Rural Development Agency and captain of ports participated in the meeting. The deputy captain of ports said that nine coastal passenger jetties are being redeveloped under Sagarmala and that 137 passenger vessels have been registered in the state. MPT’s superintendent engineer said that a dedicated berth is provided at MPT for cruise vessels and passenger vessels and that a new international cruise terminal has been proposed to handle domestic and international cruise operations. Sawant directed the stakeholders to utilise the available resources to train as many Goan youth as possible so that they are suitably employed. He also urged departments to improve inter-departmental coordination to avoid “redundant efforts”. Sawant instructed all the stakeholders to focus and develop courses that would provide training to youth in the state to make them self-sufficient and earn their livelihood||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-ensure-locals-get-jobs-through-sagarmala-project/articleshow/80757100.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||60 from Lakhimpur Kheri feared missing in U’khand floods, entire villages in mourning||Lakhimpur Kheri (UP): In the villages of Lakhimpur Kheri, there are two things people grow up knowing they would do — farming on small patches of land, or leaving home to work as labourers in projects nearby. Tapovan in neighbouring Uttarakhand, some 500km away, is nowhere nearby but the hydel project there has been a big draw for those looking for work in the farm off-season. They’d make less than Rs 200 a day here. There, work was being offered at about Rs 500 a day.Now, dozens are missing, some put the figure at 60 and counting. When TOI visited the villages on Monday, a day after the devastating Uttarakhand floods, locals said hundreds would leave for the Tapovan project in batches. In 24 hours, they have not heard from those who had left last. But they had seen videos of the raging flood. Entire villages had gone into mourning. “My cousin Jalal was one of the men working at the Tapovan hydel project site. He was washed away before I could do anything. None of us could have seen it coming. Some 20 senior officers have also gone missing,” Mujeem Khan, a survivor, told TOI. “I am now heading home with five other men I had come here to work with.” Helping Mujeem get home is Santosh Raj, the gram pradhan of Ichchhanagar panchayat who left for Chamoli, where the flood hit, on Sunday night. “One of our men has been found dead. It is nearly impossible to identify the others because of the state they are in — bloated by the water, mangled by the stones,” he said. As of now, Santosh is the one link to Chamoli for these villages. He has been relaying messages to anxious families, who were not willing to talk. “If they’re still missing, what hope do we have?” one said. Confusion about numbers has added to their despair. Locals in Ichchhanagar told TOI that 26 from their village had left for Tapovan and 18 had gone missing. Those in Bharampur said 11 haven’t come home and Bholanpur feared it had lost five. District magistrate Shailendra Singh told TOI that a list of all workers from Lakhimpur Kheri is being compiled. “We have deployed lekhpals to collate the information from villages and share it with the tehsildar and subdivisional magistrate. We are then verifying the data by getting in touch with family members. As of now, we suspect 35 people from just the Nighasan tehsil have gone missing,” he said. The data have been shared with his counterpart in Chamoli. “We are in touch with families and have promised all support.” Nighasan subdivisional magistrate Om Prakash Gupta said there was no official confirmation of any death. He added, “So far, we know 58 people from Nighasan were working at the hydel project site … The number may increase because we are yet to receive data from a few villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/60-from-lakhimpur-kheri-feared-missing-in-ukhand-floods-entire-villages-in-mourning/articleshow/80754730.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||SC stays Raj decision to reduce school fees||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday stayed Rajasthan High Court order which had upheld the state government’s direction to private schools under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to reduce the tuition fee by 30% during the Covid-19 pandemic. Agreeing to hear a plea, filed by the Society of Catholic Education Institutions in Rajasthan, a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar stayed the HC order. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-stays-raj-decision-to-reduce-school-fees/articleshow/80757107.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad students back farmers’ protest||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) students sat on a one-day hunger strike in front of the varsity main gate on Monday in support of the farmers’ agitation in north India. The students, led by the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), sat on hunger strike against the three farm laws introduced by the central government. Students raised slogans against the central government and demanded the release of all the arrested farmers and protestors. Holding posters stating ‘repeal all the charges against farmers’, the students condemned police action against the protesting farmers. “We extend our solidarity to all the farmers who are a part of an historic protest that is bringing together each and every one of us. Whether it is sitting on a hunger strike for them here at the university or going to Delhi and protesting with them, we stand in the fight against the three farm laws,” said Ayusha Singh, secretary, University of Hyderabad, Students’ Federation of India unit. Thousands of farmers have been at loggerheads with the Central government against three farm laws since November, 2020. Recently, a massive tractors rally was also held in Delhi on Republic Day as a mark of the protest. We extend our solidarity to all the farmers who are a part of an historic protest that is bringing together each and every one of us. We stand in the fight against the three farm laws||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-back-farmers-protest/articleshow/80756555.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Goa also hit by destructive ideology: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: For the second time in a week, chief minister Pramod Sawant latched on to a national issue to draw parallels with Goa and said the tiniest state was also a victim of ‘destructive ideology’. On Monday, after PM Narendra Modi told the Rajya Sabha that the country needs to be saved from the new FDI (foreign destructive ideology), Sawant tweeted: “Goa has also suffered from a similar design.” In two tweets, Sawant tried to equate what Modi said about the country with Goa. “The PM Shri @NarendraModi ji has correctly said that we need to be aware of the #andolanjivi and be cautious about the new #FDI. Goa has also suffered from a similar design,” he tweeted. In a preceding tweet, Sawant quoted Modi and said: “A new FDI has come into the fray. The country has to be saved from this new FDI. This new FDI is Foreign Destructive Ideology: #PMinRajyaSabha.” Sawant’s latest statements come on the back of largescale agitations taking social media by storm over the three contentious Centre-funded linear projects that cuts across the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem. The three projects—a 440KV power line, railway double-tracking and widening of national highway—have all tugged at the hearts of students, teachers, citizens, environmentalists and forest officials, who have made representations to the Centre to preserve Goa’s green heart. But Sawant has vowed to go through with the projects in the face of stiff opposition and said these projects are needed for Goa’s development. However, last month Sawant had to take an embarrassing decision to scrap the plan to set up the prestigious IIT Goa campus at Melauli after locals did not allow work to start in their village. The state government even tried to work under the cover of police and resorted to lathicharge and firing teargas but had to give in to the local demand. Four days ago, latching on to the ‘IndiaAgainstPropaganda’ hashtag on Twitter following comments by international personalities on the farmers’ protests, Sawant had said that over the past few months, Goa has become a victim of propaganda which has been significantly fuelled by external forces. “Some of the opposition parties in Goa have also been motivating such external forces to create unrest in the state. No propaganda shall derail our sincere efforts towards building a progressive state,” Sawant had again tweeted, even as he claimed that some people have sought to catapult the issue surrounding the three projects to the international platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-also-hit-by-destructive-ideology-cm/articleshow/80757108.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Colleges reopen with priority for science students||MADURAI: Even as the state government permitted colleges to reopen for all UG, PG and diploma students from Monday, colleges in Madurai reopened complying with safety SOPs and restricted the number of students coming to the campus. “We had around 75-80% attendance with only first years and final years on Monday. We have set day orders to prevent crowding in the campus such that only 50% of students will be here in a day. While practical classes will happen on days when they are on the campus, on other days, students will have online classes,” said Dr S Vanathi, principal, Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women, which has a strength of around 4,700 students. Colleges are also trying to avoid crowding by not having students come to the campus unless absolutely necessary. Madurai Kamaraj University registrar (in charge) Dr V S Vasantha said that depending on the response of students to reopening, they will be scheduling classes accordingly. “Students, especially those from long distances are slowly coming in. Mainly science students are coming as they have practical work and projects,” she said. Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science is set to reopen from Wednesday for second-year science students. “We are trying to keep offline classes only for those necessary and are careful about safety measures. We will reopen for second-year science students first and hold practical classes. Later, in a phased manner, we will reopen for other students. We are also allowing only 50% hostel accommodation and two students in a room as opposed to five,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/colleges-reopen-with-priority-for-science-students/articleshow/80757105.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||In autopsy, Goa Medical College finds a heart of stone||PANAJI: The phrase, ‘a heart of stone’ may no longer be just an idiom. In a rare case, a doctor at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, found that a dead 50-year-old man’s heart tissues had calcified, virtually turning the vital organ into a stone. Dr Bharat Sreekumar, a junior resident-cum-second year PG student doctor at the GMC’s department of forensic medicine, had in July conducted an autopsy on the body of the unidentified man who was found dead in a South Goa park. While dissecting the heart, he found thatit was stony as the left ventricle showed massive endocardial calcification that caused restrictive cardiomyopathy — a condition wherein the complete filling of ventricles with blood is compromised. “The heart was so hard as if it were set in a stone. I showed this rare finding to my seniors in the department who suggested that I do a histopathological study on this portion of heart with the help of the GMC’s pathology department,” Sreekumar said. Histopathology involves the microscopic examination of tissue in a bid to study the manifestations of a disease. The examination confirmed that the man’s heart had hardened due to calcification — a condition that also causes kidney stones — and not due to fibrosis of the heart’s tissue. Heart-hardening due endomyocardial fibrosis (scarring of heart tissue) is a common medical problem in India. In such cases calcification occurs together with fibrosis. “However, in the case I dealt with, there was massive calcification with minimal fibrosis, a condition that is rarely documented in medical literature. This is why I thought I should present it at the national conference of the India Academy of Forensic Medicine. The etiology and pathophysiology causing this are not really understood and still remain a mystery,” Sreekumar said. A forensic scientific case study paper titled, ‘A Heart Set in Stone’, bagged first prize at the recently concluded conference’s 42nd edition held at SCB Medical College, in Cuttack, Odisha. “At last year’s edition of the same conference in Hyderabad, Sreekumar had won second prize for his poster presentation of a scientific paper on drowning. At that time, I had told him that we should aim for the first place in the following year, as the prize is instituted in honour of former professor and head of our department, Dr Jagmohan Sharma,” Dr Madhu Ghodkirekar, associate professor of forensic medicine at the GMC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-autopsy-gmc-finds-a-heart-of-stone/articleshow/80757099.cms||Murari Shetye
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||6 men steal construction materials, arrested||COIMBATORE: Police on Monday arrested six men for stealing construction material on Trichy Road in the city. According to the Ramanthapuram police, the six accused were identified as Kabarkhan, 33, from Kottaipudur; A Sharukhan, 23, from Podanur; M Abdul Kadar alias Rohit, 28, from Kottaipudur; B Peer Mohammad, 23, from Ukkadam; S Mohammed Thariq, 20, from Kottaimedu; and M Balamurugan, 20, from Pullukadu near Ukkadam. They were arrested based on a complaint filed by the public relations officer of KNR Constructions Limited, A Raja, on Sunday. In his complaint, Raja said his company was involved in constructing a flyover on Trichy Road. He said construction materials worth Rs 40,000 were stolen from the construction site. The Ramanathapuram police registered a case and arrested the six men involved in the theft on Monday. Police seized the stolen construction materials. The arrested men were produced before a judicial magistrate on Monday night and later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-men-steal-construction-materials-arrested/articleshow/80757098.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||JACTO-GEO members protest near collectorate||COIMBATORE: Members of JACTO-GEO on Monday staged a protest in front of the district collector's office demanding the state government to withdraw the consolidated pension scheme and to include the Anganwadi and mid-day noon workers in the regular pay scale. One of the coordinators of the association, T Arulanantham said, “The state government has implemented the recommendations of the seventh pay commission only in October 2017, whereas the central government had adopted it in January 2016 itself. While the state government has given the arrear amount to the A grade officials, B and C grade employees had not received it till date even after making multiple representations." Pointing out that there is an anomaly in the pay scale of the secondary grade teachers and as a result, they are losing out upto Rs 7000 per month, he said that the government should take immediate steps to sort it out. Also, the government should include the anganwadi and mid-day noon workers who are in consolidated pay till now, in the regular pay scale and should withdraw the consolidated pay scheme immediately, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jacto-geo-members-protest-near-collectorate/articleshow/80757103.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK stages demo against AIADMK government||COIMBATORE: Hundreds of DMK cadres staged a demonstration in Pollachi on Monday condemning AIADMK leaders for trying to protect the accused involved in the Pollachi rape. They also demanded CBI to arrest all the accused involved in the case. Led by DMK Coimbatore south district in-charge Thentral Selvaraj, DMK cadres raised slogans against municipal administration minister SP Velumani, deputy speaker of the assembly Pollachi V Jayaraman. Thentral Selvaraj told reporters that the AIDMK leaders were protecting the Pollachi rape case accused and the main accused are yet to be arrested. The AIADMK government is involved in corruption in local bodies, he said. “We are protesting against the atrocities of AIADMK. Precious minerals from Pollachi and surrounding areas are smuggled to Kerala and the state government has failed to prevent it,” Selvaraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-stages-demo-against-aiadmk-govt/articleshow/80757106.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Birth or death, it’s a long wait for certificates in Old City||HYDERABAD: The delay in issuing birth and death certificates has irked applicants in the Old City, with many claiming they have to wait for months. One applicant, Umair Ahmed Siddiqui from Himmatpura, told TOI that his mother had passed away nine months ago and since then he has been waiting desperately to receive his mother's death certificate. “I still make rounds of the office to get her death certificate. All related documents have been submitted and inspection has been done, but there is no clarification by authorities as to why they are taking so much time,’’ complained Siqqiqui. Another applicant Mohammed Qasim also said that there was was no one to guide applicants about whom to approach and how the process is completed at the GHMC office.  “Generally, it is supposed to take seven days to issue a certificate — whether it is birth or death certificate, but here it takes many weeks or months. If a person approaches officials directly, they have to wait for long. However, the work is done within no time if one goes through agents,’’ alleged Qasim. Dr Palvan Kumar, assistant medical officer health, South Zone, told TOI that the allegations were baseless and people were getting confused over circle division. “There is no delay. The processes is done without any hurdles. Applicants might be getting confused due to certain divisions of circles in the South Zone,’’ Kumar said. Meanwhile, the TDP minority cell demanded a probe and sought action against errant officials. Mohammed Ahmed, TDP, GHMC minority cell vice-president, told TOI that applicants are treated badly if they question the delay. “The matter should be taken seriously and errant officials must be suspended. People are suffering since the lockdown,’’ said Ahmed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/birth-or-death-its-a-long-wait-for-certificates-in-old-city/articleshow/80756544.cms||Omar bin Taher
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Brother of Don Rajan booked for extortion||MUMBAI: A case of extortion was filed against Deepak Nikhalje, brother of underworld don Rajendra alias Chhota Rajan, at Pant Nagar police station on Friday. A developer, Mukesh Patel, has also been booked, the police said, adding that both are absconding. The case pertains to a dispute arising out of a Slum Rehabilitation Authority scheme which two builders wanted to develop. Deepak and builder Patel have been accused of threatening to change the builder on behalf of the housing society. The complainant is an 80-year-old man who lives in a transit camp in Govandi, Shivajinagar. There are more than 100 slums in Namdev Housing Society in the vicinity which is likely to be developed under the SRA scheme.  “The complainant alleged that Deepak, who is close to Mukesh Patel, called the complainant to his bungalow in Chembur and forced him to sign an affidavit, stating that the committee of the housing society was changing the builder.. The complainant later lodged a complaint,” said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police, zone 7, Prashant Kadam confirmed that a case of extortion (under section 384) has been registered against Deepak Nikalje and Patel. In 2018 Deepak was booked for rape after a woman accused him of exploiting her by promising marriage. Subsequently, the matter was settled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/brother-of-don-rajan-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/80754733.cms||S Ahmed Ali
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Uday Samant wants proposed mega amphitheatre on Nagpur University land||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over the Maharashtra government cancelling its proposed mega amphitheatre in memory of former chief minister Vasantrao Naik at the Nagpur University campus, education minister Uday Samant stressed that it should come up if all the plans were already finalized. “If it’s coming to NU in the name of a former CM, it would be good for all stakeholders. I will personally look into the issue and talk to the concerned officials,” the minister told TOI during his Janta Durbar on Friday. Citing NU VC Subhash Chaudhari, TOI had earlier reported on the government’s move to cancel the project which was to have a seating capacity of over 10,000. If completed it would have been the biggest such structure in the entire Nagpur district as per NU officials. When Samant asked Chaudhari, who was sitting beside him on the fate of the project after TOI pointed it out to him, the latter replied that the government had recently written to him that the project would be shifted to another part of the city, as the existing NU land was insufficient. “We were told that the government had asked the collector and the Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA). According to them, they need more space for the project that also includes a parking area,” he said. When TOI contacted collector Ravindra Thakare, he said he had no idea on the project or its cancellation from the proposed area at the NU campus on Amravati Road. “I will first get the details and then comment,” he told TOI. Thakre’s predecessor Ashwin Mudgal had made efforts for a mega amphitheatre and had also readied its beautiful designs from architecture firm Salankar Associates. It was designed to be a happening place with food courts and shops for visitors. Two banquet halls were also proposed on the second floor and as many as 30 suites for guests along with four lifts. Mudgal had sent the revised designs and plans to the general administration department (GAD) for approval where it was pending for the last couple of years. Officials expressed surprise at the government’s decision, stating that when everything was ready and NU had agreed to provide additional land for parking, it was unfortunate to shift the project to another place. JINXED STRUCTURE’S JOURNEY * Then CM, Prithviraj Chavan announces project in 2011 to celebrate Naik’s birth centenary year * Earlier, it was planned at Raj Bhavan, but nearby residents opposed it, alleging loss of open space * They moved Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court after which plan was dropped * Later, dist administration approached PDKV for land behind Mor Bhavan, but its executive council too opposed it * Ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis in September 2015 announced that project would come up on NU land * He also declared that Rs20 crore allocated for the purpose would be released * Then collector Ashwin Mudgal finalized designs for 10,000 capacity amphitheatre * It was also supposed to accommodate 2,000 for auditorium-cum-convocation hall for NU * In 2021, govt decides to shift mega structure to another place||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/samant-wants-proposed-mega-amphitheatre-on-varsity-land/articleshow/80756547.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Special admission round: Over 2,000 FYJC students claim seats||MUMBAI: On day one of the first come, first served (FCFS) admissions for junior college, over 2,522 students claimed seats and 1,768 confirmed admission by Monday evening. Despite this, the education department said that, nearly 40,000 FYJC students are still without a seat. Out of the 2.5 lakh students who applied for the centralized online process in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 2.1 lakh secured a seat. However, nearly 1 lakh seats are still vacant. Following this, the education department held another round of FCFS admissions. Students who have already filled up admission forms or want to join afresh will be allowed to do so in the second round. Until February 12, students will be available to view live vacancies of seats across colleges and claim them. Students can confirm admission by February 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spl-admission-round-over-2k-fyjc-students-claim-seats/articleshow/80756590.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Doctor found dead by suicide at Malad home||MUMBAI: A doctor in his mid-40s was found dead at his home in Malad (E) recently. A preliminary probe showed that he died by suicide after injecting himself. No suicide note was found, but investigators said he had applied for loans and was in financial distress. The doctor ran a hospital in Dindoshi. After the pandemic broke out, he was living separately so as to not risk the lives of his wife and child. Late on Friday, his wife called him up at the hospital. He told her he had a severe headache, and later left. The next day, his wife could not contact him. She tried the hospital before visiting his flat, where she found him dead on the bed with a syringe nearby. Dindoshi police said body was sent for an autopsy. Police said the syringe had been purchased by the doctor recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctor-found-dead-by-suicide-at-malad-home/articleshow/80756576.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Father gets 7 years jail for abuse||HYDERABAD: A local court in LB Nagar on Monday awarded a seven-year jail term for a father who sexually assaulted his daughter. The victim, who is 13 years old, was abused in the 2016. This incident took place at Pochampally. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/father-gets-7-years-jail-for-abuse/articleshow/80756566.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra to get another 10.35 lakh vaccine doses this week||PUNE: Maharashtra is expected to receive its third instalment of 10.35 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine this week after Serum Institute of India began nationwide dispatch of 1.1 crore doses on Monday. The state had earlier received 18 lakh doses of the vaccine —- in two instalments. Over 16 lakh priority individuals — 10.55 lakh healthcare workers and 5.5 lakh frontline workers — have registered for vaccination in Maharashtra. The state will need 32 lakh doses to vaccinate this number as Covid inoculation is a two-dose regimen given four weeks apart. State immunization officer Dileep Patil said, “We can expand our vaccination drive once the consignment of these 10,35,500 doses arrives, which is expected this week.” The state is aiming to finish vaccinating all registered healthcare workers by February 12, and all frontline workers by March 15. “A mop-up vaccination round for health workers, which will cover those who could not be vaccinated in the first phase, is also expected from February 25,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department, Pune region.  Maharashtra, which also has the highest number of healthcare workers signed up to receive the Covid vaccine, has been lagging behind over a dozen states in vaccination pace. Its completion rate of 45% is well below the national average of 55%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-get-another-10-35l-vaccine-doses-this-week/articleshow/80756570.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Amma 2.0: Hit or flop?||CHENNAI: V K Sasikala started for Chennai from Bengaluru well before 8am on Monday. More than 12 hours later, she was nowhere near her destination. Much like her first roadshow of the second coming in four years, her political journey could be one of suspense and uncertainty over the time of arrival. “I will be in active politics,” were her first words the world had heard in so many years, as she spoke to a gathering of supporters at Tirupathur. A bigger message was in the optics. She wore a green sari; she sat on the front seat of the car that sported an AIADMK flag; and she flashed the ‘V’ sign, much like Jayalalithaa would do on her political outings. Sasikala is clearly trying to brand herself as Amma 2.0. Before starting the journey, she reverentially dropped flower petals at Jayalalithaa’s portrait at the Devanahalli farmhouse. As Sasikala got into her vehicle at Devanahalli that was to take her up to Attibele near the Tamil Nadu-Bengaluru border, women took the aarti on coconuts and pumpkins, reflective of the way Jayalalithaa began any venture – be it election campaigns or important administrative programmes. In her earlier avatar as the Jayalalithaa aide, Saskala had always taken the backseat, literally, while Jayalalithaa would wave at the people who gathered by the roadside to catch a glimpse of the prima donna. That journey had started before the 1991 assembly election that the AIADMK swept. Today, despite having recovered from Covid-19 only recently, Sasikala sat straight on the front seat. Again, just like Jayalalithaa, a devout, Hindu who did not hesitate to make a public display of her religious beliefs, Sasikala got down and offered prayers at two temples in Krishnagiri. As frenzied cadres threw red and yellow flower petals on her car and held up massive garlands, Sasikala smiled, soaking up the adulation, spontaneous or otherwise. The sound of firecrackers announced her arrival at every halt. It was a well-organised road show, meant to propel Sasikala as Jayalalithaa’s heir and future leader. While Jayalalithaa got herself the moniker of ‘Puratchi Thalaivi’ (revolutionary leader), for Sasikala, the AMMK presented the title ‘Thyagathalaivi Chinnamma’ (embodiment of sacrifice). Jaya TV channel, which has the patronage of the Sasikala family, telecast live her journey to Chennai. All through, the narrative stressed on the sacrifices Sasikala had made for Jayalalithaa – the channel attributed to her virtues like ‘thyagam’ (sacrifice), ‘vivegam’ (prudence), ‘veeram’ (valour). As her convoy of tens of vehicles reached the Tamil Nadu border, Sasikala hopping on to a vehicle belonging to an AIADMK functionary, ensuring that his party flag fluttered on the bonnet. At every halt, a smattering of AIADMK flags could be seen among the crowd of cadres. The carnival included artisans beating drums, gymnasts putting up roadside shows and women with the traditional ‘poorna kumbh’ to greet her at several halts – all typical of the roadshows organized whenever Jayalalithaa toured the state. At every halt – 56 scheduled stops were planned – crowds surged towards her vehicle, covering the windshield with flower petals. Jayalalithaa controlled her party by striking fear in partymen. And Sasikala reminded her detractors that she should be feared. “They closed the Amma memorial and asked me not to use the party flag because they are scared,” she told a roadside gathering. Some Poes Garden insiders of the past say for Jayalalithaa, Sasikala was often more than a confidante— she was sometimes a shrewd advisor of political strategies. Tamil writer Valampuri John once said that if the Moghuls had someone like Sasikala, the ‘whites’ wouldn’t have dared to enter India. As Sasikala tries to be a true successor of her idol, her biggest challenge would also be the biggest achievement of Jayalithaa in 1989— reuniting a divided party and taking control of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amma-2-0-hit-or-flop/articleshow/80756565.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||High court issues notices to Centre, Nizam kin in Hyderabad Fund case||HYDERABAD: Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of the high court on Monday issued notices to the Union government and other stakeholders in the Rs 350 crore Hyderabad Fund case asking them to explain their stand on a petition filed by Shafiya Sakina, a great-granddaughter of the erstwhile ruler. The judge gave them four weeks to file their counters. Shafiya had alleged that the Centre and the two heirs — Mukarram Jah Bahadur and Muffakham Jah Bahadur — had struck a secret pact and denied other legal heirs their due in the Rs 350 crore brought from London. Mukarram Jah Bahadur and Muffakham Jah Bahadur, who fought the legal battle in a London court to get back this fund to Hyderabad for seven decades, are the sons of the late prince, Azam Jah Bahadur, while Shafiya is the granddaughter of the late Waleshan prince Moazam Jah Bahadur. Apart from the two male legal heirs, the finance secretary, who is acting ex-officio chairman of the Hyderabad Nizam’s Jewellery Trust, and the Nizam Trust secretary were also made respondents. The fund had accumulated in a London bank following its last-minute transfer during the time Hyderabad was annexed to the Indian Union on September 17, 1948. The then State of Hyderabad’s finance minister, Nawab Moin Nawaz Jung, had transferred lakhs of British pounds belonging to the Hyderabad government lying in a London Bank to another account holder, Habib Ibrahim Rahimtoola, in the same London Bank. It has over the years grown to over Rs 350 crore. India, Pakistan, and the heirs of Nizam had been fighting a legal battle over it. A British court had last year dismissed Pakistan’s claims and accorded a seal of approval over the compromise deal arrived at by the Indian government and heirs of the Nizam. Shafiya now says they expected the Centre and the two heirs to deal with the money in a transparent manner duly taking the Nizam Trust into confidence. Instead, the Centre entered into a secret pact with the heirs and was now saying that 98% of the fund was already released to the two, Sripada Prabhakar, the counsel for the petitioner, said. The judge wondered why Shafiya did not join the legal battle when the matter was fought for over seven decades and why she came to the fore only now. Her counsel replied that they were all waiting for the fund to come to India first. “Since it has now come into the control of the Union government, we expect the authorities to hold proper deliberations and determine the legal heirs to ensure proper distribution of the fund,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-issues-notices-to-centre-nizam-kin-in-hyderabad-fund-case/articleshow/80756564.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
February 9, 2021||Madurai||DMK does not need a B-team: Kanimozhi||MADURAI: AIADMK is the B-team for the BJP whereas DMK does not need a B-team because it is well connected with the people, said Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi during her campaign in Madurai on Monday. She was in Madurai as part of Vidyalai Nokki Stalin Kural campaign and met various people including self help group members who were manufacturing papads, industrialists and the general public and listened to their grievances. Speaking to reporters, she said that, based on her interactions with the people, they were waiting for a change in rule in the state. “How can the AIADMK which is supporting the three farm acts even claim that they are doing the best for the farmers. It was Kalaignar who waived farm loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore as soon as he assumed charge and now the AIADMK is making similar promises but they are empty, because there is proof that many announcements which were made under rule 110 of TNLA rules have remained only on paper,” she said. When asked about the way the AIADMK was commenting on V K Sasikala’s release from prison, she said that it was disheartening to hear the comments that were being made against a person who was sick and it was the same person who the AIADMK members had claimed was their mother and not Chinnamma a few years ago. Asked if M K Alagiri would be reinstated in the DMK, she said that the decision against him was taken by Kalaignar, and if at all another decision came it would have to be made by DMK president Stalin. Answering a question as to whether non-Dravidian parties can make a foray into Tamil Nadu, she said that there was nothing called non-Dravidian in Tamil Nadu. “You have to know what the state stands for and what the people want, otherwise you will not go anywhere,” she said. “The DMK relies on the legacies of Anna, Periyar and Kalaignar, even MGR was in the DMK before he started his own party and had accepted Karunanidhi as his leader. If the AIADMK had any problem with parties using the MGR legacy it should sought it out with them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-does-not-need-a-b-team/articleshow/80757112.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Delhi||Power demand higher than last year in most of January||NEW DELHI: As the city faced cold wave conditions in January, the demand for electricity also went up and on 23 days in the month, the peak power demand was higher than the corresponding days in January 2020. On January 1, the peak power demand breached the 5,000 MW mark for the first time this season as the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest till then. Delhi’s peak power demand in January 2021 was recorded at 5,265 MW on Sunday, which is slightly less than the peak power demand of 5,343 MW in January 2020. However, it surpassed the peak power demand of January 2020 on 23 corresponding days by up to 19%. For instance, while on Sunday (January 7), the peak power demand was 5,265 MW, it was 4,399 MW on January 7, 2020. On December 1, 2020, Delhi’s peak power demand was 3,504 MW. Since then, the city’s peak power demand has increased by over 50%. Compared with the peak power demand on November 1, the city’s peak power demand has increased by 67%. This winter, Delhi’s peak power demand crossed 4,000 MW for the first time on December 16, 2020 apart from crossing 5,000 MW on January 1, 2021. In the winter of 2019-2020, the power demand had peaked at 5,343 MW and the power discoms had expected the figure to reach 5,480 MW this winter as the peak power demand in Delhi during winter has been going up gradually. The peak power demand recorded in the winter of 2015-16 was 4,125 MW, which increased to 4,168 MW in the next winter and to 4,511 MW after that but dipped to 4,472 MW in the winter of 2018-19.  Delhi’s peak power demand was higher on 14 corresponding days in September 2020 compared with September 2019. A total of 17 days in October, 15 days in November and 10 days in December also saw higher demand than on the corresponding days of the respective months in 2019. The BSES spokesperson said that its discoms were fully geared to ensure adequate power availability during winter months, thanks to power-supply arrangements, ‘Banking’, ‘Reserve Shutdown’, ‘Power Exchange,’ etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/power-demand-higher-than-last-year-in-most-of-jan/articleshow/80756569.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Trichy||Schools reopen for Classes IX and XI: 70% attend in Trichy, 85% in Madurai||MADURAI/TRICHY: Most schools in Madurai district recorded more than 85% attendance as schools were reopened for the first time in more than 10 months for Classes IX and XI, while in Trichy the attendance stood at 73% in 520 schools. All Covid-19 safety SOPs were strictly in place at schools and temperature screening was done for all students before they entered the campus. While the numbers could have been more, officials from the school education department said that the wedding season has taken a toll on the attendance and they are expecting the numbers to go up in the coming days. While schools were prepared with Covid-19 preventive measures and limited the number of students to ensure social distancing, a few schools have decided to adopt shift system or conduct classes on alternate days. Government model girls higher secondary school at Manachanallur was one among the 25 schools facing shortage of classrooms. While the classes for X and XII will go on as usual six days a week, students of Classes IX and XI will attend on alternate days. The school requires more than 14 classrooms to accommodate 316 students in class IX and even more number of classes to conduct classes for 508 students in class XI. “We have split classes in such a way that students from both the classes will come to school daily. But each student will come on alternate days,” said S Anbusekaran, headmaster of the school. “It will be challenging for Class XI as they will be appearing for board exams, but they will come on alternate days. Teachers will have to show productivity in terms of teaching and making students grasp concepts,” he added. Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan said that two government-aided schools have also opted for shift system over shortage of classrooms. Students of Class IX will come on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays whereas students of Class XI will come on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, he said. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan on Monday inspected several schools in the district as they reopened for Classes IX and XI and interacted with the students. “More than 85% attendance was recorded in most schools. Only three schools are having sessions for Classes IX, XI and Classes X, XII on alternate days. All other schools have sufficient space and the staff have also been duly managed so there is no issue,” he said. A government school headmaster said that students have mostly returned back to school and that only few absentees usually seen on regular days were noticed. In private schools as well, good attendance was reported and schools are planning to operate their buses soon as more students are coming to school. Students were happy to return to the classroom. “Online classes were fine but it was still difficult to follow properly. So definitely, we are glad to return to the school campus. We are also able to finally take our practical classes so that we can be better prepared before the exams,” said S Anisha, a Class XI student from a private matriculation school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/schools-reopen-for-classes-ix-and-xi-70-attend-in-trichy-85-in-madurai/articleshow/80763615.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Schools reopen for Classes IX and XI: 70% attend in Trichy, 85% in Madurai||MADURAI/TRICHY: Most schools in Madurai district recorded more than 85% attendance as schools were reopened for the first time in more than 10 months for Classes IX and XI, while in Trichy the attendance stood at 73% in 520 schools. All Covid-19 safety SOPs were strictly in place at schools and temperature screening was done for all students before they entered the campus. While the numbers could have been more, officials from the school education department said that the wedding season has taken a toll on the attendance and they are expecting the numbers to go up in the coming days. While schools were prepared with Covid-19 preventive measures and limited the number of students to ensure social distancing, a few schools have decided to adopt shift system or conduct classes on alternate days. Government model girls higher secondary school at Manachanallur was one among the 25 schools facing shortage of classrooms. While the classes for X and XII will go on as usual six days a week, students of Classes IX and XI will attend on alternate days. The school requires more than 14 classrooms to accommodate 316 students in class IX and even more number of classes to conduct classes for 508 students in class XI. “We have split classes in such a way that students from both the classes will come to school daily. But each student will come on alternate days,” said S Anbusekaran, headmaster of the school. “It will be challenging for Class XI as they will be appearing for board exams, but they will come on alternate days. Teachers will have to show productivity in terms of teaching and making students grasp concepts,” he added. Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan said that two government-aided schools have also opted for shift system over shortage of classrooms. Students of Class IX will come on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays whereas students of Class XI will come on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, he said. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan on Monday inspected several schools in the district as they reopened for Classes IX and XI and interacted with the students. “More than 85% attendance was recorded in most schools. Only three schools are having sessions for Classes IX, XI and Classes X, XII on alternate days. All other schools have sufficient space and the staff have also been duly managed so there is no issue,” he said. A government school headmaster said that students have mostly returned back to school and that only few absentees usually seen on regular days were noticed. In private schools as well, good attendance was reported and schools are planning to operate their buses soon as more students are coming to school. Students were happy to return to the classroom. “Online classes were fine but it was still difficult to follow properly. So definitely, we are glad to return to the school campus. We are also able to finally take our practical classes so that we can be better prepared before the exams,” said S Anisha, a Class XI student from a private matriculation school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-reopen-for-classes-ix-and-xi-70-attend-in-trichy-85-in-madurai/articleshow/80757125.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Unesco responds to GFP, says will look into Mollem projects||Panaji: Less than a week after Goa Forward Party drew the attention of Unesco and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to the three linear projects coming up in Mollem, Unesco has written back informing the party that it would review the impact of the three projects.“They will get back to you,” director of Unesco world heritage centre, Mechtild Rossler, wrote to GFP.Party president Vijai Sardesai had written to Unesco and the IUCN in early February, informing the international bodies that the Goa government plans to set up three infrastructure projects in what is one of the world’s eight bio-diversity hotspots.In 2012, the United Nations added the 1,600-km-long Western Ghats, which has forests older than those in the Himalayas, to the list of world heritage sites.Sardesai, in his letter, said that the three linear projects would cut through the entire width of Goa’s tiger habitat, and thus the three projects should not be allowed.“The APA team is reviewing the information,” Rossler said, thanking Sardesai for writing to Unesco. Rossler has asked the world heritage centre’s chief of Asia and the Pacific, Feng Jing, to review the information provided by Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unesco-responds-to-gfp-says-will-look-into-mollem-projects/articleshow/80757113.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Former Union minister detained for trying to take out a rally||KANYAKUMARI: Former Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan (BJP) and 66 others were detained by the district police after they attempted to take part in a two-wheeler rally despite denial of permission by the police. They were taken to a marriage hall and released around 7.30pm. The former minister and others tried to take out the rally from Thanumalayaswamy temple in Suchindram to Kottar through North Thamaraikulam, Swamithoppu, South Thamaraikulam to create awareness on the achievements of the Union government. A police officer said that though the Centre as part of its phased unlock has permitted protests, it hasn’t permitted rallies. Radhakrishnan and his party men tried to take out the two-wheeler rally despite the warning, due to which they were detained at 5.45pm and taken to the marriage hall. They were booked under sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly) of the IPC and The Epidemic Disease Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/former-union-min-detained-for-trying-to-take-out-a-rally/articleshow/80757128.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Passenger nabbed with gold ‘paste’||Hyderabad: An air passenger was nabbed by Customs sleuths at RGI Airport after he was found attempting to smuggle 794gm gold on Monday. The passenger, who came from Dubai, hid the gold in the form of paste underneath his seat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passenger-nabbed-with-gold-paste/articleshow/80756571.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Govt putting additional burden on citizens, must roll back fuel hike: Congress||PANAJI: Protesting against the increase in value added tax (VAT) on fuel, Congress held a token protest by pulling a cart through the state capital. The party’s Mahila wing said that by increasing fuel prices, the government has imposed an additional burden on the common man. Mahila Congress president Pratima Coutinho also slammed BJP for raising a hue and cry in 2014 against the UPA government when the price of petrol went up to Rs 72 per litre. Further, she accused the ruling party of being conveniently silent now when fuel prices have hit Rs 85 per litre. “People don’t have money to buy petrol and diesel. This government has no shame for putting additional financial burden on people during the pandemic,” Coutinho said. Referring to 2014, Coutinho said that back then, BJP’ sole intention for protesting against the Manmohan Singh-led Congress government was to form the government themselves, and not out of any concern for the people. She said that in 2014, the price of crude oil was $105 per barrel while the retail price of petrol was Rs 72 per litre, of which the tax component was Rs 24 per litre. Today, Coutinho said, crude oil is just $50 per barrel while the retail price is Rs 85 per litre and includes a tax component of Rs 50. “This shameless BJP had created propaganda to form their government. They said that Congress is out to finish the common man. What’s happened now? Today fuel price is Rs 85 per litre,” Coutinho said. She also took a dig at panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho who said that the fuel hike is a temporary move to generate revenue and fund infrastructure projects. “Godinho says the price hike is temporary and will be reduced soon. Are they going to decrease it before the next elections to fool people? The government has got Rs 300 crores so why does it need to increase taxes to pay for infrastructure projects?” she questioned. The protestors stopped the vehicle of ports minister Michael Lobo and urged him to ask the chief minister to reduce VAT on petrol/diesel. The minister agreed to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-govt-putting-addl-burden-on-citizens-must-roll-back-fuel-hike/articleshow/80757126.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Sasikala boarded car with AIADMK flag at border||CHENNAI: The return of V K Sasikala to Tamil Nadu from Bengaluru on Monday had its share of drama. She got out of her car before entering TN and boarded an AIADMK functionary’s vehicle that had the party flag. Later in the evening, the functionary, Sulur east union youth wing secretary S R Sambangi, was expelled from the party. Krishnagiri DSP T Saravanan had ‘warned’ Sasikala not to use the AIADMK flag. He had mentioned it in a letter to the AMMK’s Krishnagiri district secretary K S Arivalagan. Earlier, Hosur DSP Murali, tahsildar Senthil Kumar and Sipcot police inspector Balakrishnan handed over a notice asking Sasikala to remove the AIADMK party flag that was tied to the SUV. Her advocate Raja Senthoor Pandian, who received the letter, explained that a case was pending with the Madras high court. “We will face the case in the court,” he said. AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran said Sasikala was travelling in Sambangi’s SUV. “Sambangi is also travelling with her in the same vehicle,” he said, while asking police to show restraint. “Police officials should be non-partisan in their actions. We are observing their actions,” he told reporters. “Chinnamma’s car developed a technical snag and on hearing this, I offered my car for her journey,” Sambangi told TOI. In Chennai, fisheries minister D Jayakumar termed Sasikala and Dhinakaran as “DMK’s B-team” who have nothing to do with the AIADMK. “Sasikala has no right to use the AIADMK flag and she is in no way connected with the party,” he said. Jayakumar said he was reflecting the party’s stand and not making any individual comment. “What I say is not my individual opinion. It is the stand of the party and I am reflecting it. The chief minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami) has made it clear,” said Jayakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasi-boarded-car-with-aiadmk-flag-at-border/articleshow/80756574.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Goa||Sancoale panchayat demolishes encroachment in Zuarinagar||PANAJI: Sancoale panchayat on Monday demolished an encroachment at Zuarinagar. The panchayat warned that illegal extensions leading to encroachments will not be tolerated. On Monday morning, the panchayat’s workers demolished an encroachment in front of a building at Zuarinagar in the MES College area. Sancoale sarpanch Ramakant Borkar said that many encroachments have mushroomed on the route from the MES Junction to the MES College. “These are educated people living here and should understand that encroachments are illegal,” said Borkar. “Henceforth no licence will be given to pork, beef or chicken meat shops in and around residential areas. Let the residential areas be clean. Instead, licences for the grocery and vegetable shops will be issued,” he further said. Panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho had issued instructions a week ago to adopt a zero-tolerance stance against illegal structures. The panchayat is acting based on the same orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoale-panchayat-demolishes-encroachment-in-zuarinagar/articleshow/80757129.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man succumbs after accident||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old man who suffered injuries after his car was hit by a lorry in Keesara on Friday, succumbed on Saturday. Police registered a case under Sec 304 a (negligence causing death) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-succumbs-after-accident/articleshow/80756578.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Six lakh healthcare workers need first shots in 12 days||PUNE: A whopping 56% of the target healthcare workers, who are yet to receive a Covid vaccine, will need to get their first shots within the next 12 days if the state has to meet its vaccination target. That number works out to nearly 6,00,000 people. All states have been asked by the Centre to finish administering first doses to all registered health workers by February 20. The state has so far vaccinated 44% of registered beneficiaries in the healthcare category. State director of the National Health Mission, N Ramaswami, said the administration will increase the number of vaccination sites to scale up the inoculation drive. From the 36,266 who received their vaccination on Monday, 36,013 people were given Covishield. The rest received Covaxin doses. The state is also yet to hit the 60% vaccination mark that has been achieved by some states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6l-healthcare-workers-need-first-shots-in-12-days/articleshow/80756573.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 9, 2021||India||Punjab sheltering don-neta Mukhtar Ansari: UP in SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday witnessed an inter-state battle over dreaded gangster-turned-legislator Mukhtar Ansari with the Uttar Pradesh government accusing Punjab of being in nexus with the criminal and sheltering him from facing trial in over a dozen cases of heinous crimes in UP. Enjoying the alleged patronage of Punjab, Ansari claimed kinship with former Vice-President Hamid Ansari as well as a former judge of Allahabad HC to tell the SC that he belonged to a respectable family, the cases were because of political vengeance and that he faced grave danger to his life in UP where alleged gangsters were eliminated in encounters. Ansari said he would be better off facing trial through video conferencing while lodged in a Punjab jail. With senior advocates Dushyant Dave and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Punjab and Ansari respectively, making similar arguments that UP's writ petition was not maintainable as no fundamental right of the state was violated and that the trial could be conducted through video conferencing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for UP government, asked, “Why is Punjab government supporting a dreaded criminal so vociferously? Punjab is supporting Ansari and there is no pretence about it.” A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy adjourned to February 24 the hearing on UP's writ petition seeking a direction to the Punjab government to hand over Ansari to UP police to produce him before the designated court. Countering Punjab and Ansari's stand that the gangster could face trial while being lodged in a Punjab jail, Mehta sharpened his attack and said, "Punjab government and Rupnagar jail superintendent have been sheltering Ansari for the past two years on the basis of two FIRs registered against him in Punjab, ignoring the fact that more than 30 FIRs and more than 14 criminal trials, including for heinous crimes of murder and under Gangster Act, are pending against him in various MP/MLA courts, awaiting his presence in UP." The UP government, in its affidavit filed through advocate Garima Prasad, said, "Punjab has made a mockery of the federal structure of governance by seeking to defend an accused who is a gangster and a history sheeter." On the basis of an alleged ransom call made to a builder, Punjab police took Ansari from Banda jail in UP on January 22, 2019, for investigation purposes. It has refused to return Ansari to UP since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-sheltering-don-neta-mukhtar-ansari-up-in-sc/articleshow/80757683.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Four arrested for murder||NAGPUR: Shantinagar police on Monday arrested four persons, Sunil Harode, Sagar Karare, Sumeet Dere and Yash Harode, for their alleged role behind the murder of goon Vijay Waghdhare a day ago at Narayanpeth. More are expected to be arrested soon. It’s learnt that Sunil and Dere have previous records of murder. They had an old enmity with Waghdhare. Prior to the murder, there had been a fight between the two groups. While a complaint was being lodged for the previous fight, Waghdhare was eliminated by his rivals who ganged up to stab and bludgeon him to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/80756586.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Recoveries exceed cases for eighth day||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 recoveries stayed above new cases for eighth straight day in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday. As many as 423 patients were discharged in the region as against the addition of 334 new cases in the last 24 hours. According to a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, 162 patients were added in the PMC limits on Monday as against 145 recoveries. The PCMC and rural areas recorded more recoveries than new cases. With this, the tally of positive cases increased above 3.89 lakh in PMR on Monday, while its recoveries rose past 3.76 lakh. Eight people succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Monday. Of these, four patients succumbed to the infection in the PMC limits, three in the rural areas and one in the PCMC limits. With this, PMR’s toll increased to 9,104. The report stated that the region’s active case count dropped to 4,503 on Monday evening, of whom 2,753 were in home isolation and 1,750 undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The sample testing dropped to 3,667 on Monday because of reduced testing on the weekend. As many as 1,945 tests were conducted in the PMC limits, while the Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas tested 636 and 1086 samples, respectively. The total sample testing of the region has reached 21.52 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-exceed-cases-for-8th-day/articleshow/80756585.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Forest dept removes encroachment in Peth taluka||Nashik: The forest department of the state government removed nine tin-shed shops, which had encroached land near the Karanjali village in Peth taluka of the district. The department had served notices to the encroachers three times, but they did not move. Then, a team comprising over 25 officials and employees took the action against the encroachments and removed them. “There had been encroachments along the road near Karanjali village for the past many years. The land belongs to the forest department. We had served notices to the encroachers several times asking them to remove encroachments, but they did not listen,” said S Musale, the range forest officer of the forest department for Peth. “Finally, we decided to undertake a demolition drive against the encroachments in the areas on Monday morning. Accordingly, we reached the shops. Some of the encroachers immediately removed their shops, but we had to remove encroachment of others forcibly,” said Musale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/forest-dept-removes-encroachment-in-peth-taluka/articleshow/80754760.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Nashik coldest city in Maha two days in a row at 9.2°C||Nashik: Nashik continued to be the coldest city in Maharashtra on the second consecutive day as the minimum temperature dropped from Sunday’s 10 degrees celsius to 9.2 degrees celsius on Monday. Niphad, the major grape-growing area in the district, recorded the season’s lowest at 6 degrees celsius on Monday.Among the cities in Maharashtra, Nagpur was the second coldest with minimum temperature dropping to 9.4 degrees celsius, while Pune and Malegaon were the third coldest at 9.6 degrees celsius.Mercury has dropped significantly in Nashik and other cities of north Maharashtra like Malegaon and Jalgaon over the past two days. The maximum temperature in Nashik city, however, increased marginally to 28.4 degrees celsius on Monday, against 28.3 degrees celsius recorded on Sunday.According to data sourced from the India Meteorological Department, the sky will be mainly clear for the next five-six days and the minimum temperature will be around 10-11 degrees celsius for the next two days, but it will increase gradually by two-three degree more.In Malegaon, the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.8 degrees celsius on Monday, with departure of 2 degrees from the normal. In Jalgaon, the maximum temperature was 31 degrees celsius — a departure of 1 degree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-coldest-city-in-maha-two-days-in-a-row-at-9-2c/articleshow/80754767.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 9, 2021||Madurai||Schools for kids with special needs too want to reopen soon||MADURAI: Even as regular schools are slowly returning to normal by reopening Class IX to XII in a full-fledged manner from this week, children with special needs have been left in the lurch as there was no announcement regarding plans for reopening their schools. “With schools shut for more than eight months, children with special needs have overturned their routine and they were deprived of getting the continuous support that they require for their development. We are trying to best support the parents with online classes, but it has not been easy or effective. Unfortunately, there is no act specially governing special schools,” said Jeyapal A, founding member, Bethshan Special School. He said that special schools need to be reopened soon for the sake of parents and children, adding that they may even have to hold medical and behavioural assessments for the students to formulate learning plans. For residential special schools as well, it has equally been a struggle for parents and children. “We had to have the orphans we take care of here at the school, but otherwise all other students were sent home. They missed out on therapy for months and even now we are able to provide therapy only for local students. Many parents have started going to work leaving behind children at home,” said Dayalan Barnabas, principal, CSI Elwin Centre. He said that there is no reason why special schools cannot be reopened when all other public places are fully functional. “Though we were worried about how students will adapt to the new normal of wearing masks, we found that now the children have learnt it. By repeatedly reinforcing the habit, especially for those with mild or moderate disabilities, it is not an issue,” said Jeyapal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-for-kids-with-special-needs-too-want-to-reopen-soon/articleshow/80757131.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 9, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: 14 districts with high caseload will need better testing, tracing, says Experts||PUNE: Public health experts from the Centre and state, who are investigating Covid-19 spikes in at least 14 Maharashtra districts, said micro-level measures would have to be implemented to stabilise the caseload. Five districts from the list — Nandurbar, Satara, Amravati, Nagpur and Nashik — also have a test positivity rate that’s nearing 10%. Dr Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and a member of the team that was dispatched by the Centre to assess the situation in Maharashtra, said focus in these districts should now be on “area-specific” solutions, instead of a wider state-specific response. “Authorities should contain spread by using strict guidelines that stress on increased testing and contact tracing,” he said. He added that besides the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, certain other pockets too in the state have registered an increase in cases. “Overall caseload has dipped, but it’s time the state strengthened clinical care. So ICU preparedness, with ventilator support, should be boosted,” Dr Singh said. State task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said there has been a considerable increase in active cases mainly in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. “After assessment, it was seen that testing had reduced in these regions. Delayed hospital admissions of patients at private and government hospitals is another area of concern. The deaths in December and January were all cases of delayed admissions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/14-districts-with-high-caseload-will-need-better-testing-tracing-experts/articleshow/80756593.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC denies default bail to Gautam Navlakha in Elgar Parishad case||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday refused default bail to activist Gautam Navlakha (69), accused of alleged Maoist links in the 2018 Elgar Parishad case. Navlakha, lodged at Taloja Central jail, had appealed against an NIA court’s rejection of bail on the grounds that his ‘house arrest’ constitutes custody. The HC, however, excluded his 34 days of ‘house arrest’ in 2018 from the duration of custody within which the chargesheet had to be filed by holding that the provision required such custody to be first authorised by a magistrate. His case argued by senior counsel Kapil Sibal was that the chargesheet against him was not filed within 90 days as prescribed by law in his case, thus he was entitled to ‘default’ bail, under section 167 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The CrPC provision “necessarily presupposes a detention authorised by a magistrate,’’ said the HC bench of justices S S Shinde and MS Karnik. The HC agreed with the submission of senior counsel S V Raju for NIA that only when detention is authorised by a magistrate after arrest, can the custody period of 90 days be counted. The Delhi high court had on August 28, 2018 stayed his transit remand and directed him to be kept under house arrest. The Supreme Court extended this and finally on October 1, 2018, the Delhi HC quashed his arrest, holding it illegal. The section sets out that depending of the nature of the offence if chargesheet is not filed within 60 or 90 days of a magistrate first remanding an accused to custody after arrest, and no extension is given, the accused gets default bail and can be released from further custody. The HC said the question before it was whether the ‘house arrest’ period constituted custody under the ‘default bail’ provision in CrPC. “It is not possible for us to fathom a situation where detention of the appellant (Navlakha) though held to be illegal and unlawful, rendering the authorisation by the magistrate untenable, be construed as an authorised detention for the purpose of (default bail),’’said the HC. The HC also noted that during the ‘house arrest’ police had no access to Navlaka nor the occasion to interrogate him. They relied on a Supreme Court ruling which said for detention under police custody, the police ought to have access to the accused. The HC, quoting from an SC ruling, said the period of custody begins from the date of remand and “not any anterior date’’ though the accused may have been taken into custody earlier by a police officer and deprived of his liberty. As the transit remand was stayed, it cannot be said he was under police custody, said the HC. It saw no reason to interfere with the order of the special NIA court .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-denies-default-bail-to-navlakha-in-elgar-case/articleshow/80756596.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 9, 2021||Nashik||NMC issues warrants to 40 big property tax defaulters||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started issuing warrants to confiscate the properties of property tax defaulters,who have not paid their dues despite getting notices several times. This comes after a significant drop in revenue through property tax collection.The civic body, on Monday, issued warrants to 40 big property tax defaulters with dues of more than Rs 1 lakh. There are around 1,000 property taxpayers who have dues of over Rs 1 lakh. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has already directed all the six divisional officers of the NMC to start taking action against the big property tax defaulters. Nashik Road divisional office has started issuing warrants from Monday, while other divisions will start issuing warrants in a day or two.“We are targeting big property tax defaulters with more than Rs 1 lakh as dues as per the directive of the civic head. We have issued warrants to 40 big property tax defaulters with an ultimatum of one month to pay the property tax dues. We will confiscate the properties thereafter and such properties will be auctioned,” said Dilip Menkar, the divisional officer of Nashik Road division.In the past two months, NMC had given final notices to over 1.25 lakh property taxpayers asking them to pay their dues. But most of the defaulters have not done so. Hence, the civic body has decided to issue warrants to the defaulters.The NMC administration has set a property tax collection target of Rs 150 crore for the current financial year, but they could only collect Rs 95 crore so far. With one-and-a-half months remaining in the current year, NMC is yet to collect Rs 55 crore in property tax. During the corresponding period last financial year, NMC had collected around Rs 132 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-issues-warrants-to-40-big-property-tax-defaulters/articleshow/80754773.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Ahmednagar reports most recoveries, lowest deaths||Nashik: Almost 98% of the patients reported with Covid-19 in Ahmednagar are recovering from the infection, putting the district at the top of the chart in Nashik division. Ahmednagar district also has the lowest death rate (1.5%) among the five districts of the division. Incidentally, Ahmednagar was the first district to report a Covid-19 case in the division last year. The district has registered 72,531 patients so far. Of these, 71,106 patients have recovered and discharged. As many as 1,110 patients have died so far. “The district administration and health authorities have been steadily fighting the Covid-19 spread and controlling the situation,” said deputy director of health P B Gandal. Statistics presented by the health department show that the recovery rate of Nashik division is at 97.1 % and death rate at 1.8%. Across Nashik division, 2.71 lakh people have been affected by the Covid-19 infection and 2.63 lakh have recovered. In all, 5,127 patients have succumbed to the illness across Nashik division and there are 2,558 active patients in all five districts together. The rate of recovery of patients has been steadily rising, barring Nandurbar district. The remaining four districts in the division have reported recovery rate beyond 96%. The rate of recovery in Nandurbar district is 90.9%. The worst-affected district in the region was Jalgaon. It reported 57,271 patients, of whom, 55,606 were discharged. As many as 1,359 patients have died so far. There was a time when the death rate in Jalgaon district was about 12% and the recovery rate was just 25%. Jalgaon now has the recovery rate of 97% and the death rate is 2.3%. Dhule district registered 14,878 Covid-19 patients, of which, 14,393 have recovered and 391 persons have died. Nashik district has reported 1,16,651 Covid-19 patients, of which 1,13,432 have recovered. The recovery rate is 97.2% and the death rate at 1.76%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-reports-most-recoveries-lowest-deaths/articleshow/80754789.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad refuses to divulge structural reports||AHMEDABAD: The IIM-A has declined to answer a query filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, seeking details on structural reports of student dormitories on the old campus. The application was rejected on the grounds that the “information sought is confidential in nature and does not have any public interest”. The application was filed some time ago by a stakeholder after IIM-A authorities had in December revealed plans to raze 14 of 18 student dormitories designed by architect Louis Kahn. The institute put its plans on hold and decided to take a fresh view on the matter following a huge outcry from local and international organizations, architects, historians, and academicians among others. The IIM-A’s decision in December to demolish most of the dormitories seemed to rest on the opinion of a structural engineer whose identity continues to remain a mystery. “The RTI query sought to find out the engineer’s identity, especially the report he filed about the condition of the dorms, but all this information was denied,” said a person aware of the matter. The institute’s reply has surprised many architects and alumni who feel that the institute was trying to conceal some crucial information. “Unfortunately, the central public information officer does not understand that an RTI request has nothing to do with public interest,” according to the applicant who wished to remain anonymous. “It requires only the individual as an interested party, re-stated in a recent Delhi high court verdict on the subject,” the applicant said. A letter from the IIM-A board of governors on January 1 sought the support of all stakeholders as they “tried to find the best answer to the issues of how to cater to our responsibility to a significant legacy, the safety of those who utilize the buildings as well as being in tune with the needs of the future”. The letter said the restoration plans had been called off after being so advised by a third-party structural engineer. “On the completion of the restoration experiment, an independent structural consultant opined that the restored dorm was unsafe,” said the letter, which is now posted on the IIM-A website. “The structural consultant of the conservation architect on the other hand said the dorm would resist moderate earthquakes with limited damage but there would be significant damage with severe earthquakes,” the letter said. The IIM-A director in a letter dated December 23 written to the alumni also stated the view of a structural engineer as the reason for the decision to demolish the dormitories. The Indian chapter of the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) said in a representation to the board of governors’ chairman in December that as regards the safety of the buildings, to state that they are structurally inadequate and seismically vulnerable is a misplaced argument. “There is adequate documentation to counter such a perception of threat to life and property,” it said. An e-mail sent to IIM-A director and the institute’s media official remained unanswered till going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-refuses-to-divulge-structural-reports/articleshow/80756611.cms||Maulik Pathak
February 9, 2021||Goa||HC quashes notice issued for holding meeting in Dhargal||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday quashed a showcause notice issued to Manoj Parab of Revolutionary Goans by the deputy collector and sub-divisional magistrate Pernem for holding a meeting at Dhargal on January 23. “The notice issued appears to be even without considering Form No XIV as there is no mention of the amount of bond or surety. Notice is not at all in conformity with either Section 107, 116 or Form No XIV of Schedule II and hence it is liable to be quashed and set aside being illegal,” Justice M S Jawalkar stated. The court has granted liberty to the authority to issue a fresh notice as per CrPC. The showcause notice was issued after a complaint was filed by the PI of the Pernem police station. Police stated that the meeting was organised without obtaining prior permission and alleged that a large number of villagers from Dadchiwadi and Chandel were called to “instigate them to act against orders lawfully promulgated by public authorities''. The showcause notice stated that “hate speech was delivered to instigate the people against the government projects” and that Parab was likely to commit breach of peace and disturb the public tranquillity in Dhargal. The high court held that the showcause notice on January 27 in 107 proceedings “is not at all in conformity with the provisions of law”. Counsel representing Parab, Carlos Alvares Ferreira argued that there was no order under Section 144 in force in North Goa at the time. The court found that summons were not issued, inquiry not conducted and security for keeping peace not got from Parab.  Parab told reporters on Monday that democratic rights are being trampled upon and the group is being denied permission to hold meetings. The deputy collector and sub divisional magistrate on February 5 rejected permission to the group to hold a meeting at Azad Maidan in the state capital, stating that the PI of the Panaji police station has not recommended that permission be granted. The order stated that the group “has tried to instigate people against the ongoing government project and engaged in provocation of the public in this regard, hence there is every possibility that in the said meeting the participant will disturb peace and tranquillity”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-quashes-notice-issued-for-holding-meeting-in-dhargal/articleshow/80757148.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Anugrah director held for cheating businessman of Rs 36 crore||MUMBAI: There is more trouble for Paresh Karia, director of Anugrah Stock and Broking. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai police arrested Karia in a fresh case of cheating a Juhu businessman to the tune of Rs 36 crore. The EOW on Friday took Karia's custody from the Arthur road jail. Karia was lodged in jail since he was arrested in January in a Rs 450 crore cheating case. Karia's share broking company was accused of siphoning off around 400 investors' money. In the fresh case, complainant Pramod Kasat and his family members in 2011 opened Trading and Demat accounts with Anugrah Stocks and Borking. Initially they got some returns, but it stopped since January 2020. Pramod and his family realised that they had been duped as Kasat’s demat and ledger balance showed to be zero. Besides Karia his wife, Riddhikalapi Shah, Anil Gandhi and Kalapi Shah of Tejimandi Analytics have been shown as wanted accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anugrah-director-held-for-cheating-bizman-of-rs-36cr/articleshow/80756633.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 9, 2021||Goa||Irregular pay: Mormugao municipal workers on strike||Vasco: The labourers of Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) went on an indefinite strike starting Monday over irregular payment of wages and unpaid arrears by the council. The workers said they have lost confidence in the working of the municipality and will not return to work until systematic solutions are worked out.The labourers said their salaries are irregular which makes them defaulters at banks as their loan instalment payments get delayed for up to two months. The workers said they find it difficult to survive.One labourer Shantavva said the MMC officers are not concerned with the plight of the labourers at all. “If we say anything about the delay in payment, they don’t like it. They tell us to go home if we don’t wish to work,” he said.The women labourers complained that they are not provided proper equipment like brooms to work with. They said they have to borrow the baskets from fishermen to collect the litter. The labourers said that their arrears are also pending with the municipality with no interest being shown to pay them. The frequent change in administrators and chief officers has made their issues more vulnerable and prone to neglect, the workers said.Chief officer Agnelo Fernandes, who holds additional charge of MMC, said that he has requested the labourers to get back to work. “I have written to all the major defaulters to make their payments. We are trying our best to generate revenue and pay the labourers of municipality their arrears and give them their salaries,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/irregular-pay-mormugao-municipal-workers-on-strike/articleshow/80757153.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fake billing: Five held for Rs 22 crore tax evasion in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Officials of the mobile squad of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department arrested five persons recently in connection with two major fake billing scams involving a cumulative tax evasion of Rs 22.49 crore. Amongst those arrested, four Morbi residents – Kishan Aghara, Dhruv Varneshiya, Avinash Makasana and Dhaval Kultariya – were involved in tax evasion through fake billing of ceramic tiles; whereas Ahmedabad-resident, Anant Shah, was involved in fake billing of paan masala. Arrests were made by the department as part of a mission to nab those involved in fake billing scams by illicitly obtaining input tax credit (ITC) using bogus bills and evading taxes. In one case, mobile squad officials of SGST department intercepted a truck near Morbi. Since the bill value and stock of goods did not match, the truck was detained. Preliminary investigation revealed that the same companies had issued similar bills on various such days. Avinash, one of those arrested, was interrogated when he came to collect the vehicle, and later revealed the name of three others. “Upon investigating these companies through raids at respective locations, and conducting forensic examination of their mobile phones, SGST department officials learnt about goods being sent to various locations within and outside Gujarat, without bills. Prima facie analysis of the data reveals that some 1,305 vehicles were used to transport ceramic tiles worth Rs 39.89 crore to locations in Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and others, involving tax evasion of Rs 7.18 crore,” said SGST department officials, in a statement. In another case, the mobile squad recently intercepted and detained three vehicles transporting paan masala and tobacco, without bills and e-way bills. This raised suspicion among SGST officials, who probed the matter and learnt that the entire scam is being coordinated from Ahmedabad. “SGST department traced all the locations and raided them. Forensic examination of seized computers revealed tax evasion of Rs 15.31 crore,” reads the department statement. All five men were produced before the additional chief metropolitan magistrate in Ahmedabad on Monday and demand for their judicial custody was made for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-billing-five-held-for-rs-22cr-tax-evasion/articleshow/80756615.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nashik||4,662 took the jab across Nashik divn||Nashik: As many as 4, 662 beneficiaries took the vaccine shot across Nashik division on Monday. In the division, 2,888 healthcare workers (HCW) took the jab while 1,774 frontline workers (FLW) got the vaccine shots. In Ahmednagar, 890 HCWs took the jab while 363 FLWs got the vaccines shots. Nashik district witnessed 1985 beneficiaries on Monday, of which, 1,268 were HCWs. In Jalgaon, 789 people took the jab, of which 253 were frontline workers while in Nandurbar district, 300 HCWs and 335 FLWs were given the vaccine. The reports of Dhule district were not available. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4662-took-the-jab-across-nashik-divn/articleshow/80754777.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Club pools reopen, but find few takers||AHMEDABAD: Swimming pools finally opened across most city clubs, however, there are hardly any users when it comes to swimming. Gujarat Sports Club resumed operations of its swimming pool on Monday, in line with the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid out by the government. Similarly, city-based Rajpath and Karnavati Club, too, resumed operations of the swimming pools last week. Rajpath Club, which has two pools – a warm pool and a regular one, resumed three days ago. “We have defined a total of seven slots during the day – four in the morning and three in the evening – all being hourlong sessions. Those willing to use the pool must make a booking in advance and will have to take a proper shower before entering the pool and shower even after exiting. Only 12 people will be allowed in a single slot at a given pool,” said club secretary, Mishal Patel. The club’s pool however saw barely 30 persons using the pool during the day, against an actual capacity of 150 persons during the day spread across different slots. There is still a general reluctance among club members to use the pools. “The club has started with the swimming pool. However, members are reluctant to visit in the wake of the ongoing pandemic. Especially those who are old or those with health complications, and who were regular swimmers, have been consciously avoiding contact risks,” said an official of Karnavati Club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/club-pools-reopen-but-find-few-takers/articleshow/80756647.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Relative knifed for interfering in fight in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 39-year-old resident of Vatva was allegedly stabbed by the husband of his niece for interfering in their domestic quarrels. The victim, Qutubuddin Shaikh, filed a complaint with Danilimda police on Monday. He has named Salman Shaikh, who is married to his niece; Salman’s brother Sohel; and a third person he knows only as Javed. Qutubuddin stated that he runs a fridge repair shop in Behrampura near the CNG fuel pump. His brother lives in the colony opposite the pump and his brother’s daughter Sana is married to Salman, who lives nearby. As the couple fight often, he counsels them. On Sunday night, after he closed his shop the three accused intercepted him and Salman began abusing him, telling him not to interfere in his domestic affairs. Javed grabbed him from behind, while Sohel pulled out a knife and slashed him on the torso.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/relative-knifed-for-interfering-in-fight/articleshow/80756653.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata cops start getting jabs; 104 vaccinated on first day||KOLKATA: More than 100 policemen — led by outgoing police commissioner Anuj Sharma — were inoculated at the Kolkata Police hospital on Monday. Following the successful vaccination of 104 cops on day 1, the state health department allotted 17 more hospitals and a diagnostic centre where the cops will be vaccinated from Tuesday with a daily target of 2,000 jabs. “Initially, it was decided that policemen would be vaccinated at 10 hospitals across the city, each with a target of 200 per day. But since cops will have to return to duty at their respective departments and zones after the vaccination, the number of sites was increased to 19 and mapped across the city. Further, the officers can go to their preferred sites at their preferred time to ensure they can take the vaccine in between work,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. Although vaccination of cops and other frontline workers had begun in the state last Thursday, the vaccination rolled out among cops in Kolkata on Monday. Kolkata Police has lost 23 personnel in the last 11 months. “In the line of duty, I had contracted Covid-19 but defeated it as well. However, we have lost several colleagues in this battle. My earnest appeal to all my colleagues is not to shy away from taking the vaccine. I took the first dose and after half an hour’s observation, I am perfectly fine and am on my way to Lalbazar,” said Sharma. A total of 37,850 police personnel from Kolkata Police have been registered on the CoWIN platform as officials said they have a target of finishing the first dose of the entire force in three weeks. “One of the constables had a panic attack minutes before his name was to be called for the vaccine. He was immediately attended by the doctors who checked his blood pressure level and found he had a high BP. The doctors advised him rest for the day and asked him to come some time later for the vaccine,” said a policeman who received the vaccine on Monday. Among the list of 17 facilitation centres, there are 13 private hospitals — including Belle Vue Clinic, Desun Hospital, Woodland, CMRI and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) — that will start vaccinating policemen from Tuesday. While Desun will inoculate 121 personnel, Belle Vue and RTIICS will vaccinate 100 each. “This will be in addition to the 100 healthworkers we are vaccinating daily. Even though the number will be doubled, we won’t have to augment our facilities since we already have adequate arrangements,” said Belle Vue CEO P Tondon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-cops-start-getting-jabs-104-vaccinated-on-first-day/articleshow/80755657.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Suspension orders of 20 Aurangabad cops revoked||Aurangabad: City police commissioner Nikhil Gupta has revoked the suspension of 20 of 21 police personnel who were caught by the anti-corruption bureau in alleged corruption cases. This is the first reinstatement in over a year in the Aurangabad police. “In any case, the suspended policemen draw 75% salaries. Considering the rising population as well as the surge in crime rate, there is always a dearth of manpower in police department. Reinstating such suspended cops and deploying them at non-executive posts, in a way reduces the burden on the existing force,” Gupta told TOI. The officer said there is a provision to reinstate police personnel and officers suspended in ACB cases, provided the charge sheets in the cases against them are already filed. “Even gravity of the charges faced by policemen also plays a vital role in taking a call about revoking suspension,” said the officer. Police authorities said that only one cop has not been reinstated for the sole reason that the investigation is still under way and charge sheet is yet to be filed. All the reinstated cops, including a sub-inspector and 19 constables, are attached to the police headquarters and will daily report to the control room till further orders. As per the standing orders, after getting arrested or even booked under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, police personnel are suspended at least for the period of investigation, which gets completed upon filing of charge sheet, which takes around six months. During the suspension period, police personnel are made to mark their attendance twice a day at the police headquarters and continue to draw 75% of their salaries for the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/suspension-orders-of-20-aurangabad-cops-revoked/articleshow/80754799.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: From today, pay more for CNG, piped cooking gas||MUMBAI: The price of compressed natural gas (CNG) has been increased by Rs 1.50 per kg and that of domestic piped natural gas (PNG) by 95 paise per unit. The hike will affect not just 7.5 lakh autos, taxis and buses in Mumbai which depend on the green fuel, but also over seven lakh households which use piped gas for cooking. “The hike has been done in order to partially cover the increase in operational, manpower and fixed costs experienced during the pandemic,” a spokesperson from Mahanagar Gas Ltd said. Accordingly, revised delivered prices inclusive of all taxes of CNG will be Rs 49.40 per kg in Mumbai metropolitan region, while the new rates for cooking gas will be Rs. 29.85/unit (slab 1) and Rs. 35.45/unit (slab 2). Last year, in October, the prices had come down, bringing relief to citizens. While the CNG rate had dipped by a rupee on October 5, PNG price had reduced by 70 paise. But now MGL has increased the rates which will come into effect from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-today-pay-more-for-cng-piped-cooking-gas/articleshow/80756666.cms||Somit Sen
February 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘We ask to spoil your lordships’ afternoon to improve our evenings’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has decided to hear on March 1 a group of petitions challenging state government’s prohibition policy and demanding relaxation to the extent of granting permission to drink liquor to an individual within private spaces. On Monday, the advocates involved demanded early hearing of the issue and one of the senior advocates involved in this litigation, Percy Kavina told the judges, “We may be given permission to spoil your lordships’ afternoon so that our evenings can be somewhat improved.” Government pleader, Manisha Shah, sought a couple of weeks’ adjournment and submitted that this is “a longish matter which requires a week’s time”. Various litigants had approached the high court two years ago and questioned certain provisions of the Gujarat Prohibition Act and termed the provisions of punishment too harsh and not corresponding to the gravity of the offence. They have relied on the right to privacy among many other rights to question the dry laws. They have also questioned the liberty granted to a certain class of citizens to consume liquor in Gujarat while denying it to a large section. The state government opposed the petitions and defended its prohibition policy reiterating that drinking liquor is social evil and any relaxation would lead to law and order problems particularly among lower income groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-ask-to-spoil-your-lordships-afternoon-to-improve-our-evenings/articleshow/80756643.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Surat||Made-in-Surat saris to lure rural women||SURAT: The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown had brought the textile traders in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub on their knees. Diwali sales and the marriage season too remained bleak. But the assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal this year has finally brought some cheer in the industry. The businessmen have started getting orders for low-cost saris (costing about Rs 150 apiece) that are widely distributed to attract women voters in the poll-bound states. Traders and the dyeing and printing mills have already started receiving advance orders for saris from various political parties and they expect to send one crore saris this time. Many mills have started processing the saris. Narendra Saboo, a trader at Surat Textile Market (STM), who is among the big suppliers of low-cost saris to the South Indian market told TOI, “Elections are yet to be announced, but we have received orders for supplying 30,000 saris. For the past many years, political parties have been distributing saris in big numbers to women in rural areas and Surat has been the direct beneficiary.” Industry sources said a large number of textile traders are reeling under severe financial crisis as payments to the tune of over Rs 5,000 crore are stuck in Delhi, Punjab, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu etc due to Covid-induced recession and now the farmers’ stir. Earlier, lakhs of saris and boxes with the photograph of Narendra Modi were sent to various parts of the country. “A six-meter sari with a blouse comes as cheap as Rs 150 per piece. Due to the pandemic, our payments are stuck in other centres, so we are taking orders on advance payment only” said Rajnish Lilah, another trader supplying saris. Jitendra Vakharia, president of South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) said, “Some dyeing and printing mills have received job work for 2 lakh low-cost saris. The processing charge is less than Rs 10 per metre.” Champalal Bothra, secretary, Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) said, “More than one crore saris are likely to be supplied to the poll-bound states this time. We hope that business during assembly elections provides some relief to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/made-in-surat-saris-to-lure-rural-women/articleshow/80755381.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Business||Bengal GSDP to rise 1.2% despite pandemic: Mitra||Kolkata: At a time when India’s GDP is expected to de-grow by 7.7% in the current fiscal, the GSDP (gross state domestic product) of Bengal as per advance estimate (AE) is likely to grow by 1.2%, claimed state finance minister Amit Mitra. He was interacting with industrialists at the Bengal Business Conclave & Synergie in city on Monday. “There would be at least an 8% difference in growth compared to the national figure. This was due to our demand-driven policy and high capital and developmental expenditure. The economy of Bengal would not shrink rather it will grow,” he said. According to him, government, industry and lending institutions have worked closely in the state during the pandemic, which has happened in Japan as well. According to Mitra, as the chairman of State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), he had set a target of Rs 90,000crore loan disbursement during 2020-21. The target was set before the onset of the pandemic. “Despite the pandemic, from April to December, loan disbursement to MSMEs by banks is over Rs 50,000 crore. We are expecting that by the end of this fiscal, the figure would be Rs 70,000-75,000 crore, which implies over 80% target would be achieved despite pandemic,” he added. Mitra also explained that the fund would not be a roadblock for capital and developmental expenditure proposed in the state budget tabled earlier this week. He pointed out that 15th Finance Commission has given the highest revenue deficit grant to West Bengal following a presentation by the state led by CM Mamata Banerjee. “Finance Commission was impressed with our presentation,” he added. Mitra explained 15th Finance Commission will grant Rs 40,000 crore in four years and in the first year (2021-22), it would get Rs 17,000crore. “We shall have this kitty as a revenue deficit grant. This fund is open to use for any purpose. We can use this for capital expenditure as well as for development proposed in the budget,” he added. Besides, Mitra pointed out that due to positive GSDP growth, tax collection has increased and GST growth from Bengal would also be better. “We shall be collecting more taxes now,” he added. Mitra also said that in the last two years that include the pandemic, the state has attracted investments worth Rs 15,000 crore and created 2.43 lakh jobs directly and indirectly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bengal-gsdp-to-rise-1-2-despite-pandemic-mitra/articleshow/80756669.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: MIM worker booked for preventing arrest||AURANGABAD: The city police have booked an AIMIM worker, who is also the husband of a former corporator, and others on the charges of preventing a police team from arresting a man accused of attempted murder. The police team had received a specific tip-off on Sunday that one of the key accused in an attempt-to-murder and rioting case — that was registered on January 30 — was in the Kranti Nagar area. However, as soon as the police team nabbed the suspect, some of his supporters, including the husband of a former woman corporator, reached the spot. As the police team, led by police sub-inspector Pramod Devkate, refused to budge, the suspects allegedly started misbehaving. Some even got physical with the police personnel to help the suspect flee. Video showing their misbehaviour has gone viral. The Vedantnagar police registered a case against the suspect and his supporters on the charges of using criminal force to deter public servant from performing duty and unlawful assembly and rioting. Later, AIMIM office-bearers including Naser Siddiqui, Aref Hussaini along with Arun Borde went to the police commissioner’s office with their supporters and accused the police of excesses. Police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said, “We will not tolerate threat to public law and order, and also interference in police’s duty.” The officer said the police can be seen being professional while the suspects were misbehaving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mim-worker-booked-for-preventing-arrest/articleshow/80754816.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||CoWIN glitch slows down inoculation||Kolkata: Glitches in the CoWIN application continued for the 18th straight day in Bengal, slowing down the vaccination drive in the state. Only 37% of 62,150 health professionals and frontline workers who were to be vaccinated on Monday turned up at the 668 vaccination sites across the state. “The portal issue was there throughout the day,” a top state health official said. Since the launch of the vaccination drive on January 16 in Bengal, 3,67,845 have been vaccinated in 18 days against a target of 7,00,579, which is around 53%. Bengal trails Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Bihar in the vaccination drive. Bengal’s vaccination rate among the priority workers, however, is better than Delhi, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, among other states and union territories, who have vaccinated less than 40% of their target workers. Raising this issue in Parliament, MP Santanu Sen, who is also the state IMA secretary, said, “This app is crashing. That’s why the vaccination process is getting hampered. CoWIN is mandatory otherwise they would not get the vaccination certificate.” Sen also said, “There is a process of random selection that means, along with the doctor, many ASHA workers and health workers are automatically getting registered but many of them are not interested to get vaccinated. On the contrary, those who are really interested are not getting selected by the app.” According to state health officials, only one minor case of AEFI was reported on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cowin-glitch-slows-down-inoculation/articleshow/80755714.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||No water at Marine Drive buildings for two days as pipe hit||MUMBAI: Water supply to around 50 buildings along Marine Drive had been cut for over two days till late on Monday following a major water pipeline burst during piling work for the coastal road last Saturday. Local corporators said hundreds of homes on Marine Drive and neighbouring roads such as Churchgate’s A, B, C and D roads had not been receving water supply since the weekend. Those who were getting water complained that it was muddy. BMC officials said work on repairing the pipeline had started and was expected to be completed by Monday night. “The water pipeline burst during piling work for the coastal road. The water supply department has already started the repair work. We have also informed the department to levy a penalty on the contractor for damaging the pipeline,” said a senior civic official. Officials from BMC’s water supply department said they located the spot where the pipeline had burst. “The repairs are taking time as it took a while to detect the pipeline burst, which also led to flooding. The source of the pipeline burst could only be located on Monday morning—it was outside Grant Medical College gymkhana,” the official said. Local BJP corporator Aakash Purohit said this is the first instance of such a major water cut at Marine Drive. “I too am facing a water cut. My building has not been getting water since Sunday. BMC must fix the water supply soon and ensure they handle such situations better the next time. The contractor responsible for this damage must be penalised heavily,” Purohit said. Residents alleged BMC had not made any alternate arrangements for water supply. “We are managing to get water through private tankers but they are only allowed in this area after 1pm. So there is a struggle for water in the morning. BMC said repair work was going on a priority basis but so far they have not given any commitment. Water tankers are also costly,” said Ashit Shroff, a resident of D Road and member of the Marine Drive Residents Association (MDRA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-water-at-marine-drive-bldgs-for-2-days-as-pipe-hit/articleshow/80755708.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Efficacy study of vaccines under way||Kolkata: The Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB)-Kolkata has taken up a project of post-vaccination immune monitoring programme on people who have taken the jab. As a part of a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s pan-India initiative to assess the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine, IICB will be collaborating with Tata Medical Centre for the study in Bengal. “This is to find out how the recipients are responding, if the vaccines are producing the desired level of immunity, how much and how long the vaccine will provide protection,” said immunologist Dipyaman Ganguly, scientist at CSIR-IICB Kolkata, who will be the principal investigator of the programme. Two doctors — Sanjay Bhattacharya and Soumyadip Chatterjee — from Tata Medical Centre will be co-principal investigators. Two hundred recipients will be monitored under this programme. They will be followed up regularly for two years. Regular RT-PCR tests to rule out infection, checking of antibody response and assessing T-cell immunity will be part of the programme. “We need to find out if the vaccines produce sufficient anti-bodies to counter Covid-19 and also check the presence of memory T-cells that can recognise the virus,” said Ganguly. Currently two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — are being used in India to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers. Both vaccines have permit for emergency authorisation use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/efficacy-study-of-vaccines-under-way/articleshow/80755721.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Bhujbal seeks prompt central assistance for grape exporters||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday said the central government should immediately announce incentives for grape exporters from Nashik as the current situation is going to affect them on a very large scale. Bhujbal was speaking to the reporters after a meeting at the district collectorate.The guardian minister was critical of the central government for the withdrawal of the merchandise exports from India scheme (MEIS) saying: “This would hamper the export prospects of grapes, which is a major cash crop from Nashik district.”The scheme benefitted exporters in India by ensuring the price of the produce (grapes) exported to the European Union is competitively placed against the fruits coming from Peru, Chile and South Africa which are not charged import duty.The central government has announced another scheme — remission of duties or taxes on export product (RoDTEP) — but it has failed to announce the quantum of the assistance to be given for the exporters.“We are at a very critical time of the year. The farmers have spent a lot to ensure that the quality of grapes meets the standard required for exports. Without assistance, the exporters will not be able to find markets for the produce and thus not only the exporters, but even the farmers will face losses,” said Bhujbal.The central government needs to decide on this at the earliest because the grape season is around the corner and delay in deciding the quantum could ruin the export prospects, Bhujbal warned.Bhujbal was also critical about the District Central Cooperative Bank and others forcibly carrying out the recovery drives from the farmers. “The banks have to ensure that recover their outstanding loans. But instead of forcing the small and marginal farmers to sell their lands, due care should be taken to catch the big farmers who have better resources to repay the loans,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-seeks-prompt-central-assistance-for-grape-exporters/articleshow/80754823.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 9, 2021||Goa||Shikha leads the way as cricketers start training||Panaji: Goan cricketers can make it to the Indian team and nobody embodies that better than Shikha Pandey. The 31-year-old proved her mettle by featuring in the Women’s World Cup where India went down fighting against hosts England in the final. The focus is now on the next Shikha as 60 players are going through their paces. Three women’s teams — seniors, U-19, U-23 -- are training hard under coach Anuradha Redkar at the GCA Academy ground, Porvorim. Shikha is the first one to hit the ground and is taking keen interest in grooming players for the Senior Women’s One-day tournament, likely to be held soon. “We asked players to attend trials from January 22. The girls are coming out of a nine-month break, so it is essential to give them a long trial and camp,” said Prakash Mayekar, GCA’s director of coaching and cricket operations. The selectors are keeping a close eye on the players by regularly making their presence felt at the ground. “It is too early to pick our teams for the one-dayers. Once BCCI announces dates, groups and fixtures, we will shortlist the team. We will have practice matches too,” said Mayekar. Shikha is expected to lead the senior team. A lot will be expected from seniors like opener Purvaja Verlekar, allrounders Sanjula Naik and Sunanda Yetrekar, while wicketkeeper Vinavi Gurav could provide stability to the team. Bowling allrounders Nikita Malik and Tejaswini Duragad add depth to the batting. Purvaja, Vinavi and Sanjula have already appeared in Hemant Patil T20 League in Pune before joining the trials. Goa have been a part of Elite group where they played eight matches, winning three and losing five in the 2018-19 season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shikha-leads-the-way-as-cricketers-start-training/articleshow/80735592.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Vaccination drive for Nashik city police begins in 2 NMC hospitals||Nashik: The vaccination drive for the police personnel in the city began on Monday at the two hospitals of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). As many as 3,300 police personnel will be vaccinated over a period of 10 days.Deputy police commissioner (HQ) Pournima Chaughule-Sringi said: “We aim to get around 300 to 500 cops vaccinated every day. Currently, the NMC will be administering the doses to the police personnel at its two hospitals — the Indira Gandhi Hospital and the New Bytco Hospital. However, we have asked the NMC officials to increase the number of vaccination centres so the entire process is completed fast.”The rural police had started taking the vaccine shots from February 5. Sachin Patil, the superintendent of police, Nashik Rural, said around 250 personnel take the jab daily. The entire vaccination programme for the rural police is likely to be complete by this weekend, he added.Since the outbreak of Covid, a large number of police personnel have contracted the infection. Few personnel of the city police and the rural police force have even succumbed to the infection.Meanwhile, taking into account the shortage of beds, the city police had set up a dedicated Covid care centre (CCC) at the police headquarters along Gangapur Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vaccination-drive-for-nashik-city-police-begins-in-2-nmc-hospitals/articleshow/80754839.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Landslide, not glacier, led to flash flood in Rishiganga river: IIRS report||DEHRADUN: Contrary to the initial claims that a glacier burst caused flash floods in Tapovan area of Chamoli district on Sunday, a fresh satellite assessment done by the Dehradun-based Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), which is part of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), has indicated that a landslide in all likelihood triggered an avalanche, resulting in the flash floods. The IIRS report which was submitted to the state government on Monday, says, “A landslide scar at an elevation of 5600 meters in the catchment of Rishiganga probably destabilised freshly- accumulated snow and initiated its downward movement." Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of the state government’s disaster mitigation and management centre (DMMC), told TOI, “The catchment though devoid of snow till February 3 received heavy snowfall on February 4 and 5 which is verified by the satellite data available with IIRS.” Citing the IIRS report, Rautela said that the satellite data of February 7 “clearly shows that a landslide at the terminus of the glacier at an altitude of 5600 meters triggered a snow avalanche covering an approximately 14 sq km area and causing a flash flood in the downstream of Rishiganga.” The report further says that “the avalanche carried the glacial debris accumulated on the hill slope and frictional force facilitated fast melting of snow resulting in the flash flood.” It is estimated that 2-3 million cubic meter of water was generated in the event in a short span of time, as per the report. “It wasn’t a glacier outburst. There was no evidence of any kind of glacier lake in the valley as well. It is basically a snow avalanche triggered by a landslide,” said a senior official from IIRS, who didn’t wish to be named. Ajanta Goswami from the department of earth sciences, IIT Roorkee, who has analysed pre- and post-event satellite images of Raini village and the Rishiganga catchment, says the possible trigger of the outburst may have been some 7 km upwards, on the eastern side of the village. He found that “on February 7, at 10:33 am, a linear patch of dust and haze was observed in the valley, which originated from a tributary glacier towards the east of Raini village.” “At 10:58 am, the linear patch of dust settled down in the tributary. However, it was visible near Raini village. This means that something was brewing at that point on February 7,” said Goswami adding that this area witnessed heavy snowfall on February 4 and 5. He didn't rule out the possibility that a part of the ice or some avalanche fell on the accumulated ice which in turn triggered the massive water flow which came down like a high water wall because of the narrowness of the valley. "If you ask that how come the ice avalanche led to the release of so much water, then two theories could be there. The glaciers not only consist of hard ice but also some pockets of water inside them. When the avalanche led to the collapse of a massive chunk of ice in the glacier bed, the pockets of water were squeezed out, along with loose ice, snow, and debris. Perhaps this was the source of water,” Goswami said. The other theory, he added, is that the avalanche blocked the river's path, which might have created a temporary reservoir that breached and created the flash flood. “However, the theories will be confirmed once the ground information is available and more satellite data gets available,” Goswami said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-not-glacier-triggered-avalanche-causing-flash-flood-in-rishiganga-river-iirs-report/articleshow/80755724.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Rs 350 crore approved for tribal sub-plan of Nashik dist||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said minister for tribal development K C Padvi has approved the demand for Rs 350 crore for the tribal sub-plan (TSP) in Nashik district. Padvi chaired a state-level meeting with all the district guardian ministers through video conference on Monday. The state government had already sanctioned Rs 298 crore for the TSP last year. An additional demand of Rs 52 crore was put forth in the meeting, taking the total financial outlay for the TSP to Rs 350 crore for the fiscal 2021-22Bhujbal pointed out that Nashik is one of the biggest districts where at least seven talukas are dominated by tribals, besides a few more talukas which have a substantial proportion of tribal communities.“It is important for the administration to carry out various works, including road development in tribal areas, strengthening power supply to the villages, construction of anganwadis, provision of Amrut Ahaar Yojana for the tribal women, measures for animal husbandry and various other agricultural needs. All these works require a substantial sum of money,” said Bhujbal. He also pointed out that there were various works that were left incomplete in the tribal areas due to the lockdown that was effected following the Covid-19 outbreak, for which the district administration required funds to omplete them on time. Collector Suraj Mandhare also gave a presentation to stress on the need for the TSP in Nashik district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-350-crore-approved-for-tribal-sub-plan-of-nashik-dist/articleshow/80754827.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||‘Rooftop solar’s share less than 1%, eroding discoms’ income misplaced notion’||Jaipur: The fear of discoms losing out on big consumers due to adoption of rooftop solar is misplaced as the renewable energy from the segment does not contribute even 1% of the total power consumption in the state, said Bask Research Foundation.It said there was no study undertaken to determine the possible losses of discoms by RERC before proposing the laws which threaten to leave the sector in disarray. In the meanwhile, facing pressure from industry, government departments and the political class, Rajasthan Energy Regulatory Commission (RERC) has extended the date of hearing industry’s feedback on proposed guidelines for the second time to March 3, 2021.Bask in its recommendations suggested that Commission should anchor a detailed impact evaluation study to estimate impact on discom’s balance sheet and socialisation of costs amongst general consumers.“A scenario analysis may be done for different degrees of penetration of solar rooftops over a three or five or 10-year term,” the research agency said, adding that even if the discoms incur losses because of sales migrations, the ultimate impact on their balance sheet would be negligible while the benefits of the green energy are too large to ignore.Bask said that the current mechanisms of power planning and procurement do not appropriately value solar rooftop systems. “Benefit of distributed solar includes its contribution to reducing peak demand, avoidance of transmission and distribution losses for power procurement, demand side management and avoidance of transmission infrastructure,” it explained.The growth of ground-mounted solar projects will give volume and reduce the carbon footprint but such projects compete with local communities for land and water, the latter being scarce in the state. Secondly, ground-mounted projects require evacuation infrastructure and transmission lines which are underutilised because of low capacity utilisation factor (solar power produced in day time only).“It is suggested that distribute solar needs to value its benefits to the discoms and lower environmental impact, and hence shall continue to receive suitable incentives for sustained growth,” Bask said. It urged the commission to anchor a study for evaluation of feeders with high penetration of solar rooftops to quantify cost and benefits of distributed solar.In the draft ‘Grid Interactive Distributed Renewable Energy Generating Systems Regulations, 2020’, RERC has proposed to eliminate net metering benefits to projects over 1 kilo watt which contributes bulk of the rooftop capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rooftop-solars-share-less-than-1-eroding-discoms-income-misplaced-notion/articleshow/80756675.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Sai Baba’s birthplace at Pathri awaits Rs 100 crore||AURANGABAD: Despite chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announcing a corpus of Rs 100 crore for the development of Sai Baba’s birthplace at Pathri in Parbhani district, his words have failed to translate into action in the past one year. Temple trustee Sanjay Bhusari said nothing has transpired in the past one year except a recent meeting convened by the district administration. “The administration has sought estimates from us for acquiring land in front of the temple and other premises for raising an accommodation facility for devotees. We were told that theadministration would bear the expenses for land acquisition and a formal proposal to this effect is likely to be tabled during the meeting of the district planning and development council (DPDC),” he said. Bhusari said he was expecting financial aid from the state government along with necessary support from the DPDC. “The official funding from the DPDC has limitations. We expect the government to pay attention to the development of Pathri,” he said. While the Pathri temple trust had submitted a formal plan for the development of the existing temple around three years ago, Thackeray had announced a financial aid of Rs 100 crore in January last year. The announcement had then stirred up a storm as stakeholders from Shirdi opposed the reference of Pathri as the birthplace of Sai Baba. The proposed development works at Pathri include widening of roads towards the temple, building a meditationcentre , accommodation facility and prasadalaya along with the construction of parking lots, toilets and bathrooms for devotees. When contacted, NCPMLC from Parbhani Babajani Durani said Covid-19 outbreak has proven to be a roadblock in executing the development plans. “The state government has not given up on its plans to develop Pathri despite opposition from some elements in Shirdi. The pandemic put brakes on many development works and Pathri was one of the affected area,” he said. According to Pathri temple trust, Sai Baba was born at Pathri between 1835 and 1838. The saint was believed to have spent his childhood till the age of eight at Pathri before moving to Shirdi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sai-babas-birthplace-at-pathri-awaits-rs-100crore/articleshow/80754843.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Travellers in state buses can get up to 30% discount in RTDC hotels||Jaipur: Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) has offered up to 30% discount in hotel bookings to people travelling in government buses. During the tourist season, the discount will be 15% on room tariffs.Both departments are also working on adding an option in the RSRTC website so that at the time of booking a ticket for travelling, passengers can also book hotel rooms.Tej Singh Rathore, president of the RTDC employees union, said the arrangement is a win-win deal both for corporations as each one will derive synergy from the initiative.The scheme to offer discounts to people travelling in the state buses was running till 2007 which was discontinued after that. Currently, the corporation is offering 30% discounts to government employees, 25% to women and disabled people and 20% to senior citizens.Recently, it offered 50% discounts to government officials who cannot get accommodation in the state’s guest houses in various districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/travellers-in-state-buses-can-get-up-to-30-discount-in-rtdc-hotels/articleshow/80756690.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Vasai jeweller falls prey to honey trap, two women held||MUMBAI: Two women were held for allegedly laying a honey trap and extorting money from a Vasai jeweller. The jeweller, Durgasingh Rajput, came in contact with the main accused, Prajakta Patil, when she came to his showroom to mortgage her ornaments. The two got close and Patil invited Rajput to her house on February 3. They got intimate and when he was about to leave, two men and a woman, Jyoti Upadhyaya, who were hiding in another room held him captive. They showed Rajput a recorded video of his sexual act with Patil and also assaulted him. They then robbed him of his ornaments and cash and forced him to pay them Rs 4,500 online by threatening to upload the video and share it with Rajput’s family.For the next two days, the accused men and women repeatedly called him and demanded more money. On Saturday, Rajput approached the Valiv police. A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 394 (causing hurt during robbery), 364 (a) (kidnapping), 384 and 385 (extortion) was registered against the four accused. The cops managed to nab the women from their homes, but the men managed to escape. The women have been remanded to police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vasai-jeweller-falls-prey-to-honey-trap-2-women-held/articleshow/80755787.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Pvt schools reopen with low attendance, govt schools see good response||Jaipur: After almost 10 months, students of classes VI to VIII returned to their classrooms on Monday. Though they were excited to go back to school after a long gap, attendance in most of the private institutes was low and many didn’t reopen after seeing low response from parents. However, the response in government schools was good. Subodh Public School authorities said the response was low as parents are still in a wait-and-watch mode. Media co-ordinator of the school Sanjay Parashar said, “A similar situation was there during classes IX to XII reopening and attendance improved after a week. Moreover, transportation is not provided by the school, which is an important reason why the attendance is still low. We expect it to be better after a week.” Similar views were expressed by Mahaveer Public School principal Rashmi Talvar who said that due to an alternative of online classes, parents have preferred to keep their wards at home and the response was pretty low. In most schools, the course is almost complete so students prefer to stay at home to prepare for final examination to be held in February last week. Meanwhile, in Mahatma Gandhi Government School, Jaipur, the attendance was around 70% and the administration is expecting that it will further improve. Kumud Sharma, principal of the school, said that in the parent-teacher meeting on Sunday, more than 80% parents gave their consent. “We expect the number of students will increase further with time,” said Sharma. Similar trend was seen in Government School in Bagru where teachers even welcomed students with balloons and motivated them to continue coming to school. As the age of the students in classes VI to VIII is lower, some parents were reluctant in sending their children. St Xavier’s School, Jaipur asked for parents’ consent but looking at the mild response, they decided not to open the school. Similarly, Delhi Public School decided to wait for a few weeks and call the students for final examination. Rita Taneja, principal of the school said, “Our classes for standards IX to XII are going on but we have decided not to re-open schools for the lower section. We will conduct our final examination in February for senior section and have decided to call our junior section from March onwards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-schools-reopen-with-low-attendance-govt-schools-see-good-response/articleshow/80756684.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Cops on lookout for a thief couple||Nashik: Wani police are looking for a couple, who has been involved in chain snatching cases in Wani, Chandwad and Kalwan. Assistant police inspector Swapnil Rajput of Wani police station said, recently there was a case of chain robbery here where a woman was robbed of a gold chain weighing 40g. As per the complainant, the chain snatcher was driving a bike while a woman was riding pillion.Two suspects have been detained but only for inquiry purpose, said Rajput.The Wani police learned that a couple has been involved in chain robberies in Chandwad and Kalwan taluka as well. Considering that the same couple involved in the chain robbery, the police have started checking the CCTV footages in the market area where the robbery took place. The woman’s face is constantly covered in the CCTV footages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-on-lookout-for-a-thief-couple/articleshow/80754845.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 9, 2021||Nashik||2 arrested in fake Rs 15Lrobbery case||Nashik: The Mumbai Naka police have arrested two more men in the hoax Rs 15 lakh robbery case registered on Friday. On Saturday, the police had arrested Mayur Bhalerao, the complainant who had registered a fake compliant with the police alleging that he was robbed. His accomplice Rama Shinde was also arrested. During the course of investigation, the police found that the fake robbery planned by Bhalerao had involvement of two more men. The other two suspects arrested by the police have been identified as Pawan Pujari and Aniket Kamble. Pujari and Kamble had come on a bike and taken the cash bag from the car that Bhalerao had stopped near a restaurant in the Mumbai Naka area. Their aim was to cheat Bhalerao’s employer. The Mumbai Naka police have got the custody of the four accused till February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-in-fake-rs-15lrobbery-case/articleshow/80754854.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tragedy: 'Bridge collapsed right after we crossed it'||DEHRADUN: A group of five teachers, who had gone to Raini village to offer condolences to a colleague who lost her father on Friday, had a mircaulous escape in the disaster that struck the area on Sunday. The group left the village a little after 10 am. Soon after they crossed the bridge near the village, the flash floods struck and the gushing waters completely washed away the bridge. Sharing the experience, which he described as hair-raising, Chandan Singh Panwar, one of the teachers, told TOI, “After spending an hour in the village, we decided to leave. Had we delayed our decision by a few seconds, we would have been washed away by the strong water current that knocked down the bridge or forced to stay back in Raini till the time vehicular movement was restored.” Panwar pointed out that barely a few minutes after crossing the bridge, they received a telephone call about the natural disaster. “As the movement was brought to a standstill, we had to halt at Joshimath, which is around 30-km from Raini and 60-km before Gopeshwar,” the teacher said, adding that this was the second time in his life that he had a close brush with a natural ldisaster -- he had been earlier stranded for five days during the Kedarnath flashfloods of 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/saved-by-few-seconds-5-teachers-defy-death-by-a-whisker/articleshow/80755734.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Couple sells ‘old’ necklace, dupes trader of Rs 4 lakh||Thane: A couple is wanted for allegedly duping a trader from Thane by selling an “ancient necklace at a low” price of Rs 4 lakh, claiming that it was worth much more. The necklace turned out to be fake, the police said. “The couple told the trader about an ancestral necklace found at their house in Gujarat. They said they were selling it at a low price as they needed money,” the police said. As the necklace was later found to be fake, the trader went to the cops. —Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-sells-old-necklace-dupes-trader-of-rs-4-lakh/articleshow/80737454.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Work to end TRs rule: Bandi to cadre||Hyderabad: BJP state chef Bandi Sanjay on Monday warned that TRS will face serious concerns if anything happens to BJP’s Nalgonda district president. Addressing the OBC wing meeting of the party, he said the TRS regime is responsible for the Nalgonda district president’s arrest. “We will not fear this, TRS regime is also responsible for arrests of tribal protesters,” he said. Giving a call to the party to cadre to being the BJP into power, Sanjay said, “For two years, please leave business activities and jobs and fight for ending TRS rule.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/work-to-end-trs-rule-bandi-to-cadre/articleshow/80756702.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Salt Lake to get on-call road repair services||Kolkata: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is engaging an agency that will repair damaged stretches across Sector V on an emergency on-call basis for the next six months. The authorities will also repair a damaged stretch of Sector V Ring Road, along with restoring a few other thoroughfares and pavements across the IT hub. According to NDITA officials, roads are often dug up for underground utility work and then they are not properly laid. Consequently, these portions get damaged and craters appear after a spell or two. “It takes time to engage an agency by calling tenders after noticing any damaged stretch. The condition of the road deteriorates further by the time the repair work begins. The idea is that an agency will be there who will take up repair work immediately after getting a call,” said an official. The authorities will also repair an undulated stretch on the Sector V Ring Road. Officials said the work will be done following the grouting method. The road in front of the old 201 bus stand close to Ring Road will also be repaired. The authorities are also resetting the paver block pavement from Benfish to Techno India junction along with fixing ornamental grille on both sides of the pavement. Also, the existing guard rail on both sides — from SDF to Bowler’s Den — will be repaired and new guard rail will be installed. The authorities will also develop a pavement opposite the No 4 pump station under the Metro viaduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-to-get-on-call-road-repair-services/articleshow/80755767.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||3 girl students, lady teacher test positive in Jhalawar||Kota: Jhalawar district administration and medical and health department on Monday swung into action after three senior girl students— two of a government girls school in Jhalrapatan and one from a girls government school in Jhalawar city— and a lady teacher of a government school in Bhawanimandi were found Covid positive in tests done on Sunday.The three students from senior classes and the teacher were placed under home quarantine on Sunday evening. All four had attended school in the previous week.The district medical and health department, therefore, collected samples of the contacts of the four in their schools on Monday.“On the direction by the health secretary, the health department started random sampling for Covid test in the district from January 25 and 1,200 samples were collected so far. The report of 400 samples collected in last three days showed the three girl students and the lady teacher were positive,” said Jhalwar CMHO Sazeed Khan.“All four are, however, asymptomatic and their SR CT score is also zero,” the CMHO said.A medical team led by CMHO visited the two schools and collected the samples of the contacts and their family members on Monday.The health department appealed to the students and teachers to attend school with face masks, to keep an extra face mask in bag, to maintain social distancing in the classes and to wash hands and use sanitizer frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-girl-students-lady-teacher-test-positive-in-jhalawar/articleshow/80756694.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Business||First allotment of land to cos in Singur agro-industrial park||Kolkata: The state cabinet on Monday allotted land for setting up their projects in the proposed agro industrial park site at Singur in Hooghly. This is the first approval by the state government after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that the state government had decided to set up an agro industrial park on 10.27 acre land in Singur on December 24 last year. “The land in Singur originally belongs to the West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation (WBSIDC), but now it will be allotted to different companies for this purpose. Many companies have applied for the land and initially we have selected five companies for setting up their units five have already been allotted land,” state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee said after the Cabinet meeting at the state assembly on Monday. The state government is eyeing an investment of at least Rs 200 crore with generation of around 5,000 direct and indirect job opportunities. The state cabinet on Monday gave the approval to the next of kin of civic volunteers and village police to register their names for jobs in case of sudden death while on duty. “Once the next of kin have their names registered they will get a job opportunity on compassionate ground in a similar way as in die in harness,” Chatterjee added. He also announced that the retirement age of the officials of universities like registrars, deputy registrars, assistant registrars, controller of examinations, deputy controller of examinations, inspector of colleges etc, who have joined in their posts after serving as teaching faculties has been extended from 62 to 65.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/first-allotment-of-land-to-cos-in-singur-agro-industrial-park/articleshow/80756715.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Police lodge cases against Bandi Sanjay, MLA Raghunandan Rao||HYDERABAD: A day after BJP activists and their supporters allegedly indulged in vandalism and stone pelting in Suryapet district, the local police registered two criminal cases against Telangana State BJP president Bandi Sanjay and Dubbaka MLA Raghunandan Rao on Sunday late night. Suryapet police said that one case was filed in connection with the outbreak of violence and another with respect to violation of conditions laid down by the police while granting permission for BJP to hold a protest meet in Gurrampode thanda. Police said that in case registered for outbreak of violence, 21 persons and others were declared as accused, which includes Sanjay and Raghunandan. The other case was about violation of conditions like timing and protesters entering private property. On Sunday, BJP organised a protest meet in support of local tribals in Gurrampode thanda as there has been a dispute over a huge chuck of land between tribals and a businessman. Before the BJP’s planned protest, some activists reached the disputed site and vandalised a huge shed and resorted to stone pelting, during which three cops were injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-lodge-cases-against-bandi-sanjay-mla-raghunandan-rao/articleshow/80756710.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Preparation afoot for third phase of vaccination for people above 50 years||JAIPUR: The third phase of Covid vaccination drive will be launched in a big way in the state. As of now, vaccination sites are organised in hospitals, but for the third phase meant for people above 50 years, sites will also be organised in schools and community centres as beneficiaries will be expected to turn up in large numbers. It is expected that the third phase will be launched in March, for which preparations are afoot in the state. As of now, for the vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers, each session site was allotted 100 vaccinations on a given day, but for vaccination of above 50, the health department will vaccinate 120 to 170 persons. A health department official said directions have been issued to prepare the action plan for vaccination of above 50 in group of 120 to170 persons at a site ensuring that the quality of vaccination is not affected. Since vaccination of people above 50 years will be done on a large scale, the health department will impart training to vaccinators and their team for conducting sessions not only at hospitals, but also in schools and community centres, said the official. According to the Census 2011, there are more than 90 lakh people above 50 years. But, the heath department will be using latest electoral rolls to identify the population aged 50 years or more. Only after receiving the list of beneficiaries with the help of election commission, the health department will be able to find out the exact number of persons completed 50 years. Besides, the health department is winding up vaccination of the first dose of healthcare and frontline workers. The mop up round for frontline workers will be done on February 10 and for healthcare workers, it will be held on February 11.According to operational guidelines, the priority group of above 50 years be further sub-divided into those above 60 years and those between 50 and 60 years for the phasing of roll out based on pandemic situation and vaccine ability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/preparation-afoot-for-third-phase-of-vaccination-for-people-above-50-years/articleshow/80756699.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||State intelligence department will probe celebrities' tweets: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||MUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said the state intelligence department will conduct a probe into the tweets put out by celebrities such as Sachin Tendulkar, Lata Mangeshkar, Saina Nehwal and Akshay Kumar last week in response to pop star Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg’s comments on the farmers’ agitation. Deshmukh’s announcement, which came after Congress alleged the BJP had “pressured” the celebrities to tweet in support of the Modi government, drew sharp reactions on social media, with BJP leaders asking if Bharat Ratnas like Tendulkar and Mangeshkar would now be investigated for expressing their views. BJP national president J P Nadda tweeted, “MVA in Maharashtra has a unique model of governance - hail noises of anarchy from overseas who show India in poor light but harass patriotic Indians who stand for the nation. It is difficult to decide what is more flawed: their priorities or their mindset?” Former CM Devendra Fadnavis asked if the MVA government had lost its senses. “MVA should feel ashamed while using the word ‘probe’ for Bharat Ratnas. Actually, now it seems necessary to probe the mental state and stability of the ones who made such a demand and of people who ordered the probe against our Bharat Ratnas,” he said. He tweeted, “We will never find such ‘ratnas’ (gems) in entire nation who order probe against Bharat Ratnas who always stand strong in one voice for our nation.” Celebrities across fields including Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane had tweeted on the farmers’ protests using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. On Monday, a delegation led by Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant had a video conference with Deshmukh, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week and is in quarantine. Sawant alleged that “the manner in which the tweets were timed, the common words used, reinforce the suspicion that BJP had pressured the celebrities to tweet.” Deshmukh said, “The question raised by Congress is whether the celebrities were forced to issue those tweets. These celebrities can express their opinions, but the timing of the tweets, common words used and even the tagging of BJP office-bearers in their tweets have raised certain doubts. Tweets by Akshay Kumar and Saina Nehwal are the same. Not a word is different... Our intelligence agency will probe the matter.” Later, after the flood of reactions on social media, Deshmukh tweeted people conferred with the Bharat Ratna are “respected by us as well. But did any BJP leader put pressure on them? The Congress has demanded an inquiry against the leader.” Deshmukh said there has been an attempt to defame the farmers’ stir, so there were reactions across the world. “There is pressure on everyone who speaks out against the Centre. Media too is under pressure. CBI and ED are sent after politicians,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-intel-dept-will-probe-celeb-tweets-home-min/articleshow/80756714.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 9, 2021||Shimla||935 glacial Himachal lakes pose Uttarakhand-like threat||SHIMLA: With around 935 glacial lakes in Himachal posing an ever-present danger of breach, Himachal Pradesh fears an Uttrakhand-like tragedy. Of these, Gepang Gath glacial lake above Sissu village of Lahaul-Spiti district, having an area of 95 hectares, is the biggest glacial lake in the state. Various studies reveal that there is an alarming increase in such potential lakes which can be disastrous in the event of any break due to one or the other reasons. Scientists say that regular monitoring is the only way to meet any eventuality at the pre-disaster level. In line with this, a fresh study of glacial lakes is being done by the Space Application Centre (ISRO) Ahmedabad and Himachal Pradesh State Centre on climate change and it is likely to be completed in next few months. A technical report on the Inventory of Moraine Dammed Glacial Lakes (GLOF) in Satluj, Beas, Chenab and Ravi Basins in Himachal Pradesh using IRS LISS-III Satellite Data (2019) prepared by the Himachal Pradesh State Centre on Climate Change and Space Application Centre (ISRO), Ahmedabad, had shown that with the projected increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme events including floods, droughts and landslides etc, which are attributable to climate change, disaster management needed greater attention. As per the report, there are indications that spatial extent of majority of glaciers is changing very fast and leading to the formation of moraine-dammed lakes. This poses a potential threat to the infrastructure and human life thriving in the downstream areas of many drainage systems originating from the snow-clad mountains ranges of the state. S S Randhawa, principal scientific officer, Himachal Pradesh State Centre on Climate Change, while speaking to TOI, said that Himachal Pradesh faces the threat of Uttrakhand-like disaster where bursting of glacial lake seems to be the reason behind the destruction. He said that avalanche, landslide, heavy rainfall or earthquake could be the trigger for the bursting. He pointed out that Gepang Gath glacier in Lahaul-Spiti district has resulted into the formation of a deep lake having area of 95 hectares and lake is connected to the glacier and water seeping from the melting glacier is going directly into the lake. Randhawa said that Himachal Pradesh State Centre on Climate Change and Space Application Centre (ISRO) Ahmedabad are conducting fresh study of glacial lakes in the Satluj, Beas, Chenab and Ravi Basins to collect more detailed information, and a report will be prepared in next few months. According to him, satellite data analysis carried for 2019 had revealed that presence of 562 lakes (2019) in the entire Satluj basin, indicating an overall decrease of about 19% with reference to 2018 data. In Chenab basin, the total number of lakes mapped in 2019 was 242 with an overall increase of about 4 % with reference to 2018. Beas basin showed 93 lakes in 2019 in comparison to the 101 lakes in 2018, whereas the Ravi basin had 38 lakes (2019) in comparison to 66 lakes of 2018. The regular monitoring is important in order to meet out any eventuality at the pre-disaster level, he added. Learn a lesson: CMChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Himachal Pradesh needs to learn a lesson from the Chamoli incident with regard to planning of hydro projects and relook at identifying sites for hydel project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/glacial-lakes-pose-ukhand-like-threat-in-hp/articleshow/80756695.cms||Anand Bodh
February 9, 2021||Aurangabad||500 cops deployed in Aurangabad city to check for street crimes||AURANGABAD: Starting Monday, the city police launched a drive to bring a check on vehicular thefts. Police have also been permitted to register offences against those displaying wrong number plates, using forged documents or any other serious violation by commuters. The drive would be initiated at any point of time for the next three days and will be jointly carried out by the city police, the traffic branch and the crime branch. Within a couple of hours of calling off the drive on Monday, unidentified people on a motorcycle robbed an elderly woman of her gold chain in the limits of Cidco police. Commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta told TOI, “We are deploying 500 policemen on the streets. They will compulsorily check documents, number plates and other credentials of those moving around in vehicles.” Gupta said the drive was aimed at bringing a check on bike thefts, movement of unregistered vehicles, chain snatching as well as other street crimes. A detailed format has also been provided to the police teams, who are part of the drive, for filling in all the possible details including description of the vehicle, name of the owner, phone number, if key has been returned to the owner, if vehicular documents and driving licence were produced by the commuter or not. The vehicles without registration number plates or necessary documents will be confiscated. Avinash Aghav, inspector at crime branch, said, “Post-lockdown, vehicle thefts have surged in the city. In majority of the cases detected, the accused were found to be either first timers, minors and even those hailing from out of city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/500-cops-deployed-in-aurangabad-city-to-check-for-street-crimes/articleshow/80754858.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Plastic paver blocks for 2 New Town pavements||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has started a pilot project to lay plastic-made paver blocks on two pavements in New Town. The first lot of these paver blocks has arrived and will be laid in front of Swapna Bhor Gate and on the smart street near the mela ground gate. The paver blocks have been made from the dry waste that had been collected from the stackyard at Pathorghata mouza on Hidco land, just outside the periphery of New Town. “Dry waste has been segregated and then mixed with additives and put in moulds. A resident of New Town, who runs a factory to convert plastics to show heels, has manufactured and delivered the plastic paver blocks. The dimension of the moulds for making the blocks were determined after consulting NKDA engineers. “After relaying the paver blocks, they will be checked for an year to assess their efficacy. If the results are satisfactory, the same method will be extended to other places in New Town,” said a NKDA official. The authorities had used shredded plastic waste along with bitumen while repairing two roads in the township. The smart street that is coming up in front of mela ground has also been laid with plastic. NKDA authorities are urging people in New Town to segregate dry and wet waste at source. Officials said that around 35% of the households have followed the waste segregation norms that was enforced last year and that they will now renew the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plastic-paver-blocks-for-2-new-town-pavements/articleshow/80755784.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 9, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Did wife’s torture lead to man’s suicide?||RAJKOT: A 36-year-old man’s decomposed body was found from his home in Satyanarayan Park of Gandhigram area. Police are waiting for postmortem report to ascertain whether the man Hitesh Gohel committed suicide or died a natural death. His maternal uncle Paresh Dhanani, alleged he ended life due to harassment by wife and brother-in-law. Gohel, who worked in a ceramic company at Wankaner, had been living alone for the last six months as his wife Archana had started living with her parents. But Dhanani regularly remained in touch with him. Dhanani claimed he had been calling Gohel for two days but as his phones were not being answered, he went to his home to check on him on Sunday. As Gohel was not opening the door, Dhanani became suspicious and informed police. When cops broke open the door, they found his decomposed body. “His uncle has alleged harassment, but we are awaiting postmortem report,” said assistant sub-inspector P M Parmar. He said Gohel must have died a few days back as his body was decomposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/did-wifes-torture-lead-to-mans-suicide/articleshow/80755550.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Amritsar||Revive earthquake warning project: GNDU||AMRITSAR: In the wake of the Uttarakhand glacier burst, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has decided to approach the government for revival of its earthquake indication centre project, which has been closed for the past several years for want of funds. “Since this area falls in the high seismic zone, we have decided to approach the government for resumption of Geo Chemical Rare Gas Precursory Studies, which is capable of giving an indication of tremors,” GNDU vice-chancellor professor Jaspal Singh said on Monday. Due to this project, GNDU’s department of physics was able to issue a warning about the October 8, 2005 earthquake of 7.6 magnitude in Pakistan occupied Kashmir three days before it struck. However, for the past several years, research and monitoring work at these stations in Kangra, Dharamshala, Palampur, Sarool, Dalhousie with a base station at Amritsar have been stalled due to paucity of funds. Under the project, many seismic events were correlated with radon anomalies in soil and water, which were indicators of coming tremors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/revival-of-its-seismic-study-project-would-help-predict-earthquakes-gndu/articleshow/80756719.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 9, 2021||Surat||Guv orders VNSGU to hold convocation offline||Surat: Top brass of the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has been forced to do a volte-face after the Gujarat governor ordered the varsity to hold its forthcoming annual convocation offline.The university had extended an invitation to the state governor for the 52nd convocation which it had decided to organise online. The convocation is scheduled on February 26.By virtue of his post, governor Acharya Devvrat is chancellor of all state universities except M S University and presides over annual convocation ceremonies. But the reply that the university received from governor’s office has left the officials in a quandary.VNSGU had invited Amitabh Kant, CEO of NITI Aayog as chief guest for the online convocation ceremony but in the changed circumstances it remains to be seen whether Kant remains physically present. Like some other state universities, Kant can also address the ceremony virtually.“Considering, government guidelines and other limitations due to the global pandemic, we had earlier decided in favour of online convocation. But since it is an order from the governor office, we will hold it offline now,” said a senior university official, “we have already started preparing for it.”The highest academic ceremony is likely to be held at VNSGU’s convention hall which has a seating capacity of 1,200 persons. Owing to the pandemic, the university may allow only 600 persons inside the hall.“The seating arrangement will be done maintaining social distancing for students and the senators. Convocation is a lifetime memory for any student and they will be happy,” said Hemali Desai, in-charge vice-chancellor of VNSGU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/guv-orders-vnsgu-to-hold-convocation-offline/articleshow/80755119.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Rs 20 cr sanctioned to Chamoli to meet disaster-related emergencies||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand disaster management department on Monday sanctioned the immediate release of Rs 20 crore to Chamoli district administration to meet the emergencies. The funds were sanctioned under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) — a primary fund available with the state government for response to notified disasters and to meet expenditure for providing immediate relief. According to the order issued by SA Murugesan, secretary of disaster management department, Rs 20 crore has been released to provide compensation to the families of the deceased, provide relief to the affected people, and for the reconstruction of the damaged public properties. The sanctioned amount will have to be used by March 31 this year. The utilisation certificate of the expenditure incurred will have to be submitted with the state government, states the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-20-cr-sanctioned-to-chamoli-to-meet-disaster-related-emergencies/articleshow/80755769.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Recovery rate touches 98% in Nashik city||NASHIK: The recovery rate of Nashik city on Monday touched 98%, which is the highest so far since the outbreak of Covid-19. As many as 165 Covid-19 positive cases, including 96 from Nashik city, have been reported in the Nashik district in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases has risen to 1,16,993. Three patients have succumbed to the infection in Nashik district, including one death reported in Nashik city. The death toll stands 2,062 in the district, including 1,022 in the city As many as 193 patients were discharged from across the district on Monday, including 136 people who belong to from Nashik city. The district has 1,144 active cases, including 511in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/recovery-rate-touches-98-in-nashik-city/articleshow/80754864.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Card cloning: Three held by Malad police||MUMBAI: Three men have been arrested by the Malad police for using skimmers to clone debit cards and make fraudulent withdrawals. Police said that the gang has its roots in Bihar from where the skimmers were procured. It was also found that all-cash withdrawals were made in Bihar and not Mumbai to throw investigators off track. In December 2020, Rakesh Vishwakarma (42), registered a complaint with the Malad police after Rs 1 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from his bank account. During the probe, cops found that Vishwakarma’s debit card data had been used for the withdrawal. The cops started checking out the various establishments where the victim had used his debit card. Vishwakarma told the cops that he had swiped his debit card at petrol pumps and a bar among others. Finally, they zeroed in on Jashn bar in Borivali East. Sleuths kept a watch on the bar and caught an employee, Dharmendra Kumar Singh, using a skimmer to copy the data from a customer’s debit card. Singh led the police to an accomplice Dhruv Narayan, who was using a skimmer at Sur Sangeet bar in Borivali. Singh and Narayan used to note down the PIN numbers of debit cards of customers and run them through their skimmers. The duo told the cops that the skimmers were supplied by a Manish Kumar who resided in Goregaon.  Police picked up Kumar and found a laptop and several blank debit cards on him. “Kumar used to transfer data from the skimmers onto the blank cards using a software on his laptop. The blank cards were then used for fraudulent withdrawals,” said an officer. More arrests are likely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/card-cloning-3-held-by-malad-police/articleshow/80756725.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Shimla||Resistance to projects intensifies in Lahaul||MANALI: The protests against mega hydel projects already sanctioned and proposed on Chenab basin in Himachal’s Lahaul have started increasing after the incident of devastating flash flood triggered by glacier lake burst in Chamoli district of neighbouring Uttarakhand. The residents under local panchayats, NGO and local committees have started opposing the projects. Four major hydel projects – Seli, Jispa, Tandi and Bardang – have been witnessing public agitations for a long time. The protests against the projects had weakened over the time. But, after devastation in Chamoli, it has started growing again. As of now seven sanctioned projects — Jispa (300MW), Seli (420MW), Bardang (138MW), Tandi (104MW), Reuli-Dugli (430MW), Rashil (130MW) and Miyar (120MW) — are facing the public resistance. Many more projects are proposed for the Chenab basin in Lahaul and Pangi regions. After Triloknath and Shakoli panchayats, people of Tandi panchayat also held a meeting on Monday to decide the course of action in agitation against Tandi hydroelectric project. Jispa Baandh Jan Sangharsh Samiti, Seli Project Sangharsh Samiti, Save Lahaul-Spiti NGO and other NGOs and committees too have become active within a day of the Uttarakhand incident. Many panchayats are expected to pass resolutions against the projects in the valley. Tandi panchayat has passed a resolution against the Tandi project which they will forward to the President of India on Tuesday. Some activists from other districts also visit Tandi on Monday to discuss on the possible results of mega projects. “Entire Lahaul valley is narrow with high mountains on both the sides. The villages are settled on either side of the Chenab. The projects will destroy most of the villages. We have a limited land holding. Soil of Lahaul is prone to erosion. People of panchayat are opposing the Tandi project. They said they do not want displacement in the name of development. We have also passed a resolution against the project from the panchayat. People here have also formed a Tandi Sangam Project Sangharsh Samiti,”Tandi panchayat vice-president Virender Suman. Tandi is the confluence of Chandra and Bhaga rivers which give birth to Chenab river. For people of Lahaul, the sangam (confluence) is as sacred as Ganga river where they take holy dip and immerse the ashes of their dead. Seli Project Sangharsh Samiti convener Sudershan Thakur said, “If we fail to understand the power of nature and if we continue to exploit the fragile mountains, nature will give us only devastation in return. Lahaul is highly fragile and eco-sensitive area. How can we let government and project promoters drill the fragile mountains and stop the flow of the major rivers without knowing its consequences in long run? Lahaul valley is the home to over a hundred glaciers, many of which are over 10km in length. Lahaul is also very prone to earthquakes.” Jispa Baandh Jan Sangharsh Samit convener Rigzin Samphel Hayerpa said, “Lahaul has no mega hydel project. The government has proposed bumper to bumper projects in the valley. Not only they will destroy the natural beauty of this high altitude valley but will also destroy the natural resources, flora and fauna. Kinnaur district of Himachal is bearing the brunt of tampering with nature.” Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda said Himachal government was promoting only nature-friendly projects which would be built after proper planning. “Projects harming nature or causing human displacement are not being allowed,” he added. Former MLA from Lahaul Ravi Thakur said, “Development is needed. But it should not be at the cost of human lives. Proper soil study is required. The government should focus on small and micro projects which can be built without stopping the flow of the Chenab and its tributaries. Opinion and suggestion of local public should be considered on priority.” Letters to President, PM, SC The tribal population has been forwarding memorandums and requests to the President of India, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Court and the Himachal governor to help them in putting pressure on the state government to cancel all the proposed projects in the valley. They have referred to fragile ecology, glaciers, precious flora and fauna, besides “unscientific practices” that project promoters adopt to harness the power. 17 hydel projects planned Himachal government has proposed over a dozen mega hydel projects for Lahaul valley. Starting from Koksar and Chhatru, just below Rohtang Pass, and next to Himachal’s largest glacier 25-km-long Bara Shigri, the projects are proposed till Killar, which borders Kishtwar district of Jammu & Kashmir. Not just on Chenab, big projects will be built on tributaries like Chandra, Bhaga and Miyar. Besides Jispa (300MW), Seli (420MW), Bardang (138MW), Tandi (104MW), Reuli-Dugli (430MW), Rashil (130MW) and Miyar (120MW), projects like Chhatru (120MW), Koksar (90MW), Shangling (44MW), Teling (94MW), Pattam (60MW), Tinget (81MW), Purthi (300MW), Sach Khas (260MW), Dugar (380MW) and Gondhala (144MW) have been proposed from Chhatru to Killar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/opposition-to-mega-hydel-project-intensifies-in-lahaul/articleshow/80756711.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||No case of even minor AEFI among 11k frontline staff vaccinated in Vid||Nagpur: Around 10,787 frontline workers have been vaccinated in three days in Vidarbha and not a single case of even minor adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was registered.Chances of vaccination centres not consulting and recording minor AEFI cases cannot be ruled out. Some of the centres are reportedly distributing prophylactic medicine immediately after vaccination to prevent AEFI.Covid-19 vaccination of the registered staff from departments coming under the ministry of housing and urban affairs, revenue and home affairs started in the region on February 5.As per the data of the office of deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, 6,640 frontline workers (FLW) were administered vaccine in six districts of the division in three days.Among the five districts in Amravati division, Buldhana is yet to commence inoculation of FLW. Nearly 4,147 FLW took the jab in the remaining four districts in the division. Thus, 10,787 FLW were vaccinated in the region.In Nagpur and Amravati divisions, no case of AEFI was registered in FLW in three days. Excluding one minor case of AEFI in Akola district on February 5, there were no cases detected in healthcare workers (HCW).The vaccination of HCW started on January 16. As per the official data, there were 205 (5.28%) minor AEFI cases, including 10 cases of hospitalization among the 3,881 who took the jab on day one. Six cases, including one minor AEFI, were recorded on day two and three respectively. Since then, AEFI cases have been rare officially.“Minor AEFI cases like fever, body ache etc are normal after vaccination and commonly seen in HCW who got the jab. Around five of 10 recovered Covid-19 patients are witnessing minor AEFI after vaccination. There is nothing to worry as AEFI disappears in a day or two. But the need of the hour is to bring all these minor AEFI cases on record so that the government should prevent them from encouraging others,” infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association Dr Anup Marar also said that minor AEFI is expected to happen in some beneficiaries. “Many HCW prevented even minor AEFI by empirically taking medicine on prophylactic basis and it worked out very well. I also took prophylactic medicine for two days after vaccination,” he said.Sources said beneficiaries are advised to take prophylactic medicine for two days at some of the vaccination centres itself. “Few centres are even distributing two tablets of paracetamol to beneficiaries,” sources told TOI.Officials said, “An AEFI officer has been appointed at all centres. They consult beneficiaries for two days and make enquiries. AEFI cases are promptly registered if they come to the fore and are reported to the government,” they said.The turnout of FLW for vaccination continues to be low in the region. In the city, 216 (30.86%) of scheduled 700 FLW turned up for the inoculation on Monday. Only 223 (31.86%) of the 700 took the jab on the first two days. In all, 439 (31.36%) out of the 1,400 scheduled FLW took the jab in three days in the city.Against the existing three vaccination centres for FLW, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has planned to schedule FLW at four more centres — ESIS hospital, Alexis, Dande and CIIMS — from Tuesday.On Monday, 7,934 HCW and FLW were vaccinated in the region. The total vaccinated number rose to 1,05,368 in the region. As per the state government’s deadline, the first dose for all HCW must be completed by February 14. The second dose will administered from February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-case-of-even-minor-aefi-among-11k-frontline-staff-vaccinated-in-vid/articleshow/80755783.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 9, 2021||Kolhapur||33 inmates of hostel test Covid +ve in Satara, Solapur rural adds 20 cases||Kolhapur: As many as 33 inmates of a hostel in Waghjai village in Wai tehsil of Satara district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. While five patients have been admitted to a hospital, the remaining patients are being treated in isolation. Subhash Chavan, district civil surgeon of Satara district, told TOI that the hostel was being run by an NGO where 43 adults and 15 employees were residing. The hostel was meant for orphans and people with learning difficulties. “Initially, when the administration had tested all the people living in the hostel for the viral infection, only three residents had tested positive. The condition of all the patients is stable,” said Chavan. Satara district identified 67 new Covid-19 cases, including the 33 cases from Wai tehsil, since late Sunday night. Apart from Wai, all other tehsils reported single digit cases. A 65-year-old woman from Khatav and a man of the same age from Phaltan in Satara district succumbed to the viral infection. Of the 56,987 Covid-19 cases reported in the district so far, 54,229 have been discharged, 1,830 have died while 928 patients are currently undergoing treatment. As many as 20 cases were identified and 23 patients were discharged in the rural areas of Solapur district. A 60-year-old woman from Barshi succumbed to the viral infection. Of the 39,812 cases identified from the rural areas till date, 38,347 patients have been discharged, 1,166 have succumbed and 299 patients are currently under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/33-inmates-of-hostel-test-covid-ve-in-satara-solapur-rural-adds-20-cases/articleshow/80754868.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Vadodara||Decomposed body of murdered man found near Poicha||Vadodara: A decomposed body of a man, aged around 35 years, was found near one of the French wells of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation in Mahisagar river near Poicha Rayka on Sunday. A murder case was registered at the Bhadarwa police station against unidentified person. Police said that the man was murdered, as his hands were tied at the back and a rope was also found around his neck which could have been used to strangulate him. “The body was found by the workers of the well and they informed us. We fished out the body and the post-mortem was conducted on Monday,” said a police official. He added that the post-mortem will reveal whether the man was strangulated and then his body was thrown in the river or whether he was pushed in the river alive and he died by drowning. No identification cards were found from the pockets, so police are investigating in nearby villages if any person went missing in the last couple of months. “The body was decomposed so it will be difficult to identify from the face but the clothes were intact so that should help in ascertaining the identity,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/decomposed-body-of-murdered-man-found-near-poicha/articleshow/80755249.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Temporary arrangement of doctors made for vacant posts in 11 jails||JAIPUR: The health department will deploy medical officers at clinics in 11 jails of the state where posts of medical officers are lying vacant. The inmates of the jails in 11 districts are facing the problems, due to which the health department has issued directions to chief medical health officers. The health department has come to know that medical officers’ posts in Baran, Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Jalore, Jhalawar,Sirohi, Sriganganagar and Tonk are vacant. “We have issued the orders to our CMHOs to deploy one doctor in the 11 jails on temporary basis until the arrangement of permanent doctor deployment is made,” said a health department official. The directions were issued on February 1. In several jails, the health department runs its dispensaries where doctors remain present for providing healthcare facilities to jail inmates. Even dentists are posted in the jails for ensuring dental health and hygiene among the inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/temporary-arrangement-of-doctors-made-for-vacant-posts-in-11-jails/articleshow/80756718.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||IIT-Kanpur graduate reaches Jaipur for interview, found murdered||JAIPUR: A graduate from IIT-Kanpur who landed in the city by flight on February 5 was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Bhopalwalon Ki Dhani under Bassi police station area. He had come to the city for a job interview. Suspecting it to be a case of murder, his family arrived in the city on Sunday evening and lodged a case at Bassi police station area. Police stated that prima facie it seems the victim was drugged and later when he died due to high dose of intoxication, the assailants dumped the body at an isolated place. According to the police, the deceased identified as Manu Rastogi (32) came to Jaipur from Chennai on February 5 at 7.45pm. “He then went to Narayan Singh Circle and was missing since then,” said a senior police officer of Bassi police station area on Monday. Manu was supposed to visit one of his friends in Jaipur. He even called up his local friend, however, he did not turn up at the house. “While he did not turn up at the house of his local friend Dr Sankalp, a missing report was lodged at Gandhi Nagar police station. Later Manu’s body was found at an isolated place in Bassi on February 6 around midnight,” said Sohan Lal, station house officer of Bassi police station area. Police believed it to be a case of murder due to poisoning but were waiting for the identification of the victim. “After his identification, his family arrived in Jaipur on Sunday evening and lodged a case of murder,” Sohan Lal added. Police have started investigation. “It appears that he had taken lift from strangers who may have robbed and killed him. He was drugged and died due to overdose. It appears that those behind the murder dumped the body at Bassi police station area to conceal the murder,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iit-kanpur-grad-reaches-city-for-interview-found-murdered/articleshow/80756726.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Kolhapur||1,202 beneficiaries get the vaccine in Kolhapur district on Monday||KOLHAPUR: On Monday, 1,202 beneficiaries took the jab as against the 2,500 beneficiaries in Kolhapur district. Three new vaccination centres have been opened in the district. No beneficiary showed any adverse effect after taking the jab. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai and Sanjaysinha Chavan, the CEO of zilla parishad were among the frontline workers who took the jab on Monday. 3 people test positive in Kolhapur dist, 4 cases in Sangli  The district reported three fresh Covid cases while three patients were discharged after recovering on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 50,011. No death was recorded on Monday. The death toll stands at 1,729. As many as 48,167 patients have recovered while 115 cases are active. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported four Covid cases on Monday. The district has 48,193 cases, including 1,752 deaths, 46,335 recoveries and 116 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1202-beneficiaries-get-the-vaccine-in-kolhapur-district-on-monday/articleshow/80754873.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Nashik||Malegoan tops the chart of accidents in rural Nashik||NASHIK: Malegaon taluka in Nashik district has had the maximum accidents in 2020. Of the total road accidents that occurred in Nashik district last year, 17% took place in Malegaon taluka alone. As per the data provided by the Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO), there were a total 1,655 road accidents in the district last year which claimed 972 lives and grievously injured 1,056 people. Of the total accidents, 1,239 occurred in the the rural areas of the district cliaming 801 lives. Chandrakant Khandvi, additional superitendent of police, Malegaon said police were taking various measures to bring down the rate of accidents in and around the textile town. “Rash driving leads to accidents even on the four-lane Mumbai Agra highway near Malegaon. However, there are two other busy roads — the Malegaon-Manmad road and the Malegaon-Nandgaon Road. These two roads witness traffic congestion and have no dividers,” said Khandvi. Sinnar taluka follows Malegaon as it makes up 12% of the total accidents which occured in Nashik district last year. The presence of the Nashik-Pune national highway, the busy single-lane Sinnar-Shirdi road and the Ghoti-Sinnar road has made this taluka prone to many accidents. Niphad and Igatpuri talukas each made up for 10% of the total accidents. According to the RTO data, of the total accidents in the rural district, 30% occurred on the highways. Accidents in the rural district mainly occur from 8am to noon and 4pm to midnight. 50% of the total deaths in road accidents were of two-wheeler motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegoan-tops-the-chart-of-accidents-in-rural-nashik/articleshow/80754870.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Don’t use flood against devp: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: After conducting an inspection of Raini village and adjoining areas, where heavy damage was caused by the glacier burst on Sunday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat decided to stay back in Chamoli for the night on Monday. During his stay, the CM will take stock of the rescue operations and discuss future course of action with the authorities. In a tweet, the CM wrote that he would be spending the night in the affected area and the state government is leaving no stone unturned in their efforts in the rescue operations. He added that the Union government is extending its maximum support. In the tweet, Rawat also requested people to not use the natural calamity as a propaganda against development. “It is a natural disaster and the stress is on how to rescue people and help those who have been affected. DIG Garhwal and Commissioner Garhwal have been directed to camp in the area so all rescue operations are done at a fast pace and all required formalities are timely done,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-use-flood-against-devp-cm/articleshow/80755793.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 9, 2021||Chandigarh||SGPC team to meet Uttarakhand CM||Amritsar: A high-level delegation of the SGPC will meet Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to resolve the issue of Gurdwara Gian Godri Sahib situated at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar. After a meeting of the sub-committee on Gurdwara Gian Godri Sahib here on Monday, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said, “We are trying to reconstruct the gurdwara at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar. For this, a delegation of SGPC will meet the Uttarakhand chief minister.” She said she would lead the delegation, which would comprise leaders of various Sikh sects as well as president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. The SGPC had written a letter to Rawat seeking an appointment, she said. Built in the memory of Guru Nanak Dev, Gurdwara Gian Godri was allegedly demolished in 1984.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-team-to-meet-uttarakhand-cm/articleshow/80756727.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Three killed, 44 injured in 3 mishaps||Jaipur/Udaipur: Three people including a woman working as an anchor at weddings were killed and 44 others were injured in three separate road accidents. Three persons including a woman on a bike were killed after a container hit their motorcycle near Gangrar police station area on the Chittorgarh-Bhilwara highway late on Sunday evening. “One died on the spot, while two others died in Chittorgarh and Udaipur hospitals on Monday,” said a senior police officer of Gangrar police station. Gangrar SHO Devilal said three persons were going towards Gangrar on the highway when a rashly driven truck hit them. “One of them identified as Ashish died on the spot while Virendra Singh succumbed to the injuries at Chittorgarh hospital. The woman identified as Shahjad Bano was referred to Udaipur who too died on Monday morning,” the SHO added. Police are searching for the truck driver who managed to flee after the accident. In another accident, a family going for an engagement ceremony at Pachewar in Tonk district was injured after the bus they were travelling in overturned. At least 34 persons including 19 women and 15 men were hurt when the bus overturned some kilometres before reaching Pachewar. “Out of the 34 injured, condition of 8 is critical,” said a senior police officer. Elaborating further the police said Prahlad Raigar and his family members were heading for Pachewar for engagement of Prahlad’s daughter Komal with Naurat of Pachewar. In the third accident 10 people were injured in a head-on collision between a bus and a truck near Sikandara in Dausa district. “The incident took place at 2.15am on Monday,” said a senior officer. All the passengers are from Beawar. They were going to Giriraj ji Temple. “Prima facie it appears that the bus had a collision due to sudden overtaking,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-44-injured-in-3-mishaps/articleshow/80756734.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tragedy: Locals do their bit to keep morale high at disaster site||DEHRADUN: Villagers from nearby areas are trying to motivate rescue personnel who are on a mission to trace around 35 people stuck inside a tunnel at NTPC hydropower site in Tapovan. They are providing them cooked food, other edibles and serving tea. Even locals from Joshimath, over 20km away, came to the site to help them out on Monday. Apeksha Sah, who is studying in Dehradun but hails from Joshimath, said that after hearing about the tragedy, she came to the site with her father to share food with relatives of those who were stuck inside the tunnel. “When floods and landslides took place in Kedarnath, I couldn’t help. But this time, I was just 12km away. I asked my father to come along so that we could feed people in need.” The families of people stuck inside the tunnels have been waiting for more than 36 hours at the rescue site without food as well. On Monday, the personnel were seen offering food to some of them. Vijay Kumar, a resident of Chamoli district came with bottles of mineral water, juice and biscuits, which he gave to the distressed families and police personnel. “I run a shop in Chamoli. I came here to provide food and juice to the people and help them. I plan to serve tea as well."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-do-their-bit-to-keep-morale-high-at-disaster-site/articleshow/80755795.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Labourer stabbed to death in Kota||KOTA: A 36-year-old daily wage labourer was stabbed to death allegedly by a property sales manager over monetary issues in Devashish township under Borekheda police station on Sunday evening. The accused sales manager is yet to be arrested. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Monday. The deceased daily wage labourer was identified as Manish Sharma (36), a resident of Kota city. Sharma was fixing tiles at a construction site in Devashish township on Sunday. Property sales manager of the township, identified as Manish Agrawal (30) reached there by his car and attempted to run over him, the police said. On being hit by the car, the deceased labourer collapsed on the ground following which the property sales manager took out a knife and stabbed the labourer. After that the accused picked up a stick and attacked the Manish who was lying in a pool of blood. The accused then and fled the spot. The labourer was immediately rushed to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The police booked Manish Agrawal for murder under relevant sections of IPC. Efforts are underway to nab him, police said. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Monday morning, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourer-stabbed-to-death-in-kota/articleshow/80756739.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Tax evasion cases against Amarinder, son adjourned||Times News Network Ludhiana: A local court on Monday adjourned alleged tax evasion cases registered by the income tax department against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh. The next date of hearing of the case against the chief minister in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) P S Kaleka is on February 15. The income tax department had filed one case of alleged income tax evasion against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and two cases against his son Raninder Singh. The counsel for income tax department, Rakesh Gupta said the cases are in consideration stage wherein the court has to take a decision on whether to summon the accused or not. He added that the case against Captain Amarinder Singh was lodged under Section 277 (false statement of verification) of the IT Act whereas two cases against Raninder Singh were registered under Section 276-C (evasion of tax) of IT Act and under Section 277 of IT Act. The IT counsel said while the next hearing of the case against Amarinder Singh is on February 15, hearing of both cases against Raninder Singh is slated for March 1. Can be added as box: The charges The complaint against Capt Amarinder Singh was filed by the I-T department under Section 277 (false statement in verification) of the Income Tax Act and several sections of the IPC. His son Raninder Singh has been booked in two cases, under Section 277 (false statement of verification) of IT Act and another under section 276-C (evasion of tax) of IT Act. The complaint, filed by assistant director of income tax, Amanpreet Kaur Walia on December 2, 2016, charges Amarinder with giving a false statement in verification along with omission in giving information to a public servant. He has also been charged with furnishing false information, giving a false statement under oath, obstructing a public servant in discharging his functions and giving false evidence. In its complaint, the I-T department has claimed that Amarinder had been concealing details of the foreign assets owned by his son Raninder Singh against whom the department has filed two complaints. The department had allegedly “found” Amarinder to be the discretionary beneficiary of foreign-based Jacaranda Trust and also a beneficiary in other properties abroad which are owned by Raninder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tax-evasion-cases-against-amarinder-son-adjourned/articleshow/80756735.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Shimla||Spiti admin bans car rallies in snow leopard habitats||MANALI: Concerned for the safety of snow leopards and other endangered wildlife species that descend down to lower areas after winter snowfall, the Spiti administration on Monday imposed a complete ban on car rallies in major sanctuary areas. Additional district magistrate (ADM) at Spiti Gian Sagar Negi said it has been seen that various travel agencies organise car rallies, especially during winter season, in Spiti valley, which passes through snow leopard landscapes of Kibber wildlife sanctuary. “Animals like snow leopards, blue sheeps, Himalayan serows and ibexs descend down to lower elevation after snowfall in higher regions. February and March is the mating season for snow leopards. Passage of heavy vehicular traffic is not only disturbing the natural habitats of the animals, but it will also adversely affect the procreation of snow leopards, which are highly endangered species,” he said. The ADM imposed a ban on car rallies in Kibber wildlife sanctuary through Lidang, Demul, Komic, Hikkim and Langcha village areas and from Rangrik bridge to Chicham via Kee and Kibber villages with immediate effect. “Any violation of this order will attract legal action under Wildlife Protection Act and Section 188 of CrPC. He added that both state and Centre are making efforts for conservation of these wild animals through different projects and programmes. “The heavy rush of the vehicles and their loud sounds are disturbing the wild animals. Kibber sanctuary is home to snow leopard and many other rare species. Snow leopard sighting tours in winter season are one of the major sources of income for local residents. The car rallies are posing threat to the wild animals and will also indirectly hit the snow leopard sighting tours. This important issue was brought to my notice and imposing ban on car rallies was very important,” Negi added. A large number of tourists visit Spiti to experience the winter season, photography and snow leopard sighting. In recent times, a trend of “snow rally” has become very popular where tourists enjoy driving through the snow-covered landscapes after making a long queue of four-wheel-drive vehicles. As density of snow leopard is high in the Area from Chicham to Demul via Kibber, Kee and Komic villages, the administration had to take a tough stand for wildlife conservation. Although hotels in Spiti will open for tourists from February 17, many tourists were visiting the valley and many of them were carrying their tents for night stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/spiti-admin-bans-car-rallies-in-snow-leopard-habitats/articleshow/80756731.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Amid pandemic, 7 labs coming up at divisional headquarters focusing on outbreaks||JAIPUR: Covid has given researches on viruses a major push. Aiming to boost research on virus, seven government-run medical colleges have been identified in the state for establishing multidisciplinary research unit (MRUs) in government medical colleges to strengthen research environment, bridge the gap in infrastructure inhibiting health research and improve the overall health status of the population by creating evidence-based application of diagnostic procedure. Among the objectives of the MRUs is to establish multidisciplinary research facilities with a view to improve the health research and health services and to ensure the geographical spread of health research infrastructure in order to cover unserved and underserved medical colleges and other institutions. Also, the MRUs will be working in the direction to improve the overall health status of the population by creating evidence-based application of diagnostic procedures. The seven identified medical colleges in the state are SN Medical College in Jodhpur, Sardar Patel Medical College, Bikaner, JLN Medical College Ajmer, SMS Medical College in Jaipur, RNT Medical College in Udaipur and Rajasthan University of Health Sciences in Jaipur, said a health department official. At the country level, so far 80 MRUs have been approved.Officials said at medical college laboratories, in case of any outbreak or epidemic, carry out the initial diagnosis and screening at the most peripheral areas and nearest to the site of outbreak. While the medical college labs are expected to identify all listed common viruses, viruses which cannot be identified by these labs will be referred to the state and regional labs for identification and for characterisation.The labs in medical colleges will work in coordination with state-level lab and regional-level lab.State-level laboratories will be equipped with modern machines and expected to carry out serology, RT-PCR, isolation, fluorescence microscopy,tissue culture and sequencing for all enlisted viruses, regional laboratories have state-of-art facilities so that it could achieve the objectives in research, continuous monitoring and surveillance of existing as well as new viral and other strains and handling of viruses with a potential of being used as agents of bio-terrorism, capacity building, diagnosis and development of diagnostic kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amid-pandemic-7-labs-coming-up-at-divisional-headquarters-focusing-on-outbreaks/articleshow/80756736.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra wants railways to allow collegians on trains||MUMBAI: The state government will approach the railway authorities to see if college students will be allowed to travel by local trains from Monday, once the local administration permits re-opening of campuses. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had announced last week that colleges in the state would be allowed from February 15 with 50% physical attendance. However, the general public is allowed on local trains only before 7 am, between noon and 4 pm, and after 9 pm. Asked about the timings not being suitable for students, Samantsaid that the government will approach the railways. “We had a discussion with the chief secretary on this issue. Even chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the chief secretary to submit the college schedule to the railways to consider the permission. The state will do whatever is needed, to ensure that college students can travel by local trains,” said Samant. The BMC, as the local administration body, however, is yet to permit schools to re-open in Mumbai, considering the Covid situation. After the state’s nod, schools in other regions have reopened with 50% attendance. Samant also said that the syllabus for courses in the first year could be reduced by 10-15% for this academic year. “Few universities have already recommended reducing the syllabus and the proposal has been sent to the UGC for a final nod,” said the minister. On the hostel facility, the minister said that as per UGC guidelines, only one student should be accommodated in a room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-wants-rlys-to-allow-collegians-on-trains/articleshow/80756741.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: World Bank to fund river transport upgrade||KOLKATA: The city’s passenger ferry system across the Hooghly is set to undergo a magical metamorphosis, with the state government issuing work orders for 10 vessels — some of them can carry 100 passengers and some others 200 passengers — along with two high speed passenger vessels and 22 mechanised boats. The new vessels will replace the existing rickety and highly polluting ones that put thousands of passengers at risk. This is the first move towards the implementation of a $105.35 million (Rs 714.7crore) inland water transport infrastructure augmentation project signed between Bengal and the World Bank last month. According to the World Bank report, the existing ferry system caters to less than 2% of passenger traffic and a small portion of the freight movement. The work order worth Rs 54 crore will change the way people are being ferried across the Hooghly. The vessels will be modern, fuel-efficient and greener. That there will be an improvement in the design of the vessels will ensure night navigation on the most hazardous and congested routes, slashing some loads on the roads, said an official of the transport department. Two high speed vessels that can carry 100 passengers each will be used for longitudinal journeys like the one from Kolkata to Mayapur or from Kolkata to Chandernagore. These vessels will be used as water-taxi for both passenger transportation and tourism. There will be 22 smaller vessels with all safety features, which can ferry both passengers and freight along the Hooghly. In the production of these vessels, there are reversible environmental and social (E & S) impacts. Further, during the operation of these vessels, environmental issues such as air pollution from the diesel-run engines, noise pollution caused by the engines and sewage / sullage generation and disposal from the in-vessel toilets should be taken into consideration. Other issues, including passenger safety and accessibility to disabled persons for entering these vessels during high and low tide should also be taken into consideration, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/world-bank-to-fund-river-transport-upgrade/articleshow/80755822.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 9, 2021||Rajkot||Flower seller stabbed to death by ex-lover’s brother in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A 26-year-old flower seller was stabbed to death allegedly by his former lover’s brother in Morbi town on Sunday night. According to police, the deceased Rafiq alias Gulab Rafai, a resident of Kalika plot in Morbi town, had an altercation with his former lover’s brother Riyaz alias Riyaqat Qureshi on Sunday night. The shoving and pushing ended up with Riyaz allegedly stabbing Rafiq to death with a knife. Police detained Riyaz and has launched a probe in this case. Investigation revealed that Rafiq and Riyaz’s sister had an affair eight years ago. Members of both families were against the relationship and they had decided to part ways. Later, Rafiq got married and Riyaz's sister also got married to different persons. Meanwhile, on Sunday night, Rafiq and Riyaz quarrelled over the old issue resulting in the former ending up dead. Rafiq was earning a livelihood by selling flowers in Morbi town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/flower-seller-stabbed-to-death-by-ex-lovers-brother-in-morbi/articleshow/80754912.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers stir for canal water in Mohangarh||Jaisalmer: Hundreds of farmers at Zero RD, the tail-end of Indira Gandhi Nahar Project (IGNP) adjoining Mohangarh in Jaisalmer district, staged a protest for second day in a row on Monday demanding sufficient water in the canal. IGNP additional chief engineer and other officers later reached the spot and pacified them. The farmers said the agitation would continue till they don’t get their share of water. The police and administration were on alert considering the agitation. As there is insufficient water in the canal, the farmers are not getting their share to water their crops. Ex-MLA Saang Singh, Nehdai’s sarpanch Ramesh Binjani, Shastri Nagar’s sarpanch Kuldeep Singh and hundreds of farmers were at the protest site. Kisan Sangharsh Samiti president Sahban Khan said farmers were agitating for water. “The farmers had sown crops when there was water in the canal and now if they don’t get water in the next 10 days, the crop will be ruined.” Punjab has not been giving full share to Rajasthan. Aroun 9,000 cusecs was decided for Rajasthan while only 6,000 cusecs was being released into the canals. IGNP additional chief engineer Haritlal Meena said that a canal in Punjab was damaged due to which farmers here are facing problems. Senior officers said that Bikaner division will be given water for drinking and the remaining 800 cusec will be given to Jaisalmer farmers after three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-stir-for-canal-water-in-mohangarh/articleshow/80756743.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Shimla||HP proposes Rs 9,405cr outlay for development||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government has proposed an outlay of Rs 9,405.41 crore under the development budget for 2021-22. Presiding over the morning session of MLAs’ priority meeting for the year 2021-22 in Shimla on Monday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said 251 projects worth Rs 926.24 crore have been approved under Nabard as part of MLA priorities in 2020-21. Out of this amount, Rs 565.52 crore has been provided for roads and bridges while Rs 360.72 crore has been provided for minor irrigation and drinking water schemes. Thakur said a provision of Rs 13,300 crore was made during the first three years of the previous Congress regime under the annual plan outlay, whereas the present government had made a provision of Rs 21,300 crore as annual plan outlay during the first three years of its tenure. He also said his government had approved 639 MLA priority schemes worth Rs 2,382 crore and made a provision of Rs 2,221 crore for implementation of MLAs’ priorities during the first three years of its tenure. The state government, he said, would accord topmost preference to MLA priorities. Special stress would be laid on preparation of DPRs under MLA priorities, the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-proposes-rs-9405cr-outlay-for-development/articleshow/80756740.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Mines dept to get royalty collection agents via e-auction||Jaipur: In a bid to expedite royalty collection, the mines department has started an e-auction exercise for 83 royalty contracts worth Rs 794 crore.The selection process for 60 contracts has already started from January 29. The government is awarding the contracts only through e-auction to bring in transparency and efficiency.As per a senior official of the department, the contracts will be awarded for the mines of China clay, silica sand, quartz, feld-spar,soapstone, dolomite, marble and serpentine etc.“Contracts worth Rs 794 crore for collection of royalty, excess royalty, district-level mineral fund will be awarded through e-auctions. A notice for these contracts has been released by the department on January 29 and details of 83 royalty contracts are available on the department website and MSTC portal,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum department.Sharma said e-auction process provides opportunity to anybody from anywhere to participate and it also increases transparency in allotment of the licences. Those who want to take part in the e-auctions will be required to register on the MSTC portal, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mines-dept-to-get-royalty-collection-agents-via-e-auction/articleshow/80756742.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 11 IAS officers shifted, five districts get new district magistrates||DEHRADUN: In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the Uttarakhand government on Monday gave transfer and postings to 11 IAS officers. The districts of Pithoragarh, Champawat, Almora, Pauri and Nainital got new district magistrates. Savin Bansal, who was the district magistrate of Nainital, has been given charge of additional secretary medical education, commissioner health and Mission Director of NHM. Dheeraj Singh Gabriyal, who was DM Pauri has been shifted to Nainital in the same capacity. DM Pithoragarh Vijay Jogdande has been given the charge of DM Pauri. DM Almora Nitin Singh Bhadoria has been made additional secretary of college education and Director General of college education. Chief Development Officer of Haridwar Vineet Tomar has been made the new DM of Champawat. IAS officer Anand Swaroop, who was holding charge of additional secretary small and micro industries has been made the DM of Pithoragarh. Surendra Narayan Pandey, the DM of Champawat has been named the DM of Almora district. The charge of DG college education was withdrawn from R Meenakshi Sundaram, who would continue to look after the charge of secretary animal husbandry. The additional charge of Mission Director NHM has been withdrawn from Sonia who would continue to look after the charge of additional secretary tourism. Chief Development Officer of Pithoragarh Saurabh Gaharwar has been made the CDO Haridwar. Deputy Collegetor Dehradun Anuradha Pal has been named CDO Pithoragarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/11-ias-officers-shifted-5-districts-get-new-dms/articleshow/80755807.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||6 of a UP family who went to earn money for a wedding feared dead||LAKHIMPUR KHERI: Sree Krishna (45) wanted a decent wedding for his son, in which all the guests are taken to the marriage venue in cars. So he boarded a bus. His brother, Jagdish Prasad (40), his groom-to-be son, Raju, and his three nephews had also accompanied him to Tapovan Hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district in December. Residents of Lakhimpur Kheri’s Ichchanagar village, they were promised a sum of Rs 14,000 each every month. Food and stay was complementary. They were planning to save enough by April when the wedding was planned. All of them were working in the tunnel on Sunday. Chote Lal, Krishna’s younger brother, told TOI, “We all were happy. ‘Bhaiya’ called me up at 9am on Sunday and said that he would come back by the end of this month. But, after two hours, we came to know about the tragedy. His phone has been switched off since then.” “They all wanted to earn money for Raju’s marriage. It looks like we have lost everything now. We have been contacting people in Uttarakhand but there is no information about our family members.” Village head Santosh Raj, who reached Chamoli on Monday, told TOI, “I couldn’t see people in pain and decided to go to Uttarakhand. Here, I have been identifying bodies, which is even more painful. I have identified Krishna’s nephew Avdhesh’s body, but couldn’t gather courage to share this news with the family. There were other bodies about 1.5-km from the spot and all of them were stained in mud and mutilated. It is really difficult to identify them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/6-of-a-up-family-who-went-to-earn-money-for-a-wedding-feared-dead/articleshow/80754891.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Freshers excited on first day in colleges; schools register 70%-90% attendance||CHENNAI: After nearly six months of online classes, many students including freshers entered colleges for the first time on Monday. Several were glad to see their friends and said they found offline classes lively. In schools that reopened for students of Classes IX and XI, there was 70% to 90% attendance, better compared to the day of reopening of students of Classes X and XII. While government colleges and some autonomous colleges reopened for first and second-year students, the rest plan to reopen for them in the coming days. S Srikantan of Mogappair said the experience of a physical class was awesome. “Online classes were boring. We have been dreaming about such classes for some time. I met all my classmates.” The college made sure students carried their water, wore masks at all times and teachers conducted introductory sessions. Akash G of Pammal said interacting with teachers and classmates was what he had missed. “I didn't even know some of my classmates' names. We were able to share ideas as there was more interaction.” Some are holding classes on alternate days, while others like Presidency College and Queen Mary’s College are following a shift system to avoid crowding. “We have divided students into batches of arts and science groups and are holding classes in two shifts,” said Presidency College principal G Krishnan. At Pachaiyappa’s College, which opened for second-year students, there was more than 60% attendance. “We will allow first-year students after semester exams in the last week of February,” said principal P Murugakoothan. In schools, students of Classes XI and IX students returned after more than 10 months. “We had 90% attendance among Class XI students and 70% attendance among Class IX students,” said R C Saraswathi, headmistress of Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Ashok Nagar. Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram recorded 80% attendance for Class IX students and 90% among Class XI students. Schools and teachers have reservations about conducting board exams for Class XI students. “They are lacking writing practice after a prolonged period of online classes,” a Class XII teacher said. Some private schools have sent representations to the government, requesting it to scrap Class XI board exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/freshers-excited-on-1st-day-in-colleges-schools-register-70-90-attendance/articleshow/80763731.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Theatres reopen but crowds missing||Jaipur: Cinema halls reopened across the state opened after a gap of 10 months. Though the state government has allowed theatres with 50 per cent capacity, none managed to attain even that. A number of theatre owners plan to open later.With no new releases and strict rules majority of theatres in Jaipur and other parts of the state had merely three to four shows. “Against the total sitting capacity of 1,134, we had 96 people in our first show. It is good to see people back and I am hopeful that with the screening of newly released movies, it will pick up further in the coming weeks,” said Ashok Tanwar, manager of Raj Mandir Cinema. It was not only the audience who were excited to be back to cinema halls, others including the projector operator became emotional. “Though I have been asked to come everyday as we were running trailers to ensure all the machinery and maintenance goes well, it is good to be back. I would like to hear all those whistles and claps from the audience soon,” said Balkishhan Sharma, the projector operator at Raj Mandir cinema for the past 20 years. At some of the cinemas, tourists from Uttar Pradesh, New Delhi and also from some other parts of the state arrived. “There is no fear. We were in Jaipur thus I thought to visit a cinema hall in the city,” said Avinash Singh who came along with his wife at one of the multiplex. Cinema owners had sold tickets through e-ticketing and visitors were checked with thermal scanners at the entrance. The theatre staff was seen wearing masks. “After every show, the seats will be sanitised,” said an official of a leading multiplex in the city.Meanwhile, theatres like Gem Cinema and Golecha preferred not to open now. “We are waiting for some good blockbuster which can pull crowds and will wait until the state government lifts the cap,”said Sudhir Kasliwal, owner of Gem cinema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/theatres-reopen-but-crowds-missing/articleshow/80756738.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||60 from Lakhimpur Kheri missing in Uttarakhand, entire village in mourning||LAKHIMPUR KHERI (UP): In the villages of Lakhimpur Kheri, there are two things people grow up knowing they would do — farming on small patches of land, or leaving home to work as labourers in projects nearby. Tapovan in neighbouring Uttarakhand, some 500km away, is nowhere nearby but the hydel project there has been a big draw for those looking for work in the farm off-season. They’d make less than Rs 200 a day here. There, work was being offered at about Rs 500 a day. Now, dozens are missing, some put the figure at 60 and counting. When TOI visited the villages on Monday, a day after the devastating Uttarakhand floods, locals said hundreds would leave for the Tapovan project in batches. In 24 hours, they have not heard from those who had left last. But they had seen videos of the raging flood. Entire villages had gone into mourning. “My cousin Jalal was one of the men working at the Tapovan hydel project site. He was washed away before I could do anything. None of us could have seen it coming. Some 20 senior officers have also gone missing,” Mujeem Khan, a survivor, told TOI. “I am now heading home with five other men I had come here to work with.” Helping Mujeem get home is Santosh Raj, the gram pradhan of Ichchhanagar panchayat who left for Chamoli, where the flood hit, on Sunday night. “One of our men has been found dead. It is nearly impossible to identify the others because of the state they are in — bloated by the water, mangled by the stones,” he said. As of now, Santosh is the one link to Chamoli for these villages. He has been relaying messages to anxious families, who were not willing to talk. “If they’re still missing, what hope do we have?” one said. Confusion about numbers has added to their despair. Locals in Ichchhanagar told TOI that 26 from their village had left for Tapovan and 18 had gone missing. Those in Bharampur said 11 haven’t come home and Bholanpur feared it had lost five. District magistrate Shailendra Singh told TOI that a list of all workers from Lakhimpur Kheri is being compiled. “We have deployed lekhpals to collate the information from villages and share it with the tehsildar and subdivisional magistrate. We are then verifying the data by getting in touch with family members. As of now, we suspect 35 people from just the Nighasan tehsil have gone missing,” he said. The data have been shared with his counterpart in Chamoli. “We are in touch with families and have promised all support.” Nighasan subdivisional magistrate Om Prakash Gupta said there was no official confirmation of any death. He added, “So far, we know 58 people from Nighasan were working at the hydel project site … The number may increase because we are yet to receive data from a few villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/60-from-lakhimpur-kheri-feared-missing-in-ukhand-floods-entire-villages-in-mourning/articleshow/80754907.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Anil Vij’s brother alleges assault, Ambala range vigilance DIG booked||AMBALA: Police have booked Ambala range vigilance DIG Ashok Kumar on charges of assault, criminal intimidation and obscene act on the complaint of state home minister Anil Vij’s younger brother Kapil Vij. The case was registered at Ambala Cantt police station on Sunday. On Monday, DIG Kumar moved the Ambala district court for an interim stay on his arrest from the court of additional sessions judge Sandeep Singh. A hearing on his bail application has been scheduled for Tuesday. Kapil Vij is a resident of Shastri Colony in Ambala Cantonment. In his police complaint, he stated that he had gone to the Sirhind Club at Ambala Cantonment on Sunday afternoon to attend the birthday party of the grandson of Rakesh Aggarwal, former chairman of another club. “When we were about to take food, one Ashok Kumar started abusing my family for no reason,” he said. Kapil Vij alleged that the person, about whom he later came to know was a DIG, who was inebriated, had even threatened him with dire consequences while moving away and said “nobody can harm me, no matter what your social status is”. Ambala Cantt DSP Ram Kumar said, “We have registered a case on the basis of the representation of the complainant and further proceedings will be done as per the law.” The officer’s advocate Satinder Singh Garg said, “DIG Ashok Kumar has been implicated in a false case. Actually, it was Kapil Vij who misbehaved at the birthday party. When they gathered, Kapil Vij, who was drunk, asked the DIG to bring him food. Ashok idhar aa, khana daal ke la mere liye, he had said. The DIG refused to bring him food and continued eating which made Kapil start an argument with him and hurl abuses. The police have collected the CCTV footage from premises, which shows that Kapil Ji was drinking. The officer has been implicated falsely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vijs-brother-alleges-assault-ambala-range-vigilance-dig-booked/articleshow/80756758.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||19-year-old Kharghar girl gang raped by duo youths, one held||NAVI MUMBAI: Acting on a complaint by a 19-year-old girl from Kharghar alleging that two youths residing in her building, who were his friends, have sexually assaulted her inside a mini bus parked on the roadside in Kharghar after forcing her to consume liquor, at around 10 pm on February 3, the Kharghar police registered a gang rape case against two accused youth and arrested one of them. According to Kharghar police, the arrested accused is 19-years-old and worked as a pizza delivery boy. The key accused aged 22-years-old, who works as a temporary driver, is at large. On February 3 around 10 pm, the key accused took the victimgirl on his bike under the pretext of giving her a surprise gift took her for a long ride. He purchased liquor from a wine shop and then took her to the road near Utkarsh hall and got her inside a parked mini bus. The victim has alleged that he forcibly inserted the liquor bottle in her mouth and made her gulp down liquor. She retaliated but he overpowered her and when she became inebriated, he sexually assaulted her. Thereafter, he called the 19-year-old accused to the spot, who too sexually assaulted the girl before both escaped from the spot leaving her inside the bus in an inebriated state.The girl managed to reach home by taking an auto rickshaw. As she was intoxicated that day, she was unable narrate her ordeal to her parents and revealed it the other day after she gained consciousness. Hence, her parents registered an FIR against the two accused youth on February 4. The girl's medical test report has confirmed sexual assault on her. The duo accused were booked under IPCSection 376D (gang rape), 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison), 323(Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt.) and 506 (part II) for criminal intimidation. The Kharghar police further informed that the key accused who is at large has switched off his mobile. But his last mobile tower location on February 4 showed Beed district. Hence, a police team has gone to Beed totrace him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/19-yr-old-kharghar-girl-gang-raped-by-duo-youths-one-held/articleshow/80755843.cms||George Mendonca
February 9, 2021||Udaipur||19-year-old hangs self in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: A 19-year-old youth was found hanging inside his rented room in Hathipole area under the Ghantaghar police station limits on Monday morning.  The youth posted ‘Good Bye’ and few crying emojis on his mobile status before the he took his life. Some of his friends and relatives who saw the status were worried and when they went to his home, they found him hanging. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Mahendra Singh, a resident of Maruwas in Gogunda block. He worked at a provision store as a helper and live in a rented a room nearby. Police informed his family members who went to the mortuary and claimed the body. The police have taken the deceased’s mobile phone to investigate the reason behind Mahendra taking such a drastic step. Cops are trying to find whether the youth was under any stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/19-year-old-hangs-self-in-udaipur/articleshow/80756768.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Navi-mumbai||19-year-old Kharghar girl gang raped by duo youths, one held||NAVI MUMBAI: Acting on a complaint by a 19-year-old girl from Kharghar alleging that two youths residing in her building, who were his friends, have sexually assaulted her inside a mini bus parked on the roadside in Kharghar after forcing her to consume liquor, at around 10 pm on February 3, the Kharghar police registered a gang rape case against two accused youth and arrested one of them. According to Kharghar police, the arrested accused is 19-years-old and worked as a pizza delivery boy. The key accused aged 22-years-old, who works as a temporary driver, is at large. On February 3 around 10 pm, the key accused took the victimgirl on his bike under the pretext of giving her a surprise gift took her for a long ride. He purchased liquor from a wine shop and then took her to the road near Utkarsh hall and got her inside a parked mini bus. The victim has alleged that he forcibly inserted the liquor bottle in her mouth and made her gulp down liquor. She retaliated but he overpowered her and when she became inebriated, he sexually assaulted her. Thereafter, he called the 19-year-old accused to the spot, who too sexually assaulted the girl before both escaped from the spot leaving her inside the bus in an inebriated state.The girl managed to reach home by taking an auto rickshaw. As she was intoxicated that day, she was unable narrate her ordeal to her parents and revealed it the other day after she gained consciousness. Hence, her parents registered an FIR against the two accused youth on February 4. The girl's medical test report has confirmed sexual assault on her. The duo accused were booked under IPCSection 376D (gang rape), 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison), 323(Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt.) and 506 (part II) for criminal intimidation. The Kharghar police further informed that the key accused who is at large has switched off his mobile. But his last mobile tower location on February 4 showed Beed district. Hence, a police team has gone to Beed totrace him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/19-yr-old-kharghar-girl-gang-raped-by-duo-youths-one-held/articleshow/80755843.cms||George Mendonca
February 9, 2021||Pune||More than half of Centre’s second order for Covishield delivered: Logistics firm||PUNE: More than half of the 11 million doses of Covishield vaccine the Centre had ordered from the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as a part of its second order had been delivered to different states, said a senior official of Kool-Ex Cold Chain Limited — the logistics firm delivering them. “The transportation of the second order of vaccines from Pune started on Sunday. The vaccines are being delivered to places like Karnal, Surat, Mumbai and Belgaum , among others,” the official said on Monday. Liz Truss, the secretary of state for international trade in UK, visited the SII with a delegation on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-half-of-centres-second-order-for-covishield-delivered-logistics-firm/articleshow/80756753.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Flag hoisted for 809th Urs at Ajmer dargah||Ajmer: The Gori family from Bhilwara on Monday hoisted a flag on Ajmer dargah and initiated the 809th Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. Though there was heavy police deployment because of Covid guidelines, hundreds of devotees participated in the procession of flag. The flagging-off by Gori family as per the tradition was done after the procession from Khadim Mohalla to Buland Darwaza of the dargah. The first mahfil will be held after the sighting of the moon which is around February 12. District administration has made arrangements for the devotees to attend this occasion and medical teams are alert at railway station, bus stands and also in the dargah to control any spread of virus. This was the fourth year consequently in which a delegation from Pakistan will not attend the Urs. IB sources said there was no demand from Pakistan for the visa. As per tradition, the Gori family of Bhilwara brings the flag for the yearly Urs which will be hosted at Buland darwaza and a procession will be carried out with a musical band and slogans. After that, rituals for different days will start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flag-hoisted-for-809th-urs-at-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/80756761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Not allowed in local trains, boys have tough time||CHENNAI: School and college-going boys are being inconvenienced as suburban trains are yet to allow them to travel during peak hours because of Covid curbs. Only girl students can use the trains.  As more classes resumed on Monday, those who used to depend on trains reached classes late and a few got scolded too because college authorities are not aware of the restrictions. Several students depend on suburban trains on Tambaram-Beach, Tiruvallur-Chennai and Gummidipoondi-Chennai routes to reach colleges. Many students, especially the ones who reside in suburbs missed the first hour of class on the first day as they could not reach the campuses at around 9am for the morning classes that began at 9.30am. Students who live in Tiruvallur and travel to colleges in Pattabhiram and Thiruninravur suffered the most. K Sakthivel, a second year B Com student, said, "Classes began at 9.30am. But I could reach only past 10.30am because I had to wait to take the train after peak hour was over from Tiruvallur. Many of my classmates reached late. We are on morning shift so it looks like we will miss the first two hours of classes. Returning is not the problem because we can board trains till 4.30pm. The last class gets over by around 3pm. It will be good if we are allowed to travel during peak hours." Students have to spend at least Rs 30 a day to travel from Arakonam or Tiruvallur. S Murugesan, head of department of Tamil in Hindu College said, “The attendance is less as students from Tiruvallur and Arakonam are not able to reach the college. I have seen students rush out from the counters and run into trains at Tiruvallur as there is not enough time available. If they miss a train, they will miss classes. The government should ensure that there are enough transport facilities. The strength in classes is low."  Southern Railway has said that they would be allowing all commuters to use the trains only after Covid-19 situation improves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-allowed-in-local-trains-boys-have-tough-time/articleshow/80755834.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Nanded youth held for duping Kerala judge||AURANGABAD: Mallapuram district police of Kerala arrested a 19-year-old youth from his home in Nanded on Saturday for committing online fraud and duping Mallapuram district and sessions judge of Rs 1.5 lakh. “Omkar Charwad is the third suspect to be arrested on the charges of siphoning off money from a district and sessions judge from Mallapuram. He was rounded up by our local crime branch team and handed over to the Kerala police’s team which had come here,” Nanded superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale told TOI. Manjeri police station had registered an offence against the accused on October 12, 2020, on the charges of theft, forgery for cheating and criminal conspiracy. They have also been slapped with several sections of the IT (Amendment) Act. On November 18, 2020, Kerala police arrested Bharat Jethani (20), of Kopri in Thane East, and Christopher Nadar (20) of Bhandup West in Mumbai. Kerala police found that the accused have cases booked against them in Haryana and Kochi. Police sub-inspector (cyber forensics) NMA Babu said, “Our investigation has revealed that they hacked the email address and used it for sneaking into the net banking account of the judge. They used the same bank account for making online purchases worth Rs 1.5 lakh from different e-commerce websites.” They would cancel the orders and give an account number of their choice for the refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-youth-held-for-duping-kerala-judge/articleshow/80754893.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||IIM Kashipur organises Confab’21 for CAP aspirants||RUDRAPUR: The admissions body of IIM Kashipur organized Confab'21, a two-day Virtual City Meets program. In Confab’21, the city-meet series conducted by IIM Kashipur, students shared their interview experiences and various interview preparation tactics with the aspiring students who qualified for the Common Admission Process (CAP) 2021 with the primary aim of helping them prepare for their CAP interview which starts from 15th February and goes on till March. The event was conducted in five slots from 11 AM till 8 PM for two days. It saw an active participation of 700+ aspirants. In order to increase the efficiency of the city meet via virtual mode, break-out rooms were created to ensure one to one query resolution for CAP aspirants. The event witnessed overwhelming response and the city meet was successful in achieving its end goal of supporting the aspirants for their CAP interview preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iim-kashipur-organises-confab21-for-cap-aspirants/articleshow/80755833.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||VTA delegation submits memorandum to improve Gorewada Zoo facilities||Nagpur: A delegation of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) met Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park authorities and presented a memorandum with suggestions to improve visitors’ experience. In their meeting with Srinivasa Rao of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), members talked about steps which can be taken right from the entry of tourists to the management of animals inside. Tejinder Singh Renu, secretary of VTA, said. “Due to limited facilities, the Zoo Tour ends within an hour. To match facilities with the term added ‘International’ in the name; we need to start other important facilities as planned on topmost priority for Night Safari, African Safari, Bio-Park and Bird-Park, so that we justify the title. Indian Safari is very well planned, however, the number of chital needs to be added, and just four is too less compared to the size allotted, including increase in the number of sloth bears.”Very well planned, with good ambience, ample parking, comfortable buses, nice maintenance, good refreshment hall and likewise. The enclosure facility of both carnivores and herbivores are very well made and literally escalates the excitement level as we enter them through the huge sliding gates. The Online Booking facility is good and user friendly. Now a few suggestions for further improvement in the facility to attract more tourists with their repetitions in the future are as follow... Carnivores’ animals may please be radio collared or spotted — Without any doubt the main attraction of Indian Safari is our majestic tiger and leopards. Until we create facilities whereby a tourist doesn’t leave without having a good look at them, the craze may diminish soon. Hence their location should be traceable so that the bus can reach the spot and wait for a few minutes for a good view. The guide needs to be more professional and focused — The guide in the bus usually starts with details of the park, which is perfect. However, he needs to inform tourists of Covid protocols as people are seen flouting them in the air-conditioned bus, which is not good. Likewise, the guide should be serious and focused on his job, cheap jokes lower the esteem.Amusement Park may please be added — Since children are our main agents who’ll force their parents for repetitions, we need to have a good amusement park too. May be a small one, but it’s definitely required. Need some trick to attract carnivores near the bus — Usually in most international zoos, we see that the big cats are attracted towards the bus so that tourists can have a good look, something of this sort may be added.Yelling / teasing animals — Some signboards need to be portrayed even inside the bus to avoid intentional disturbance to animals by tourists. Boarding bus procedure should be digitalized with an area having shade — The manual process of standing in a queue even after booking online should be digitalized, uploading a copy of identity proof online can avoid unnecessary hassles. An appropriate canopy is required to avoid sun and rain.Better audio & CCTV cameras required in the bus — For the sake of safety and to monitor behaviour of the occupants, CCTVs may be provided in the bus. Although the bus has audio facility, it could be improved.No VIP culture please — It has been brought to our knowledge which we confirmed to ensure authenticity, that few front seats of the bus were blocked by the guide for some VIP family. This is too bad and shouldn’t be allowed at any cost. Such episodes give a bad name to the facility and cannot be entertained. Wearing of mask inside the bus should be mandatory — With the bus being air-conditioned during such a pandemic, wearing a mask should be mandatory for all. The guide should warn tourists for the safety of everybody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vta-delegation-submits-memorandum-to-improve-gorewada-zoo-facilities/articleshow/80771370.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||NREGA: Persondays to be raised to 42.80 crore in labour budget||Jaipur: The empowered committee of the Central government on Monday agreed to increase persondays from 37.80 crore days to 42.80 crore days, in the state’s labour budget under MGNREGA, read a statement issued by rural and panchayati raj department.After the video conference with the empowered committee of the government of India, additional chief secretary, rural development and panchayati raj department, Rohit Kumar Singh directed secretary of the department P C Kishan and other officials to regenerate all the rejected transaction by February 15 and conduct regular monitoring of the same.Singh instructed the officials to complete payment of compensation amount for delayed payment under NREGA, the data of which is available on MIS, by March 31. He asked them to release the outstanding amount of Rs 46 crore from the treasury. Singh directed that Lokpal should be appointed in all the districts by March 31.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-persondays-to-be-raised-to-42-80-crore-in-labour-budget/articleshow/80756774.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||‘Pedal to Jungle’ for cyclists to explore wilderness||Udaipur: The forest and wildlife department in the district will organise the 4th edition of cycling adventure ‘Pedal To Jungle’ from February 11 to 14. With a view to promote wildlife eco-responsible tourism, the expedition has been designed to provide cyclists a thrilling forest experience. “The total trip will be around 140km spread across three days starting from Udaipur to Gorana dam on the first day. On the next day, it will be 60km cycling to Panarwa through Phulwari ki Naal sanctuary. On the third day, cyclists will ride 40km to Vanaj, the polo forest in Gujarat, through dense jungle trails,” said Rahul Bhatnagar, ex-CCF forest. He added the ride would not just about a thrilling experience, but also about scenic locations, camping stays and traditional food with lots of healthy elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pedal-to-jungle-for-cyclists-to-explore-wilderness/articleshow/80756775.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||9 booked for attacking two girls in separate incidents in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Nine people, including two girls, were booked in two separate FIRs on Sunday for beating and attempting to molest two girls in separate incidents under two police station circles in Pilibhit.In first FIR, lodged at Gajraula police station, the complainant said his elder sister (20) was on her way home from Pilibhit city after attending a computer coaching class, when a girl identified as Soni, her brother Dinesh, their father Bhoop Ram, Soni’s friend Rajni and Dinesh’s friend Akash caught her near the culvert of village Devipura.They threw red chili powder in his sister’s eyes and beat her up brutally. The three male accused grabbed her and attempted to outrage her modesty, and only fled when locals rushed to the spot on hearing the survivor’s screams, said the complainant.Gajraula SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the accused were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (causing hurt) and 354 (force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC.In the second incident, which occurred near the Eidgah on the outskirts of Pilibhit city, four men — from two villages under Amaria and one under Jahanabad police stations — attempted to molest an 18-year-old girl as she was returning home on bike with her father to her village under Amaria police station on Sunday afternoon. The accused also attempted to kidnap her after detaining her, while passing abuses and threatening the victim’s father, said the latter.Sungarhi SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused, identified as Chand Babu, Sharoz, Nanhe and Mohammad Asif, were booked under sections 354 (force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 342 (wrongful confinement), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (causing hurt) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/9-booked-for-attacking-two-girls-in-separate-incidents-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80754929.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS in cahoots with land grabbers: N Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday said that people of Huzurnagar assembly constituency strongly suspect that those involved in grabbing of government and tribal land in Mattampally mandal allegedly have the backing of top aides of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. However, terming the allegations baseless, social welfare minister Koppula Eshwar slammed the Congress for indulging in mudslinging against the ruling TRS with an eye on the ensuing elections to urban local bodies, two MLC seats and bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency. “There are various forums to seek justice. If the opposition Congress and BJP have any proof, they can go to the court. Elections should be won by winning the hearts of the people and not by deriving cheap publicity by taking names of top TRS leaders,” he said. Earlier in the day, Uttam said Gurrambodu thanda of Pedaveedu in Mattampally mandal located on the banks of Krishna river was a backward area and the tribals and locals did not have land documents. Stating that there was no problem of land grabbing as long as he was the MLA from Huzurnagar, he said that after TRS won the bypoll to Huzurnagar constituency in 2019, there were allegations of local TRS leaders being involved in land encroachment. Uttam demanded that the state government should deal with the land mafia with an iron hand and protect lands on which tribals have been living. The Congress will always stand by the tribals, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-in-cahoots-with-land-grabbers-uttam/articleshow/80756783.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||PM Modi, K Chandrasekhar Rao selling farmers’ interests: A Revanth Reddy||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Monday appealed to the various farmers welfare associations, civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations and political parties to pass resolutions on various platforms in the society demanding repeal of the three central farm laws, which it said were anti-farmer. “The best way of exerting pressure on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is to ensure that the agitational programmes against the new central farm laws are spread to every nook and corner of the country,” said A Revanth Reddy, working president of Telangana Congress. Revanth, also an MP from Malkajgiri, is on a 140-km Rajiv Rythu Bharosa pada yatra from Atchampet in Nagarkurnool district to Hyderabad demanding repeal of new central farm laws and revival of procurement centres in Telangana. “If needed, I will extend my pada yatra in support of farmers to other areas,” Revanth said. Stating that the farmers and poorer sections were a worried lot in Telangana, Revanth said: “I have been interacting with peasants and poor women during my pada yatra. One woman told me she had to sell her earrings for livelihood in the so-called Bangaru Telangana. Both Modi and KCR are selling the interests of the farmers to the corporates,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-kcr-selling-farmers-interests-revanth/articleshow/80756787.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Ist day of Army recruitment rally in Udaipur sees 43% turnout||Udaipur: The recruitment rally being organised by the Indian Army at Maharana Pratap Khelgaon in Chitrakoot Nagar here began on Monday morning with hundreds of enthusiastic youths participating in physical fitness tests. Though only 43 per cent or 1,543 youths against the 3,585 aspirants who called for the test, turned up on the first day, there was much vigour and enthusiasm. Over 60,000 youths from 11 districts including Banswara, Barmer, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sirohi, Udaipur and Jalore will participate in the rally which would be held here till February 27. Some 66,640 candidates had applied online and enrolled themselves for various posts of soldiers, store keeper, technical grade and clerk etc. The candidates were admitted only after they showed their corona negative certificate along with the medical report. The physical fitness test will be held till February 26, while the medical examination will be on the last day of the rally, on February 27. The district administration has made special arrangements of lodging, food and transportation for the candidates as per the Covid-19 protocol. A canteen has been set up here where the candidates would get lunch at subsidised price of Rs 35 per thali. To facilitate the candidates for their return journey, a temporary roadways depot has been set up outside the premises, from where buses would leave for the 11 districts daily. Considering the large gathering of youths during the 20-day recruitment event, the police department has deployed 750 personnel for the security arrangements here. No person other than the candidates would be permitted to get inside the Khelgaon premises during the period. Two medical teams have been stationed here 24x7 to attend to any emergency cases. Four ambulances too have been kept on reserved basis while a rapid response team has been allocated that would keep vigil not only at the venue but the entire city to keep check on Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ist-day-of-army-recruitment-rally-in-udaipur-sees-43-turnout/articleshow/80756782.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Around 14,000 healthcare workers remain unvaccinated in first phase in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Around 14,000 healthcare workers in Uttarakhand remained unvaccinated for Covid-19 in the first phase of the vaccination drive, even as the state recorded 74,407 inoculations till Sunday. Only 845 healthcare workers were vaccinated on the last day. However, those who missed the shots without any valid reason will be given one opportunity to get vaccinated before February 20, or else their names will be deleted from the list of beneficiaries. State immunization officer Dr Kuldeep Martolia said around 88,000 beneficiaries were expected to get inoculated in the phase one that ended on Sunday. “Around 14,000 healthcare workers didn’t get a shot, but most of them had reasons like transfers, pregnancy and other illnesses. Those who refused to take the vaccine without any specific reason will have to explain why they didn’t get a shot. If they still want to get vaccinated, they can get it administered before February 20, because after that their names will be deleted from the list of beneficiaries,” added Dr Martolia. Meanwhile, on Sunday, 15 fresh Covid-19 cases — 10 from four plain districts and just one from a hill district — were reported in the state, while eight hill districts did not report a new case. “With the 15 fresh cases, the total Covid-19 cases in the state reached 96,493. With four deaths reported on Sunday, the death toll mounted to 1,668. The total recoveries, meanwhile, reached 92,554 with 35 people getting recovered in the past 24 hours,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/around-14k-healthcare-workers-remain-unvaccinated-in-first-phase-in-ukhand/articleshow/80755853.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Lawyers find HC protocol anything but easy||CHENNAI: For lawyers who returned to the Madras high court for in-person hearing on Monday after more than 10 months, it was anything but easy and smooth. With CISF personnel insisting on lawyers taking a separate ‘token’ to enter the campus and access to law chambers on the court campus already denied for months, it was chaos when the high court commenced ‘hybrid’ hearing on Monday. “Though the notification issued by the high court specifically mentioned that physical hearing would be permitted only for final hearing matters many lawyer were under the impression that full physical hearing would commence from February 8. This has led to chaos,” said G Mohanakrishnan, president of the Madras High Court Advocates Association (MHAA). Moreover, there is no point in opening up physical hearing without giving access to advocate chambers on the court premises. All the case bundles are stuck in the chambers leaving most of the lawyers handicapped to argue the cases, Mohanakrishnan added. This apart, thousands of lawyers who visit the high court premises which also house sessions, civil, small causes, labour, family and other courts are compelled to use only one toilet located near the family court, as all other toilets are inside the HC premises where access is denied, he said. Though the notification said filing and related work which were in existence prior to the pandemic will be permitted, advocates with filing pads and papers were only allowed inside the section. Those without filing papers were denied entry. Lawyers, who wanted to access the section to get information about the cases already filed and not numbered, were not allowed leading to total chaos near the filing section, advocate T Arun Kumar said. "I have filed papers almost a month back. It is yet to be numbered. But I am not allowed to visit the section to know the status and the reason why it was not numbered," he added. He said counsel representing petitioners virtually could not hear what the government advocate was submitting as they were physically present inside the court and no separate mic was provided to them. However, another section of lawyers claimed that the hybrid mode of hearing was seamless and some of the judges handled it excellently by providing separate mic for government counsels in the court. "The high court has backlog of about three to four lakh cases. If this hybrid mode of hearing is implemented properly, in next three years the backlogs can be cleared. Virtual hearing has really helped in speedy disposal of cases," advocate V Ragavachari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lawyers-find-hc-protocol-anything-but-easy/articleshow/80755849.cms||---
February 9, 2021||India||As India-made vaccines arrive, Afghanistan vows to keep jabs safe from terrorists||NEW DELHI: As the India-made vaccines landed in Afghanistan on Sunday, Vice President of Afghanistan Amrullah Saleh tweeted: “thanks & gratitude to India for this timely assistance. Now it is our mission to keep the vaccination safe from Quetta Shura's suicide bombers, IED planters, ambushers & ill wishers.” Saleh’s comments came a day after Afghan NSA Hamdullah Mohib declared Taliban to be the main hurdle for peace as a fresh wave of killings struck the country, even as peace talks remained stalled. A new report by the UN Security Council’s Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team this week stated that contrary to expectations or even promises by the Taliban, Al Qaeda and Taliban remain very close in Afghanistan. A matter of interest for India is the information that a former mid-level commander of the Haqqani Network, Shahab al-Muhajir, aka Sanaullah was in June 2020 appointed chief of the Al-Sadiq office of ISIL, which covers the “Khorasan” region, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Maldives, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the Central Asian States. However, the report observes that following “setbacks” ISIL-K has suffered from “degraded combat capability, reduced support on the ground and insufficient funding.” It says that without “stable” support, the prospects of ISIL-K reviving its former offensive activity and holding territory appear “remote”. But the Taliban and Al Qaeda remain joined at the hip, since Al Qaeda leaders are given “shelter and protection” by the Taliban. The killing of several Al-Qaida commanders in Taliban-controlled territory underscores how close the two groups are. This is a significant challenge not only for India and Afghanistan but the US as well. The new Biden administration is currently weighing the merits of a complete troop pullout from Afghanistan by May 1. But the recent spate of violence, and the knowledge that the Taliban haven’t actually abided by their promises in the peace agreement will complicate the decision. In addition, several experts have pointed out that Afghanistan could descend into civil war once the US leaves. In fact, the UNSC report says that the stronger Taliban is, the stronger Al Qaeda would be. “Al-Qaida assesses that its future in Afghanistan depends upon its close ties to the Taliban, as well as the success of Taliban military operations in the country.” An Afghanistan Study Group, a bipartisan group of experts has recommended that the US slow down its withdrawal while pushing for the realisation of the peace agreement in that country. In the midst of an Afghanistan policy review by the Biden administration, the report said, "withdrawing US troops irresponsibly would likely lead to a new civil war in Afghanistan, inviting the reconstitution of anti-US terrorist groups that could threaten our homeland and providing them with a narrative of victory against the world's most powerful country."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-india-made-vaccines-arrive-afghanistan-vows-to-keep-jabs-safe-from-terrorists/articleshow/80757688.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Avadi corporation floats tenders, 10,000 homes to get water supply connections soon||CHENNAI: Very soon, residents living in Avadi corporation limits will start getting piped water connections to their homes. The civic body has recently called for tenders for laying around 14,000 connections branching out from the main pipeline as well as related plumbing work. This will be executed at Rs 6.15 crore in the first phase and another Rs 6.15 crore in the second phase, corporation commissioner P Narayanan said. “This project had been delayed for 10 years despite residents having paid all dues. Last year, local MLA and minister K Pandiarajan took it up with the commissioner of municipal administration. We ensured that the work was sped up,” Narayanan said, adding 10,000 house service connections (HSC) would soon be given. Currently in the Avadi corporation limits, the wards near Chennai corporation limits, like Thirumullaivoyal got piped water supply.“But main areas like Kamarajar Nagar, TN Housing Board don’t have piped connections,” Narayanan said. The project was announced under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) in 2008 at a cost of Rs 103.8crore. It is inching towards completion now, after13 years, though the initial date of completion was 2011. Deposit money was collected from residents for setting up connections. Most residents are dependent on bore water, which will now change. According to official data, 32,703 house service connections in all the 48 wards have been planned to be linked through this water scheme. On February 27, 2016, the main pipeline which would serve three water supply zones covering 525 streets in 12 wards and serving 11,084 house service connections was inaugurated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/avadi-corpn-floats-tenders-10000-homes-to-get-water-supply-connections-soon/articleshow/80755865.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Councillors briefed by both parties ahead of board meet||Jaipur: The first board meeting of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage will be held on Tuesday and a pre-board meeting was called here with all councillors by both the political parties.Pratap Singh Khachariyawas called up the meeting of all the Congress councillors at his residence on Monday evening and briefed them regarding the questions to be expected during the meeting. Mahesh Joshi and Ameen Kagzi will also be part of this meeting.A senior Congress leader said, “Most of these councillors were elected for the first time. It is important to guide them as we want all our proposals to be accepted as the opposition will create hurdles. There is a need to improve sanitation condition of the Walled City and make it a tourist hub. We have specifically asked them to keep calm in the meeting, but also give befitting reply if provoked.” The meeting was already delayed by over a month. The 21 proposals by JMC, Heritage, include clearing the proposal of Rs 500 crore loan, Rs 1.5 crore development work in every ward, installation of LED lights, and purchasing resources for door-to-door garbage collection. As the meeting will be called between the legislative assembly session, permission has been taken from MP Ramcharan Bohra and Rajpal Singh Shekhawat.The BJP held a meeting at their party office in Jaipur where all the BJP councillors were briefed to asked specific questions. One of the agendas of JMC, Heritage includes boat rides in Jal Mahal and tour of councillors to other municipal corporations of the country to learn management skills. Raghav Sharma, Jaipur city BJP chief, said these shouldn’t have been a proposal of the first board meeting. “It is surprising that mayor Munesh Gurjar has kept these in their proposals. We will object to such expense in the meeting as important civic issues are being neglected,” Sharma said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/councillors-briefed-by-both-parties-ahead-of-board-meet/articleshow/80756789.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||BJP, Congress worry for bypolls as independents gain upper hand||JAIPUR: The results of municipal polls in bypoll-bound assembly segments have raised concerns for the BJP and the Congress. The BJP lost in Bhinder Nagar Palika (Vallabhnagar) to a new political outfit — Sena Party — candidate while it conceded a clear defeat in Rajsamand and Sujangarh to the ruling Congress. The Congress has won one local body out of six in Bhilwara. Bypolls are to be held in Sujangarh (Churu), Vallabhnagar (Udaipur), Sahara (Bhilwara) and Rajsamand in March in the wake of the deaths of the sitting MLAs-- Bhanwar Lal Meghwal, Gajendra Singh, Kailesh Trivedi and Kiren Maheshwari, respectively. Both the parties are taking the bypolls as the litmus test of their presence in the state. The results of urban local bodies (ULB) have given Congress a shot in the arm in two seats before the bypoll while the BJP said ULB polls are contested on hyper local issues which doesn’t stand in the state-level elections. For BJP, the results in Sujangarh assembly segment were unexpectedly low. Congress candidate Nilofar secured 40 votes out of 60 and it came as an embarrassment for the BJP which fielded Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal as the bypoll election in-charge almost a month ago. Rajsamand assembly seat became vacant after the death of senior BJP leader Kiren Maheshwari. Out of 45 seats, the Congress chairperson candidate secured 27 giving jitters to the BJP, which was considering easy victory in Rajsamand. The Bindar Nagar Palika comes under Vallabhnagar, which became vacant after the death of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The saffron party stood third in the 25-seat urban body. Congress had a tie-up with Sena Party and secured 11 seats each. “The people of 20 districts including the poll-bound constituencies have reposed faith in the ruling party and have stamped our social welfare schemes. I am certain that the verdict will go in our favour in all four seats. Still if need be, the party will change is strategy to secure victory in all four seats,” said Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, transport minister, and minister incharge of Udaipur division. Calling the overall mandate against the Congress, BJP state president Satish Poonia said our strategy in these constituencies to remain unchanged since its made for state level polls. “The polls were not about polling but the manner in which delimitation was done and government machinery was used by the ruling party they could have won over 2,000 seats not restricted to 1197 seats,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-cong-worry-for-bypolls-as-independents-gain-upper-hand/articleshow/80756796.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||BJP’s Neeraj Jain is Ajmer deputy mayor||Ajmer: Neeraj Jain of BJP won the election of deputy mayor in the Ajmer Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday. He defeated Banwari Lal Sharma of Congress by 35 votes. A day earlier, the saffron party’s Braj Lata Hada won the mayoral election to become first woman mayor of AMC. The day started with the assumption that there will be in-fighting in BJP because three corporators were claiming for the seat. However, Neeraj Jain came to file the nomination. Later Banwari Lal came to file from Congress. BJP brought its corporators in a bus from Jaipur to cast their votes. Neeraj got 57 while Banwari Lal could manage to get only 22 votes. Later in the day a procession was taken out in the city with the mayor and deputy mayor. BJP leaders claimed that the AMC results show people are happy with the party’s work and that it is a vote against the present state Congress government. Similarly, Manohar Tarani of BJP won the election of nagar parishad’s deputy chairperson in Kishangarh. He defeated Congress candidate Sushil Ajmera by 22 votes. In Kekeri, Sampat Devi of Congress defeated BJP’s Nand Kishore by 6 votes. In Sarwar Congress’s Arif won by 9 votes and defeated Prahlad of BJP. Pritam Badola of BJP defeated Congress’s Lalita Chipa by 6 votes in Bijay Nagar. In Ajmer MLAs from Ajmer south and Ajmer north are from BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjps-neeraj-jain-is-ajmer-deputy-mayor/articleshow/80756790.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Kirit Somaiya files complaint with income-tax dept against Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: BJP's Kirit Somaiya has filed a complaint with the investigation arm of the income-tax against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for concealment of land/properties and sought an investigation into the same. On Monday, Somaiya met M V Bhanumathi, director general investigations. In his complaint, Somaiya said the land purchased by the Thackeray family from the late Anvay Naik at Korlai village Alibaug needed to be investigated as the agreement states the market value of the property as Rs 4 crore while the purchase price has been stated as Rs 2 crore. Somaiya alleged that Thackeray has deliberately concealed the ownership of the bungalows/houses held jointly in the election affidavit and income tax returns. Anvay Naik's family from whom the Thackeray's purchased the land had complained that Republic news channel head Arnab Goswami and two others had abetted his suicide. Investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kirit-somaiya-files-complaint-with-i-t-dept-against-uddhav/articleshow/80756830.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||JDA approves three proposals for devpt of Waste Heights scheme||Jaipur: Jaipur Development Authority commissioner Gaurav Goyal on Monday said that the proposals given by the farmers have been approved in the meeting of the executive committee for speedy development in the Waste Heights scheme, by removing all the obstacles. The JDC directed the JDA secretary to constitute a committee to develop the basic facilities such as parks, electricity, sewer, roads and streetlights etc. of the said scheme and directed the director, engineering wing to complete the entire development work in the given time. The proposals submitted in the executive committee meeting have been approved. The first proposal is that, on the basis of Section 24 (2) of the New Land Acquisition Act 2013, the deposition has been challenged by the account holders and 25 writ petitions are under consideration in the high court. Most of these writ petitioners have given their consent to withdraw (in vitro) the writ petitions challenging the pendency in the high court in the event of grant of as much developed land as possible by their option letter. The second proposal is in cases where the allotment letter/lease of the developed land has been issued to the account holders through lottery but due to non-availability of opportunity or not satisfied with the location of the allotted plot, the account holder obtained an adjournment by petitioning the honourable court. If the account holder agrees to get the developed plots coming into the accounter’s own land, keeping the planning unchanged. After cancelling the previously allotted plots to such accountants, they should be allotted land from their own land, provided they withdraw the case from the court and surrender their entire land to the Jaipur Development Authority. The final proposal is that, the cases in which possession of plot allotted to the account holder is not being made available due to postponement of the land allotted. In such cases, after making a list of available plots on the same road width of the same area, the allotment of dispute-free alternative plots to the account holders will be done through limited lottery on receipt of the application. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-approves-three-proposals-for-devpt-of-waste-heights-scheme/articleshow/80756794.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Four held for posing as BMC staff, axing tree at Chowpatty in front of hoardings||MUMBAI: Four persons were arrested on Monday for illegally hacking a massive banyan tree at Girgaon Chowpatty this past week. Gamdevi police said the four had posed as BMC workers and hacked the banyan to clear the view for advertisement hoardings at Tambe Chowk. Three more are on the run. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, D Ward, said one tree each was hacked the same day at Pedder Road and Cadbury Junction as well. “We have filed FIRs in these cases too,” said Gaikwad. TimesViewThe hacking of a fully grown tree is an example of how people axe them with impunity. While BMC filed a police complaint after residents and activists raised an alarm and cops made arrests, they should have prevented the brazen hacking in the city. The incident highlights that tree protection laws are not taken seriously.The four arrested for hacking the banyan have been identified as Sameer Quereshi, Shafiq Darji, Hiralal Darshan and Mohammed Chinu. “They have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Preservation of Trees Act, 1971. “Investigations have revealed they cut the tree to clear the view for the hoardings. We, though, will only be able to say that conclusively once the other three accused are arrested. We will then be able to know on whose instructions the tree was cut. They have been remanded to judicial custody,” said Rajeev Sawant, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Gamdevi division. Last week, after residents complained, BMC filed a written complaint with MRA Marg police. BMC asked the police to book the advertising company. Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted: “With regards to this, this was one of our most beautiful spots in that vicinity. It has been illegally hacked by someone and those culprits won’t be spared whoever it is. I have spoken to Jt CP L&O Vishwas Nangre Patil and Asst Comm Prashant Gaikwad. We will act strongly.”  BMC filed a police complaint and asked them to register an offence under sections 8 and 21 of Maharashtra Preservation of Trees Act.  “If the police conclude the trees were hacked to clear the view for the hoardings, we will take action to revoke the licence of the advertising company that owns the hoarding. As per the licence conditions, it is the responsibility of the hoarding owner to take care of trees in the vicinity,” said Gaikwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-held-for-posing-as-bmc-staff-axing-tree-at-chowpatty-in-front-of-hoardings/articleshow/80755906.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tragedy: Sunday holiday, seasonal migration save many lives||DEHRADUN: The number of casualties in the Uttarakhand disaster could have been much higher if the calamity had occurred on a working day.  Around two dozen youth from Raini and nearby villages work in the Rishiganga power project that was completely washed away in the flash floods. Besides, there are around seven villages in the area where people migrate to lower regions of Chamoli district during winter. “Over 13 villages with a population of around 4,500 are now disconnected after the bridges collapsed. Many locals go to work at the project, but since it was a Sunday, they were on a weekly off,” Shobha Rana, gram pradhan of Raini Chak Lasa told TOI. The five persons who went missing since the calamity have been identified as Sanjay Singh of Mureda, Yashpal Singh (Raini Chak Lasa), Madhuri Devi of Jugju, Ranjit Singh and Amrita Devi (Raini Chak Subhai). She pointed out that the labourers trapped in the tunnels were part of the Saturday night shift. Another village resident, Shanker Peng pointed out that there are over half a dozen villages – Jummba, Kasa, Mergaon, Nehargaon, Kailashpur and Harkiya – where people migrate to plain areas of Chamoli district. “These villages are on the higher reaches and due to extreme weather conditions in winter, the locals migrate to lower areas of Chamoli district. They shift in September and October and return back around March-end and April, when the weather conditions improve. Had they been there, the chances of them coming to Raini on a holiday would have been more,” Peng said. He also said that at least 13 villages remain totally disconnected after five bridges were washed away. According to other locals, Sunday saved the lives of at least 150 workers. Workers at the under-construction Tapovan-Vishnugad power project were mainly locals. “As per the estimates, there are more than 150 missing from both the sites. It could have been 150 to 200 more had it been a working day. The casualties account mainly of workers from UP and Bihar,” said Kishore Singh, gram pradhan of Tapovan village. Meanwhile, the gram pradhan of Niti village, Hemlata, told TOI that thanks to winter migration, a large section of population is not residing in the high altitude villages which have been cut-off after the collapse of Niti Pass bridge. The bridge used to connect those villages to Joshimath. Hemlata himself resides in the Chamoli city during winter. Another gram pradhan told TOI that the population in the high altitude villages decreases by more than half during the colder months. “There are around 20 villages in that region. Currently, 1,500 people will be staying there, but in summer, more than 3,500 reside,” said Pitambar Singh, gram pradhan of Mana village who lives in Gopeshwar during summers. “The high altitude villages are of strategic importance. It is right next to the India-China border. I am confident that the Army will be present there until a temporary bridge is made. It will be done in two weeks,” he added. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, too, admitted that Sunday saved the lives of many locals and so did the fact that residents of some villages migrate to plain areas during winter. (With inputs from Mohammad Anab)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sunday-holiday-seasonal-migration-save-many-lives/articleshow/80755874.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Pipalkoti locals protest against hydel project||DEHRADUN: Demanding a ‘complete ban on blasting’ for construction of a 14-km-long tunnel from Beerayi in Pipalkoti village to Helang, locals in Pipalkoti held a protest on Monday saying that they will not allow the plant to operate. The locals sat on protest dharna in Harsaari hamlet of Haat (Shivanagari), Choti Kashi, and also blocked the path of workers enroute to the construction sites. The 444MW hydropower plant, a project of THDC, has been drawing the ire of locals who are against any blasting activity. The Vishnugad-Pipalkoti Hydroelectric Project on Alaknanda river in Chamoli commenced in 2014, but barely 20% of the tunnel work has been done so far. Villagers said that they have been agitating for the past 1.5 years, but all the pleas to the administration, as well as THDC, have proved futile. “This is not acceptable to us, the blasting literally shakes our houses and the entire landscape vibrates. It can lead to disaster any moment here in Pipalkoti,” said Narender Pokhriyal, an activist from Haat village. When asked, social responsibility officer of the project, Ganesh Bhatt, admitted that blasting is being conducted. “There is approval for carrying out blasting, which is controlled and monitored by a government agency concerned. Blasting is required for the construction of the tunnel,” Bhatt added. Gram Pradhan of Haat, Rajender Hatwal, said, “Heavy blasting is carried out in our area. There are around 10 families in Harsari village and their houses are not in good shape; a disaster can happen anytime due to the blasting. We the villagers are not aware of the technical aspects of controlled blasting, and hence they continued to carry out such activities unabated. Our houses might collapse anytime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pipalkoti-locals-protest-against-hydel-project/articleshow/80755877.cms||Shivani Azad
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rape survivor attempts suicide||Alwar: An 18-year-old girl attempted suicide after she was raped by one Rajkumar Gujjar on January 6. A case was registered against Gujjar under the Gadi Bajana police station on Monday. Police said that the girl was going towards the fields to relieve herself when she was caught the accused. She was taken to a filed and raped by Gujjar. “The girl allegedly consumed poisonous liquid and was rushed to a local hospital. Here she narrated her tale to her parents that Gujjar had threatened her of circulating her pictures if she discloses the crime to anyone,” said the police. The victim was referred to civil hospital in Bharatpur and her medical examination has been done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-survivor-attempts-suicide/articleshow/80756798.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Forest dept orders to stop use of 20 unfit jumbos at Amber fort||Jaipur: The Rajasthan forest department has directed the department of archaeology and museums to stop the use of 20 medically unfit elephants for tourist rides at the Amber Fort after a team of vets examined the animals last year in July.The order was issued on February 5, 2021. The mahouts at city’s Hathi Gaon, however, claimed that the elephants were fit and this was just a way of troubling them. They claimed that they had no knowledge about this recent order.According to the letter, of the 20 elephants, three have tested positive for tuberculosis while seven were found to be blind in one eye and ten others were recommended rest for various ailments. Last year, green activists wrote to government officials following the death of four elephants in Hathigaon in the past few months. The activists alleged that the jumbos at Hathigaon are not being treated well because they are suffering from various ailments. Meanwhile, the staff and mahouts have refuted these claims and said that the elephants underwent regular check-up along with 24 hour vet at Hathigaon.“The claims of the elephants being ill-treated are completely false. The jumbos are source of our livelihood and we do everything possible to ensure that they remain healthy,” said a mahout.During the lockdown, none of these so called NGOs came to check up on the elephants, but now suddenly they want the attention and creating false narratives. “We did not even know about this order and will have to approach the court to get justice,” said Balu Khan, officer-bearer in Mahout Association at Hathigaon.Meanwhile, forest officials claimed that the mahouts were told about the recent order and an official said, “Permission for tourist rides is not our prerogative and we have taken only interim action as advised by three vets who examined the animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-dept-orders-to-stop-use-of-20-unfit-jumbos-at-amber-fort/articleshow/80756797.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||Kin of girl who eloped, assault, strip lover’s mom, parade her in village||BAREILLY: Angry over their minor daughter’s “elopement”, family members of a minor Dalit girl allegedly thrashed the youth’s mother, tore off her clothes, dragged her out of her house and paraded her on the road in full public view, claimed villagers. The incident took place on Sunday at a village under Milak Kotwali police station in Rampur district. The “eloped” couple belong to the same community An FIR has been registered against four people, police said. The injured woman was rescued by her family and admitted to the community health centre. According to residents, the family members of a 14-year-old girl reached the house of the youth with whom she allegedly ran away. They beat up the youth’s mother, stripped her and forced her to walk in the village. Local police, however, denied that the woman was paraded naked. They claimed that both families had a scuffle and the woman was thrashed. In the fight, the woman’s clothes were torn off. Anil Kumar Singh, SHO, Milak Kotwali police station, told TOI, “It is learnt that the duo was having a love affair but both families were against it. The girl went missing on Saturday night following which her family came searching for her.” The SHO added, “We have received a complaint that the girl’s family misbehaved and assaulted the youth’s mother. The woman was injured and taken to the community health centre for treatment. An FIR has been registered against four people, including two women, under IPC section 354 (B) (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC.” Another FIR has been registered against the youth under IPC section 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc). Further investigation is underway, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kin-of-girl-who-eloped-assault-strip-lovers-mom-parade-her-in-village/articleshow/80754945.cms||Maria Khan
February 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rape survivor attempts suicide||ALWAR: An 18-year-old girl attempted suicide after she was raped by one Rajkumar Gujjar on January 6. A case was registered against Gujjar under the Gadi Bajana police station on Monday. Police said that the girl was going towards the fields to relieve herself when she was caught the accused. She was taken to a filed and raped by Gujjar. “The girl allegedly consumed poisonous liquid and was rushed to a local hospital. Here she narrated her tale to her parents that Gujjar had threatened her of circulating her pictures if she discloses the crime to anyone,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-survivor-attempts-suicide/articleshow/80756799.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit bank manager goes missing||PILIBHIT: Manager of Indian Bank’s Pilibhit branch Amit Tiwari has gone missing, according to the bank’s assistant manager Suresh Chandra Saroj. The latter informed police that Tiwari had gone on a week-long leave on January 6 but had not joined duty till date. His family was not aware about his whereabouts, he added. Bank staff suspect that Tiwari’ disappearance may be linked to his marital dispute with his wives. They said his first wife, Vinita, had left him just three months after their marriage and moved back with her parents in Raipur, Chhattisgarh. About two and a half years ago, when Tiwari was posted in Chennai, he came in contact with one Jayanti Balakrishnan and was in a relationship with her. When Jayanti conceived, she threatened Tiwari to either marry her or face rape charges. After his second marriage, he was transferred to Pilibhit about a year ago, the staff members claimed. Tiwari’s relationship with Jayanti had soured. The landlord of their house claimed he heard the couple quarrel every day. Tiwari often beat her up. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Sungarhi police station, said that Jayanti had filed a complaint with police two days ago, accusing her in-laws, bank staff and landlord Vishwamitra Tandon of plotting her husband’s disappearance. The bank staff claimed that Tiwari was also under pressure from his first wife, who demanded Rs 50 lakh from him for illegally marrying for the second time without getting a divorce from her. They alleged that Jayanti had created a ruckus on the bank premises many times. Recently, she had allegedly demanded Rs 1 lakh from the assistant bank manager and threatened to implicate him for “murdering” her husband, the staff added. SHO Dwivedi said police were doing their best to trace the missing bank manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-bank-manager-goes-missing/articleshow/80754984.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 9, 2021||Nagpur||French ambassador visits RSS HQ||Nagpur: French ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain visited the RSS headquarters in Nagpur on Tuesday. Sources said Lenain paid an impromptu visit to the headquarters at Mahal during his trip to the city. The French diplomat was on a trip to the metro rail project in the city. Visits to Dassault Reliance Aviation Limited (DRAL) and Thales’ plants at Nagpur were also part of the schedule. Later, he also paid a visit to the RSS headquarters, said sources tracking him. Sources said Lenain went to the headquarters at Mahal around 3pm and was inside for an hour. RSS Sarsangchalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat was not in Nagpur and the diplomat met sarkaryavaha (general secretary) Bhaiyyaji (Suresh) Joshi, said sources. In 2019, the German ambassador to India Walter Lindner had also visited the RSS headquarters and was received by Bhagwat. This visit had led to criticism from certain quarters on social media. The US consul general in Mumbai, David Ranz, had visited the RSS Smruti Mandir campus and memorial of its founder Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar at Reshimbagh. Earlier, in 2019, Japanese consul general Michio Harada too had visited the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/french-ambassador-visits-rss-hq/articleshow/80773484.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops detain three more in CDR racket||MUMBAI: City crime branch has detained three more persons in connection with the Call Detail Record (CDR) racket busted on Saturday. Sources said teams have fanned out across the country to nab over a dozen private detectives who had allegedly procured CDR and Subscriber Detail Record (SDR) and sold them to clients. The CDR of a person reveals the number of calls made and received from their phone as well as the date, time and duration of the calls. Based on a tip off, the crime branch on Saturday sent a dummy client to procure the CDR of a person. When the two accused, Shailash Manjrekar (39) and Rajendra Sahu (26), came to hand over the data, a police team led by Jagdish Sail arrested them. During interrogation, the duo revealed the masterminds of the racket were Saurabh Sahu and Kirtesh Kavi. While Sahu was arrested by the Thane crime branch in 2018, Kavi was also arrested in the same year by the Bandra crime branch. Several private detectives from Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Odisha and other parts of the country were allegedly in touch with the arrested accused to procure the CDR. Police said the private detectives whose names cropped up during investigation include All India Detectives from Delhi, Argus Spy Mantra and Consultancy from Bhubaneswar and Super Detective Agency from Mangaluru. Police suspect the involvement of employees of mobile service providers in the interstate racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-detain-three-more-in-cdr-racket/articleshow/80756815.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Wild boars not our problem: Sarpanches||HYDERABAD: The rampaging wild boars in the state have left sarpanches in a pickle. Soon after the forest department has made them honorary wildlife wardens to permit hunting of wild boars, the sarpanches looked askance at the proposal and wondered where was the need to involve them. The sarpanches want the menace of wild pigs tackled by the forest officials and hunt them down. In a circular, the forest department has allowed killing of wild boars, which are wreaking havoc on crops in villages and mandals, terming them as “dangerous to human life and property.” It took the decision to permit culling of the animals in view of the damage being caused to crops ready for harvest. “The forest department knows the problem. It should train shooters and deploy them to hunt the wild boars. There is no need to involve us in this exercise,” a sarpanch said. T Swamy, sarpanch of Vajinepally village in Jaishankar Bhupalpally district, wondered where will they get hunters from. Expressing concern, sarpanch of Vasalamarri village in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, Pogula Anjaneyulu, said that because of the menace of wild boars some villagers have stopped cultivating. “The wild boars come in groups of 50-100 and raid our crops. They pose a danger to our lives also,” he told TOI. As per the forest department guidelines, the problem of wild boars will have to be first brought to the notice of the local sarpanch through a written complaint by the affected farmers. The sarpanch will then visit the farm field and recommend, if it warrants, hunting of the wild boars. He will also have to specify how many wild boars are roaming in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wild-boars-not-our-problem-sarpanches/articleshow/80756818.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tragedy: ‘Damages of hydel projects led to loss of Rs 1,500 crore’||DEHRADUN: Union minister of state for power RK Singh, who visited the disaster-hit sites on Monday and reviewed the situation there, said that the destruction of Rishiganga hydropower project, which was completely washed away and the NTPC project, which suffered extensive damage, added up to an estimated loss of around Rs 1,500 crore. After the inspection, he told media persons at the site, “It is only an estimate. However, at the moment, the priority is to save as many lives as possible. Even now, a lot of people, both residents of local areas and of different states, are missing.” Singh clarified that while NTPC power project will not be scrapped, it will be delayed. “The project was to be commissioned in 2023 but now there will be a delay. Huge amounts of silt have accumulated and its removal is a big challenge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/destruction-of-hydel-projects-led-to-loss-of-rs-1500-cr/articleshow/80755916.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai corporation to spruce up 24 playgrounds||CHENNAI: Soon, 24 playgrounds across the city will boast of improved and new sports facilities and will be able to host state-level and national events. Greater Chennai Corporation has called for tenders for the project that is expected to be completed in another eight months.  The playgrounds will have one international-standard facility, a gym with equipment, toilets, security room, children play area, levelled ground and a gallery space. At Asirvathapuram in Royapuram, the 2,548sqm ground will include a synthetic grass (futsal) field, while a Rs 8 crore sports complex with a walking track, volleyball and basketball courts, football ground, skating rink, indoor badminton court, gym and running track will come up at Kannapparthidal. At KP Park, owned by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, a futsal field will be set up at Rs 2crore. Among the others, an indoor badminton court will come up on Mayor Kabalamurthy Salai at Royapuram, an indoor table tennis stadium will be set up on South Canal bank Road in Teynampet and an international-standard tennis court will be established on Srinivasa Nagar Third Main Road in Thiruvika Nagar. “We wanted to create new play fields and retro fit the existing ones to improve the public sports facilities. At all these facilities, corporation and government school children will be provided free entry and will also enjoy coaching facilities. Members of the public can also make use of the facilities whose maintenance facilities will be contracted,” said a parks department official. Most residents, however, feel the number of playgrounds available in the city and its suburbs, based on the area, is still low. Sajid of Kovilambakkam said people in every locality should have access to some sports facility within a 5km radius. “Children should be trained early and that can happen only when the government focuses on improving facilities,” he said. The corporation is also improving 57 parks. “We had been getting several requests from MLAs, resident associations and construction will be taken up,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-to-spruce-up-24-playgrounds/articleshow/80755914.cms||Komal Gautham
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt allocates Rs 12 lakh for Wadia Institute of Himalyan Geology||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday allotted a budget of Rs 12 lakh for the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) to monitor the Gangotri glacier under Gomukh region. The Uttarakhand high court, in its previous orders, had maintained that the monitoring of Gangotri glacier is important, especially in the winter season. Talking to TOI, Santosh Kumar Rai, senior scientist of WIHG’s department of glaciology and hydrogeology, said that the state government has asked WIHG to monitor the Gangotri glacier during the winter season. Subsequently, the institution asked to provide separate funding for the same. “As soon we receive funds, WIHG will set up a base station in the Gangotri glacier area and a person will be deployed there for real-time monitoring of the glacier. The base will also have a remote sensing station to alert the authorities if there are any changes in the area,” said Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-allocates-rs-12-lakh-for-wadia-institute-of-himalyan-geology/articleshow/80755926.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand boys shine at National Junior Athletics Championship in Guwahati||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand again had a fine outing at the ongoing 36th National Junior Athletics Championship in Guwahati on Monday with Chamoli district race walker Aditya Negi winning a bronze medal in the U-18 boy's 10,000-metre race walk event by clocking 43 minutes and 36 seconds. Himanshu Kumar won a silver medal in the U-16 boy’s 5,000-metre race walk event. He completed the race in 22 minutes and 23 minutes. Babendra Singh Negi won a bronze medal in the U-16 boy’s 5,000-metre race walk event. He finished the race in 23 minutes. Coach Praveen Purohit said, “It’s all become possible as the boys had worked hard and never lost their focus. Not even today after a tragedy struck our home state. We are confident of improving our medal tally by the end of the championship.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-boys-shine-at-national-junior-athletics-championship-in-guwahati/articleshow/80755943.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 9, 2021||Thane||Man ‘involved in 4 murders’ held in Kalyan||BHIWANDI: A 31-year-old man was arrested from Kalyan on Saturday for his alleged involvement in four murder cases in Yavatmal district of Vidarbha region from where he hails. Virendra Kolhe, had disguised himself with a new identity, and sported a new look. He worked at a two-wheeler service centre in Kalyan. The Bhiwandi crime branch team of Thane police, led by senior inspector Ashok Honmane, said Kolhe committed the fourth murder in 2019 while he was on bail in the third which took place in 2018. Honmane told TOI, “We learnt recently that he was hiding in Kalyan. We started looking for him with just his photo and cranked up our informer network before locating him in Chakkinaka area.” As he is a “habitual criminal”, police ran a check to see if he was involved in any offence here. “We haven’t found him involved in any,” said an officer. Kolhe was handed over to the Yavatmal district police on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-involved-in-4-murders-held-in-kalyan/articleshow/80737854.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 9, 2021||Mumbai||Panvel RPF reunites minor boy with father||NAVI MUMBAI: The Panvel RPF and GRP personnel have reunited a 10-year-old boy hailing from Bihar with his father on Saturday. The boy, who was living in Ernakulam, Kerala, travelled alone on Mangala Lakshadweep Express to Panvel after his cousin deliberately left him in the train. He was rescued by the RPF when the train reached Panvel station. The minor was found crying and a passenger alerted the railway helpline. Two RPF sub-inspectors took his custody at the station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/panvel-rpf-grp-reunites-minor-boy-with-father-after-being-abandoned-on-a-train-by-a-cousin-at-ernakulam/articleshow/80755964.cms||George Mendonca
February 9, 2021||Kochi||Leopard caught in snare released into the wild||Idukki: A six-year-old male leopard caught in a snare in Munnar has been rescued by forest officials. The leopard was found trapped in the snare in the Thalayar tea plantation on Monday morning by estate workers, who immediately informed the forest department. The officials along with veterinary surgeon Nisha Rachel reached the spot and gave primary treatment to the animal before releasing it to the forest. Munnar range officer Hareendrakumar said, “The leopard’s right hand was trapped in the snare and it had only minor injuries. When we reached the spot it was found in a healthy condition and was trying to escape from the trap. It was found that it got trapped only a few hours before and it had only a small scratch on its right hand.” “The timely information provided by the estate workers helped save the animal without injuries. We have registered a case at Pettimudy forest station in connection with the incident. An inquiry will be conducted to find who has set the snare in the area,” said the official. On January 22, a group of people had trapped a six-year-old leopard and consumed its meat at Mankulam forest division near Munnar. The leopard was killed for its skin, nail and tooth. In another instance of trapping in September last year, a leopard was found dead in a snare at Kannimala lower division in Munnar. An inquiry found that a man set the snare for trapping the leopard which had killed his milking cow nearly a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/leopard-caught-in-snare-released-into-the-wild/articleshow/80756000.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Give funds for culling boars: Shooters to Telangana government||HYDERABAD: Shooters and wildlife experts in Telangana demanded the government allot funds for culling wild boars and also said that the meat should be utilised instead of being buried. The government has issued a GO stating that with permission of village sarpanches, the shooters can kill wild boar in the agriculture fields. Telangana Wild boar Menaced Farmers Association founder and shooter Pervaram Santhaji said, “It is a half baked GO that delegated problem to the sarpanches. Where are the budgetary provisions? Sarpanchs need to organise stay and food for the shooters and forest officers. As per the GO, FDO rank official have to do panchanama of the wild boar after it is shot dead and before burial. For digging the trenches, who will give money? In Kerala, each farmer is paid Rs 1,000 for every wild boar culled as part of the incentive for effort. In Bihar for burying nilgai, Rs 750 is paid and Rs 1,250 is paid for sarpanch. In Punjab, meat is allowed for consumption but not for sale,” Santhaji added, “The GO is not clear on setting up special monitoring cell and there is a need to set up interdepartmental coordination committee.” Telangana State wildlife board member Rajeev Mathew said, “There is a huge protein deficiency in the country. Instead of burying the meat, it should be utilised. Allowing shooters who cull the wild boar to take meat is like an incentive to them.” Sharpshooter Nawab Shafat Ali Khan expressed a mixed opinion, saying, “The GO is long overdue as farmers were suffering. It is a relief for them. But from a conservation angle, there are fears that it will become uncontrollable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-funds-for-culling-boars-shooters-to-govt/articleshow/80756824.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 9, 2021||Hyderabad||GWMC council meet adjourned||WARANGAL: The Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) council meeting ended halfway, due to unruly incidents against the KCR Deeksha Diwas Pylon installation on Monday. Ruling party corporators argued with the mayor for the corporators whose names were not mentioned on the pylon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gwmc-council-meet-adjourned/articleshow/80756826.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 9, 2021||India||HC turns down Navlakha’s plea for default bail in Elgar case||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Monday refused default bail to activist Gautam Navlakha (69), accused of alleged Maoist links in the 2018 Elgar Parishad case. Navlakha, lodged at Taloja Central jail, had appealed against an NIA court’s rejection of bail on the grounds that his ‘house arrest’ constituted custody. The HC excluded his 34 days of ‘house arrest’ in 2018 from the duration of custody within which the chargesheet had to be filed by holding that the provision required such custody to be first authorised by a magistrate. His case argued by Kapil Sibal was that the chargesheet against him wasn’t filed within 90 days as prescribed by law in his case, thus he was entitled to ‘default’ bail, under CrPC. The CrPC provision “necessarily presupposes a detention authorised by a magistrate,” said the HC bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik. The HC agreed with the submission of counsel SV Raju for NIA that only when detention is authorised by a magistrate after arrest, can the custody period of 90 days be counted. The HC said the question before it was whether the ‘house arrest’ period constituted custody under the ‘default bail’ provision in CrPC. It also noted that during the ‘house arrest’, police had no access to Navlaka nor the occasion to interrogate him. They relied on an SC ruling which said for detention under police custody, the police ought to have access to the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-turns-down-navlakhas-plea-for-default-bail-in-elgar-case/articleshow/80757712.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 9, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur police, excise officials bust illegal liquor factory, nab 2||JAMSHEDPUR: Police on Monday busted an illegal and spurious Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) factory here and arrested two persons along with liquor worth around Rs 7 lakh kept in 144 cartons, empty bottles and stickers of popular IMFL brands. The arrested persons are identified as Sideshwar Nath and Busdeshwar Kalindi. They were working as caretakers of the illegal factory. Police said the raid at a shanty in Carriage Colony area was conducted jointly with excise department officials after receiving a tip-off. They said the spurious drink is often supplied to neighbouring Bihar which was declared a dry state by its chief minister Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jamshedpur-police-excise-officials-bust-illegal-liquor-factory-nab-2/articleshow/80755863.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ranchi||CRPF jawan, 2 rebels injured in encounter||Jamshedpur: One CoBRA jawan of CRPF and two rebels suffered bullet injuries in an encounter between security forces and members of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) in a forested area near the tri-junction of West Singhbhum, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts in Toklo police station area on Sunday. West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda said, “The encounter took place in Roro and Langi at 8.40am. One CoBRA jawan, who was shot in the shoulder, has been air lifted to Medica hospital in Ranchi. The injured jawan is out of danger. Two Maoists also received bullet injuries during the encounter.” He added that items of daily use were found at the site indicating that the rebels were apparently hiding at a makeshift camp. “A search operation is underway at the encounter site,” Linda said. Earlier, the district police along with CRPF, Jharkhand Jaguar and Cobra personnel, launched a search operation upon receiving intelligence input about the movement of the rebels. The police suspect that Maharaj Parmanik’s squad could be operating at the tri-junction under the thick dense forest cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-jawan-2-rebels-injured-in-encounter/articleshow/80739331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 9, 2021||Vadodara||Pharma co’s CMD, directors booked for land grabbing||VADODARA: The chairman and managing director (CMD), joint MD and two executive directors of a Mumbai-headquartered pharmaceutical firm were booked under Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act for allegedly encroaching upon a farmer’s land at Ranu village in Padra taluka. An offence was registered at Padra police station on Sunday late night after Vadodara district committee ordered Vadodara rural police to file an FIR. The company’s Premchand Godha, the CMD, Ipca Laboratories, joint MC AjitKumar Jain and EDs Prashant Godha and Pranay Godha, have been named as accused in the FIR. The farmer Hiral Patel had approached the district administration with a complaint in December last year alleging that the company had constructed a compound wall around the land which he had purchased in May 2015. Patel said that during the hearing before the district committee, the company’s representative had shown readiness to hand over possession of the land on February 5. But hours before handover, a representative informed the deputy collector that the company is willing to do so, it is alleged. Patel alleged that after he had purchased the land in 2015, the company had raised objection against the sale before the deputy collector, stating that they possess the land, a borewell and a part of a diesel tank on the land. But the administration had turned down the appeal and upheld the sale of land to Patel. The complainant, after the purchase, had given an advertisement in the newspaper about the purchase of land and had even obtained a title clearance certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pharma-cos-cmd-directors-booked-for-land-grabbing/articleshow/80755289.cms||---
February 9, 2021||Ranchi||Simdega sand trader shot at by another, suspect detained||GUMLA: A 30-year-old sand trader was shot at by another near Purnapani under sadar police station on Sunday night, police said on Monday. A critically injured Chandan Kumar Roy alias Chandan Prasun is currently admitted at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. “Sand trader Ankit Minj has been detained after Roy accused him of firing shots at him,” officer in-charge of sadar police station Dayanand Kumar said, adding, “Rivalry over sand trade seems to be reason behind the firing but we are investigating from every angle.” Roy is a resident of Officers Colony in Simdega. A small-time contractor who is involved in the sand supply business, Roy is the nagar pramukh of Shiv Sena party in Simdega district. At 9pm on Sunday, he was near Purnapani, which is 3km away from Simdega town, for some work when Ankit allegedly fired shots at him. Kumar said that Ankit, who lives in a rented accommodation in Simdega town, has two tractors which he uses for supplying sand. “Both were accusing each one another of getting their respective sand-laden tractors seized by the mining department officials,” he added. Recently, police and the mining department had seized tractors and trucks in the district for carrying sand illegally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/simdega-sand-trader-shot-at-by-another-suspect-detained/articleshow/80755937.cms||---
